MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2020-11-10
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1440,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUl
November 10, 2020
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUl, STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10,
2020, BEGINNING AT 9:03 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maul County Council regular Council meeting and
public hearing please come to order. It is November 10, 2020.
Mr. Clerk, may we have roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, apologies. I believe today is
just a regular Council meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, I'll proceed-
CHAIR LEE: That's not what this says. But that's fine. Okay, I'll just cross out public hearing.
Alright. Okay, again, will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
November 10, 2020 please come to order. It, I have 9:04. It's probably, everybody
has different times, but it's approximately 9:04 a.m.
Mr. Clerk, may we now have roll call?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with roll call.
ROLL CALL
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS G. RIKI HOKAMA, NATALIE A. KAMA,
KELLY T. KING, MICHAEL J. MOLINA, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN,
SHANE M. SINENCI, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. I'm present. And . . . once again to everyone and to all those that
are, who are listening and watching.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 2
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine Members present. A quorum is present to
conduct the business of the Council.
Also assisting the Council this morning from the Office of the County Clerk is myself,
James Krueger; as well County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and then our Legislative Division
which includes Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Do we have anyone from Administration on the call?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: I see assisting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel
right now is First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good.
And now it's time for opening remarks. Can we call on Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
please.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for those insightful remarks.
Now, I ask everyone to please join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council, rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, everyone. Before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please
request that everyone keep their microphones muted unless it's your time to speak.
Decorum shall be maintained at all times. And I would like to remind everyone that we
need, we have many, many people signed up to testify, so we will be enforcing the time
limits and ensuring that the testimony is relevant to the agenda items.
Okay. Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November. 10, 2020
Page 3
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected to the Council's online meeting intending to testify should notify
staff in the meeting chat. If you do not intend to testify, you can watch the meeting on
Akaku, Channel 53 or on mauicounty.us. Individuals connected by phone are currently
on mute and will be unmuted when it is their time to testify. Individuals connected by
videoconference should keep both their video and microphones muted and should
unmute them when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
Chair, the first person signed up to testify is Kai Duponte. To be followed by John
Belles.
PRESENTATION OF WRITTEN OR ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. KAI DUPONTE. HALE HAWALI (testifvina on Countv Communication No. 20-557):
Aloha. Aloha, Aloha kakahiaka. My name is Kai Duponte. I am a retired social worker
and I'm in Pukalani. I sent a letter in earlier, but I do have some other things I'd like to
say orally. Thank you so much. I'm also with Hale Hawai'i, who was, is grassroots
organization created around COVID.
This is about agenda item, supporting agenda item 20-557, "URGING THE MAYOR
TO ESTABLISH A RAPID RESPONSE COVID TASK FORCE". And I'll, I'll just read
this. That State has moved from a prevention/elimination strategy to one of mitigation
by opening up non-quarantine tourism and we need intelligent tools to support our
actions if we're going to survive this.
In North Dakota, just in the news yesterday, hospitals are full and requiring staff who
were positive to come into work. We'll get to that point and past it if we don't plan to
control this virus. Maui was going for long periods of time without any cases and now
we hear about cases almost daily. I see that we have, we've gone from 16 to 24 active
cases just since October 15. On Lanai, relaxing quarantine meant nearly an island-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 4
wide breakout with no plan, and it was able to be maintained because it was so, it's
very different than Maui.
Being overwhelmed by cases as bad as shutting down our economy and, will, is, is a
bad outcome as well. So, we really need to find a balance between opening up, we,
we've already done but we don't want to shut down. But yet, we don't want too many
cases.
Every neighbor-island should have a COVID task force and they should all work
together, along with Oahu. The neighbor-islands are different than Oahu. We have
less cases, with the exception with the Big Island, but also less resources. One size
does not fit all in the State.
For example, in Maui, we have 12 percent of the population, but 22 percent of the
traveler arrivals and only 1 percent of the cases so far. Although, that number has
been increasing and I'm really concerned about once we get to community spread, it's
really going to be difficult to control.
A task force would do these, some of these things and more, would ensure that we
keep up with the latest and best testing alternatives. There are saliva tests out there
and doesn't seem like the State of Hawaii is, is trying to even get them. Ensure that
we have good quality contact-tracing with a mix of digital, using the Perseus platform
which you folks have already approved and that has made a huge difference. I
understand Lanai is already using it and staff, Department of Health staff. Ensure that
reports will be provided that give us information like Alaska does, transparent
information about where the cases are coming from. The DOH-
CHAIR LEE: Sorry, please, please conclude your testimony. Okay.
MS. DUPONTE: Okay. Mask and distancing, metrics for closing, ensure that the Maui
hospital follow CDC guidelines, and supervise distribution of vaccines. Thank you very
much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MS. DUPONTE: I know a lot of people are going to be testifying. Thank you. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions for clarification? Only clarification now, okay. Alright,
thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 5
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is John Belles. To
be followed by Cara Flores.
MR. JOHN BELLES (testifying on General Communication No. 20-6):
Testify about the, about the COVID-19 stuff. And, what you call, what I'm talk, I'm here
to talk about the, the affordable housing thing. So, I don't know if I'm off the subject at
this time. But that affordable housing thing for LCA11216,1 have the royal patent right
here. I have the royal patent right here and the land commission award number. And
I notified Michele McLean, I notified David Goode about that LCA 11216 parcel outside
of Paia and that's heirs to Kekauonohi land. And they have, A&B has an expired lease.
A&B is not authorized to sign on behalf of the family.
And also, your development is in violation of the covenant on the, on Bill No. 69,
Ordinance 3312. The covenant of the heirs coming forward and stuff, they ignored the
heirs like you guys usually do. And so, you know what, the bottom line is we going on
that land, okay. I'm the executive trustee for that land and we going on that land and
we going take care our community on LCA 11216. That's the entire Paia side of
Haleakala Highway all the way up to the top of Piiholo. We going to occupy the whole
thing. We going occupy the whole thing, so your only responsibility as a foreign agency
of the United States, outside the Constitution and outside the District of Columbia with
no treaty is to get those people off the property. Now, either you going laugh at me
because when we go on the property with those houses there, you not going to be
laughing. And we ain't going to move. We ain't going to move.
And then also, Molina, I'm in your district. I know you doing the best you can. And,
you know, I just had some other things I wanted to address. It's all in the same parcel.
The backfill from the plantation on the beach needs to be cleaned up. It's killing all the
coral. And also, I wanted to point out Corporation Counsel can't make any legal
determinations outside the Constitution of the United States without a license to
practice law outside the Constitution. So, all your determinations is null and void, and
we're not going to accept any foreign court rulings on this parcel.
We're going on the land. We're going to live there. Okay. Call your police, your foreign
police, without jurisdiction, okay. You no more no laws because you no more no treaty.
I got the copy from the Department of Defense, see um, right here. You guys got no
treaty, so you no more no law, so you no more no right, no land, no nothing.
One more thing I want to address, I don't know what Kelly King is doing back in County
Council. She sold out our parking lot, our public beach access parking lot to the hotel.
She disappears from Council, and, and then she shows up again.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 6
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me, Mr., Mr. Belles, please stay with the items that are on the agenda,
okay?
MR. BELLES: Yea. Well, it's all part, it's all one community. It's all part of the agenda,
because you know what, you guys keep defrauding us and getting away with murder,
stealing property.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. BELLES: Okay. And we're done with this bullshit.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much. No questions.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Cara Flores. To
be followed by Mike Morris.
MS. CARA FLORES (testifvinq on Countv Communication No. 20-557):
Hi. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. FLORES: I am testifying on item 20-557, regarding the resolution to request that the
Mayor start a COVID-19 Task Force, a Rapid Response Task Force. And I just want
to bring up and remind everybody the primary purpose of government and why
governments start and organize is for the protection of the citizens. And so, that's the
primary function of government. There's a lot more functions, but the number one
function of government is to protect the people. And we're under threat of a serious
health crisis of COVID-19.
And the pandemic, I've noticed especially in higher levels of government and we've
seen it all in the news, there's been a lot of finger pointing, a lot of shirking of
responsibility. Even when I call offices, you know, they'll say, oh, that's the Department
of Health, that's this person, that's that person. And we really have to stop, because
as a citizen it's really frustrating to hear an abundance of excuses and blame when we
need people to take action.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 7
And so, our Councilmembers traditionally have always been very proactive in doing
your duty to serve the community. And I believe you're doing it again with this. And
so, having a COVID-19 Task Force would help us to have a comprehensive plan for
our County of Maui and the islands within it. It would help us to increase testing and
keep testing on island so that we're taking care of the people of the County of Maui at
least. It would help us in making sure that the mandates are enforced, such as the
mask, and quarantine and those kind of things, and that they're done well. We could
have a strategy and pivot as needed, so as cases go up or down, things could change,
and we could recommend that.
We could help the schools to open safely. A lot of you may or may not know a lot of
the schools on Maui opened this week or are planning to open the coming week. And
some of them opened with very unsafe protocol and some are open with extremely
safe protocol. There's a lot of discrepancy because it's left up to individuals who are
not epidemiologists or experts to decide how these things happen, which is why having
a task force would help us to be very consistent and safe.
It would help localize our contact-tracing and make it much more efficient. We can
make sure it's working. Also, it would help us increase transparency. Like, what we're
seeing on Kauai, they've been doing really good on their island with letting people know
what's going on. So, when visitors come in and they don't have a result for their test
yet, for example, we don't know if they're positive or negative, so it would be nice-
CHAIR LEE: Please conclude.
MS. FLORES: Yea, if, if a visitor comes in with an inconclusive result and it turns out to be
positive, right now, the community is not being told that. So, we don't know how many
people are visitors here who are COVID positive. So, those kind of information would
help us. And we don't want to end up with, like El Paso, you know, right now. So,
mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Ms. Paltin has a question for you.
MS. FLORES: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, my question is I think we might have lost sound.
MS. FLORES: Oh, can you hear me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 8
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, apologies. Chair. Just, right, Akaku is having an audio
issue. I was going to request if after this testifier there could be a recess?
CHAIR LEE: Sure. Any questions?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I did have a question for her though.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha, Ms. Flores. Thank you for your testimony. I was not
really listening cause I was trying to see the sound, or hear the sound, but did you say
that there's no way for folks to know if visitors have, or tourists, non-residents, have
tested positive, that number is not being reported to the public?
MS. FLORES: Yes, that's right. The only island that's reporting it right now is Kauai. So,
Maui, we're not finding that out, yea.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And have you been in touch with those folks on Kauai that, it's
the Mayor's decision to report that number? Like, the State is giving the information to
the Mayor and, the Mayors and ours is just not being reported?
MS. FLORES: I don't know who's in charge of, you know, allowing that to be reported. But I
would assume it comes through their Department of Health representative. But they're
releasing like daily information. It's a lot more detailed than anybody else is getting.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Cara. So, I just
wanted to find out... sort of at the forefront that's supporting the Perseus app? Have
those folks gone ahead to . . . since we did that resolution?
MS. FLORES: Have they gone ahead with what, sorry?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: With implementation of the Perseus app in Maui County?
MS. FLORES: As we know, yea, they were able to get it onto the Apple Store. I know they
launched it in Lanai. I, I know it's supposed to be coming onto Google soon, which is
why there hasn't been a big public push for it. They're still waiting for, I don't know,
what happens behind the scenes. But, you know, the process to go through to get
onto Google App Store.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 9
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you for being here.
Thanks for your support.
MS. FLORES: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any other questions? If not, thank you, Ms. Floras.
Mr. Clerk, did you want us to take a short recess?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: I've been corresponding with Akaku and it sounds like that their
audio is back in. So, they should be okay, and we should be okay to proceed. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Mike Morris. To be
followed by Zhantell Undo.
MR. MIKE MORRIS (testifvinc on Countv Communication 20-558):
Good morning. Chair. Good morning, Councilmembers. Mike Morris, from the Maui
Family YMCA. And I'm testifying on 20-558, the Y is looking for a new, the lease
renewal on the current property that we're on . . . and looking for an additional
two acres.
I ... of the current four acres we've been utilizing for programs for kids since 1990.
Land would be used for additional parking area, for children to play in on, and new
programing. We recently received a $100,000 grant... Foundation near that area and
used part of it as a community garden program and giveaway program. In May, we
partnered with Grow Some Good, folks responsible for the Kihei gardens at Kihei
Elementary School. And they've helped us start a plant giveaway at the Y since the
pandemic started. They've given away 6,000 plants, 250 garden shovels, educational
information since the pandemic started to help people start their own gardens at home.
We don't have any plans to build any buildings on that property, with the exception of
maybe a shed to hold equipment, rakes and shovels and those kind of things. And the
property is approximately two acres in addition to the four acres we already ... Thank
you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions for the testifier?
Yes, Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 10
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just real quick. Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here,
Mr. Morris. What was the item you were testifying on? I, your testimony broke up right
about the time you were saying that number.
MR. MORRIS: 20-558.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Morris.
MR. MORRIS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: May we have our next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Zhantell Lindo. To
be followed by Brian Hauser.
MS. ZHANTELL LINDO (testifying on Countv Communication No. 20-545):
Aloha, Councilmembers, Council Chair Lee. Thank you so much for this opportunity.
I am testifying on County Communication 20-545, a bill for an ordinance establishing
and prohibiting the distribution of goods and funds to unsheltered individuals in public
areas with stimulus, simultaneous provisions of wrap-around services.
I will admit that when I first got, got to look at this bill, I was really disturbed. But I want
to approach this in a solution-oriented mindset and just kind of go through it and talk
about my concerns for my island, because that's where I'm an expert at. And so, I
cannot talk about homelessness or poverty in Wailuku, or Lahaina, or Maui County as
a whole, cause that's not the way that homeless and unsheltered work.
And so, first of all, the purpose of the bill states two important things. And the second
one says that it encourage unsheltered individuals to accept social services. The
whole intent of the bill by prohibiting the distribution doesn't encourage anybody; it
forces people.
I've been working with the unsheltered on Molokai and the mentally ill, just as a
community resident with several ministry partners, on our own without any County
funds since 2014. From 2016, I approached the Department of Housing and Human
Concerns, the current, David over there, and asked him for help with our homeless and
unsheltered, at which time, he told me that the Councilmember at that time said that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 11
there was only one or two homeless people and we didn't have a problem. So, here
we go fast-forward 2020 and we have a problem.
And what makes us unique is, at least 50 or 60 percent of our homeless population
here are normal, are, are Molokai born and raised people. And, and some of them
choose to not want to live in a house and that's their right. That's their right to choose
if it, we shouldn't be infringing upon people's cultural preference and traditional
standards to live by the fishpond in a hale, because we feel that they should have a
house.
Technically, for the record, I disagree with housing first. I think putting people in a
brand-new house or sheltering them without being able to find the core reason of why
they are displaced and unsheltered is a big part of them being successful in housing.
I also think that we, like Molokai, where we're lacking in services or those wrap-around
services, will be caught in what we always caught in, which is there's a blanket ruling
that prohibit things and, and causes all this confusion and lack of services. And, and
we don't have the social services and wrap-around services that we need.
So, just in conclusion, I just want to say that rural areas like us, that's, it just will be
devastating. And I think if you going be, if you're going to do something you might as
well make homelessness illegal instead of being inhumane and saying that we cannot
give aloha to people who are in need. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, good to see you, Zhan. Are there any question? If not, mahalo.
May we have our next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Brian Mauser. To be
followed by Nicole Huguenin.
MR. BRIAN MAUSER (testifvina on Countv Communication No. 20-545):
Aloha. Good morning. Council. Good morning. Chair and Councilmembers. I'm here
to testify on the same bill that the last testifier testified on; the distribution of goods and
services without wrap-around services.
I'd like to be very brief, because I don't understand any merit of this bill whatsoever.
And I, you know, the net result of that bill would be that if I went to buy a pie of pizza
and I had an extra, a leftover slice of pizza and I saw somebody starving on the street,
that I would be fined $400 for giving somebody a slice of pizza.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 10, 2020
Page 12
There are many, there are many organizations and services that are provided for
unsheltered individuals that should be allowed to move forward. If the County wants
to provide information on wrap-around services in lieu of looking at the actual problem
of homelessness and how to resolve that, you know, I just don't understand the merit.
I, I'm going to stop testifying because I would really like the introducer of the bill to
explain any merit of this bill to me. So, mahalo. Thank you so much for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Mauser, this matter will be sent to the Committee for further discussion. So,
today is just receiving this communication and referring it to the appropriate Committee.
No action will be taken today on this matter.
MR. MAUSER: Okay. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any questions?
If not, may we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Nicole Muguenin. To be
followed by Adrienne Epifano.
MS. NICOLE MUGUENIN (testifvina on Countv Communication No. 20-545):
Aloha and good morning, all. Thank you, Chair Lee and the entire Council, for your
time today. I've been here before. My name is Nicole Muguenin and I am the Director
of the Chilis on Wheels Maui, as well as the representative of the Coalition Maui Rapid
Response. I'm reading today, cause I'm a little, I'm representing more than just myself.
It is safe to say that multiple people from our team are on the streets in Maui, Maui,
servicing those experiencing homelessness every day of the week. I'm here today to
discuss agenda item 20-545, the bill to limit food and water delivery to the homeless
without wrap-around service providers present on County property.
Based on the review of five national court cases, including the 11^^ Circuit Court of
Appeals ruling that feeding the homeless is expressive conduct conducted by the First
Amendment. We believe this bill is illegal in nature and request it to be filed as it is a
waste of taxpayer money to proceed further.
A little background, our coalition of, now includes non-profits, churches, and
community members, and we believe in consistent weekly service where those
experiencing homelessness reside on the streets. We offer basic human needs, like
food, water and first-aid. And in, in offering that, we assess the next steps for health
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 13
and wellness of each individual. This approach allows us to build trusting relationships,
and over time, we find a request for wrap-around services is initiated by the person
experiencing homelessness, no matter their trauma, addiction or mental health
capacity, which increases their ability to self-advocate and stick through the
painstaking process of accessing long-term wrap-around support like housing.
Here's a breakdown of the people we have served by just two of our partner agencies.
In 2020 alone, Maui Rescue Mission has served 651 unique individuals with showers,
laundry, and resource support in Lahaina, Kahului, and Kihei. Chilis on Wheels Maui
serves 366 people in Kahului alone last month with vegan meals, first-aid, and resource
support.
Of those served throughout the year, we can safety say over 80 percent have
requested support with food stamps, medical care and insurance, unemployment
support, gathering of official documents, shelter, rehab, mental health, and connection
to jobs. All of those, all of these require transportation, which we help them manage
or provide ourselves. Based on our daily experiences, we are gravely concerned that
mandatory wrap-around service providers are not able to fulfill the actual need of those
on the streets as proposed in this bill.
Just this past month, our Lahaina street outreach worker supported five individuals in
calling for longer term mental healthcare and shelter, only to be told there was no room,
or they did not qualify. This is a consistent issue that we face as we support our
homeless ohana in seeking shelter and other wrap-around services to get them off the
street and into housing. Our team values collaboration and we consistently initiate
coordination with DHHC agents and agencies like Family Life and other wrap-around
service providers who align and work together. But we rarely see what... of these
efforts. And that's all I have. Perfect timing.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you. Yes, perfect timing. Are there any questions? If not, thank
you very much for your testimony.
May we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Adrienne Epifano.
To be followed by Christopher Fishkin.
MS. ADRIENNE EPIFANO (testifvina on Countv Communication No. 20-545):
Aloha kakahiaka. My name is Adrienne. I live in the Haiku-Pauwela area. I'm here to
testify about 20-545. I would not like to see this proposal pass if at all possible, just on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 14
the simple basis that there's not enough help for these people. There's just not, if we're
being honest with each other. There's, it's rampant right now; homelessness, mental
health, all of these issues are really coming to a head, especially now that things are
kind of upside down in our world.
Where I come from in Colorado, and what I choose to believe here, is that the aloha
spirit is alive and well. And if someone needs help, you help them no matter if it's a
public place, a private place, it doesn't matter. You give help where help is needed
and this would greatly tie the hands of the people that are trying to help even on a,
what might seem like insignificant level with just a bottle of water, a new pair of pants
to someone who needs it on the side of street. I just, I really don't want to see our
aloha spirit be gagged by government control out here, because that's one thing that
is very beautiful about our island is that it is alive and well. And let's keep it that way.
Thank you for your time. Thank you for everyone who's testified for this. And I just
really appreciate the moment to be heard. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you for coming. Alright, are there any questions? If not,
thank you again.
May we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Christopher Fishkin. To
be followed by Lisa Darcy.
MR. CHRISTOPHER FISHKIN (testifvinq on Countv Communication Nos. 20-545 and
20-557):
Good morning, Councilmembers. I'm testifying on two resolutions today. The first is
the one just spoken to on the mandatory wrap-around with the, with the homeless. I
had my own outreach. The other, the other is resolution 20-557. I had my own
outreach program on Waikiki for many years to folks on the street. And I can tell you
that every, all the testimony that's been stated here today is very accurate and I
completely reject this proposal in accordance with the same reasons everyone else
did. But I can tell you from somebody who did this work for many years, that it's, it's
completely inappropriate and would harm people.
That being said, I'm going to move onto 20-557. I am a coalition coordinator for
WhatWeLoveWeProtect. And I drafted a letter to the Mayor, which four of you
Councilmembers publicly supported, which letter includes the urgent call for a
COVID-19 Task Force for Maui County. There is no time in wasting to send this to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 15
Committee. It can only encourage the Mayor, and I'm requesting that it be voted on
today by the Council.
Without a task force in place and with medical staff from Maui Memorial/Kaiser
reaching out to me to protect our hospital frontline workers, patients, and our
community, I also filed a safety hazard complaint about Maui Memorial Medical Center
to the DOH and the joint commission, which is now posted for public transparency at
Mauicauses.org. This should be the role of a task force, not a private citizen.
Now, Ms. Lee has stated there are many changes needed on the County Council. First
and foremost is professionalism "and we work for the people". Over time, elected
officials and appointed officials-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Fishkin, my, my opinion is not on the agenda. Can you please conclude
your testimony?
MR. FISHKIN: No. Ms. Lee is trying to stifle me now.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Mr. Fishkin, please stick to the agendized item, period.
MR. FISHKIN: She said about me to a Council staff member that "I hate that fucking haole".
CHAIR LEE: You will be muted. You will be muted.
Mr. Clerk, let's go on to the next testifier.
MR. FISHKIN: -said the racial animus in this-
CHAIR LEE: What did I say about being muted?
Go on to the next testifier. Decorum will be maintained at all times. Go ahead, Mr.
Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Who's the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next testifier is Lisa Darcy. To be followed by the individual
calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 2367.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 16
MS. LISA DARCY (testifying on County Communication No. 20-545):
Good morning, Council.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. DARCY: It is a beautiful day in the neighborhood. And I'm, I'm very grateful to be here.
My name is Lisa Darcy. I am the founder of Share Your Mana, and I would like to
testify on the proposed bill 20-545, the proposed bill.
It's impossible to have anywhere to start on this, as I have eight pages of notes typed.
What I'd like to drop in and say is, that as somebody who has been serving this
community for over 18 years in the capacity to assist those who are unsheltered plus
added to my 30 years of work with mental health and unsheltered around the nation
and actually internationally, it is perplexing to me how this, the same words are even
in a sentence that are being proposed.
Immediately, Share Your Mana started asking legal questions, and I think that was
brought up earlier. I've reached out to Attorney Lance Collins. I've reached out to Eric
Tars who is the lead attorney at the National Law Center on Homelessness. I've
reached out to Jesse Wu, who is the Director of Office of Public Housing and the
Department of Urban Development. And he has actually moved the conversation to
Marc Alexander in the Governor's Office to try to understand whether or not this is
something that we could even be putting time towards.
I've gone to the HUD website to see if HUD would sanction such movement forward.
I've gone to the Maui Homeless Alliance. And to just echo what the earlier testifier
from Molokai, Zhan Undo, indicated, just to let you know that last year, Molokai was
not, it was intentionally not counted in the Point in Time Count. When it was brought
up from some case managers that there are people that are residing homeless on
Molokai and Lanai, the, the lead agency for the Point in Time Count, Family Life
indicated that they didn't believe there was anybody there, so they were not even
counted.
So, I need you to understand the level of complexity that is being touched on. I have,
I have, I have, I've just pages and pages of questions. The cultural aspects, also, of
Housing First, which only addresses 10 percent, which I actually support. They are,
there is so much that begs to be asked on this that I highly recommend that this move
fonward and that this go into Committee. I do not want to see it die. I want it to have
much larger platform for discussion and so you can have so much more information
shared with you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 17
So, I also have several, and I don't know if it would be appropriate now, videos that
people made. They cannot, do not have, again, people who are living in these
circumstances would like to speak to this bill, but they do not have the ability to have
data, or their phones aren't charged. So, I actually have several videos that I'd like to
share.
CHAIR LEE: Lisa, Lisa, that would probably be more appropriate for when the matter is sent
to Committee, when there'll be more time to, to really absorb and understand all of the
information that you will be sharing from everyone. But we do thank you for the
information you gave us today. And are there any questions for Lisa? Not seeing any
hands. Thank you, Lisa, again, and for all the work you do. It's much appreciated.
Thank you.
MS. DARCY: Oh, Councilmember Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I didn't see your hand. I'm sorry. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Just clarification, Ms. Darcy, would like to
see this forwarded to Committee for larger discussion, yea?
MS. DARCY: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore hands? If not, thank you, Lisa, again.
MS. DARCY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is the individual connected
to the meeting from the phone number ending with these last four digits: 2367. To be
followed by Susun White.
MR. STEVE CALKINS (testifvina on Countv Communication No. 20-545):
Aloha. My name is Steven Calkins. I'm one of the founders of Hungry Homeless
Heroes. We started this volunteer organization at the beginning of COVID. And since
then it's been about 25 weeks, about 250 days, and we have personally cooked and
delivered over 55,000 meals so far. We average about 200 to 250 meals every single
day. I personally go out there and deliver to these people, to these human beings.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 18
And they are just that. They have bigger hearts than a lot of people that I can call my
friends.
And for us to throw them under the bus, and for this bill to even be written on paper,
would just, is such a clear violation of our First Amendment rights. I think it's pretty
disgraceful. We call ourselves the State of Aloha, but does that mean aloha only for
the people that have money to spend? These are kind of the questions that are coming
up for me. I'd really, really encourage and invite these Councilmembers to come out
and do a delivery with us one day and really get to meet these people themselves and
understand that they are human beings and their worth is just as valuable as ours. And
like I said, if we're going, if we're going to call ourselves the State of Aloha, we need to
live in that aloha. And I do not see one bit of aloha in this bill whatsoever.
And like, like Lisa just said, I would, I would really like to hear from, from whoever
proposed this bill themselves. Like let's hear from their mouth, or what's going in their
head, and why they could even think that this is a reasonable solution. I'll, I'll pass my
time on to somebody else.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions? If not. appreciate you coming.
May we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Susun White. To
be followed by Jelena Dackovic.
CHAIR LEE: Call her again please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Susun White, it is your time to testify. I see that you are unmuted
on your end, but we cannot hear you, if, if you are talking.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, let's come back to her.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Go out and come back in.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. The next person to testify, then, if Jelena Dackovic. To
be followed by Tom Fischer.
MS. JELENA DACKOVIC (testifvina on Countv Communication No. 20-545):
Good morning, everybody. My name is Jelena Dackovic. I am a street outreach
worker and part of Maui Rapid Response. So, I strongly agree with every, everything
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 19
that Nicole said. And I am strongly against this bill. I am on the streets in west side
every single day. So, I would like to use my time to actually invite you guys to come
out with me, do the street outreach with me, meet these folks, and hear their
experience firsthand. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Are there any questions? If not, thank you, Ms. Dackovic. Thank you.
MS. DACKOVIC: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next, the next person we have signed up to testify is Tom
Fischer. To be followed by Faith Chase.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Susun White is on the cell now too.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: So, for those types, could you just mute them and go on to the next one until
we clear up-
MR. TOM FISCHER (testifvina on Countv Communication No. 20-550):
Hello?
CHAIR LEE: -and see where the problem is.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, yea, I believe that she was. We could hear Mr. Fischer from
both his computer and his phone. But we can hear him now from his phone audio.
MR. FISCHER: Yes, thanks everyone. Sorry for the technological difficulties. Good morning.
Council. And I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony this morning. My name
is Tom Fischer; project manager for the Kaiaulu O Kupuohi project. And I am providing
public testimony on County Communication No. 20-550.
The president of Ikaika Ghana has submitted testimony on the pending resolution.
Sorry, can you guys hear me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 10, 2020
Page 20
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Please continue.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I think we need all the other Councilmembers to mute
themselves as well.
MR. FISCHER: Sorry. Can everyone hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Yes, we can hear you. Can you please continue?
MR. FISCHER: Okay. Sorry. I'll just finish up here. The president of Ikaika Ghana has
submitted testimony on the pending resolution, so I wanted to manage everyone's
expectations. The resolution before you does not adequately reflect what we have in
the budget today for traffic mitigation. That is why we need to reflect the $1,335,000
in the resolution. That is what we know we have. We do have some contingency, as
we often do, but these projects rarely have any significant amount of savings. Thank
you. Sorry for the technological difficulties.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No problem. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, thank you
very much.
May we have the next one?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Faith Chase. To
be followed by the individual connected from the phone number ending with these last
four digits, 6172.
MS. FAITH CHASE (testifying on Countv Communication Nos. 20-537. 20-545. 20-557. and
20-558):
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha, Councilmembers. I, I, I need to speak to 20-545. I, I agree
with the Molokai testifier expressing how a blanket ruling would be, would do the Maui
County an extreme disservice. I've testified five different times, specifically to the need
that the agencies, well first of all, that we need to really implore separation of church
and State. I know that sounds funny coming from somebody's name Faith, but 1,1, I've
said that before.
And I think that we need to look carefully at the agencies who have been doing good
work and to re, just look at those grassroots organizations that weren't there before in
years prior and when you're making budget considerations. I find it interesting that,
wow, this is a really poorly written proposal, as well as the press release. I find it really




































































































































































