MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2020-12-18
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1483,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUTES 
of the 
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI  
December 18, 2020 
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF 
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2020, 
BEGINNING AT 9:05 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L. LEE PRESIDING. 
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of 
December 18, please come to order. 
Now, Members, before we do roll call, I'd like to wish all of you Happy Holidays and 
welcome our special guests on this special occasion for Mr. Hokama. The morning 
greeting will be shukran. Shukran means peace be upon you. 
Okay. Ms., Madam Chair, please, Madam Clerk, please proceed. 
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Chair, we'll proceed with the roll call. 
ROLL CALL  
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS G. RIKI HOKAMA, NATALIE A. KAMA, 
KELLY T. KING, MICHAEL J. MOLINA, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, 
SHANE M. SINENCI, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE. 
EXCUSED: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Good morning again. And just for our guests' information, we have our County 
covered. We're coming to you from every corner of the County, so just to let you know. 
Most of us are in our districts, and we're very happy, we've been operating this way for 
about seven months now. And, you know, I think we have it down most of the time. 
Alright. Shall we proceed? Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine Members present. And a quorum is present to 
conduct the business of the Council. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 2 
Also present today with us at the meeting is myself, County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; Deputy 
County Clerk James Krueger; and Legislative Division staff Joyce Murashige, Lauren 
Saldana, and Dell Yoshida. 
Joining the meeting from the Department of Corporation Counsel is Corporation 
Counsel Moana Lutey, and First Deputy Corp. Counsel Richelle Thomson. 
CHAIR LEE: Opening remarks this morning will be done by Councilmember Kelly King. 
OPENING REMARKS 
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Kelly King. 
CHAIR LEE: Member King, thank you for that beautiful message. Now, everyone, please 
join me in reciting our Pledge of Allegiance. 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE  
The Members of the Council, rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Members. So, before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please 
request that everyone keep their microphones muted unless it is your turn to speak. 
Decorum shall be maintained at all times. 
And Members, if there are no objections, I would like to request changes to today's 
agenda. First, I would like to take testimony on all items together. And second, I would 
like to move our ceremonial resolution for Councilmember Hokama to the end of the 
agenda. Are there any objections? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. Okay, so before taking testimony, I would like to inform the public 
that I will be asking to postpone our ceremonial resolution for the 'Imi Pono Challenge. 
Ms. Clerk, please proceed with the testimony for our resolution, our first, well, our only 
ceremonial resolution. Madam Clerk. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 3 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair-- 
CHAIR LEE: We, we have two guests from NACo. And we also have the Mayor attending. 
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. One moment please. 
PRESENTATION OF WRITTEN TESTIMONY 
MR. MATT CHASE, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES: 
Madam Chair, can you hear us? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Madam Clerk, can you announce the testifiers please? 
COUNTY CLERK: First to testify is Mr. Matt Chase. 
MR. CHASE: Aloha. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you to the 
distinguished Maui County board. I want to give another thanks to Councilmember 
King, who introduced me to Henry Kapono a few years ago. And throughout this 
pandemic, whenever my family is down, we just turn on the iPod and listen to Henry 
and we're, our spirits are lifted. So, thank you for that great gift that you gave us a 
couple years ago. 
It is an honor on behalf of the National Association of Counties, I'm joined by our NACo 
President Judge Gary Moore from Kentucky, to recognize a second generation NACo 
leader. Councilmember Hokama has been a fierce advocate for Maui County, his own 
island within the County, but also the Hawaii State Association of Counties and all of 
America's counties. He has been just a fearless advocate at the national level, who is 
really focused on the fundamental building blocks for a prosperous, equitable nation 
down to the individual county neighborhood and even family level. 
During his time as President of NACo, he really focused on the importance of mobility 
and transportation, and the need to invest in our nation's infrastructure, so that places 
like Hawaii and all of America's counties can compete in the global economy. But he's 
also been very impactful in early childhood development and Head Start and really 
focusing on making sure that everybody has access to livable wages. 
But most importantly is the aloha spirit that he brought to our nation's counties and this 
very divided nation. He always brought dignity, and respect, and civility at a time when 
that's a really cherished trait. He's also been an incredible advocate for America's rural 
counties and those that are smaller populations. And as was alluded to earlier, he's 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 4 
always made sure that NACo gets a return on investment for every county dollar spent, 
that he is always a great steward of public resources. 
So, I would just like to extend our appreciation from the National Association of 
Counties. And a hui, a hui hou. 
CHAIR LEE: Very good, Matt. Thank you. Are there any, are there any questions for the 
testifier? If not, thank you very much for joining us this morning, Matt. 
Now, we, Madam Clerk, can we have the next testifier, please? 
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Judge Moore. And Mr. Moore will be followed by Don 
Couch. 
JUDGE GARY MOORE, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES: 
Thank you very much. And it's an honor to be a part of your all's meeting today. And 
it is such a, an exciting time for us. We're sad to be, be acknowledging that one of our 
great leaders at NACo is going to be exiting here in just a few days. But I would like 
to speak to Riki Hokama's, his leadership. 
I would not have dreamed when I entered NACo and becoming active in the National 
Association of Counties that I would ever be NACo president. But watching him serve 
and learning from him and others about how to be a leader, I love his calm confident 
leadership style. And what he has delivered through the years, to me and to many of 
my associates has, has just been wonderful. I too am an advocate for transportation 
and mobility. And I love the fact that during his year as NACo president, that was the 
key, that was his main goal as NACo president, and I carry on that tradition today. 
So, also in the aloha spirit, I want to thank former NACo president Riki Hokama for 
everything he's done for NACo, for counties, and for me personally. And I wish you 
much happiness and success in your retirement and whatever you do from here 
forward. So, thank you and God bless. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, Judge. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, 
thank you very much for joining us and hope to see you soon. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Madam, Madam Chair, if I may, because I know Judge 
Moore, President Moore and Mr. Chase going to leave the meeting shortly. I just want 
to show you something. Matt, thank you for sending this to, all the way to Maui. I want 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 5 
all of my colleagues and the Chair to notice what NACo really thinks of me, Members. 
Guys, can you see this? 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, very good. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: It's a NACo rock guitar. 
CHAIR LEE: Beautiful. 
MR. CHASE: That's for being a rock star. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you so much, Judge. Thank you so much, Matt and 
to all our NACo ohana. Thank you. 
MR. CHASE: Mahalo. 
JUDGE MOORE: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. 
MR. CHASE: Aloha. 
JUDGE MOORE: Aloha. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, I have a question. 
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Mr. Don Couch. Mr. Don Couch will be followed 
by Councilmember-Elect Gabe Johnson. 
MR. DON COUCH: 
Aloha, Chair. And good morning, Councilmembers. It's a pleasure to be here to testify 
on behalf of the ceremonial resolution for Riki Hokama. I've known Riki for- 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can you turn your video on? 
MR. COUCH --a long time. 
CHAIR LEE: Don. Don. Don. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 6 
MR. COUCH: Yea. 
CHAIR LEE: Can you click on your video? We, we can hear you. Oh, there you go, okay. 
Great. 
MR. COUCH: There we go. Okay. I've known Riki for a long time. Prior to me being on the 
Council, I worked with him while I was in the Administration. His 20 years on the 
Council is, was very, very heartfelt. He always had the people of Maui in mind when 
he was on the Council. He was, as Matt and Judge Moore mentioned, he was a budget 
hawk. He is very fiscally conservative. And sometimes we, you know, clashed heads 
a little bit. But whatever the result of the budget was, was because he had the fiscal 
health of Maui County and the people of Maui County in mind. 
Prior to his years on the Council, he, a lot of people don't know that he was on the 
Constitutional Convention in 1978. He's been responsible for a lot of what's in our 
State Constitution, and we can thank him for that. And as Matt and Judge Moore said, 
he put Maui and the State of Hawaii on the radar at NACo. Prior to that, it's just, you 
know, that was that place over there over the ocean. But him becoming the president 
of NACo has really, really helped out Maui County for sure. We got a lot of IT stuff 
done differently because of his leadership at NACo. And he's always been a mentor 
to me when I was in, on Council and in NACo. And above all of that, he was always 
fun to hang out with, especially out in DC. He knew the place. 
So, Member Hokama, it's been a pleasure serving with you. It's been a pleasure 
working with you in the Administration side. And you've taught me a lot. And hope to 
see you around. And by the way, Council, and for future Councils too, the man has 
huge, huge memory, memory of an elephant. He knows why things were done 20, 
30 years ago. And I know he's brought it up, when I was on Council. And I've seen 
him bring it up at some of your Council meetings too, to remind people why we did 
things, what, the way we did it and the history. This, this County is built on history. 
And keep that in mind. If you have any questions, always go back to him because he's 
got it up here. 
So, Member Hokama, it's been a pleasure and I look forward to working with you at 
other times as much as you can. Aloha and Merry Christmas, Happy Holidays to 
everybody. Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: And same to you, Don. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, thank 
you, Don. 
Madam Clerk. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 7 
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. We have a special guest that just showed up, so we're going 
to ask if Councilmember-Elect Johnson can hold on his testimony so that we can have 
Mayor Victorino testify. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
MAYOR MICHAEL VICTORINO: 
Aloha and Mele Kalikimaka to all of you. I want to first of all say congratulations to all 
of you on your re-election and good luck in the next term. And you have my assurances 
that we will continue to try to work very closely, especially in these austere times. 
And let's talk about austere times. Riki and I go back long enough to understand, and 
like you, Alice, all of these difficult times that this County has faced because of 
downturns in the economy. But Riki has always been a real steadfast in understanding 
what needs to be done and how best to approach it. He also taught me a lot about 
what bonding and financial standing meant when you did your financials. And so, the 
budget had to be set up at a certain way with certain areas being met, because if we 
wanted that good rating like we just got this past year with a 1.99 rating for our 
$75 million bond issuance, you know, it was a lot of work that Riki taught me and people 
like Scott and others how to handle this and how to approach it. 
One of the biggest things I thought Riki gave me was, and this County, was the fiscal 
prudence and the fiscal where all to go and make things work. And that's why this 
County is renowned in the State as the strongest County fiscally in all of the State of 
Hawaii. And I'm proud to say Riki contributed an awful lot. 
What also Riki brought to the table was the ability to work with the national leadership, 
not only with NACo, but senators, and representatives, and different department 
heads, and secretaries of commerce. And people that I met through him, that they 
were, they really respected Riki, they knew what Riki meant and what Riki was talking 
about. And he taught us a lot of that. 
He gave me an opportunity to be the Chair of the Rural Action Caucus, which I really 
appreciated that opportunity. It gave me a lot of insight in how other States struggle 
with their budgeting and municipalities, especially small municipalities and how they 
operate. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 8 
For all of us, we're going to miss him. We're going to miss his fiscal advice. But he's 
not going to go far. Just to let you know, he will be coming and entering into our Land 
Management Division and he will be helping us in that area. I figure, why let something 
like him go, with all that experience and knowledge? You know, we're going to keep 
him around. So, if you thought you were not going to see Riki around, eh, sorry guys, 
he's going to be around helping. And I think his experience, knowledge, as well as his 
ability to give us a big picture both nationally as well as statewide and his connections 
will be a big asset to continue here in Maui County. 
So, to Riki, Mele Kalikimaka. Good luck to you my friend. We'll see you soon. To all 
of you again, have a great holiday season, God bless you all, and aloha. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Aloha to you, and blessings, and best wishes. 
MAYOR VICTORINO: So, may I now give him the lei? 
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me? 
Okay. Now, shall we proceed, Madam Clerk? 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Councilmember-Elect Gabe Johnson. 
MR. GABE JOHNSON: 
Aloha. I'm Gabe Johnson. And I would like to testify on the ceremonial resolution 
"EXPRESSING APPRECIATION TO COUNCILMEMBER RIKI HOKAMA". 
Democracy works well when we have different ideas and beliefs, and the good one's 
percolate to the top. I have had great debates with Councilmember Hokama 
throughout the years and I've always felt that even though we have had our differences, 
we've both been very respectful. And I thank Councilmember Hokama for, for that, 
and I wish him the best in his future endeavors. 
Although we've had many interesting debates through the years, we have one, we 
have had one common ground or one pillar, and that's the love of Lanai that we both 
share. You can tell by Councilmember Hokama's words is that he has a passion for 
the island of Lanai. And I, I too, I appreciate his love of Lanai. 
Riki has been in office for many years, and that has given him great institutional 
knowledge. And, and as a constituent of his, I've always felt that the door has always 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 9 
been open for, to his office, so I would go in and ask him. And he would give me the, 
the lowdown on why the County does what it does. So, he's been great in his, in his 
institutional knowledge and he's willing, willing to share it and I appreciate that. 
I look forward to talking with Riki and continue to learn from such an experienced 
legislator. He is a legend among legends. Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Councilmember-Elect Johnson. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thanks, Gabe. 
CHAIR LEE: Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, thank you. Aloha. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that concludes our testifiers for the ceremonial resolution. 
And moving forward to, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda items. 
I'd like to recall; the members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's 
online meeting by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's 
agenda. 
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is 
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their 
video and microphones muted and should unmute when it is their time to testify. 
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for 
three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any 
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please 
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist. 
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the 
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource 
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected 
and may view the remainder of the meeting on Akaku Channel 53 or on 
mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at 
any time for breaking decorum. 
Chair, our first person to testify is Jan Shishido. And Jan will be followed by Jeny 
Bissell. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 10 
MS. JAN SHISHIDO, Maui Coalition for Druq-Free Youth (testifying on Committee 
Report 20-162): 
Good morning. 
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. 
MS. SHISHIDO: Shukran, Council Chair Alice Lee. Season's Greetings and Happy Holidays, 
Councilmembers. And I wanted to just give a shoutout also to Councilmember Riki 
Hokama. And thank you for your leadership and your service all these years. But it 
sounds like we'll still going to, you're still going to be around, so we'll see you around. 
My name is Jan Shishido and I am the Vice-Chair for the Maui Coalition for Drug-Free 
Youth. I'm a community member, a parent, and a longstanding advocate for our youth. 
I'm speaking on behalf of the social host ordinance establishing a new Chapter 9.40, 
agenda item CR 20-162. 
I really appreciate Corporation Counsel and Prosecuting Attorney for their collaboration 
efforts to maintain language of the intent of the social host ordinance. Also, I thank 
Councilmembers for your questions and the amendments that were analyzed. 
Today's I'm testifying to request that the Council reconsider, under 9.40.020 
Definitions, under definitions of "Gathering". Right now, it states "Gathering"' means a 
group of ten or more persons". I would like you to reconsider changing it back to two 
or more. With a larger party size, it really weakens the enforceability of the bill and 
makes it much more difficult for the police to utilize effectively. 
The other, the other request has to do with exemption in Section 9.40.030. It would be 
a lot simpler if you referenced the State HRS exemption under the criminal social host 
ordinance, rather than list them out entirely. We believe a simple language in our 
ordinance protects the ordinance from require, requiring amending if the State HRS is 
ever changed. 
This ordinance has been in the works for nearly four years. And I am ready to do a 
happy dance to protect our youth, keeping them safe and healthy. This ordinance is, 
this ordinance as a deterrent, may hope that house parties and underage drinking 
parents, underage drinking, parents, and minors will more thoughtful and an 
environmental change will happen. I continue to be passionate for our youth. 
Thank you for your consideration of this social host ordinance. Merry Christmas and 
a merrier 2021. Thank you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 11 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Jan. And we do have a question for you from Member King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha, Jan. Good to see you. And thank you for letting us, I had 
no idea . . . worked on for four years, so that was good to hear, and that you're involved 
in it. But I just wanted to ask if you could send in your written testimony, because you 
had some suggestions that, that I thought were very pertinent. So, if we could get 
those in writing to the Council, that would be great. 
MS. SHISHIDO: Okay. Thank you. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mahalo. And Mele Kalikimaka to you too. 
MS. SHISHIDO: You too. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Okay. Thank you, Jan. Good seeing you. 
Madam Clerk. 
MS. SHISHIDO: Thank you. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Ms. Jeny Bissell. And Ms. Bissell will be followed 
by Mr. Rick Collins. 
MS. JENY BISSELL (testifying on Committee Report 20-162): 
Aloha and mabuhay, everyone. Mele Kalikimaka. 
(Spoke in Filipino.) 
First of all, Madam Chair, Yukran [sic] and Happy Holidays to everybody, as well as 
Councilmember Riki Hokama. Mr. Hokama, thank you. Thank you so much. Mahalo 
maraming salamat po . . . for caring our fellow Kababayans on the island of Lanai, as 
well as throughout Hawaii. So, mahalo. Thank you so much. And thank you so much 
for all of the compassion, and kindness, and caring, and making us responsible all this 
year. So, best wishes to you, Mr. Hokama. 
I am testifying the agenda item CR 20-162, the social host ordinance, specifically 
following Jan's advocacy to please reconsider the definition. And consi, reconsider the 
gathering and limit it to two or more, two or, two or more and not ten, to make it more 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 12 
feasible for enforcement. It's the same thing with contact tracing, the less number, the 
better, the easier in terms of enforcement. So, if you could please consider that. 
The other one is the, the exemption in terms of if you can just simply state, make 
simple, simply state the, the State HRS exemption rather than listing just to make it 
clearer and so that it's not confusing to, to everyone. So, thank you so much. I know 
that all of you have worked so hard, countless hours for this. And we really, really 
appreciate each one, each and every one of you for working so hard, especially, 
especially this year. So, again, I thank you so much. 
My name is Jeny Bissell. I am an RN for the Department of Health for 30 years. I am, 
also, I serve in various community, I'm a strong advocate to the youth. That is my line 
of work, is taking care of the youth and the families in, in Maui County. And it's been 
such a pleasure doing that over the last 30 years. I am South Maui resident. And 
again, thank you so much, everyone. And have a wonderful, wonderful Merry 
Christmas and Happy Holidays to each and every one of you. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And same to you, Jeny. Appreciate your testimony. Are there any 
questions, Members? If not, thank you for coming. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Mr. Rick Collins. Mr. Collins will be followed by 
caller registered as Cassandra. 
MR. RICK COLLINS, MAUI COALITION FOR DRUG-FREE YOUTH (testifying on Committee 
Report 20-162: 
Good morning, Councilmembers. And Happy Holidays to you all. And again, congrats 
to Mr. Hokama, for all your service and really do wish you well. I'm sure we'll see you 
again. They say, they say good people never really retire, so I'm, I'm assuming you're 
going to be one of those. 
So, my name is Rick Collins and I'm a resident of Pukalani. I'm also a father of two 
young children. And I'm the Director for the Maui Coalition for Drug-Free Youth and 
I'm here to testify on item CR 20-162. 
On behalf of the Coalition, we really do thank you for hearing the social host ordinance 
again this morning. While we're close to crafting an effective ordinance that follows 
best practice, there are two sections that must be revised if we are to have a strong 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 13 
ordinance that creates deterrence and reduces underage drinking and the associated 
harms to our young people. 
Our first recommendation is to revise this definition of "Gathering" that the other two 
testifiers have talked about, back to a size of two or more persons. Since last week's 
GET meeting, we have been busy collecting and reviewing ordinances from across the 
country. We found 26 social host ordinances from seven different States. And we 
looked through each ordinance to determine how other communities define gathering. 
Of the 26 ordinances, the lowest gathering size was one or more persons. The highest 
gathering size was three or more persons. And the vast majority of them were two or 
more persons. 
Why is this so important for it to be two or more persons? Two main reasons. One, 
it's critical in creating strong deterrence. It needs to be easily enforceable when law 
enforcement show up to the scene. And the community must know that it can and will 
be enforced if there's underage drinking occurring at a residence. Second, as it's 
currently written, we appear to be condoning underage drinking of gatherings under 
ten people. How do we justify that it's okay for nine people to drink at a house party, 
underage youth to drink at a house party? This is an unacceptable message to send 
to our community. The goal of this ordinance is to protect every youth from the 
devastating harms of alcohol, period. 
We request that you make a motion on the, on the floor to revise the definition of 
"Gathering" back to two or more persons. It will provide protections for every single 
youth and will send a clear message to our community that underage drinking is never 
safe. 
Our second recommendation is to revise exemptions in Sections 9.40.030, letter "C.", 
and that's on the exemptions, specifically around exemptions 3, 4, and 5, and I can 
send this in my testimony. And our request would be that you either simply revert back 
to the original language dated 11-25-20. And reason, or, or to strike exemptions 3, 4, 
and 5. And the reason for this is because two, two real reasons. One, if you spelled 
them all out, anytime there might be an HRS change, you . . . And the second reason 
is because— 
CHAIR LEE: Rick. Rick could you--
MR. COLLINS: Yea. 
CHAIR LEE: Rick, could you please conclude your testimony? Thank you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 14 
MR. COLLINS: Yes. So, thank you. Thank you for your support of these, these proposed 
changes. And I will send my written testimony for the details of those. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. 
Mr. Hokama, do you have a question? No? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: No questions for the gentleman. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair. Vice-Chair, you have a question? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I do. Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Mr. Collins. Mahalo 
for your testimony. So, in the presentations that we received in Committee, it is, it not 
correct that what you told us about the studies and your research here is about large 
gatherings? And, and that's what the intention of the bill was to prevent is-- 
MR. COLLINS: Yes. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --large gatherings? 
MR. COLLINS: I think we, we have to correct ourselves a little bit in, in saying and clarify that 
large gatherings are the most dangerous gatherings that we know that occur. But this, 
we really want this to have stronger deterrence, and for that to happen, we want the 
police to be able to easily enforce this when they show up at the scene. And, and we 
want all underage drinking parties where the police are called out for service for this 
ordinance to impact that to protect our kids. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Collins. And there's already existing law 
that make underage drinking illegal. 
MR. COLLINS: Yes. There is, there is underage drinking laws that make it illegal. The 
problem is that the current State law has too high of a burden of proof that it's really 
hard and nearly impossible for law enforcement to show up at a scene and hold a 
homeowner . . . for the, for the party. So, that's the, that's the reason for this ordinance. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Collins. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. King 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. And thanks for being here, Rick. Actually, I 
was just going to ask Madam Chair, if there's no objections, if we could ask Mr. Collins 
to be a resource when we get to this item on the agenda? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 15 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Collins, are you, would you be available to be a resource? 
MR. COLLINS: I might have a toddler next to me. But yes, I will be available. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's okay. 
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections, Members? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We're good with toddlers. 
MR. COLLINS: Okay. You think you are. We'll see. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We're doing this to protect the kids, so, you know. 
MR. COLLINS: There you go. There you go. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered. So, Rick, please stand by when we bring this up again. 
MR. COLLINS: Sure, I'd be happy to. 
CHAIR LEE: Are there any other questions? 
If not, Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier please? 
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Cassandra. And Cassandra will be followed by Ethan 
Baysa. 
MS. CASSANDRA ABDUL, NA HALE 0 MAUI (testifying on County Communication 
No. 20-609): 
Good morning. 
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. 
MS. ABDUL: This is Cassandra Abdul with Na Hale 0 Maui. I'm executive director. And I 
wanted to say, Riki, we're going to miss your smiling face at the Council. And I wish 
you absolutely the best. It really has been a pleasure to work with you. Your mana'o 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 16 
is incredible. You have really helped our organization. And you just really demonstrate 
great leadership and I thank you very much. Enjoy your retirement. 
Okay. I am testifying today on 20-609, that has to do with the proposal to approve the 
acquisition of real property at the Kahoma Residential Subdivision, buying back from 
an existing owner. The property is deed restricted. I think that the County's decision 
to buyback the property is prudent. If they do not do this, a deed restricted house for 
10 years will go to market at less than three years. The homeowner will be able to sell 
it at the retail market price and realize a, basically a windful profit, the difference 
between their purchase price and the market rate. 
By buying this back, we preserve the affordability on the house. The next step of 
granting this in-kind to Na Hale 0 Maui means that it won't be affordable for just another 
seven years; it will be affordable in perpetuity. We've had the wonderful opportunity 
with the County to have two other homes that came to us in in-kind grants that have 
been sold to incoming qualified families here in Maui County. And the funds from those 
homes have been recycled into additional affordable homes. 
Rather than taking the time to go over what you've heard me tell you many times 
before, I'd like to share with you some testimony that came in from two homeowners. 
One who was able to buy one of these in-kind homes. And these homeowners believe 
so much in our mission, that they have become directors on our board of directors. We 
have one-third of our directors as homeowners to make sure that we keep their best 
interest in mind as a nonprofit organization. 
So, the first testimony comes from Lavy Sisouvong. His family was able to buy the in-
kind grant from the County. And he says, "I grew up here on Maui, married with three 
children, and a dog. I am an air conditioning technician. And one of my dreams is to 
live in a house that I own with my family. And through Na Hale 0 Maui, that dream 
came true. My family and I have been on the waiting list for four years before we 
became owners. The program helped us get ready to own a home. I, it helped us get 
financially prepared, even through these tough times. This is the reason I support 
Na Hale 0 Maui's request for in-kind grant homes." 
CHAIR LEE: Cassandra. Cassandra. 
MS. ABDUL: Yes. 
CHAIR LEE: We're going to need you to—
MS. ABDUL: I realize. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 17 
CHAIR LEE: —summarize and conclude in one minute please. 
MS. ABDUL: Right. Absolutely. Both of our homeowners have asked that you support and 
approve the CC 20-609 so that another family here in Maui County can have a truly 
affordable home that will stay that way in perpetuity. And I thank you very much for 
your time. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions, Members? 
Yes, Ms., Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. Since this is an item that I will be 
planning to take action on today on the floor, Ms. Abdul, are you available to stay on 
as a resource? 
MS. ABDUL: Yes. Absolutely. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, I do have questions for our testifier, but since 
Ms. Abdul will be able to stay on as a resource, I'll save my questions for when the 
item comes up if, if there aren't any objections? 
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections not only to the questions, but to having Ms. Abdul as the, 
as a resource person when the item comes up? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no objections. So, ordered. Thank you, Ms.-- 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Abdul. Please stay on the call. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Ethan Baysa. And Ethan will be followed by Luke 
Berrigan. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 18 
MR. ETHAN BAYSA (testifying on Committee Report 20-162): 
Hi. My name is Ethan Baysa. I am a seventh-grade student from Maui Waena and a 
member of the Maui Nui Youth Council. I have been volunteering with the Council for 
a year and joined because I care about keeping my peers and myself safe from the 
harms of alcohol. I'm here to give testimony in support of item CR 20-162, the social 
host liability ordinance. But I'm advocating for a change to the language. 
I have been in support of a social host ordinance from its creation. I have stood before 
you and shared statistics on stories as to why youth, as to why protecting youth from 
underage drinking at house parties is so important. I am here to ask, I am here today 
to ask for your continued support of the ordinance. But there is needs to be, but there 
needs to be change to the language that is vital of maintaining its integrity. 
I am asking you, the Council, to change the definition of "Gathering" from ten underage 
people to three. I believe that every young person's life is important, and I do not agree 
that the minimum number of teens drinking should be ten for this ordinance to take 
effect. What if there are only nine teens drinking? Do they matter? I mean, do they 
not matter? 
Underage drinking is illegal and unsafe. It should only take one to trigger the 
ordinance. If we have to compromise, then the minimum should be three. I am asking 
you Councilmembers to prioritize every team, every teen of Maui County. Please 
amend the language and pass the ordinance. Thank you for your time to hear us. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Baysa. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, thank 
you. 
And Madam, oh, we have one question. Ms. Tamara Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just wanted to clarify; Mr. Baysa, right? 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Baysa. 
MR. BAYSA: It's fine. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, thank you very much, Mr. Baysa. Madam Clerk, may we have the 
next testifier? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 19 
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Luke Berrigan. And Mr. Berrigan will be followed by 
Andrea Maniago. Mr. Berrigan. 
Okay, we'll move forward with Andrea Maniago. 
MS. ANDREA MANIAGO (testifying on Committee Report 20-162): 
Hi. Thank you so much. Can you guy, can you hear me? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. 
MS. MANIAGO: Perfect. Thank you. Okay, so as many of you know, my name is Andrea 
Maniago. I'm a mother of four and I volunteer for this ordinance and for MADD, MADD 
Hawaii. 
So, I was prepared to do a speech. But I read, I read one of the languages, and the 
one that says, "Gatherings should be of ten people or more". And everything that I 
was thinking of writing went out the door. I feel like we've been continuously having 
roadblocks. We've been working on this for four years. To me, asking for ten people 
or more is crazy. 
I know so many stories of just four teens getting together and getting harmed. 
Something happened personally in my family, not only with my son, but with other 
family members getting molested with just six people at a house party. So, to me, this 
ten people, I don't understand it. I don't understand it. We've done so much work 
throughout the four years. We've gotten surveys. We've gotten surveys from teens, 
from adults. We've gotten the police involved. We've, we've asked so many, we have 
asked so many people to come to the table to help us with this to make sure that what 
we're asking is not only realistic, but also that it's a problem. I don't understand why 
people don't see how this isn't a problem. And I'm sorry that I'm getting super 
emotional, but four years is a long time. 
Asking for ten people or more, to me is ridiculous. You can go to the hotel. You can 
have three, four people in the hotel with underage kids drinking. Does that mean police 
can't come? I'm asking for you to revise that ten people or more, because to me it's 
just another roadblock. The only thing that we're asking is to protect our kids, that's it. 
It's not like we're trying to be evil. The only people that we are protecting is, is our 
children. And to me, and I will shoot this, shout this on the rooftop, if you do not provide 
alcohol to underage children, then this does not affect you and I don't understand why 
that's such an issue. Thank you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 20 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Andrea. Are there any questions for the testifier? 
Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha Ms. Maniago. Mahalo for your 
testimony. So, right now without this ordinance, police and there's underage, there's 
people underage drinking at a hotel, they cannot, the police cannot respond to that? 
MS. MANIAGO: I'm not exactly sure. But I, to me, when I was looking at . . . gathering . . . 
there's, to me, so many roadblocks with these ten people gathering that I was just 
thinking about one of the issues would be a hotel. Cause I know so many people that 
let their kids party at the hotels with sometimes five, sometimes more. I'm just 
wondering is this going to also be an issue? But regardless, I know so many people 
that have parties, that things happen at these parties; with four people. So, I don't get 
the whole gathering of ten people. To me, ten people is way more than what it should 
be to begin with. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair. So, answer to my question then is no, 
because police would be able to respond to the incident that you described in your 
testimony if there are three? 
MS. MANIAGO: I don't know. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I, I'm just clarifying because that's what you said 
in your testimony, so. 
MS. MAN IAGO: I, I think that you may have to ask Rick later about that, that part. I mean, 
I'm hoping the police can still come and do something about this. But it's not a 
gathering of ten people, so what does that mean? I don't know. I don't know. But 
please clarify with Rick. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions for the testifier? 
Yes, Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good morning, 
Ms. Maniago. In your testimony you mentioned that when you have underage drinking 
that occurs, it's not only just about the driving concerns, it's also you mentioned that 
there's molestation as well. Was that, you found out, was there a lot of that in the 
surveys that you took? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 21 
MS. MANIAGO: We didn't take those, the, the molesting part of it in the surveys, but I know 
of at least three people personally that has been either roofied, molested, or raped. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Well, thank you for that. I think that's a good reminder 
for us that it's not just about the concerns about underage folks going out there and 
driving, but incidents like these occur with underage drinkers as well on, if a property 
owner condones that kind of behavior. 
MS. MANIAGO: Right. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Which is why something like this legislation that you're being 
proposed is necessary. Thank you very much for your comments. Thank you, Madam 
Chair. 
MS. MANIAGO: You're welcome. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you very much for coming. 
MS. MANIAGO: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier? 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we're going to go back to Mr. Luke Berrigan, who will be attending 
via audio only. Mr. Berrigan. 
MR. LUKE BERRIGAN (testifying on Committee Report 20-162): 
Oh, sorry. I clicked on the wrong button. Okay. Sorry about earlier, I had some 
technical difficulties and couldn't unmute myself. My name is Luke Berrigan. I am 16. 
I go to King Kekaulike High School and I am part of the Maui Nui Youth Council. 
I am in support of the CR 20-162, social host ordinance, with changes. Although I've 
been in support of the ordinance from the beginning, I would like to suggest a change 
to the definition of "Gathering". As of now, with the definition of gathering being ten or 
more people, I feel that the ordinance will be ineffective at enforcing its goals. 
I feel this way for a few main reasons. Number one, having the minimum gathering 
size be ten will make the ordinance ineffective for large parties smaller than ten, like 
parties with four to nine people. The second reason is the enforceability issues that 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 22 
come with having such a large minimum. In order to be effective, law enforcement 
officers need to do a head count, and this is not realistic. 
It will also make the ordinance less effective at making sure every teen stays safe when 
it comes to house parties and alcohol, and the dangers and consequences that come 
with it. Some of these consequences include car accidents, fights, and sexual assault. 
With this in mind, I suggest that the minimum gathering size be lowered to three. This 
will make the ordinance more effective and easier to enforce. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Are there any questions? If not, thank you. 
Madam Clerk. Madam, Madam Clerk, how many more testifiers do we have? 
COUNTY CLERK: I have three more. 
CHAIR LEE: Three more. Okay. Next. 
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Junya Nakoa. And Uncle Junya will be followed by 
Reverend Dennis Barger. 
CHAIR LEE: Morning, Junya. 
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on County Communication No. 20-609, 20-617: and  
Committee Report 20-162): 
Morning, morning, morning. Yea, I like, I going talk about, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. 
Morning. I going talk about the 20-162, about the, the host one, yea. Eh, solid. Good 
job on all the work you guys putting together. The people doing, working for urn for 
four years, if the Council trying to make amendments and trying to, you know, make 
urn good, make um cherry. I support urn. 
But I just hope that this no deter the hardheads for go drink any kind place and then 
get in trouble and, cause then they know they going get busted if they stay at home. 
You know what I mean? Like, get some parents that they like, they like their kids stay 
over there cause, you know, right now we no more nothing for these kids do. But, 
especially the class of 2020. You know, they no more graduation and all that kind stuff. 
They got gypped on this COVID thing. We just like make sure they safe and all this 
stuff. 
And here in Lahaina, we got to fix our Lahaina parks, so we can get our kids on the 
field. Get em things for do. You know, be proactive and, you know, fix our parks; that's 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 23 
the main one in Lahaina. Fix our Lahaina parks. But, yea, so we can keep our kids 
busy so they no need go drink. They no need go do all this kind stuff. But right now, 
we no more nothing for them do. So, unfortunately it does happen. But let's protect 
them and do whatever we can for do that. That's all for that part, for that, that one. 
And 20-609, any project that's going to be approved, make sure the thing not build on 
Hawaiian Home Lands. Get the Hawaiians on their lands. Stop taking our lands. Now, 
they're thinking at the State level for build one damn casino on top of our Hawaiian 
Home Lands. Get Hawaiians on the land. So, yea. So, that's what I wanted for tell. 
And then now the 20-617. Again, I going use this bill so they can . . . Make sure all 
these developers are compliant. And I, I glad to hear that you guys working on the 
housing credits at the County level. If was up to me, I'd say get rid of the damn thing, 
cause the thing only when hurt the people of Lahaina. It never help us out, out at all. 
And so, from now on no give none of these developers, no approve nothing for the 
developers until they build the affordable first before they do their project. I mean, 
strong advocate. I going be all over it, yea. 
And then, okay, I pau talk about other bills. But hold on. Braddah Riki, mahalo my 
braddah for all your hard work, and letting me come in your office and sit down, and 
you scold me, I scold you. Awesome, braddah. I so happy that Mayor said that you 
going, he going put you in the office. Good, cause we need your, your, your, you know, 
how you remember kind stuff like that. Awesome my braddah. I get chicken-skin 
knowing that you still going be involved. You one solid braddah. You awesome. You 
good for Maui and you good for all of us, brah. Keep up the good work. Mele 
Kalikimaka. What is that word? Shukran to all you guys. Have a good one. Yessah. 
Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: You're always so eloquent, Junya. Are there any more questions for? 
Yes, Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I just had a clarifying question. Hi, Junya. 
Nice to see you again. Did you get a haircut? 
MR. NAKOA: No, I got, I tie um up. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. Hey, I just wanted to clarify something you said in your 
testimony about the State trying to build a casino on Hawaiian Home Lands. I hadn't 
heard that. Is that going on, on Maui? 
MR. NAKOA: No. The buggah stay in Honolulu, the stupid guys. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 24 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Kapolei. 
MR. NAKOA: William, the, the William Aila. The stupid guy, he trying to do urn in someplace 
in Honolulu. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. We'll, we'll have to learn more about that. Thanks for 
bringing it up. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you, Junya. Merry Christmas. Happy 
Holidays. 
MR. NAKOA: Merry Christmas. Yessah. 
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Our, our next testifier is Reverend Dennis Barger. Reverend Barger will 
be followed by Laurie Tanner. 
REVEREND DENNIS BARGER (testifying on Committee Report 20-162): 
Aloha, Chair Alice Lee and Councilmembers. Mahalo for this opportunity to speak to 
the issue of CR, Council resolution 20-162. I am currently a volunteer member of the 
Maui Coalition for a Drug-Free Youth, I've been, to represent the faith community in 
our deliberations because I'm a retired Presbyterian minister. And I've been a resident 
of Kihei, Maui for about ten years. 
In addition to my seminary degree, I have a master's degree in public health. Prior to 
coming to Maui, I was certified by the State of California as a prevention specialist and 
employed by Mono County Department of Health. I helped with beverage server 
training and have been working a long time with youth, actually throughout my whole 
career, but especially the first part. 
But I strongly believe that it is essential for the County of Maui to create an alcohol 
control measure like this that will reduce underage drinking. It's been shown 
statistically that these kinds of ordinances really do have an impact on the 
consciousness of the youth, as well as parents who might agree to throw one of these 
parties. I wholeheartedly support the creation of this ordinance. And I hope to, it will 
hold accountable those who hold the parties where alcohol is freely available to minors. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 25 
But really, I wanted to tell you about the victims. It's easy to get caught up in the 
language and the particulars of this ordinance. But the two victims that I want to tell 
you about are a young woman and a young man. The young man attended a cast 
party with this young woman following a performance of a high school play, where he 
witnessed a 10-year old girl drink to the point of slurring her words, and staggering, 
and trying to dance. 
The senior varsity football player, who had given her several drinks, led her through a 
door off the living room, to a bedroom. And his football player friends stood at the door 
after he went through, when they went through together. They took positions there to 
keep me from following them and going in to supposedly talk to one of them. He said, 
"you don't want to go in there". And he stood there menacingly, one of the fellows did. 
So, I guess, I, I guess the young man was about to see what was happening and it 
might turn violent, so after he saw that no one else was really paying any attention, he 
decided to leave the party and do nothing else. But he left the party feeling frustrated 
and sad that he couldn't do anything about what was about to be some abuse. And 
this was confirmed the next day in class, the drama class, where this girl tried to 
snuggle up to this player and was rebuffed by him. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr., Mr. Barger, could you please conclude? 
REVEREND BARGER: Yes. I'm just about to do that. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
REVEREND BARGER: Anyway, she was upset. And it was very clear that they were in the 
midst of some sort of breakup. But this kind of abuse happens all too frequently. And 
I'm working to support a strong social host ordinance that will prevent assaults like this. 
Any time, there are three or more teenagers partying and drinking is a real danger for 
this abuse. This was a real incident. It motivates me and helps me deal with my guilt, 
because I was the young man. Mahalo for listening. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, appreciate you 
coming. Thank you. 
REVEREND BERRIGAN: Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, how many more? We're going to take a, a 10-minute break after 
the last testifier. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 26 
COUNTY CLERK: We have four more. And we did have some others sign up since the last 
update. Our next testifier is Laurie Tanner. 
MS. LAURIE TANNER (testifying on Committee Report 20-162): 
Aloha and Mele Kalikimaka to you and yours. Thank you again for letting us tell you 
of our community experience, our professional experience, our personal experiences 
around underage drinkers and communities. This is pertinent to CR 20-162. And I am 
a Hawaii State Teacher Association, retired. Have enjoyed-- 
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me, can you repeat-- 
MS. TANNER --youth in my classrooms. 
CHAIR LEE: —your name again please? Can, can you-- 
MS. TANNER: Pardon? 
CHAIR LEE: —repeat your name again please? 
MS. TANNER: Certainly. Laurie Tanner. 
CHAIR LEE: Tanner. Okay. 
MS. TANNER: I am a volunteer with the Maui Coalition for Drug-Free Youth and a retired 
Hawaii State teacher. I've advocated for families my entire life. My own as, as a child. 
But thank you for your willingness to revisit the numbers of, to ascertain what 
compromises a group for this civil act. 
The, the primary purpose of this ordnance is, number one, to save the lives of keiki 
and improve our community. And to do that, we're asking to eliminate the number one 
drinking place where kids go. They find alcohol there, they get alcohol there, they drink 
alcohol there, and they leave with alcohol in their system. And the kids tell us this. 
Remember that this is a very respectful, nonpunitive approach to families, helping to 
educate them that any underage drinking not only is illegal, but it is allowing young 
people to make poor decisions because adults are allowing them to do so willingly and 
unwillingly. 
No child has to drink when you're 18, when you're 17. So, correctly naming with this 
ordinance if, if it could be revised to two or more, as other successful counties have 
done, shows that the safety factor would be really pertinent for enforcement with our 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 27 
wonderful officers on all three islands. And a drinking event with kids; it starts with two 
talking, and when you have three, it's on. And that continues. Also, throughout the 
night or throughout the day, the group size would fluctuate. You might start with two 
or three. It might increase to a group of five. It might be even larger as the night goes 
on and it might dwindle. At any time, we want our community representatives, our 
officers to be able to say let's make sure that you are safe by helping property owners 
be responsible. 
I'll wrap up with this, that the, the drinking at a house party shows that there's obviously 
not appropriate adult supervision. And you would be helping all the adults and the 
property owners to accept their responsibility more seriously. And I'm just so excited 
that Maui can lead the way for the rest of Hawaii to truly cradle and save our 
communities, our homes, our kids. And I just, I'm very excited about this. Also, please 
just mention the criminal statute. The simplicity of something like this is going to be 
very important in its success. And congratulations. Have a wonderful day. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for your testimony. Are there any questions? If not, thank you for 
coming. 
Madam Clerk. Next testifier. 
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Faith Chase. And Ms. Chase will be followed by 
Stephanie Teixeira. 
MS. FAITH CHASE (testifying on County Communication No. 20-610 and Committee Report 
20-162): 
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha, Committee. Aloha, Council. 
CHAIR LEE: Hi. 
MS. CHASE: Hi. My name is Faith Chase. I want to speak quickly on item CC 20-610. I'm 
sorry that I missed the meeting yesterday in Councilmember Riki Hokama's 
Committee. I only caught the first part. So, I'm not, I'm not, I do need to revisit that 
meeting, but I do see what has been allocated for the feral animal management. And 
I'm, I'm in support of that. And I'm grateful that it's continuing on to the 2021 year. 
I do want to say that the Department of Housing and Human Concerns, they need 
some assistance in drafting the RFP's for those specific, that specific allocation. I, I 
want to just say that I believe that the game and land management parties, people that 
have come to give testimony, experts that have come to give testimony before, I think 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 28 
that they would be an open book to helping that Department draft some of those RFP's. 
They've certainly come and testified enough, and I just wanted to get that on record. 
Thank you for all the testifiers in support of CR 20-162. This is really emotional. I do 
feel like this subject of social host liability regulations is important. I feel that coming 
from being raised in a rural community that it is particularly important that there, that 
this ordinance, this law it might have a over, an umbrella sort of tenor in areas where 
maybe we don't have police. So, I appreciate it and I support the strong 
recommendations where the numbers deserve a revisit. 
I'd like to remind everyone that, you know, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, it, it kind of, 
it went dormant because, you know, Mahina Martin did really well rallying the troops 
around the Liquor Commission a few years ago. But honestly, when we have our 
leaders that retire, we need to try to see how we can inspire those kind of organizations 
to continue. Because I feel like when Mothers Against Drunk Driving sort of ended, 
because the woman who ran it, Mrs. Stodd, her husband had retired, and she sort of 
retired at the same time. So, as a, as a community, I think it's important, not just 
Mothers Against Drunk Driving, but other sort of nonprofits that we . . . and see that 
they have . . . so to speak. 
And in closing, I'd just like to express my gratification . . . Lanai Councilmember Riki 
Hokama, who is going from being in the meeting . . . still a watchdog for the County, it 
sounds like. And . . . wish you . . . and a great holiday. . . . I really appreciate it a lot 
from . . . to you. Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Let's see, do we have any questions? If not, mahalo for 
your testimony. 
MS. CHASE: A hui hou. 
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Stephanie Teixeira. And Ms. Teixeira will be 
followed by telephone number 5079, Everett. Ms. Teixeira. 
MS. STEPHANIE TEIXEIRA (testifying on County Communication No. 20-609): 
Hi. I want to thank you all for all the work you guys have done during COVID. It's, 
everyone's working ten times harder to help the people in need. And I am a 
homeowner at Kahoma Residential. And I want to apologize ahead of time for getting 
emotional, but this is where we are. And I would greatly appreciate the County 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 29 
purchasing our home so that it can go to someone else, because we can no longer 
stay in the position that we're in. 
I wrote a letter to Mr. Almeida back in March. So, I will quickly read it to give you an 
idea of where we currently are. It is with a heavy heart that I'm writing this letter to you, 
because I never imagined I would be in this position in my entire life. We moved into 
our Kahoma Residential with high hopes, as even it was a stretch for us. We felt so 
privileged to be a part of a wonderful community, an opportunity to be able to have our 
first child in this home and be surrounded by families in the same position with such a 
great gift. From the time we moved in, we took such great pride with installing our 
grass, growing it to perfection, learning all of the "do's" and "don'ts". Our home has 
been an oasis for us, a holder and creator of so many wonderful memories for the past 
three years. 
Since March, myself and my husband lost all of our jobs, including . . . Our benefits 
were terminated the day we were, the day we were laid off. So, we picked up the 
monthly tab for our expenses, which was more than we could handle. Our employer 
had previously covered our car payments, full medical plans, college tuition, and phone 
services. We have now since had to rely on food stamps. This has financially crippled 
us. We had to use all of our savings and completely cash out of our 401K. We are in 
the process of selling our car to come up with additional money just to survive. 
The stress and devastation has severely affected my health and added such an 
immense amount of depression and devastation to our young family. Not being able 
to provide for our 2-year-old son as we used to and relying and government assistance 
has been a humbling experience to say the least, but we are grateful. 
Unemployment benefits are not nearly enough and mine have expired as of October, 
and I have had no income. Our jobs heavily relied on tourism, and with no guarantee, 
we had to move forward. With our son being 2 years old and at such a critical 
developmental stage, my biggest fear is having our continued situation negatively 
affect his childhood and adversely defining him later in life. During this time, we have 
both been applying for so many jobs that we've lost track of the amount. 
Without achieving success in Hawaii, we expanded our search to the mainland in 
desperation. After many interviews, my husband was finally offered a position, which 
he has accepted in Salt Lake City that allows him to work remotely until our move. This 
job offers benefits to our whole family, and since then, we have now learned that the 
benefits now do not, are not extended anymore because we aren't there yet. So, we 
are again in the situation where myself and my son don't have insurance until we move 
there. So, we are on a little bit of a time constraint. So, as soon as possible is best for 
us. During-- 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 30 
CHAIR LEE: Can you please, can you please conclude your testimony in a minute please? 
MS. TEIXEIRA: Yea. Of course. By no means is selling our house our plan and what we 
would have chosen. But none of what has happened and how it has affected anyone 
is by choice. We have learned to pivot and make the best of what we can, and this is 
our best option. So, we would greatly appreciate it if you would allow us to sell our 
home, so we can collect whatever we have left remaining to our names and start over. 
I'm truly thankful for your careful consideration and for your continued and dedicated 
service to the community and to the Maui ohanas. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? 
Mr. Hokama, and then Ms., Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Chair. Ms. Teixeira, thank you for joining us this 
morning. I just wanted to be clear. You notified the housing agency in March, 
regarding your situation? 
MS. TEIXEIRA: Yes. Actually, I notified them in July, cause I was very concerned about us 
being able to make our housing payment. I'm kind of a planner and so I was just trying 
to see what my options were. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Right. 
MS. TEIXEIRA: And I, I, we weighed all the options on the table. And by, we lost everything 
in March, but we did not look into this in March. I had reached out to Gille in the end 
of July, I think, or August, and then as our situation worsened in September, we 
realized that this was our best option. And I reached out, I sent that letter on September 
13. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. No, thank you very much—
MS. TEIXEIRA: Thank you. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: --for giving us some sense of the timing that your family is 
going through right now. And yea, you have our heartfelt support regarding your 
difficulty at this time. So, thank you very much for being here this morning. 
MS. TEIXEIRA: Thank you so much. Thank you so much for helping, everybody. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 31 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Hokama. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Teixeira. Mahalo for your 
testimony and for sharing with us some of the details of the item on the agenda today. 
As I previously mentioned, because of the time sensitivity that our testifier expressed, 
it is an item that I was going to ask this Council to consider discussing today. I'm not 
sure if Members would like to ask Ms. Teixeira to stay on as a resource person if we 
have further questions, Chair? 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Teixeira, do you have time to stay on the call? 
MS. TEIXEIRA: I will do my best. I have a 2-year-old, but I will do whatever you guys need 
me to do. So, I will make myself available and figure it out. He might show up for a 
second, but then I promise you I will get rid of him somehow. 
CHAIR LEE: So, Members, any objections to having Ms. Teixeira stay on as a resource 
person? If not, thank you. So, ordered. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And perhaps Ms. Teixeira can give 
her contact info to staff. And then that way she can, you know, tend to her toddler, and 
then when the item comes up, we can, we can contact you if Members do have 
questions. And that way you don't have to stay on the line and monitor. I want to, you 
know, be mindful of your time as well but, you know. 
CHAIR LEE: Yea, that's a good idea. Ms. Teixeira, can you put your, your number, your 
telephone number-- 
MS. TEIXEIRA: Yea, do you want me to— 
CHAIR LEE: --in the chat? 
MS. TEIXEIRA: --put it in the chat? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: There's a, there's a direct message option. 
MS. TEIXEIRA: Okay. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 32 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And you, you can choose Kathy Kaohu-- 
MS. TEIXEIRA: Yea, I got it. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: —to direct the message to and then provide her your 
phone number. 
MS. TEIXEIRA: Okay. Perfect. I will do that. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: I think we have another question for you in the meantime. 
Member King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Actually, thank you, Chair. I'm just, my question is actually for 
you that, you know, perhaps it would be also beneficial to ask Ms. Abdul to join us if 
we are going to address this issue on the floor today? It sounds like everything is going 
to go through her organization. 
CHAIR LEE: I think some, I think someone asked for her to stay on. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, I did already. 
CHAIR LEE: Yea. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, I did that already when she testified-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: She'll be staying on? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And Members didn't have a question, objection. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Ms. Teixeira, we'll, we'll talk to you soon. Thank you. 
MS. TEIXEIRA: Okay. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, next testifier. 
Madam Clerk, how many more? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 33 
COUNTY CLERK: We have two more. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, after these two--
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testi- 
CHAIR LEE: —we're, wait. After these two, we are going to take a recess, because a couple 
of us need to restart our computers. So, we need to, you know, take a break at 10:30. 
Okay. So, the next testifier is? 
COUNTY CLERK: Is telephone last four digits: 5079, identified as Everett. And Everett will 
be followed by La`akea Low. 
MR. EVERETT (5079): 
Hi. My name is Everett and I am calling as kind of a testimony, but also just inquiring 
as to how to come up with a solution for something I've experienced here on Maui, 
which is being arrested and taken to jail, awaiting to go to court. Obviously supposed 
to be innocent until proven guilty. But when you're held in the Kihei Station for whatever 
you're being accused of, there's no- 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: What item is this agenda? 
MR. EVERETT: What's that? I'm sorry. Hello. 
CHAIR LEE: Could you identify which item on the agenda you are speaking to? 
MR. EVERETT: I am not speaking of anything on the agenda, but I'm asking-- 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you know, because I, what I assumed that you, you were going to start 
talking about the underage drinking ordinance, but apparently not. What exactly were 
you planning to talk about? 
MR. EVERETT: Yea, sorry, I didn't know there was a requirement to speak on the agenda 
topics. But the topic I'm speaking about is a lack of basic sanitation and hygiene 
supplied to people being held in custody that haven't been proven to be innocent or 
guilty yet and-- 
CHAIR LEE: Unfortunately, we don't have-- 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 34 
MR. EVERETT: For up to three days or longer that-- 
CHAIR LEE: --that subject matter. That subject matter is not on the agenda, so I'm sorry, we 
wouldn't be able to receive your testimony on that subject. Perhaps another meeting. 
MR. EVERETT: What meeting would that be? 
CHAIR LEE: Or you could-- 
MR. EVERETT: Okay, so— 
CHAIR LEE: —put your concerns in writing and send them to me at the Maui County Council. 
MR. EVERETT: Okay. And just request to have that be put on the agenda? 
CHAIR LEE: Well, could you put down the information and then we'll be in touch with you to 
talk about it? Okay? 
MR. EVERETT: Yea, who shall I contact? 
CHAIR LEE: Alice Lee. 
MR. EVERETT: Just the office? Okay. Alright. Thank you very much. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. 
MR. EVERETT: Sorry about that. Okay. 
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, hold on. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, you had a question for the 
testifier? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, mahalo, Chair. And it sounds like it might be 
more of an administrative side issue that could be addressed. And you can call the 
Mayor's Office at 270-7855. 
MR. EVERETT: Okay. Alright. I appreciate it. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
MR. EVERETT: Okay. Thank you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 35 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Vice-Chair. 
May we have the next and final testifier? 
COUNTY CLERK: Our final testifier is La`akea Low. 
MR. LAAKEA LOW (testifying on Committee Report 20-162): 
Aloha mai kakou. 0 Lalakea Low ko`u inoa. 
(Spoke in Hawaiian.) 
I'd like to testify on the social host liability. I appreciate all the work that everyone's put 
in to deter underage drinking. But I think for this particular issue, I think for social host 
liability, I think it's an overreach. A lot of these parties happen when parents are away 
on vacation. You have party crashers who come and like, just you have no idea who's, 
like, at the party sometimes. 
And so, in terms of enforcement, you know, I don't think it's hard for cops to count. So, 
like, people who are saying, oh it's hard for cops to like count the people, I think that's 
like not asking much for cops to like head count. And like, there was discussion in the 
earlier meetings about this, about how, how, you know, all community members are 
affected of all social economic status, whatever school you go to, various schools were 
mentioned, like prep schools. 
But we know that, like, kanaka communities are disproportionally represented in the 
jails and prisons and that, you know, lower income families are targeted, particularly 
because they can't afford to retain counsel. And so, they're like easier targets for 
prosecutors who want to maintain perfect records. And so, I worry about that. 
And also, like, just in terms of, like, taking responsibility, I think that, like, teenagers 
and kids, I was one of em, like already have trouble accepting responsibility for their 
actions. And so, I think this would be detrimental in that respect. 
You know, people talk about other counties doing similar bills and stuff. I would point 
to countries in, like in Europe where there is no age and, for drinking, and they don't 
have the problem of, you know, that we see with car crashes and, you know, addiction 
and stuff. 
So, I'll just say that, like, you may, I don't know either the drinking age has to be lowered 
or, you know, maybe try, try the teenager as adults. I mean, they have to take 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 36 
responsibility at some point. And I think it would just compound the trauma associated 
with, like, getting in a car crash or something, and then like your friend's house you 
was at, and now your friend's parents are in trouble cause you decided to . . . And so, 
I just wanted to testify in opposition to that particular motion. Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much. 
Yes, Ms. Tamara Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Low, for your testimony. I 
just was wondering, you know, the part where you said about parents might be going 
on vacation and not know that this is going on. Do you think that having this passed 
could prevent the parents from going on vacation and thus prevent this from going on? 
MR. LOW: I don't know if it would prevent parents from going on vacation. I know a lot of 
times it's a hard-earned vacation that was planned like months, years, even in 
advance. So, I don't know how much that would deter people going on vacation. 
Maybe it would and that would be unfortunate, cause you know, parents-- 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: —possibly take their kids with them or make responsible 
arrangements for their kids? 
MR. LOW: Yea, I mean some people can't afford to take the whole family, some, some 
families can. I would be more in favor of punishing those who knowingly supply alcohol 
more than anything else. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And I guess my last question would be, if there's not a criminal 
consequence. 
MR. LOW: In relation to? 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The part where you said the over-representation in the jails 
and police. It's, it's my understanding that this bill doesn't have criminal consequences. 
It's civil, so. 
MR. LOW: For me, even just, like, being, like having the cops around is traumatic for people. 
And so, I'm not about like punishing, like having cops knock on your door, bust down 
your door for stuff like that. And we know that kanaka communities are most affected, 
so, and low-income families. So, yea, that's just my thoughts on that. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 37 
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? 
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, mahalo, Mr. Low, for your 
testimony. I know that, you know, when we're talking about this bill, we're referring to 
those that are underage drinking as kids. But it's not only kids, cause the definition of 
it is 21, younger than 21, which is the drinking, the legal drinking age. And so, when 
you're talking about, like, parents going on vacation and not taking their kids, your, are, 
are you, like talking about high school age or, you know, or 18 to 20? Because that's, 
that's underage. 
MR. LOW: Yea. I mean, we know today, especially with the economy, kids are staying home 
a lot longer and we have multi-gener, generational family households. So, I think that 
it affect all underage people, yea. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Low. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Are there any more questions? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Low. 
MR. LOW: Aloha. 
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. And at this time, if any 
individual is connected to the meeting and has not yet testified, but would like to do so, 
please identify yourself now. We are unmuting everyone on our end, and you can 
inform staff via the meeting chat. This is the last call for testifiers. 
Chair-- 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members— 
COUNTY CLERK: —no one else is indicating-- 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members-- 
COUNTY CLERK: —that they wish to testify and-- 
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead, finish. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 38 
COUNTY CLERK: --and we have received written testimony into the record. 
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the record, and to 
closing public testimony? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY 
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF 
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING: 
1. Cassandra Abdul, Na Hale 0 Maui; 
2. Christine Estomo; 
3. Reverend Kerith Harding, St. John's Episcopal Church; 
4. Brandon M. Segal, Department of Prosecuting Attorney; and 
5. Lavy Sisouvong. 
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered. So, ordered. 
At this time, it's past 10:30, let's take a, a 10-minute break at this point. And then we'll 
see you back in 10 minutes. So, this meeting is in recess. 
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:43 A.M., AND WAS 
RECONVENED AT 10:58 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.) 
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of December 18, please reconvene. 
Madam Clerk, shall we move on, onto, on the agenda; ceremonial resolutions. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the first ceremonial resolution. 
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS  
RESOLUTION 
NO. 	  
CONGRATULATING THE WINNERS OF THE 
INAUGURAL "'NI PONO CHALLENGE" 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 39 
CHAIR LEE: Members, if there are no objections, the Chair would like to defer this item to 
the next Council meeting; January 15. 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the minutes. 
MINUTES 
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of October 23, 2020, were 
presented at this time. 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE 
CLERK. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? Second anyone? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Anybody? Okay. Okay, Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to 
accept the, the minutes, to approve the minutes as read by the County Clerk. 
So, are, is there any discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion please say 
"aye", raise your hand. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 40 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", no "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications. 
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS  
NO.  20-600 	- JOANN INAMASU, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR, 
(dated December 1, 2020) 
Transmitting a copy of WIOA Bulletin No. 33-20 from the State of Hawaii, Workforce 
Development Council, with the allocations for Program Year 20 for the Youth, Adult, 
Dislocated Worker and Local Administration Programs in the total amount of $506,791. 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, may I 
request the Clerk also call up County Communications 20-601 through 20-603? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No objections. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No objections. 
CHAIR LEE: Any objections? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered. 
Madam Clerk. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 41 
NO.  20-601 	- LORI TSUHAKO, DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN  
CONCERNS, (dated November 27, 2020) 
Transmitting the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Executive Office on 
Aging, for the Nutrition Services Incentive Program in the amount of $30,507. 
NO.  20-602 	- LORI TSUHAKO, DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN  
CONCERNS, (dated December 2, 2020) 
Transmitting Contract Modification Order No. 7 from the State of Hawaii, Executive 
Office on Aging for the Title III Program in the amount of $233,553. 
NO.  20-603 	- ROBERT D. RIVERA, ACTING PROSECUTING ATTORNEY, 
(dated November 30, 2020) 
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement from the State of Hawaii, Department of 
Transportation for the Maui Prosecutor's Office Traffic Records project in the amount 
of $11,550. 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 20-600 
THROUGH 20-603. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Mr. Hokama. Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, 
seconded by Councilmember Hokama, to file County Communications 20-600 through 
20-603. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 42 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. These communications are 
informational, and no further action is required by the Council. Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Any questions or comments? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say 
"aye", raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
NO. 	 20-604 	- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR, 
(dated December 7, 2020) 
Informing of a vacancy on the Maui County Arborist Committee due to the resignation 
of Alison Cohan, effective December 2, 2020. 
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. 
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-604. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to file 
County Communication 20-604. 
Mr. Molina, discussion? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 43 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The Mayor received 
notice of Ms. Cohan's resignation from the Maui County Arborist Committee, effective 
December 2, 2020. 
I want to thank Ms. Cohan for her participation in local government and for volunteering 
her time for the community. Mahalo, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please 
say "aye" and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
NO.  20-605 	- JEFFREY T. PEARSON, DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY, 
(dated December 2, 2020) 
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use 
Reports for the month ending November 2020. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Madam Chair. If there are no objections, I 
would also ask the Clerk to also bring up County Communications 606 and, and 
20-607. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered. 
Councilmember Sugimura. Oh, I'm sorry, Madam Clerk, bring up the other items. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 44 
NO.  20-606 	- JEFFREY T. PEARSON, DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY, 
(dated December 9, 2020) 
Transmitting the State of Hawaii's Commission on Water Resource Management water 
use reports for October 2020 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui. 
NO.  20-607 	- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, 
(dated December 1, 2020) 
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easement W-1, Iselin Subdivision, Kula, 
TMK: (2) 2-3-007:038 POR. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. 
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 20-605 AND 
20-607. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: And 607? Or through 607? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And 605, sorry; through, and through. Yea, sorry, wrong 
word. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to file County 
Communications 20-605, 606, and 607. 
Discussion, Ms. Sugimura? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. These county communications are 
informational. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say 
"aye", raise your hand. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 45 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members. 
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Uh oh, you're frozen. Oh, okay. 
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. 
NO. 	 20-608 	- ALICE L. LEE, COUNCIL CHAIR, 
(dated December 10, 2020) 
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "DESIGNATING THE ORGANIZATIONAL 
MEETING FOR THE 2021-23 COUNCIL TERM AS AN EMERGENCY MEETING TO 
BE CONDUCTED AS AN ONLINE PUBLIC MEETING VIA VIDEO CONFERENCE". 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Ms. Sugimura, okay, to 
waive the Rules of the Council 7.G. 
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 46 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This item is time sensitive. Our 
organizational meeting is on January 2, and so I'll explain after this waiver, the purpose 
of this resolution. But it's time sensitive. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Okay. All those in favor of the waiver, please say "aye", 
raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND TO 
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-608. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member 
Sugimura, to adopt the resolution in County Communication 20-608. 
Discussion, Rawlins, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, Section 3-5 of the Charter 
states, "The Council shall meet in the council room at the county building for its 
organization, for its organization at two o'clock p.m. on the second day of January 
following its election". The proposed resolution would designate the meeting on 
January 2, 2021 as an emergency meeting due to the ongoing pandemic. This would 
enable Council to conduct the meeting via videoconference, consistent with the 
emergency proclamations made by Governor David Ige and Mayor Mike Victorino, 
which prohibit most in-person meetings. I ask for the Members support of this motion. 
Mahalo, Chair. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 47 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any discussion? Okay, all those in favor of the motion to adopt the 
resolution in County Communication 20-608, please say "aye" and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with communications for referral. The following county 
communications and general communication are recommended for referral to the 
Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
NO.  20-609 	- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA, BUDGET DIRECTOR, 
(dated December 11, 2020) 
Transmitting the following: 
1. A proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING THE ACQUISITION OF REAL 
PROPERTY AT THE KAHOMA RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION, LAHAINA, 
MAUI, HAWAII, IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY NUMBER (2) 4-5-037-013 
PURSUANT TO THE BUYBACK PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN THE 
AGREEMENT REGARDING RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING 
REQUIREMENTS (244 KOMO MAI STREET, LOT 50)"; 
2. A proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING THE GRANT OF THE REAL 
PROPERTY LOCATED AT 244 KOMO MAI STREET, LAHAINA, MAUI, 
HAWAII, TO HOUSING AND LAND ENTERPRISE OF MAUI DBA NA HALE 0 
MAUI"; and 
3. A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF 
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021, 
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND (KAHOMA RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION)". 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 48 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Alright. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING. 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to 
waive the Rules of the Council for County Communication 20-609, 20-609. 
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This item is— 
CHAIR LEE: Time sensitive. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --housing-- 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --is time sensitive. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: . . . closing . . . 20. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? All those in favor, say "aye", favor of the motion. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Now you can explain. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 49 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I got to make the motion to adopt 
and then we can discuss. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS, AND 
PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING, AND FILE 
COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-609. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: So, we have a proposal to, you, you're moving to adopt two resolutions and 
pass one bill on first reading as, in your motion? Right? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, now, who, and Member King seconded the motion. 
Okay, discussion. Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the proposed bill would 
amend Appendix A, Part II of the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget by adding a proviso under 
the Affordable Housing Fund for 707; $707,258, including related costs, for the 
acquisition of the Kahoma Residential Subdivision property located at 244 Komo Mai 
Street. 
The proposed resolutions would authorize the acquisition of the real property and 
authorize the grant fee simple interest of the real property to Na Hale 0 Maui. 
The homeowners notified the County of their intent to sell their workforce housing units 
in accordance with Chapter 2.96, Maui County Code. The Department of Housing and 
Human Concerns, on behalf of the County of Maui, would like to exercise the buyback 
option of the property. 
We have representatives from the Administration who are available to answer 
questions the Members may have. We also designated Ms. Cassandra Abdul from 
Na Hale 0 Maui and Ms. Stephanie Teixeira as the property owner, current property 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 50 
owner. And we have Deputy Director Munsell on the line. And so, that's, that's the 
procedural notes that I have. 
And since this is my first time speaking, I, I would like to add my additional comments 
now. So, Members, it's, it's a 90-page document that's attached to the agenda. It's 
the, it's from the Kahoma Residential Subdivision, which was a 201H project that was 
approved by Council in 2011. Member Cochran, who represented West Maui, and 
Member Hokama, both voted against the project. And if I was on Council, I would have 
voted against the project as well. 
The house that we're currently considering buyback is a, falls in the 140 percent AMI. 
There was a total of 68 houses, 160 percent AMI and less. Each of the workforce 
housing had a 10-year deed restriction. And the resolution, in a, in the 2011 resolution, 
instead of following the 2.96 formula for buyback, it set its own formula for buyback 
which is found on page 51 of the 90 page document if you would like to review that. 
So, what we're considering today is one bill, which is a budget amendment, and that 
requires two readings. And then, we're considering two resolutions. One resolution is 
for the acquisition of the property, and the other resolution is to grant fee simple to 
Na Hale 0 Maui. In that resolution, there is an exemption to the required appraisal 
from the Affordable Housing Fund since we're using Affordable Housing money to 
buyback this property. 
There's, I'm, I'm frustrated that our backs are kind of up against the wall here. And 
when the Administration was officially informed of this back on September 15, and as 
Member Hokama asked Ms. Teixeira earlier that she was already informing the 
Administration of the struggle and of the possible intent for the County to exercise its 
option to buyback back in July. And so, here we are in our last Council meeting, and 
we're not going to have another Council meeting until January 15. And the deadline 
for us to buy back this property is January 20. And that's extremely frustrating for me, 
especially when the County then informed the property owners that we would exercise 
our option to buy, buy back on October 22. 
So, the housing was purchased in 2017. So, there's been 2.5 years of the deed 
restriction that has passed, and there's 7.5 years left on the deed, 10-year deed 
restriction. And deeding it to Na Hale 0 Maui, would make it affordable or workforce 
in perpetuity, because of their land trust. 
So, again Members, I'm, I'm sorry to put you all in this situation where I, I'm sure that 
Members did not review the 90-page document, you know, in order for you to make an 
informed decision today. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 51 
One of the things I, I'm also considering is perhaps taking action on the bill, because it 
requires two readings, so that we can pass it on first reading and hold the two 
resolutions for January 15 Council meeting. And then that way, we, we can be more 
informed before we make this decision. So, again, we have resource personnel on for 
further questions. But, but I've given you the basic synopsis of this item. Mahalo, 
Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We have a question from Member Kama. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. So, hearing what our Vice-Chair has just said, 
is it possible to refer the subject matter to Committee? Everything else to, allow 
everything else to go on but just the subject matter, so when issues like this come up 
again, we'll be a lot more prepared as to what should we do in terms of the next step? 
CHAIR LEE: Well, Vice, you're asking that of Vice-Chair-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. 
CHAIR LEE: —Rawlins-Fernandez? 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. 
CHAIR LEE: Or you're asking that of me? Cause I, I'm--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I'm asking it of you, if you could ask her. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, OCS and I discussed at length 
different options for us. We're at the end of the term, so new Committees would need 
to be formed-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Right. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --and will be formed on January 2. It's very 
challenging, because in order for us, posting deadline for the January 15 Council 
meeting is January 8. And in order for us to have a Committee meeting prior to posting 
deadline on January 8, it would need to be posted at the end of December before we 
organize. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 52 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, we could have a Committee meeting on, in the 
last week of December and that would be a, you know, a special meeting, you know, 
between, on the week of December 28 and then we can, we can have that discussion. 
I don't know if Members are open to doing that. It, it would be a rush. And so, as, as 
far as, you know, sending it to Committee, we, we would be able to have that 
discussion, but likely not after, not until after the closing date of January 20 has passed, 
because we won't have Committee meetings until the first week of . . . 2021. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. So, do we need to amend the motion then, to, to have 
the communication sent on to the next Committee next year? 
CHAIR LEE: Well-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Or would it be automatically on? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, we're, we're discussing right now, and all 
options are on the table. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hokama. But, but did Mr., Ms. Paltin or Ms. King have their hands up? 
Okay, let me go to them first. 
Ms. Paltin, and then Ms. King, and then Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I didn't have my hand up. I'm just listening for now. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. So, I thought I, I read it, but I didn't have a 
90-page document. I had a 32-page document. It must have been the wrong one. 
But the part about the no appraisal, I guess I, I just had one concern in, you know, 
testimony that we received from Lihau'ula, Officer Tevanga [sic/ was saying, you know, 
that he's lived in his house for two years and, and there's all these problems. Like, you 
know, somebody had to cut into their roof to repair and what not. And, and this is 
nothing against Ms. Teixeira, but I just was wondering if anyone from the Administration 
or Na Hale 0 Maui just checked on the, the house being in good condition due to things 
that we've heard from other residents in that neighborhood? Just wanted, because 
there's no— 
CHAIR LEE: Appraisal. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: --appraisal being done. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 53 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I, I believe Ms. Munsell is on the call. Linda are you there? 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS LINDA MUNSELL: Yes, I'm 
here. Yea, Linda Munsell, the Deputy Director for the Department of Housing and 
Human Concerns. Thank you for the, the question, Ms. Paltin. As far as the condition 
of the house, this is the first that I've heard that there, there are issues in that, in that 
particular neighborhood. We do have an appraised value of the house when it was 
originally purchased, which was about $840,000. Typically, under a 2.96, specifically 
2.96.060(2)(C), it doesn't require a second appraisal when a notice of intent to sell is 
tendered by an owner. 
The second appraisal is only usually required if we are going to allow the owner to 
resell the property to another buyer directly, rather than have it go through us. And 
that's how the, the Department staff had initially read this ordinance. We see in the 
workforce housing agreement, for this one specifically, that the order of the items are 
different. So, in the future, I think we've asked for the Department to ask for an 
appraisal up front. But 2.96 doesn't require that and so we didn't ask this owner, who 
was already having financial difficulty, to go ahead and get another appraisal. So, 
thank you for the question. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, just to follow up on that. I just was wondering if, Ms., 
Ms. Teixeira had any problems with the structural integrity to date. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Teixeira, are you on the call? 
MS. TEIXEIRA: Yes. I'm here. I-- 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And I'm not trying to say that it's anything that you did wrong— 
MS. TEIXEIRA: No, no. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: --with the house. 
MS. TEIXEIRA: No. No, I completely understand. No, we have not had any problems. We, 
I know that I've been on super alert, because I'm just very aware of those things. I try 
very hard to keep a very nice house. And I'm very aware of anything, if there's anything 
wrong with it. And I have noticed nothing wrong with it. So, anyone who's going to, 
you know, get our home, will be very, very happy. And it's, it's in pristine condition. 
And there's nothing structurally wrong inside or outside. I mean, I'm not a professional, 
but I, I actually did just pass my real estate, my national test. So, I am a little bit aware 
of what to look out for. So, I don't see any of those problems. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 54 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. That's it for me. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Chair. I, I appreciate the recommendations from 
our Budget Chair. And I can tell you, at this point in time, going through the 
communication regarding 20-609, I am happy to support the first resolution, which is 
approving the acquisition; and I'm happy to support the bill for an ordinance that places 
the funds in position. 
I am not in support of reso number 2 at this time, because I don't believe we, why 
wouldn't we go direct if it make sense, since the formula is set on what is the price? 
Why would we— 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Mun-- 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: —go through a third-party? 
CHAIR LEE: Is that a question for the Department? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Well, that's for me, or on some of the things that I think the 
next Council should really deal with and see if it makes sense to, how this is working 
out. But I have no problem moving forward the funds and positioning the County to 
acquire the property because of the hardship on the Teixeira Family. So, that, that's 
where I stand today regarding this item before us. Thank you, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Hokama. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. I had saw your hand up. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, I, I did have my hand up. I, I just, I wanted to 
quickly add to what Ms., Deputy Director Munsell was saying in response to Member 
Paltin's question. And I realize this, you know, could be considered my second time 
speaking to the motion. So, but I guess it would be up to Council if we want to waive 
that Rules. 
So, I, I have a question for Deputy Director Munsell. So, the appraisal, so there's a 
formula that was set forth for the, for this project. I'll, for the Members that didn't get 
an opportunity to review it. Its original cost to the purchaser, and because this was, is 
a 4 bedroom in a 140 percent AMI, it was $666,425. And then you would add a one 
percent return on the down payment, which is $4,893. Cost of improvement is $25,213. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 55 
And a one percent return on improvement, which is $725, for a total of $697,257. So, 
that's the formula that they follow, and not the 2.96 formula. 
The, so I understand that that portion doesn't require an appraisal. But when we're 
granting in fee simple a property to a third-party, that is the part I, I believe under the 
Affordable Housing Fund, or 3.35, requires an appraisal be done, so that the County 
is aware of the value of property that is going to a third-party. And that's where the 
exemption in the resolution is coming. 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Sorry, was that a, was that 
a question for me, or? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. In your response—
CHAIR LEE: It sounded like a statement. That's a question? Okay. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, the question is, are you requesting an 
exemption to the appraisal in the second resolution where we're granting in fee simple 
to Na Hale 0 Maui? 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: We are. The reason for 
that is because we are calculating it based on the, the purchase price. Of course, if 
the body would like to have an appraisal done, we can certainly do that. And I 
understand your reasoning for your request. I'm assuming that you would want the, 
the County to bear the cost of that appraisal rather than the homebuyer. If I could just 
get clarification on that. Or, the homeowner, I'm sorry. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Correct. 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: We can, we can probably 
make that arrangement. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Deputy Director Munsell. 
And this is for whoever would like to respond to this question, and that it's regarding 
the cost of improvements, the $25,213. So, I guess it was, I was confused by why a 
house that is brand new and was, has only been lived in for about two years, two and 
a half years, would need $25,000 in improvements. And Member Paltin kind of shared 
some of her experiences or what she's heard in the area, and I'm wondering if that, if, 
if that is the reason for the $25,000 improvement? Or if it's not, if you could explain 
what, what that coming from? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 56 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Yea, thank you. Thank 
you for the question. We actually go through a process of determining what is a capital 
improvement and what is not to a property. So, in this case, it's a brand-new property 
and the homeowner had chosen to put in air-conditioning. And so, the air-conditioning 
would have added $7,400 worth of capital improvements. They also put in granite 
countertops, which is considered a capital improvement as well because it increases 
the value of the property. And the, and that was about $6,000. And then in addition 
to that is the landscaping. Because often these homes don't come, since it's a brand-
new home, it doesn't come with landscaping either. And so, there was $11,800 put 
into the landscaping. And that included rock wall, fencing, pavers, and irrigation 
system. And so, that's how we came up with the, 2500 or $25,000. 
There were also other items that had been submitted, but they weren't considered 
capital improvements, and so they are not included in this calculation. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Deputy Director Munsell. And then, this 
question is either for you or Ms. Abdul, if she's on. And it's regarding the granting to 
Na Hale 0 Maui. In granting it to Na Hale 0 Maui, will it remain in 140 AMI when it's 
being sold. And at what price would it then be, because the land wouldn't be for sale 
as fee simple. It would remain in the, in the land trust. 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: I'll defer that question to 
Na Hale 0 Maui. Thank you. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ms. Abdul. 
MS. ABDUL: This is Cassandra. Yes, here I am. Okay. So, we follow the County's direction 
on the AMI. And because this property was sold at 140, that would be the maximum. 
But any, when we have a home that's ready for sale, we notify all of our homeowners 
on the qualified buying list at any AMI. It can be 80 percent, less than 80 percent, 
100 percent AMI. They all have the opportunity to come in and decide if they would 
like to submit a statement of interest and pursue the acquisition. 
We do not, we do not sell the homes at the HUD prices or the buyback price that the 
County will be paying to the homeowner. And we haven't really had an opportunity to 
make that determination. We've not seen the house. We've not done any research. 
We don't know what else we will do. I can tell you that the most expensive house that 
Na Hale 0 Maui has sold is there in Kahoma. And we sold it for $460,000 with a 
leasehold appraisal of very close to $800,000. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 57 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Abdul. Would there be any reason that 
Na Hale 0 Maui would need to come back to the Council for funding for this particular 
property? 
MS. ABDUL: No, we would not. Any additional expense, Na Hale 0 Maui has always taken 
care of with funds that we have generated by, from the sale of other houses to take 
care of all of the rehab and improvements. So, we do not come back, we won't come 
back to the County to request funds for this house. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Abdul. 
And then, my last question is for Deputy Director Munsell. Ms. Munsell, if we approve 
or pass on first reading the budget amendment today and hold the two resolutions for, 
oh, actually, the acquisition resolution for the January 15 Council meeting and refer the 
second resolution granting in fee simple to Na Hale 0 Maui to Committee for further 
discussion, what would be the impacts? 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Thank, thank you for the 
question. The resolution to acquire, if it were deferred to the 15, would make it more 
challenging for us to actually prepare for the closing. I don't think it's fatal, but I also 
think that it would cause significant stress to the family. So, they would not know 
exactly whether the County intends to repurchase or not. And so, I think that makes it 
much more challenging for them to prepare to move and to move on. 
If the County chooses not to purchase this home, then of course they would be on the 
hook to resell it themselves. There is a certain calculation that is required for us to tell 
them what their maximum sales price is that they can get from this, this home. Based 
on our preliminary data, it appears that they would lose significant amount of money 
having to do so, as well as the time that they would lose. 
As you, as she's indicated, Ms. Teixeira's indicated already, they're currently not 
covered by the benefits of their husband's employer. And so, again, that just the stress. 
If the acquisition is not a question for you, if it's just the disposition of it, the disposition 
could be delayed, and we could have that conversation. The County will incur carrying 
costs for the property once we do own it, we'll have to maintain it, which would include 
of course the utilities and things. We've had some experience with that before and it's 
a rather unpleasant process. But we can certainly, we certainly understand your 
interest in having a further discussion about how to dispose of properties. And we can 
provide information to you about the cost of those, those carrying costs and some 
options. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 58 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Deputy Director Munsell. A, a quick follow-
up. Two things, one, does the Affordable Housing Fund cover 140 percent AMI? 
Cause 140 percent is workforce, not affordable, which is also a concern for me 
throughout the resolutions which refers to this property as affordable housing. And it's 
not; its workforce because it's 140 percent. 
And then, would, would you speak to what the additional $10,000 is from the purchase 
price, which is $697,258 and allocating $707,258 from the Affordable Housing Fund? 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Thank you. Thank you for 
the question. The difference in the two prices is just that the County does expect to 
encounter some additional closing costs, including the appraisal that you're, you're 
currently asking for, obviously. As far as the 140 percent, let me, I don't know if 
Ms. DesJardins is on the call, maybe she has got that right at her fingertips. Otherwise, 
I'm going to have to quickly look that up because my mind has drawn a blank. Oh, 
yep, here she is right here. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL MIMI DESJARDINS: Yea, you know what, I'm actually 
looking at the ordinance now. So, I'm trying to answer that question, so hold on. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. In the meantime, while Ms. DesJardins 
looks that up, can we ask one of our OCS staff, because it's something that we were 
working on? So, I don't know if Mr. Raatz is on, or Ms. . . . 
CHAIR LEE: Can you repeat the question please for them? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: If Affordable Housing Fund can cover a property 
that's at 140 percent AMI. Because a 140 percent AMI was the gap that we covered 
in 2.96 for workforce, but it's not really affordable. So, I'm wondering how does that 
become reconciled? 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Staff, can you please respond to Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? 
Meanwhile, did other people have questions? 
Yes, Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I have a question for Ms. Munsell about the 
Affordable Housing Fund. We're going to be, and it, and it sounds like we may or may 
not be able to use that, but if we are pulling funds out of that, how does that affect other 
projects we've funded through the Affordable Housing? Do we have enough extra in 
there, and is there a mechanism to return that after the, the house sells to return that 
money to the Affordable Housing Fund? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 59 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Munsell. 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Thank you. Yea, thank 
you for that question. The Affordable Housing Fund, there is a sufficient funds to do 
this, this purchase, so that that won't be an issue. We have discussed mechanisms 
for returning funds into the Affordable Housing Fund after it was sold. And that causes 
complications with Na Hale 0 Maui, at least through this, this kind of a process. I think 
that she could probably give you some more details on that particular question. 
As far as the purchase of the home, because it's, it is at the 140 percent, I don't think 
that the Affordable Housing Fund would have a difficult and, and I guess Council might 
have to confirm this, but the purchase of the home in the 140 percent range, I don't 
believe would be an issue. It might be an issue of whether it could be resold in a 
140 percent. But that's just off the top of my head in, in looking at that, at that question. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright. Maybe, is Ms. Abdul on? Maybe she can talk 
about it? 
CHAIR LEE: Cassandra, are you on the call? 
MS. ABDUL: Yes, I am. Sorry, for the little bit struggle to unmute that. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. 
MS. ABDUL: I'm not clear that we have the ability to do what's being discussed here about 
returning funds. This would have to be reviewed legally. We are a 501(c)3 and if it 
doesn't further our mission, we are barred from doing it. If we do something that is in 
violation of our mission, we could lose our nonprofit status, which would be catastrophic 
for many reasons. It would certainly affect all of our 46 homeowners. And I believe 
that it would become a taxable event. It, that's some place that we never want to go. 
It just wouldn't make sense. 
So, first of all, I really can't give you a straight answer. I would have to obtain legal 
counsel, do quite a bit of research to determine if we're even able to do it. I can tell 
you, as a nonprofit, we are barred from making donations. What, I mean, what would 
be the character of what you are proposing if we take title to the property-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, my, my concern is that this, this may be happening more 
frequently because of other people who are going through the same thing as 
Ms. Teixeira. And if we just keep using affordable funds to buy these houses back 
and, and then that money leaves the Affordable Housing Fund, we're going to be 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 60 
deplete, you know, we have potential to deplete that fund and other projects that are, 
that we're trying to fund through that, you know, for truly affordable housing, may suffer. 
So, you know, if this is going to be a frequent, a frequent proposition, then maybe we 
need to look at ways that we do, you know, we do a loan from the Affordable Housing 
Fund or something where the money can get back in there and fund those projects that 
we're approving that are, you know, we've got projects on the books now that are 
60 percent AMI and under and those are really, you know, truly affordable. And I just 
would hate to be expending, you know, all this money buying back houses and 
depleting that fund. 
So, that was kind of my main concern, is that, is there a way to protect the Affordable 
Housing Fund, because I, I think this may be a setting a precedent too. And I know, 
and I, you know, I really appreciate, Ms. Teixeira, all your, what you're going through. 
And I, but I know you're not the only one. So, you know, there are others that are also 
experiencing these hardships. But just looking forward in trying to figure out what we 
can do to keep our Affordable Housing Fund intact for some of the really, you know. 
I mean, some of this is happening because, as was stated earlier, these projects were 
approved pre, before, way before this Council. And this Council has been, you know, 
really focused on what is truly affordable. So, but, but there's, I, I, I just foresee this 
happening. It's not going to be the last time it happens, because I know there are a lot 
of people going through the same hardships. 
MS. ABDUL: I agree. And I think that Linda Munsell could speak on the actual amount of 
funds in the Affordable Housing Fund and what is currently being contemplated on 
being allocated out to projects. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, well, she did, yea she did, she did answer that question. I'm 
just thinking ahead on, you know, if this, if this situation comes up. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members. Members, we have actually two issues before us. One would 
solve the problem with the Teixeira's. And then the other issue would solve the 
problem with the Teixeira's plus authorize the grant to Na Hele [sic/ Now, I realize 
that, as Ms. Munsell said, the problem with not dealing with that particular resolution 
today will incur costs and as far as electricity and other maintenance costs, while this, 
while the house is, you know, being decided upon on disposition. 
But because there's this philosophical issue here, it's, it's not a just cut and dry issue. 
Like dealing with the Teixeira issue is pretty much cut and dry. Dealing with the 
Na Hele [sic] is a little bit more complicated so, which we really don't have time today 
because it seems that people have different, you know, different ideas about. Not, not 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 61 
that they don't support Na Hele [sic], probably we all do, but that issue is, I, I can't, I 
don't see, I don't foresee consensus on that issue at this point. So, that can wait for 
the next term. And we could make it a priority, so we can pick, you know, take it up as 
soon as possible so that we don't incur a lot of expenses. 
So, Members, I think it was mentioned by Mr. Hokama, earlier, I'm getting the feeling 
that Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez kind of, kinds of feel, feels that way, maybe 
Member King too, to pass the first resolution and the, and the bill on first reading. And 
then the second resolution refer to the Housing Committee. 
Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I was, Chair, I was kind of interrupted. I wasn't done with my 
question yet. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I thought, I thought that's the area you, the direction you were leading 
toward. Okay, Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It is. It is, but I wanted to clarify one other thing if I could with 
Ms. Abdul. Is it possible to, I mean we're talking about additional expenses like an 
appraisal, would that be able to come out of the grant in funds to Na Hale 0 Maui? 
MS. ABDUL: I, I'm sorry, which grant in funds are we talking about? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, we're talking about granting you these funds to buy this 
house and, and now we're talking about doing, doing, or buying this house and then 
granting it Na Hale 0 Maui. Isn't that what we're talking about? So-- 
MS. ABDUL: Yes, I-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Do we not-- 
MS. ABDUL: I believe-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Do we not-- 
MS. ABDUL: I'm sorry. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: --a lot of that and, you know. 
MS. ABDUL: I believe that the County will be buying the house. They will not be giving the 
funds to Na Hale 0 Maui to buy the house. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 62 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so we'd be granting you the house, and then? 
MS. ABDUL: In-kind, yes. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay. And then, and so, I guess it does . . . who wants to 
know the appraisal, so we know the value of what we're granting, once we grant it. 
Okay. Thank you, Chair. 
MS. ABDUL: I, I can offer this one thing, be, generally before we sell the house, we do obtain 
a fee simple appraisal. So, that would be down the road a ways and it wouldn't be the 
same date that you would be having the appraisal at the time you buy it back. But we 
could certainly forward the appraisal to the County at the time that we do it when we're 
ready to resell the house to another income qualified family. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I saw some hands up. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and then Mr. Hokama. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. It looks like Ms. DesJardins has a 
response to my question earlier. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: Thank you, Council. 
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: --3.35.010, which is the purpose for 
affordable housing does say that one of the uses can be to obtain living environments 
for residents of very low to gap income. And so, gap income under this ordinance is 
defined as between 140 and-- 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: So, yes, I think--
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. That, that answers the question. Thank you. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Then, we had Mr. Hokama. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 63 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Chair. 
AND, AS YOU STATED, IF THERE ARE NO OBJECTIONS, I, I 
WOULD LIKE TO AMEND MY MOTION TO PASS THE BILL, 
THE BUDGET AMENDMENT BILL ON FIRST READING AND 
THE RESOLUTION FOR ACQUISITION OF THE PROPERTY, 
AND TO REFER THE SECOND RESOLUTION TO GRANT THE 
PROPERTY IN FEE SIMPLE TO NA HALE 0 MAUI TO THE 
BUDGET COMMITTEE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, before you make that motion, there are other people 
probably needing some, some answers to their questions. 
So, Mr. Hokama, and then Ms. Sugimura. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And, and that's just to, it would then 
limit the discussion to not discuss the second resolution any further-- 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --because we're going to refer it to Committee. And 
so, the, the conversation can just be about acquisition. 
CHAIR LEE: You, you're starting to sound like me. You're starting to sound like me, 
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I was trying to help--
CHAIR LEE: . . . But I'm not-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'll accept it. 
CHAIR LEE: I'm not really, I'm not really there yet, you know. Of course, I always like to limit 
the discussion. But the other people didn't have a chance to ask clarifying questions. 
That's, that's what I'm trying to get to. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 64 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. 
CHAIR LEE: And, like Mr. Hokama didn't have a chance. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I will shut my mouth and I'll hold on to the, oh no, no, 
I didn't mean it like that. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The amendment. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, I will refrain from talking. And when the appropriate 
time comes, I will amend my motion. And it sounds like my seconder is in favor of that 
amendment? 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I will mute myself, let everyone ask their questions. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Chairman. I'm glad she didn't say she sounds 
like me. But, you know, I know this is difficult for the Teixeira Family and, you know, 
others that may be in similar . . . so I feel for them. I like the idea from our Budget 
Chair, and I'll be able to support that. 
But my question that, you know, it is my understanding of the ordinance, is, I guess 
from Ms. DesJardins, why wouldn't we allow the buyback price to be the same as the 
price if the seller sells it on their own? 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: Well, it's all contained in the residential 
workforce housing agreement that was executed for this subdivision. They're just 
following the terms that are in that agreement, that was executed, I think, in 2015. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. Because my, I thought it would just be easier to let 
the homeowner, if they know, that the buyback price is the selling price, what, would 
be easier for everybody. And then we would waive our first, first right of buyback, 
because we would agree that the price, the buyback price is the right price for the sale 
or resale. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: No, I hear you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 65 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: But I think that's something that, again, I support Chair Lee 
and Budget Chair Rawlins-Fernandez that these are the kind of questions that the next 
Council needs to deal with. So, I'll end my discussion at this time. Thank you, Chair. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Can't hear you. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're muted. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're muted. 
CHAIR LEE: Yea, I know. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, first of all, I, from just listening to all of this 
discussion, to the Teixeira's, this is Council and all this resolutions and bills that you're 
listening us, talking, we're talking about things in three levels. So, thanks for sitting in 
here, and listening to us. I want to apologize that this is being taken up so late for you 
and your family. I believe that if this would have come before the Council when you 
would have notified us in October, I think is what you said, or September 13 was your 
letter to them from your testimony, or if this would have been, you know, moved to us 
sooner, then we wouldn't be keeping you in this position this whole, you know, time for 
our meeting and you having to listen to us as we're kind of squabbling with the 
Department about different issues and our ordinance. So, I apologize to you as one 
of our citizens and, you know, we understand what the pandemic has done to many 
families, so I just want to say that. 
I do support the Budget Chair in proposing for us to approve the acquisition, which is 
what you should care most about, Ms. Teixeira, as well as the bill, cause then that 
would provide the funding. So, that I support, which is the item number 3 on our 
agenda. 
I would like to ask the Chair if, just from listening to every, you know, what's going on 
with Na Hale and comments from Cassandra. I can tell that there's things about her 
organization that I don't understand. And I wonder if, during the next Council, we can 
get educated about Na Hale 0 Maui, cause it does provide valuable resources. And I 
always say that Na Hale 0 Maui reminds me of Bishop Estate, because you keep the 
land and you sell the building. And there's things about that that I don't really 
understand how that plays into this. But that is something that I always equate Na Hale 
O Maui. And I wonder if during the next term, Na Hale 0 Maui if you are going to be 
the benefactor of our, our real property transactions, that we can understand how you 
operate more and your nonprofit status is, status and what you can and cannot do. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 66 
So, I, I thank the Budget Chair for dissecting all the 90 pages of this reso and coming 
up with, you know, with your analysis. I want to also extend my apologies to the 
Teixeira Family for what you are going through and having to listen to us. But you 
understand that this is a process and how we represent our people, so thank you very 
much. And, Chair, thank you. I, I hope you will-- 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And if not, I'll create an item so that we can get educated 
more about how Na Hale 0 Maui operates and what they do, because I think, well, for 
me, there's a gap in education that we can learn more about their good work. So, 
thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. And yes, we are going to refer item number 2, that, that 
second resolution-- 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: —to the next Council. So, before we vote, are there any more clarifying 
questions? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --Mr. Sinenci with his hand up. Member Sinenci had 
his hand up. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Member Rawlins-Fernandez. No, I was, I just 
couldn't hear you. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, now we're back to Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Can you repeat 
the, the motion again? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, mahalo, Chair. Okay, so the motion is to adopt 
the resolution— 
CHAIR LEE: Approving. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --approving the acquisition of real property at the 
Kahoma Residential Subdivision and to refer County Communication 20-609 to 
Council Chair for the 2021 through 23 term to be referred to the Budget Committee 
and to pass the proposed bill on first reading. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 67 
CHAIR LEE: Second? Second was Ms. King [sic/ Okay. Alright. 
Any further discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please signify by saying "aye" 
and raising your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I see nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Thank you for that. 
Let's see, Madam Clerk, did you get all of that? Madam Clerk, did you-- 
COUNTY CLERK: Yes Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I thought you went out to lunch. 
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COUNTY CLERK: And for the record, that's RESOLUTION 20-176 [sic/ 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COUNTY CLERK: And BILL NO. 136 (2020). 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COUNTY CLERK: I'm sorry; 20-177 is the Reso No., and 136 (2020) is the Bill No. 
CHAIR LEE: Next. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 68 
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, continuing on referrals to the Council Chair for the term beginning 
January 2, 2021. 
NO. 	 20-610 	- RIKI HOKAMA, CHAIR, HEALTHY FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES 
COMMITTEE, (dated December 10, 2020) 
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "CLARIFYING THE COUNCIL'S INTENT 
REGARDING FUNDING FOR FERAL ANIMAL MANAGEMENT". 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-610 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-610 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE 
MEETING AND ASSIGNED RESOLUTION NO.  20-178  . 
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-610 WAS THEN FILED. See 
pages 78 through 81 for discussion and action. 
NO. 	 20-611 	- ALICE L. LEE, COUNCIL CHAIR, 
(dated December 9, 2020) 
Relating to the regulation of tiny homes. 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-611 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
NO.  20-612 	- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA, BUDGET DIRECTOR, 
(dated December 11, 2020) 
Transmitting the following proposed bills entitled: 
1. 	 "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET 
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; 
DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY, WAILUKU-KAHULUI 
COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND, 
KAHULUI FIRE STATION APPARATUS SHELTER; TOTAL CAPITAL 
IMPROVEMENTS 	 PROJECT 	 APPROPRIATIONS; 	 TOTAL 
APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT 
PROJECTS)"; 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 69 
2. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET 
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C — CAPITAL 
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC 
SAFETY, WAILUKU-KAHULUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, (KAHULUI FIRE 
STATION APPARATUS SHELTER)"; and 
3. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5101, BILL 
NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL OBLIGATION 
BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF 
SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY — KAHULUI 
FIRE STATION APPARATUS SHELTER)". 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-612 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
THE PROPOSED BILLS ATTACHED TO COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-612 WERE PASSED ON FIRST 
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL 
NOS.  137  (2020),  138  (2020), AND  139  (2020). COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-612 WAS THEN FILED. See pages 82 
through 84 for discussion and action. 
NO.  20-613 	- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA, BUDGET DIRECTOR, 
(dated December 11, 2020) 
Transmitting the following proposed bills entitled: 
1. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET 
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO DEPARTMENT OF 
FINANCE, FINANCIAL SERVICES PROGRAM; MAKAWAO-PUKALANI-KULA 
COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, GENERAL FUND 
DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLES AND LICENSING (DMVL) — PUKALANI 
SATELLITE OFFICE RENOVATION; TOTAL OPERATING 
APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT 
APPROPRIATIONS"; and 
2. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET 
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C — CAPITAL 
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, DIVISION OF 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 70 
MOTOR VEHICLE AND LICENSING (DMVL) — PUKALANI SATELLITE 
OFFICE RENOVATION". 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-613 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
THE PROPOSED BILLS ATTACHED TO COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-613 WERE PASSED ON FIRST 
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL 
NOS.  140  AND  141  (2020). COUNTY COMMUNICATION 
NO. 20-613 WAS THEN FILED. See pages 85 through 87 for 
discussion and action. 
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk, one second. Members, it's like 12:00 and we still 
have a number of items before us. Any objections to taking a lunch break? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, lunch break till 1:30? Alright then. If there are no objections, we'll 
recess the meeting for a lunch break and reconvene at 1:30 okay. 
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:43 P.M., AND WAS 
RECONVENED AT 1:31 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.) 
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of December 18 please 
reconvene. 
Madam Clerk, shall we proceed? 
COUNTY CLERK: Continuing with communications for referral to the Chair and the 2021-23 
Council term. 
NO.  20-614 	- KARLA H. PETERS, DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION, 
(dated December 9, 2020) 
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING A GRANT OF A LEASE 
OF COUNTY RECREATIONAL SPACE TO MAUI NUI BOTANICAL GARDENS INC.". 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-614 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 71 
NO. 	 20-615 	- RIKI HOKAMA, COUNCILMEMBER, 
(dated December 10, 2020) 
Transmitting County Communication No. 20-559, transmitting a proposed resolution 
entitled "AUTHORIZING A GRANT OF A LEASE OF COUNTY RECREATIONAL 
SPACE TO PAIA YOUTH COUNCIL, INC.". 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now, is someone going to make a motion here? 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Chair. 
AS IT REGARDS TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-615, I 
WOULD LIKE TO AT THIS TIME MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE 
HEALTHY FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE FROM 
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THIS ITEM. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It's been moved by Member Hokama, seconded by Member Sugimura, 
to discharge this item. 
Any discussion, Mr. Hokama? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you very much, Chair Lee. Your Committee did take 
up the discussion yesterday regarding this proposed lease at Paia Youth Center. And 
after discussions and Committee input, I'll be recommending, if this motion is approved, 
a consideration of referral to the next Council. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any further discussion on the discharge? If not, all those in favor of the 
motion, please say "aye", raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, 	 AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 72 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. 
I, AT THIS TIME, MOVE TO REFER THE COMMUNICATION 
20-615 ['IC], ATTACHED AND ITS REFERRAL TO THE 
COUNCIL CHAIR FOR THE TERM BEGINNING JANUARY 2, 
2021, AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-615. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Hokama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to refer 
this item to the Council Chair and file the communication. 
Any discussion? Further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please 
say "aye", raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, 	 AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you. 
Next, Ms., Madam Clerk. 
NO. 	 20-616 	- MICHAEL J. MOLINA, COUNCILMEMBER, 
(dated December 11, 2020) 
Transmitting the following: 
1. 	 County Communication No. 20-241, transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL 
FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.96.030, MAUI COUNTY 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 73 
CODE, RELATING TO WORKFORCE HOUSING AND 201H HAWAII 
REVISED STATUTES HOUSING PROJECTS"; 
2. County Communication No. 19-519, referring the matter related to funding a 
comprehensive affordable housing plan; and 
3. County Communication No. 18-95, transmitting a proposed resolution entitled 
"AUTHORIZING THE LEASE FOR MALIKO BAY, TAX MAP KEY 
NOS. (2) 2-7-004:007 (POR.) and (2) 2-7-004:027 FROM ALEXANDER & 
BALDWIN, LLC". 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. 
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING 
COMMITTEE AND HEALTHY FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES 
COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE 
COMMUNICATIONS ATTACHED TO COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION 20-616. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING. 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Ms. King, to discharge this item. 
Mr. Molina, any further comments? 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No discussion on the discharge. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anybody else? If not, all those in favor of the discharge, raise your 
hand, say "aye". 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, 	 AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 74 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "no"; motion carries. 
Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. 
MOVE TO REFER THE THREE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 
AS ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-616 
TO THE COUNCIL CHAIR FOR THE TERM BEGINNING 
JANUARY 2, 2021, AND THE FILING OF COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-616. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Ms. Sugimura, to refer these items to 
the Council Chair and file the communications. 
Further discussion, Mr. Molina? 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. County 
Communication 20-241 is a proposed bill which I authored, which is to amend 
Section 2.96.030, Maui County Code, relating to workforce housing and 201H projects. 
And also, County Communication 19-519 is a bill, is a matter related to the 
comprehensive affordable housing plan, which is still a, very much a work in progress. 
And for whatever reasons, both items did not get a hearing in this term's Affordable 
Housing Committee. So, I'd like to see, prefer a discussion continue for the next 
Council term on those two matters. 
And lastly, County Communication No. 18-95 is a proposed resolution related to the 
lease authorization for Maliko Bay from A&B. And this is also an ongoing matter for 
further discussion, hopefully, in the next Council term. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please 
say "aye" and raise your hand. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 75 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, 	 AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you. 
Madam Clerk. 
NO.  20-617 	- TAMARA PALTIN, COUNCILMEMBER, 
(dated December 11, 2020) 
Transmitting the following: 
1. County Communication No. 20-383, transmitting a proposed bill entitled, 
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE 
HOUSING POLICY TO MORE EFFECTIVELY PROMOTE THE AVAILABILITY 
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING"; 
2. Miscellaneous Communication relating to expediting the building plan review 
process by developing a catalog of pre-approved plans; 
3. Miscellaneous Communication relating to experimental and demonstration 
housing projects. 
4. County Communication No. 19-328, relating to Maui County 
telecommunications infrastructure issues, including property rights, privacy, and 
safety; 
5. Miscellaneous Communication relating to Contract C6931; 
6. County Communication No. 20-356, relating to County of Maui pool permits; 
7. Miscellaneous Communication relating to drones; 
8. Miscellaneous Communication relating to pay equity in the County of Maui; 
9. 	 Miscellaneous Communication relating to creating and expanding workforce 
development programs to get Maui County residents back to work; 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 76 
10. County Communication No. 20-462, relating to the purchase of 257.7 acres, 
Maalaea Mauka, identified as TMK: (2) 3-6-001:018; and 
11. Miscellaneous Communication relating to Contract C7041. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. 
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING 
COMMITTEE, HEALTHY FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES 
COMMITTEE, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET 
COMMITTEE, AND PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE 
COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE 
COMMUNICATIONS ATTACHED TO COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION 20-617. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Who was the sec, who seconded it? 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Member Sinenci. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. It's been moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to 
discharge this item. 
Any further discussion? Okay. All those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Ms. Paltin. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 77 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. 
I MOVE TO REFER THE COMMUNICATIONS ATTACHED TO 
THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-617 TO THE COUNCIL 
CHAIR FOR THE TERM BEGINNING ON JANUARY 2, 2021, 
AND FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-617. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any second? Okay, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Mr. Sinenci, 
to refer the matter to the Council Chair and filing of the communications. 
Any further discussion? 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: If the communications are not referred on the next term, they 
will autofile in accordance with Rule 23 of the Rules of the Council and I believe the 
matters for further discussion next term. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor, say "aye" and raise your 
hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you. 
Madam Clerk. 
NO.  20-618 	- MICHELE CHOUTEAU MCLEAN, PLANNING DIRECTOR, 
(dated December 4, 2020) 
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 
COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE RELATING TO ZIPLINE, CANOPY, AND 
BUNGEE JUMPING TOUR OPERATIONS"; and related documents. 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-618 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 78 
COUNTY CLERK: General commu-- 
CHAIR LEE: I don't see any, oh, proceed. I don't see any notation for discussion. But I see 
Mr. Hokama's hand up. 
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO 
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-610  
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair, thank you. Under county communications, I'd like to 
go back to Communication 20-615 [sic] please, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: At this time, this is regarding the proposed resolution, Chair. 
So, I would like to at this time, move to discharge the Healthy Families and 
Communities. Wait, do I need to have the Clerk bring this up, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: We already acted on this one. 615? Did you say the Paia-- 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Oh, I apologize; 610. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: I made a mistake. Wrong number, wrong number; my 
apologies, Members. 610, County Communication 610, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. This was up for, you know, filing. But are you asking that we revisit 
this one? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Yea, I would like to discharge, make a, have a discharge 
consideration before the body. 
SO, I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION— 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion to discharge. Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: 
—TO DISCHARGE THE HEALTHY FAMILIES COMMUNITIES- 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 79 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Mr. Hokama, seconded by Member King, to discharge 
CC 20-610. 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Your Committee discussed the item, proposed resolution, 
yesterday, Madam Chairman. And we are requesting a discharge so that Council may 
take action this afternoon. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any further discussion on the discharge? If not, all those in favor of the 
discharge, please raise your hand, say "aye". 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: 	 NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Aye, aye, aye. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 80 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor, it's been moved by Mr. Hokama, seconded by Ms. Sugimura, 
to waive the Rules of the Council regarding this item. 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Approval by two-thirds of our body will enable the Council to 
take action this afternoon, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions or comments? If not, all those in favor of the motion, 
please say "aye" and raise your hand. Now, this is for the waiver. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: 	 NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Madam Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION 
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-610, AND THE 
FILING OF COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-610. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Hokama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt the resolution 
in County Communication 20-610. 
Mr. Hokama. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 81 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your Healthy Families 
and Communities Committee did discuss this matter yesterday on December 17. We 
believe that this resolution will help assist the Administration to clarify the Council's 
intent regarding the expenditure of Feral Animal Management Program for Lanai, Maui, 
and Molokai in the amount of $900,000 or $300,000 per region, and that it not be held 
up for use until the Animal Management Plan was completed. That was not our 
intention. I know this is a very unique and rare method for Council to utilize to help 
provide some clarity to the Administration. But I believe that this will assist us to try 
and mitigate the current damages that our regions are facing from the extraordinary 
overpopulation of axis deer. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all—
Yes, Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, as discussed by Chair, I, I would like to support this 
resolution because my farmers in Upcountry are crying for help at the Kula Ag Park. 
Although the money, I know is for Maui island, but there is a big need for the farmers 
Upcountry. So, thank you very much for clarifying this language, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please signify by 
saying "aye" and raising your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: 	 NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: It looks like nine "ayes". There are nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Thank you. 
Madam Clerk. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 82 
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO  
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-612  
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration on CC 20-612 and 
CC 20-613. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk, keep track of what we're going to file, because it seems 
like we're not going to file too many. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to 
waive the Rules of the Council regarding 20-16, I mean, 20-612 and 20-613. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And I can take it separately if you 
would like. So, the 6, 612 is for the amending the-- 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, this is for the waiver. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 83 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, we would like to lock in the bid and so it's time 
sensitive that we lock in the bid and take action today. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? If not all those, you, we're going to take them 
separately, right? You said taking them separately? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, this is in regard to CC 20-612. All those in favor of the waiver--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right. Right. The Fire-- 
CHAIR LEE: --the waiver, say "aye". 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: 	 NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON FIRST 
READING, AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-612. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member 
Sugimura, to pass the bills in County Communication 20-612 on first reading, and file 
the communications. 
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 84 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. . . . amend the Fiscal Year 2021 
Estimated Revenues, Department of Fire and Public Safety, Wailuku-Kahului 
Community Plan Area; 2) Government Facilities Bond, Bond Fund, Kahului Fire Station 
Apparatus Shelter; 3) Total Capital Improvement Projects Appropriation; 4) Total 
Appropriations (Operating and Capital Improvement Projects); 5) Appendix C, 
Department of Fire and Public Safety, Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area, Kahului 
Fire Station Apparatus Shelter; and 6) Ordinance No. 5101, Bill 66 (2020), relating to 
the issuance of General Obligation Bond of the County of Maui issuance, by adding a 
new appropriation under Department of Fire and Public Safety, entitled Kahului Fire 
Station Apparatus Shelter in the amount of $325,000. 
Funds for this project were included in the Fiscal Year 2020 Budget in the amount of 
$450,000 but were not expended and will lapse on December 31, 2020. 
The Department of Fire and Public Safety recently opened bids for the project and is 
asking for this appropriation to be added to the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget. So, as noted, 
it, it, the bid came in less, so this is a good thing. 
We have representatives from the Administration that are available to answer any 
questions. We have Deputy Fire Chief Brad Ventura and Budget Director Yoshimura 
on the line for any questions. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: I don't know what, I think you had us when you said this is a good thing. 
Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", and 
raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All "ayes". Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Just for the record, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, you made the motion. And was it 
Ms. Sugimura who seconded the motion? Okay. Alright. Motion passes. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 85 
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO 
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-613  
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, 20-613. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea. Mahalo, Chair. And this is for the DMV 
Pukalani Satellite Office Renovation. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Motion to waive. Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez moved, and Member 
Sugimura seconded, to waive this, the Rules of the Council. 
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Again, there was some savings after 
the construction and so it's just taking that savings somewhere else. And I'll explain in 
the other motion, but it would be good if we take action today. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I know you like the word good. It's a good thing. 
CHAIR LEE: So, this is to, we're, we're just, sorry. You just made the motion on the waive, 
the waiver, right? Okay. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea. 
CHAIR LEE: And the second pers, who seconded? Ms. Sugimura again? 
Okay. Any more discussion on the waiver? If not, all those in favor say "aye", raise 
your hand. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 86 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: 	 NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Looking nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON FIRST 
READING, AND FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-613. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Ms. King, to pass 
the bills in County Communication 20-613, and filing of the communications. 
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the first bill would amend 
the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget by transferring $250,000 from the Department of Finance, 
Financial Services Program capital, Category B — Operations & Equipment to the 
Capital Improvement Appropriation for the Department of Finance. 
The second bill would amend Appendix C of the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, Department 
of Finance, by adding the Makawao-Pukalani-Kula Community Plan Area, and a 
project entitled "Division of Motor Vehicles and Licensing — Pukalani Satellite Office 
Renovation", in the amount of $250,000. These funds would be used for the Pukalani 
Satellite Office renovation to the Hannibal Tavares Community Center. 
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer any questions the 
Members may have. We have Budget Director Michele Yoshimura and Finance 
Director Scott Teruya on the line. I ask for the Members support of this motion. 
Mahalo, Chair. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 87 
CHAIR LEE: Any questions or comments? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", 
raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. For the record, County Communication 20-610, relating 
to feral animals is assigned RESOLUTION NO. 20-178. County Communication 
20-612, amending the Fiscal Year '21 Budget for the Department of Fire and Public 
Safety for a fire station apparatus shelter are assigned BILLS NO. 137 (2020), 
138 (2020), and 139 (2020). And County Communication 20-613, budget amendment 
for Fiscal Year '21 with the, from the Department of Finance for Pukalani Satellite Office 
renovation are BILLS 149 (2020), I'm sorry, 140 (2020) and 141 (2020). 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Next. 
GENERAL COMMUNICATIONS  
NO. 	 20-7 	- CAROL K. REIMANN, A&B PROPERTIES HAWAII, LLC, 
(dated November 26, 2020) 
Submitting an annual status report pursuant to Condition No. 2 of Ordinance No. 4385, 
change in zoning for Wai'ale Project District South. 
The recommended action is that General Communication No. 20-7 be referred to the Council 
Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, did you read the one before; the 20-618? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 88 
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. 
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. 
CHAIR LEE: So, can you just remind us which ones no action was taken on and which ones 
will be filed? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Point of information, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. King. 
COUNTY CLERK: One moment. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so when we look at the agenda, don't these automatically 
refer to the next term? And this is a list for referral, right? So, anything that says 
"Council Chair for the 2021-23 term" just automatically gets referred to the next term I 
thought? 
CHAIR LEE: Well, what I wanted the, the Clerk to do, because we took action on a whole 
slew of these, I wanted to see what was left and no action was, I mean, no particular 
passing bills or adopting resos. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I just wanted to, I just wanted to ascertain that if we, if 
there's no different action that it just gets referred automatically to the, we don't have 
to take action to make it get referred to the next term. 
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Madam Clerk, are you with us? Where are you? 
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. Yes, the items that had no action was item, County 
Communications 611, 614, and 618. 
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 611—
COUNTY CLERK: 611, 614, 618, and General Communication 20-7. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 89 
COUNTY CLERK: Those were referrals. 
CHAIR LEE: Those will be automatically referred to the next Council. 
COUNTY CLERK: Correct. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. So, we're done with this section. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No objections. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. If you want us to do that. No objections, Members, to filing these, not 
filing, but referring these items? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. As, as listed by the County Clerk. 
Alright, moving onto- 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: --committee reports. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I just want to— 
CHAIR LEE: Wait, I'm sorry. I lost you. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: . . . communication there. I just want to make a note to the 
Members that 20-611, relating to regulations of tiny homes, OCS is working on 
legislation. We should introduce something in the, in January of next year. So, thank 
you. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, moving on; committee reports. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with committee reports. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 90 
COMMITTEE REPORTS  
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-157 	 - AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that the communications noted on Exhibit "A" of this Committee Report 
be REFERRED to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
County Communication Nos. 16-114, 17-213, 17-289, 19-15, 20-358; and 
Contract G5178 Ka Hale A Ke Ola Homeless Resource Centers, Inc., relating to the 
Ka La Hiki 0/a Mobile Hygiene Unit. 
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern Kama. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE 
REPORT 20-157. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Pro Tern Kama, seconded by Mr. Molina, to adopt the Committee 
Report in 20-157. 
Discussion, Ms. Kama? 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Your Affordable Housing Committee . . 
CHAIR LEE: Well, somehow we, we can't hear you. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: My mic is on? 
CHAIR LEE: Now, we can. Now we can. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. 
CHAIR LEE: Now, we can't. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 91 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. 
CHAIR LEE: We, we can't. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: How about now? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Now. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Your Committee, thank you, met on this matter on 
November 30, 2020. And your Committee notes Rule 23 of the Rules of the Council 
provides for the end of term filing or referral of Committee pending before Committees; 
communications pending before Committees. Your Committee voted 8-0 to 
recommend that the communications noted on Exhibit "A" be referred to the Council 
Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise 
your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes". Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you. 
Next, Ms., Madam Clerk. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-158 	 - CLIMATE ACTION AND RESILIENCE COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that County Communication 20-521 be REFERRED to the Council 
Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
CHAIR LEE: Member King. You're muted. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I know. Okay. I'm unmute. Can you hear me now? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 92 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Alright. If there's no objections, can I ask the Clerk to also call 
up Committee Report 20-159. 
CHAIR LEE: Any objections? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered. Go ahead Member King. 
No, I meant, I meant Madam Clerk. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-159 	 - CLIMATE ACTION AND RESILIENCE COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that the communications noted on Exhibit "A" of this Committee Report 
be REFERRED to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
County Communication Nos. 20-9, 20-10, 20-11, 20-12, 20-14, 20-24, 20-76, 20-101, 
20-102, 20-138, 20-170, 20-171, 20-174, 20-206, 20-474, 20-529; Miscellaneous 
Communication relating to energy efficiency and related costs at the Kihei Wastewater 
Treatment Plant; Contract C7106, relating to Tetra Tech, Inc., Beach Parks 
Vulnerability Study; Contract C7117, relating to Planning Consultants Hawaii, LLC, 
Consolidated and Streamlined Shoreline Permit System; Contract C7138, relating to 
Engineering Economics, Inc., Project Facilitators for Energy Savings Performance 
Contracting; Contract C5954-4, relating to the Lahaina WWRF Modifications; 
Grant G4954-1, relating to the Maui Coastal Hazards Extension Program; and Grant 
G5005, relating to Living Pono Project. 
CHAIR LEE: Member King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Double check and make sure. 
CHAIR LEE: Member King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, thank you, Chair. I just had to double-check and make sure 
I was unmuted. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 20-158 AND 20-159. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 93 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Mr., Member Hokama, to approve 
Committee Reports 20-158 and 20-159. 
Member King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Climate Action and Resilience 
Committee met on November 18, 2020, and reviewed the proposed bill that aims to 
prohibit a new, new wastewater, County waste, or a new County wastewater facilities 
in sea, sea level rise exposure areas and plan for the managed retreat of County 
wastewater facilities in sea level rise exposure areas. 
We had a lengthy discussion with the Department of Environmental Management on 
past, current, and future County policies on the siting of wastewater reclamation 
facilities. Your Committee concluded further review of the legislation during the 2021-
2023 Council term would be warranted and notes Rule 23 of the Rules of the Council 
provides for the end of term filing or referral of communications pending before 
Committees. Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend the communication be referred 
to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
We also, at the same meeting, met to recommend certain pending matters be referred 
to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021, pursuant to Rule 23 of the 
Rules of the Council. Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend the communications 
noted on Exhibit "A" be referred to the Council Chair for the next term. I ask for the 
Members full support. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", 
and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 94 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Motion carries. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mahalo, Members. 
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-160 	 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that the communications noted on Exhibit "A" of this Committee Report 
be REFERRED to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
County Communication Nos. 20-55, 20-113, 20-115, 20-177, 20-178, 20-207, 20-275, 
20-291, 20-297, 20-315, 20-343, 20-344, 20-346, 20-385, 20-413, 20-430, 20-453, 
20-456, 20-499, 20-500, 20-501, 20-522, 20-546, 20-547, 20-549, 20-551, 20-571; 
Miscellaneous Communication relating to highway improvement fees for electric 
vehicles and hybrid vehicles; Miscellaneous Communication relating to overtime 
controls for premium pay; Miscellaneous Communication relating to relocating the 
Molokai Police Station, including land acquisition, planning, and design; Miscellaneous 
Communication relating to the Kihei-Makena Sewer Expansion Project; Miscellaneous 
Communication relating to a Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for COVIDI9; 
Miscellaneous Communication relating to prioritizing Maui County businesses and 
hiring locally for publicly funded jobs and projects; Miscellaneous Communication 
relating to Hale 0 Prikea Affordable Housing Project in Kihei, Maui, Hawaii; Contract 
C7167 between the County of Maui and Bronster Fujichaku Robbins, for Special 
Counsel regarding Bank of America Corporation et aL v. County of Maui; Contract 
C7176 between the County of Maui and Tetra Tech Bas, Inc., for the Compliance 
Reporting and Operations and Maintenance Support Services for the Central Maui 
Landfill, Molokai Landfill, Hana Landfill, and Lanai Landfill; Contract C7139 between 
the County of Maui and No Ka Oi Guard Services, LLC, for Security Guard Services 
for COVID-19 Temporary Pallet Shelters at Waiale Park; and Contract C6820 between 
the County of Maui and Warren S. Unemori Engineering, Inc., for the Wailuku Civic 
Complex Phase 1A. 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN 
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-160. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 95 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King to 
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 20-160. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Economic Development and 
Budget Committee met on December 2, 2020, to discuss communications for referral 
to the Council Chair for the begin, term beginning on January 2, 2021. Your Committee 
notes Rule 23 of the Rules of the Council provides for end of term filing or referral of 
communications pending before Committee. Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend 
referral of the communications noted in Exhibit "A". I respectfully ask for the Members 
support of the motion. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and 
raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: 	 NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-161 	 - ENVIRONMENTAL, AGRICULTURAL, AND CULTURAL 
PRESERVATION COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that the communications noted on Exhibits "A" and "B" of this 
Committee Report be REFERRED to the Council Chair for the term beginning 
January 2, 2021. 
County Communication Nos. 16-37, 16-62, 17-122, 17-124, 17-132, 17-135, 17-231, 
18-128, 18-166, 18-430, 19-81, 19-119, 19-142, 19-175, 19-279, 19-341, 19-348, 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 96 
19-452, 19-453, 20-61, 20-62, 20-63, 20-65, 20-66, 20-104, 20-349, 20-350, 20-351, 
20-451, 20-452, 20-525, 20-526; Miscellaneous Communication relating to the 
Integrated Solid Waste Management Plan Update project; Miscellaneous 
Communication relating to water delivery systems; and Miscellaneous Communication 
relating to the Water Use and Development Plan for the island of Maui. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN 
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-161, PLEASE. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member King, to approve the 
recommendations in report, Committee Report 20-161. 
Discussion, Mr. Sinenci? 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Your EACP Committee met on November 17, 
and December 1, 2020. Your Committee notes Rule 23 of the Rules of the Council 
provides for the end of term filing or referral of communications pending before 
Committees. Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend the communications noted on 
Exhibit "A" be referred to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend the communications noted on Exhibit "B", 
also be referred for consideration next term. I respectfully ask the Members support 
of my motion. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" 
and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 97 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-162 	 - GOVERNANCE, ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE: 
Recommending the following: 
1. That Bill  142  (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING 
CHAPTER 9.40, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO SOCIAL HOST 
LIABILITY," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; 
and 
2. That County Communication 20-432, from Councilmember Michael J. Molina, 
be FILED. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. 
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF 
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 20-162. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by, by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to 
approve the recommendation in Committee Report 20-162. 
Discussion, Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you, Madam Chair. Your GET Committee met on 
this matter October 6, November 17, December 1, and at a reconvened meeting of 
December 9, of this year. 
Your Committee heard testimony in support of the proposed bill from the community, 
including some members of the Maui Nui Youth Council. Your Committee worked 
closely with the Department of Corporation Counsel, the Prosecuting Attorney's Office, 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 98 
and representatives from the Maui Coalition for a Drug-Free Youth to craft a bill and 
further revised through your Committee's discussions that would be a community 
solution to help curb the increase of underage drinking in Maui County; most often 
occurring at house parties and private residences. 
Your revised proposed bill imposes a strict liability upon a responsible person who was 
found to have hosted a gathering where an underage person possesses or consumes 
intoxicating liquor. 
In addition to amending the effective date of the bill to July 1, 2021, to allow adequate 
time for the Department of Police to implement the bill, your Committee recommended 
a public hearing be held to gather more community input. 
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend passage of the bill on first reading and filing 
of the communication. And passing the bill on first reading today will carry it over to 
next term, at which point I intend to request a public hearing prior to second and final 
reading. 
And Madam Chair, when you deem it appropriate, I'd like to propose a motion to 
amend. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any, a lot of feedback. More discussion? Any more discussion? 
Yes, Ms. Kama. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I have a motion to amend also, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But any more discussion, besides the proposed amendments? 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I'd like to ask our 
Committee Chairman Mr. Molina if he would, if he could respond to this question I, I 
received. And Mr. Molina, I look at you cause I know you have experience, especially 
with your own family. I was asked, military personnel can serve from 18. If they're 
under 21 in this County, can active duty personnel be found in violation of this 
proposal? 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: You know, that is certainly an interesting question, 
Mr. Hokama. You know, because a military person, they come under the jurisdiction 
of the Federal government and how, you know, County laws or State laws would apply. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 99 
I think that might be a good question for Corporation Counsel or even the Prosecuting 
Attorney's Office. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: I appreciate that response, Mr. Molina. Cause again, this 
was part of what we went through in Vietnam, with Vietnam. So, when I was 18, I was 
legally allowed to drink because we were being drafted to go and fight and potentially 
die in Vietnam. And so, the, the argument was if you can, if you're old enough to die 
for your country, you're old enough to drink. Whether that made sense or not, that was 
part of a argument. 
So, I just was wondering, since I was asked, what happens to military personnel 
between 18 and 21 who served our country? If they're in this County would they be 
guilty or in violation of this proposal as currently before us? And I couldn't, I wasn't 
able to give a response. So, I just bring that up to the Members since it was asked. 
Thank you very much. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, good question. Madam Chair, if I could quickly follow up 
on that. Now, I think if you're on a military installation, where it's the property of the 
Federal government, they could allow for that possibly, because it's not on, per say 
County, comes under County or State jurisdiction. I'm not sure. I know when I was in 
the military, back then of course, the drinking age was 18. But I think the laws, Federal 
laws changed in the 1980's. Mr. Hokama, I know if you can recall, maybe Chair Lee, 
then President Regan, I think as part of giving Federal highway funds to the States, 
one of the conditions was they had to change the drinking age law to 21, if I'm correct. 
I may be wrong. But yea, it does present an interesting dilemma. 
Sorry, Mr. Hokama? 
CHAIR LEE: You're muted. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: You're correct. You're correct, Mr. Molina. That was part of 
the US DOT initiative to curb highway fatalities; to move the drinking age back to 21. 
But, you know, that was, we already got out of Vietnam. And so, that argument didn't 
hold sway anymore. But again, I just bring that up because I know we have military 
personnel from high school entering service. And they have their PX privileges and 
whatnot regarding alcohol and tobacco sales. So, I just wanted to make sure we don't 
have those unintended consequences. Thank you very much, Mr. Molina. Thank you, 
Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Ms. King. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 100 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I think that, that was a really good point. It 
was probably more pertinent back then because you got drafted, so you didn't have a 
choice; you had to go serve. Now, you know, it's a choice for anybody, not just under 
21. But, you know, I thought we had, earlier we had someone from the Police 
Department on that may be able to answer that. I'm looking for the Sergeant and I 
don't see him on the screen. But-- 
CHAIR LEE: Do we have anybody from the Police Department or Corp. Counsel on the call 
to answer Mr. Hokama's question or Mr. Molina's question? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Maybe Corp. Counsel. Ms. Chen. Ms. Chen. Can we ask for, 
Ms. Chen, a question, comment? 
CHAIR LEE: Is she on the call now? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, she's on. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Chen, would you like to try and answer that question? Are you 21? You 
look so young. Okay. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL STEPHANIE CHEN: Okay. Are you able to hear me? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Okay. Sorry. So, if I could try to answer that 
question. I believe in order for this proposed ordinance to apply, you would have to be 
found to be a responsible person. And then you would have to be found to have aided, 
let's see, the exact language, conducted, aided, allowed, permitted, or facilitated a 
gathering on private property, a residence or other private property. So, I don't believe, 
you know, if this were a scenario of, on the military base, that's not a residence or other 
private property as defined in this proposed ordinance. However, if it were an off duty, 
you know, military person, 18 to 21, who, who was found to be a responsible person 
under the definition here, then I believe this would apply. And if, if the gathering were 
held at a residence or other private property, also, as defined here. Does that help? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: So, let me ask you in this potential scenario, Ms. Chen. You 
got four people on leave from their service, whether they're in the Army or Navy. They 
come home to Maui. They have a gathering at their own home. They're all under 21, 
but they've been serving the country for couple of years. They've been drinking in the 
Army and there's military service. So, I would assume they're considered responsible 
people since the military allows them to enlist and fight for our country. So, how, is 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 101 
that, you would still look at them as being underage and violating the potential policy 
we are looking at this afternoon? 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Thank you, Councilmember Hokama. Chair, 
if I can respond? 
CHAIR LEE: Of course. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Thank you. So, in short, yes. I think if, if the 
person, you know, 18 to 21 enrolled or enlisted in the military meets this definition of 
the responsible person, so they have to have a right of possession to the residence or 
other private property on which a gathering occurs and they have to conduct, aid, allow, 
permit, facilitate the gathering where an underage person, including themselves. They 
could be the underage person who's drinking at the residence or other private property. 
But the way this is written, as long as those factors are met, yes, there's, there's no 
exemption for, for enlisted military personnel. You know, in the definitions, underage 
person means any person under 21 who's of age. And, you know, that's really in 
keeping in line with the criminal statute. But since this is a civil penalty, there's no 
reason this has to directly track that. But that would still be illegal under criminal law. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: I appreciate your comments, Counselor. Thank you very 
much. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you, Madam Chair. Just a quick follow-up on 
Mr. Hokama's question. If I'm correct, Ms. Chen, if you, as a military person, committed 
violation on a Federal installation or Federal land, you would, if I recall, you'd be 
subjected to the UCMJ, or the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Now, if you committed 
a violation on County property or State property, then you would be subjected to the 
laws of the State or County, am I correct. Even though you are in the military? 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Thank you for that question. You know, I'm 
not familiar with the UCMJ. Is that the acronym? 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, the military, they have their own set of laws, Federal 
laws— 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Right, and- 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 102 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: —called the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Okay. And yea, they're, they're, well, I know 
the JAG system, I mean, I'm familiar with that acronym, but that's it. So, I, I believe 
that's more or less accurate. But I really think this would be fact specific, you know. 
Where does it meet this definition of, you know, residence or other private property? 
Does the person meet the definition of a responsible person? And does the gathering 
meet the definition of gathering, as drafted here? 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any further questions or comments? If not, Mr. Molina, you were going to 
propose an amendment? 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. 
UNDER THE DEFINITION SECTION, THE TERM 
"GATHERING", WHERE IT CURRENTLY READS, 
"GATHERING OF TEN OR MORE", WHERE THIS LAW WOULD 
APPLY. I'D LIKE TO AMEND THAT TO THE NUMBER "TWO" 
AS IT WAS ORIGINALLY PROPOSED IN THE BILL. 
And if I could get a second, I could provide my reasons for it. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Ms., Member King, to amend the 
main motion to change the number from ten to two. Was it two? Okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Correct, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Discussion? 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you very much, Madam Chair. And, and in 
Committee I did support the proposed amendment from Committee Vice-Chair 
Rawlins-Fernandez, which I appreciate. And I guess we spent a lot of time focusing 
on the issue of the larger gathering matter. But after, you know, we, for myself, I went 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 103 
home, and I thought about both sides of the issue and what is the main message of 
this bill in itself. And the issue for me that should carry, definitely a lot of weight, is the 
whole subject of underage drinking on private property and what it means, what kind 
of message we're trying to send to our youth. 
And upon hearing the testimony this morning, as well, it, for me, I just thought it was 
better to leave it at that. Because, again, if we go ten, then a point was made that you 
could still have nine people; nine underage drinkers. And this, whatever kinds of things 
could happen, youth driving off and getting into accidents. And then there was talk 
about abuse going on. I mean, all kinds of unfortunate things could happen. 
And I understand the hypothetical situations and concerns that where if a parent goes 
off someplace and leaving the home in charge of 18 and 19-year olds, well, I think 
that's, that's a matter that parents have to discuss with their kids. And you can also 
make contingency plans; call a responsible adult to keep an eye, help you keep an eye 
on things. 
But the bottom line is we need to find some vehicle to curb underage drinking, and 
that's what I see with this bill. Some might call it overreach, some might call it 
draconian, but I don't know what else there is, there are, there is to do. 
And let's keep it, side of the fact that the police, if we do pass this bill, they're not going 
to go to every home and check; it's going to be complaint driven. And they did state to 
us, police said that they'd have to have very good reason if there is a complaint from 
someone to go and investigate. I believe they cited the Fourth Amendment. And also, 
it has to be reasonable search and so forth, and maybe even a warrant. 
But again, I think it's something that we need to put in play. And I feel better off, let's 
just leave it at two or more. Because, think about it now, if someone makes a call, if 
you intend to have something illegal, you know, and, and underage drinking will 
continue. No matter what we do with this law, it's still going to happen. There's going 
to be folks that are going to try to test the law. 
And say if it passes at ten. And somebody would have a lookout; if you're going to 
have a get together, you might have a lookout, keep an eye out for the cops, right? 
So, they may say, hey, you know what police coming, some of you scatter, go hide. 
And then less than ten people, then the police cannot enforce. So, that kind of stuff 
scenarios can happen. So, which is why for me I just feel I'd rather go back to the 
original two or more as proposed in the bill. So, I've said enough, and I'll await 
comment from the other Members. Thank you, Madam Chair. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 104 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. 
Member Kama. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Molina. That was going to 
be my amendment too. I wasn't sure if anybody was going to do it. And I just decided 
to just do it when I heard the testimonies from the young people. Because, you know, 
when the, when your teenagers start coming to you and start telling you, do this for 
me. You have to pay attention, cause they know something we don't. They're living 
their own realities and they're saying this is my reality, so help me. So, you know, I, I 
really do support this bill. And thank you, Chair Molina, for bringing this forward. Thank 
you, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Member King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I speak in favor of the motion for the 
amendment. And I really want to appreciate, we had over half a dozen people come 
and speak to that, that, this specific issue, who are experts in the fields of health, and 
wellbeing, and underage drinking. And so, to me, this bill is not making drinking illegal. 
It's already illegal, as was said before in the State of Hawaii. But this, the, the police 
came to us as well and said that this bill is really to help them enforce the underage 
drinking laws, and right now they can't do that. It's too, it's too cumbersome for them 
to prove. 
And so, for me, and, and I really like the part of the amendment that was put in the bill 
about a review after one year. Because I think we can, if we, I think we should do that 
with a lot of our bills that we passed, you know, we, we passed a, in another effort to 
curb illegal drinking, drinking and driving, we put into effect a towing bill. And when I 
spoke to the Lieutenant who really pushed that bill, he said we've done a lot of towing, 
but it hasn't lowered the numbers. 
So, you know, it's good to review these bills and see if they're working. And if they're 
working, great. And if they're not and they need to be tweaked or they need to be 
repealed, you know, let's look at that in a year. Kind of like what we do with, what we're 
starting to do with some of our, our land use conditions, you know. That it's fine to put 
a law into effect or condition, but if you don't police it and if you don't review it and make 
sure it's working, then we've kind of shirked our duty. 
But I believe that, I didn't realize till I heard testimony today that this bill has been in 
the works for four years. And I believe that the people that have been working on it 
have looked at a lot of the angles and a lot of what's happening. And like Member 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 105 
Kama said, the fact that the kids are coming out and telling us that this will help, I think 
it's, I think we need to do this. I support, I support protecting our, our, our kids. And if 
that means we have to try to make ourselves responsible as adults, then we need to 
do that. So, I, I thank you for the amendment, Mr. Molina. And hopefully we can pass 
that, and, and put it out to public hearing. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? Yes, Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I support this. I think police was pretty clear during 
Committee about wanting the number to be two or more. So, I think we're enacting 
what the police recommended, so I appreciate this. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? So, we're going to vote on the amendment. All those in favor-- 
Oh, Ms., Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Oh, you voting? Oh, you voting or raising 
your hand? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I wanted to check to see if our 
resources are here. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. You mean Corp. Counsel, or the Police, or which ones? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, are they all here? 
CHAIR LEE: No, no. Which resources are you talking about? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mr. Collins. But I guess I can wait until after this vote. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Collins? Mr. Collins, are you still on the call? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I can wait— 
MR. COLLINS: Yea, I'm still here. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Did you want to ask Mr. Collins a question? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: After the vote. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 106 
CHAIR LEE: After the vote? Okay. Anybody want to ask any questions or make comments 
on the amendment, the proposed amendment? If not, all those in favor of the 
amendment, say "aye", raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ten to two years [sic]; okay. 
Opposed "nay". 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries; nine, zero. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ten, ten, point of-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Two people. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --point of information. 
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ten, ten to two people. People. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You said years. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. In fact, I thought I, all I said, I thought I said, ten to two. But that's 
alright. Any more corrections? 
Now, the main, the motion as, the main motion as amended. 
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, you have a question? Alright. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, for Mr. Collins. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Go ahead. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Aloha, Mr. Collins. I can't see you yet, but I'm 
sure your video will pop up after you start speaking. Okay, so I, I understand that in 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 107 
the testimony that it was said that you've been working on this bill for four years. But 
is this the first time that it's come to Council? 
MR. COLLINS: Yes. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, there you are. Okay. 
MR. COLLINS: Yes. Yes. Sorry, there's a lag. Yes. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, so the, the bill has been just wordsmith and 
research been done? I don't, I don't know what the, I just wanted a better 
understanding of what that four years entailed. 
MR. COLLINS: Yea, I, I don't actually, has it been three or four? I know Andrea was saying 
four; it's somewhere around there. You know, essentially, we, we use a model called 
the strategic prevention framework, where you start with community assessment; you 
go around and you talk to a lot of community members and stakeholders to find out 
what the issues are around underage drinking. And so, we've gone through that 
process. 
You then identify what are, kind of what we would call root causes or risk factors and 
local conditions. And from there, you identify strategies to address those. And so, our 
local condition that we surfaced was underage drinking in house party settings, and 
we essentially researched various strategies that have evidence around the country 
and in other communities. And we landed on the social host ordinance as a strategy 
to reduce those party sizes. So, that's where we landed. We then, I don't know if that's 
enough information for you or not. Or if you'd like anything else, I'm happy to answer 
it. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahal°. Yea, I wanted to ask you a question, to 
follow up on a question that I asked Ms. Maniago earlier when she testified. She said 
that without this bill, police wouldn't be able to a, address any underage drinking of, 
you know, like I, in her hypothetical she said three people in a hotel. 
MR. COLLINS: Yea, that, thanks for the question. So, of course, if the hotel calls, this is the 
way I would see it anyways. Unfortunately, police is not on the call, I don't see. But 
we, we actually talked to police about hotel situations. And as it stands now if police, 
let's say hotel did call the police to show up because there was something happening 
within a hotel room and the police showed up. The, let's say the young people were 
16 or 17, they could write minors in possessions, but they couldn't hold a parent 
accountable for, let's say renting that room out. Because the parent could easily say, 
well I didn't, I didn't tell them they could get alcohol in there or I didn't tell them that they 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 108 
were allowed to drink. And so, they wouldn't be able to prove that. So, with this 
ordinance being strict liability, it then lands some of that responsibility as well as not 
on the young people where they can still give them a minor possession, but it lands 
some of that on us as parents too to make sure that they're safe in those settings. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Collins. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? 
Yes, Ms. Sugimura. Now, you're muted. You're muted. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I also wanted to ask Mr. Collins, or his group a question 
about the HRS that was mentioned also in testimony. Is it HRS, let me see, 
712-1250.5, where I think what was said was not to list each one, each item? In case 
HRS changes, then we would have to go back and change ours to update it. So, can 
you please clarify that? 
MR. COLLINS: Yea, so as I understand it, when you list out all of those exemptions, basically 
if that HRS changed at all, you would have, you would have issues with our current 
ordinance. And so, the recommendation would be that you simply put in language that 
was similar to our previous, I don't have the previous one up to actually say it, but to 
the previous definition, which was that basically the exemption also includes any 
exemptions under State law. Just something simple like that would then allow for those 
exemptions without needing to state every single one if that makes sense. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, I'm trying to pull up the bill to see where it would 
fall. So, do you know where it would fall? 
Or, Corp. Counsel, do you know where it would fall? 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Yes. Chair, if, if I may respond? That, so I 
believe you're correct, Councilmember Sugimura, that they're referring to 9.40.030 of 
the proposed ordinance, Subsection A.C.1. through 6. And then, also the Hawaii 
Revised Statute Section 712-1250.5, which is where I understand the, the language 
came from. I wasn't present at the very end of the last meeting. But the language is 
pretty much identical. 
So, I, you know, I don't, if, if I can elaborate a little bit further. I don't recommend just 
referring to the corresponding criminal statute, because it's a criminal statute, and this 
is a civil one. And also, our language is a, slightly different. If you notice on page, it's 
on page 3 . . . of the proposed ordinance, the most recent draft. Whereas, you know, 
on the State's version subsection, Subsection 2, (2)(d), for example, refers to 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 109 
substance at the very end. Whereas, ours specifically refers to intoxicating liquor, 
which I understand was the intent of the, some of the revisions. So, for clarity and 
consistency, and to keep this strictly in the civil realm, I would recommend just spelling 
it out here-- 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Okay, thank you. I just wanted clarity because I 
think more than one testifier had asked that, so. 
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL CHEN: Yes. Thank you. And, thank you, Chair, for 
letting me elaborate on that. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ready for the vote? 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair, yea, before we do the vote, I would just like to say I 
appreciate the work all the Members did on this proposal. You know, after the, I got 
asked that military question, I really started thinking. You know, we let our people from 
18 to 21 operate multi-million-dollar equipment, from tanks to aircraft to expensive 
50-caliber guns for defense purposes. And yet, we telling them you cannot drink in 
this County. But yet, I understand the argument regarding our youth and the issues 
we face with I would say inappropriate substance use; whether it's drugs or alcohol or 
anything else. 
So, I'm going to be supporting this with reservations. I still have a concern for our 
military personnel between 18 and 21 that serves our country. And that, you know, I 
view them as an adult, not as a youth or a kid. They're accepted by the military to 
serve. And, you know, in the military you're just a fellow, you know, enlisted person or 
a commissioned officer. And rank is everything, Madam Chairman, not age. So, I just 
share my concerns and my reservations. But I will support the passage on first reading. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Do I see another hand up? 
Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. Then, Ms. Sugimura. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, I, I voted in support of this bill to 
pass first reading in Committee and I'll, I'll support it again today on the floor. My 
reservations and concerns, one of which was brought up by one of our testifiers today 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 110 
about this disproportionately affecting certain segments in our community. I, I 
absolutely, you know, want to protect our youth, and want them to be safe. 
One testifier talked about house parties, you know, having sexual assaults occur. And 
I, I'm not completely convinced that this bill will, will prevent that. I, I kind of feel like 
this bill will give, you know, people false, a false sense of security that it will address 
those things. And I understand that research was conducted. I don't know, you know, 
necessarily who the, who completed the surveys. And if it was, you know, targeted at 
the right people giving that kind of feedback. 
And on Molokai, we have the Molokai Child Abuse Prevention Pathways which does 
education. So, if one of the concerns is sexual assault, sexual abuse, that, for Molokai, 
this MCAPP organization has been doing education from preschool to 12th grade; 
grade appropriate education teaching what consent is, creating safe spaces for people 
to go to. So, if that's one of the, you know, concerns, I, I, I'm not convinced that this is, 
this bill will reduce that. 
And I, I thank, you know, our GET Chair Molina. And, you know, hopefully he'll be 
Chair again in the next term of GET. And he'll be able to follow through on conducting 
a public hearing, you know, prior to us taking a second vote, or voting on this at the 
second reading just to get feedback from, you know, the broader community on, on 
their, on this bill. So, I will be voting to support the bill today, even with the amendment 
that I made in Committee. 
And, and like I said, the amendment was made because of what was presented to us 
about the concern being large gatherings. And, and so now we're, we're, you know, 
it's just going to be a blanket. We're not just targeting large gatherings; it's everybody 
and anybody. And I hope it doesn't have, you know, a disproportionate impact on the, 
you know, segments in our community that I named during Committee. 
And, you know, I, like Member King just cited that we were told that, you know, the DUI 
towing bill was going to help reduce, you know, fatalities and DUI's. And the 
understanding is it hasn't? I, I and I don't know. But we, you know, it would be great 
to review that ordinance to see what kind of impact it's had. And hopefully they're 
taking data, collect, gathering data on that so we can get a better understanding of the 
effectiveness of that ordinance; if it's actually achieving the, the purpose that it was 
sent, set out to achieve. And if it is, you know, having a disproportionate effect 
compounding the already struggling families. You know, I don't know. I, I do know 
that a lot of these things are symptoms of, of larger problems, social inequity, income, 
income inequality are more of the real problems that are, that are creating these types 
of symptoms. Mahalo, Chair. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 111 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Since you were talking about the towing bill, 
which was one of my passions, which all of you stepped forward with, I will tell you that 
our, our drunk driving went, we were the worst in the nation and it improved by 
80 percent. So, whether the towing bill helped, I was told that it was by Lieutenant 
Hankins and we can have a bigger discussion on it later. And I'm not too sure what 
was, or who was, who shared that with Ms. King. But I just wanted to commend you 
for the improvement in our drunk driving period. 
But I, on this particular bill, I wanted to speak for it in that the reason why that I'm going 
to support it with the amendments, I want to take a side note and thank Keani Rawlins, 
who's worked really hard during the Committee and made a lot of amendments. I think 
we just sat back and, and she referenced HRS and just kind of took us through a lot of 
the amendments that were made there. And Mr. Molina, thank you for bringing this 
forward, drunk driving, and underage drinking. Underage drinking is another one of 
my passions. 
And one of the reasons why I'm going to support this is because during Committee 
discussion, you did agree to, as you said today, have a public hearing. Because I think 
that sometimes where we hear from the advocacy's groups were kind of speaking with 
our own, in the own, in its own voice. And I want to hear beyond, you know, from, from 
them. So, I, I did say that we should do more social media posting. And yes, it was 
mentioned that I do a lot of Facebook and Instagram, and a pretty broad reach in that. 
But I will do everything I can to get the word out so that we can hear from a broad 
range of our community. So, thank you very much, Mr. Molina. Thank you, Keani and, 
for your hard work on this. And I look forward to the public hearing, cause that's going 
to come next. 
So, we're going to pass this, I think, hopefully on first reading and then we'll take it in 
the new term just to hear from the broader community because I think it's important. 
You're talking about restricting or trying to set guidelines for families and, you know, 
what they do in their homes. Which you shouldn't have any drinking for underage 
drinking anyway, but things happen as you hear from all the examples. So, thank you, 
everybody. I'm ready for the vote. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more dis, any more discussion, comments? 
Oh, yes, Ms. King. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 112 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I just, you know, I wasn't able to stay for the whole 
discussion on this bill in the Committee, because I had a previous engagement. But I 
thought that we were planning to do a public hearing before we passed it on first 
reading. So, I was kind of surprised to see it here today, because I think if it does need 
more changes after this, it'll have to go back to Committee. Isn't that correct? So, you 
know, anyway, that was just kind of my understanding. But I'm happy to support the 
changes. 
And I just wanted to let Ms. Sugimura know that the, the statistical information on, on 
drinking and driving came from Lieutenant Hankins. So, he sent me an email, because 
he still was hoping to push forward the lowering the blood alcohol level. And he said 
that they hadn't had the success that they thought that they would with the towing bill. 
So, I can share that information with you offline. But he's still pushing. We just weren't 
able to get it on the HSAC agenda. But, and that's why I think it's really good. 
I, I love the clause in the amend, in the bill that requires an annual review of it. And I 
think we should do that more, especially when, when we're proposing these new ideas. 
Because we want to have those reviews and look at the statistics and see how effective 
it's been so. 
But thank you. Yea, thank you everybody for all the considerations. Thank you to the 
community for all the work that they've done. And I look forward to the public hearing. 
I know, I know whoever the Chair is, will follow through with that, cause we're all going 
to make sure they do. So, so, I'm ready to vote. I, I, I support the, the amended policy. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion, comments, questions? 
Yes, Mr. Sinenci. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair, for the opportunity. Yea, I just wanted to, to 
say that, you know, this was difficult to navigate the social host ordinance. And, and, 
and I appreciate everybody's comments, and everybody who participated in this 
process. I just wanted to address some of the testifiers that said that, you know, the 
children's lives were not, you know, less than ten of the children's lives were not 
important. By all means, that's, that's not why we, I voted anyway at the, at the first 
meeting. 
You know, it was talking about the ordinance being a deterrent versus imposing on 
personal privacy rights, whether it was civil versus criminal. So, the entire process, I, 
I think this Council vetted, the Committee vetted on many different scenarios and so, 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 113 
whether that would have more policies have punitive repercussions. So, those are 
some of the things that we, we talked about. And for me, it was, you know, very 
important to, to have that discussion. So, again, I just, Chair, I'm supportive, 
particularly if we're going to do an annual review of the policy. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore? 
Yes, Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you, Madam Chair. Just for my second and final 
time. Just wanted to remind that how I see this, this proposal, it's more just adding 
additional consequences if people still continue to host underage drinking on their 
properties. And there is a fine component. So, sometimes when you hit people in, in 
their wallets, it makes them think twice. 
So, just that, it's like I could compare it to the cellphone bill. I recall former 
Councilmember Pontanilla introduced that. And granted, it hasn't totally obliterated 
people using their cellphones while driving, but I'm certainly sure it has reduced the 
amount of people trying to use their cellphones while they're driving. So, I kind of see 
this as somewhat similar. So, if we can have one, at least one less or two less, or 
more households not doing anymore, or allowing for anymore underage drinking, that's 
potentially a lot of lives saved. So, if they can save a least one life, it, it's worth it the 
way I see it. Thank you, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion as 
amended, please raise your hand and say "aye". 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: That is BILL NO. 142 (2020). 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 114 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-163 	- GOVERNANCE. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE: 
Recommending the following: 
1. That Resolution  20-179  , entitled "NOMINATING AND APPROVING THE 
APPOINTMENT OF EMMETT RODRIGUES TO THE POLICE COMMISSION," 
be ADOPTED; and 
2. That the proposed resolution, entitled "NOMINATING AND APPROVING THE 
APPOINTMENT OF LEIL KOCH TO THE POLICE COMMISSION," be FILED. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. 
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF 
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 20-163. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve the 
recommendations in Committee Report 20-163. 
Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your GET Committee 
met on this matter on December 1 and at a reconvened meeting on December 9, 2020. 
Your Committee interviewed the two Councilmember nominees; Mr. Rodrigues and 
Mr. Koch. I'd like to thank Councilmember Sugimura for her nomination of 
Mr. Rodrigues, and Councilmember Paltin for her nomination of Mr. Koch. 
Starting with Mr. Rodrigues. He retired from the State Department of Public Safety 
after 34 years of service. And his prior law enforcement experience will be an asset to 
the Police Commission. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 115 
Mr. Koch was a former Chair of the Police Commission from 2011-2012. And he has 
years of experience in leadership training, strategic planning, and management, which 
would also be an asset to the Police Commission. 
Your Committee was certainly satisfied with the qualifications of both nominees. 
However, it was necessary that we could only select one individual to fill the vacancy. 
Your Committee voted 7-1 to recommend adoption of the resolution approving the 
nomination of Mr. Rodrigues and filing of the resolution approving the nomination of 
Mr. Koch. 
And one thing I'd like to add for this particular term. Should Mr. Rodrigues advance, 
he would not be eligible for a full five-year term, if I'm correct, under the terms of the 
Charter. If you're filling out a term that is a little over two years, you'd not, you'd have 
to at least wait a minimum of two years to be considered for a full term on the same 
commission. So, I just wanted to add that to the discussion. Thank you, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? 
Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I'd like to also support the adoption of the 
resolution for Emmett Rodrigues to the Police Commission for the term expiring 
March 31, 2023. I will tell you that his many years of service with the State Sheriffs is 
valuable in terms of his knowledge and expertise, and his ability to do his special and 
advancement within the organization to be, I guess like a body guard for the Lieutenant 
Governor Shan Tsutsui's family when we was the LG. 
And, and I did see, I did run into Chief last week or this week, this week, and mentioned 
this to him and he is, he knows who he is. He knows Emmett Rodrigues and respects 
the work that he has done for the community over these last 34 years. So, that was, 
that was nice. Members, I ask for your continued support. 
And I would like to also thank Leil Koch for applying. As I did say that he also had 
asked my office, as well as Tamara Paltin's Office, for the nomination. But I had 
already at that point nominated Emmett Rodrigues. And Mr. Koch is a well-respected 
businessperson with many, many awards, as we saw, when we were interviewing both. 
So, thank you very much, Members. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", 
raise your hand. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 116 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members. 
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: That is RESOLUTION 20-179. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-164 	- GOVERNANCE, ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that Resolution 	 20-180  , entitled "RELATING TO THE 
APPOINTMENT OF BEVERLY STANICH TO THE MAUI COUNTY COMMISSION ON 
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES," be ADOPTED. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. 
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION OF COMMITTEE 
REPORT NO. 20-164. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to 
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 20-164. 
Discussion, Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GET Committee met on this 
matter December 1, and at a reconvened meeting on December 9, 2020. Your 
Committee interviewed Ms. Stanich. And Ms. Stanich said her years of experience in 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 117 
the educational system has certainly made her aware of the laws and rights of the 
disabled community. She expressed a desire to give back to the community and is 
available to attend meetings. And your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend adoption 
of the resolution approving the nomination. 
And for the record, I did disclose in Committee I was once an employee of Ms. Stanich 
way back in the late 1980's when she was the Principal of Lahaina Intermediate. And 
so, I'd just like to disclose that. And if any Members have a concern, I'd certainly recuse 
myself, but I was allowed to vote in Committee. So, I'll just leave it at that, Madam 
Chair. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just wanted to say I don't have any connection to 
Ms. Stanich. But in hearing her interview in our Committee, in Mr. Molina's Committee, 
I feel that we're very lucky. And I'm grateful for her offer of her service. I was super 
impressed; excited to see what she will do. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. I think we all agree with you. 
Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, I agree. And I don't think this is the same thing, but I did 
work with Ms. Stanich, as I was on the Board of Education when she was a teacher. 
So, I'll join Mr. Molina in saying that I support her. If anybody has a problem with that, 
I can recuse myself. But I, I, I think she's of the highest quality. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore comments? If not, all those in favor of the motion to approve Beverly 
Stanich, say "aye" and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: That is RESOLUTION NO. 20-180. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 118 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-165 	- GOVERNANCE, ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that the correspondence transmitting a proposed resolution entitled 
"NOMINATING AND APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF ILIMA GREIG-HONG TO 
THE BOARD OF ETHICS", be FILED. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. 
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF 
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 20-165. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to approve 
the recommendations in Committee Report 20-165. 
Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GET Committee met on this 
matter December 1, and at a reconvened meeting on December 9, 2020. Through a 
correspondence dated December 1, 2020 from Ms. Greig-Hong, your Committee 
learned of her inability to attend monthly board meetings, and as a result, she withdrew 
her name from further consideration. 
Your Committee expressed appreciation of Ms. Greig-Hong's willingness to serve her 
community and recommended her nomination attached to the correspondence dated 
November 20, 2020 to be filed. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend filing of the 
correspondence dated November 20, 2020. And I want to thank Councilmember Paltin 
for this consideration as well. Thank you, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" 
and raise your hand. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 119 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-166 	- GOVERNANCE, ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that the communications noted on Exhibit "A" of this Committee Report 
be REFERRED to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
County Communication Nos. 18-19, 18-28, 19-24, 19-107, 19-108, 19-178, 19-337, 
19-338, 19-447, 20-69, 20-352, 20-355, 20-389, 20-477, 20-502; and General 
Communication No. 19-4. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Ms., Madam Chair. And I want to thank 
the Clerk for saying finally. 
MOVE TO, MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF 
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 20-166. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Mr. Hokama, to approve the 
recommendation in Committee Report 20-166. 
Discussion, Mr. Molina? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 120 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Your GET Committee met on 
this matter December 1, and at a reconvened meeting on December 9, 2020. Your 
Committee notes Rule 23 of the Rules of the Council provides for the end of term filing 
or referral of communications pending before Committees. And your Committee voted 
6-0 to recommend that the communications noted on Exhibit "B" [sic] be referred to the 
Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" 
and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-167 	 - HEALTHY FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that the communications noted on Exhibit "A" of this Committee Report 
be REFERRED to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
County Communication Nos. 17-398, 1 7-41 7 18-224; 18-410, 19-247, 19-248, 19-306, 
19-311, 19-327, 19-450, 20-67, 20-80, 20-140, 20-268, 20-357, 20-419, 20-459, 
20-460, 20-482, 20-560; Miscellaneous Communication relating to park assessment 
fees in lieu of land; Miscellaneous Communication relating to the Kahana Beach Park 
Master Plan Implementation project; Miscellaneous Communication relating to the War 
Memorial Gym Building Improvements project; Miscellaneous Communication relating 
to camping permit fees and ordinances relating to camping permits and camping fees; 
Miscellaneous Communication relating to a Rapid Response COVID-19 Task Force; 
Contract C6562-2, Kai Hawaii, Inc. contract extension; Contract C6562-3, between the 
County and Kai Hawaii, Inc., for an extension of contract to June 30, 2021; Contract 
C6855, between the County and Fukumoto Engineering, Inc. for the Wells Park Master 
Planned Improvements Phase 1; Contract C6855-3, between the County and 
Fukumoto Engineering, Inc., for an extension of contract to September 1, 2021; 
Contract C6906, between the County and Jamie Caplan Consulting, LLC for Hazard 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 121 
Mitigation Plan for Maui Emergency Management Agency; Contract G5051, between 
the County and Hale Makua Health Services for the master planning for Department 
of Housing and Human Concerns; Contract C6945, with Gartner, Inc. for the IT Service 
Division; and Contract C6037-2, between the County and Group 70 International, for 
an extension of an additional 730 calendar days. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. 
I MOVE THAT COMMITTEE REPORT 20-167, ALONG WITH 
ITS RECOMMENDATIONS ON REFERRALS, BE ADOPTED BY 
THE COUNCIL. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA. 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Hokama, seconded by Ms., Ms. Sugimura, to approve the 
recommendations in Committee Report 20-167. 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Committee vetted its master 
agenda. And again, as all of your standing Committees, we made appropriate 
adjustments to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, and therefore, we are 
recommending these items to be discussed in the next Council term. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any discussion? Further discussion, comments, questions? If not, all 
those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Madam Clerk. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 122 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-168 	 - PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that the communications noted on Exhibit "A" of this Committee Report 
be REFERRED to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
County Communication Nos. 19-402, 19-451, 20-214, 20-485, 20-561; General 
Communication Nos. 20-3, 20-4; Miscellaneous Communication relating to the 
procurement by the Department of Planning of contract services for transient vacation 
rental enforcement; and Miscellaneous Communication relating to the monitoring and 
enforcement of conditions of development and the use of County funding to fulfill such 
conditions. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE 
REPORT 20-168. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Mr. Sinenci, to approve the 
recommendations in Committee Report 20-168. 
Ms. Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. By referring these important items to the 
next term, we can ensure they can continue to be discussed and worked on. I 
respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support of my motion. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" 
and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 123 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", six. Nine "ayes", and motion carries, no "noes". 
Madam Clerk. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-169 	 - WATER, INFRASTRUCTURE, AND TRANSPORTATION  
COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that the communications noted on Exhibit "A" of this Committee Report 
be REFERRED to the Council Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021. 
County Communication Nos. 06-160, 12-124, 12-133, 12-181, 15-50, 16-172, 17-79, 
17-99, 17-212, 17-242, 17-261, 17-297, 17-317, 17-439, 18-14, 18-51, 18-56, 18-316, 
18-345, 18-356, 18-394, 19-32, 19-91, 19-92, 19-125, 19-146, 19-227, 19-252, 19-263, 
19-291, 19-292, 19-330, 19-331, 19-374, 19-376, 20-66, 20-85, 20-86, 20-87, 20-88, 
20-120, 20-195, 20-196, 20-215, 20-302, 20-318, 20-335, 20-361, 20-362, 20-363, 
20-364, 20-391, 20-392, 20-406, 20-463, 20-486; General Communication No. 19-2; 
Miscellaneous Communication relating to prioritizing County development of off-site 
infrastructure, especially water, sewer, and roadway improvements, to support housing 
and make it more affordable by reducing pass-through costs; Miscellaneous 
Communication relating to the Waiale Road Extension project; Miscellaneous 
Communication relating to the status of grants under the Department of Water Supply 
and benchmarks for grantee performance; Miscellaneous Communication relating to a 
County facility maintenance manager to coordinate capital improvement projects on 
County facilities; Miscellaneous Communication relating to the report entitled "BOARD 
OF WATER SUPPLY TEMPORARY INVESTIGATIVE GROUP OCTOBER 17, 2019, 
AS AMENDED & APPROVED DECEMBER 19, 2019: FEASIBILITY OF 
PURCHASING AND MAINTAINING THE EMI WATER DELIVERY SYSTEM"; 
Miscellaneous Communication relating to the Kalana 0 Maui Campus Parking 
Expansion; Miscellaneous Communication relating to the motor vehicle weight tax, 
including the tax for: 1) passenger vehicles, and trucks and noncommercial vehicles 
not exceeding 6,500 pounds; 2) per pound of net weight for all other motor vehicles; 
3) minimum tax for any motor vehicle; and 4) penalties for delinquent tax for passenger 
and other vehicles, and funding for road repairs; Miscellaneous Communication 
relating to floodplain and drainage area management; Miscellaneous Communication 
relating to County wastewater facilities in sea level rise exposure areas; Contract 
C6552 between the County of Maui and ACM Consultants Inc., for appraisal of Wailuku 
Water Company, Inc.; Contract C6477, between the County of Maui and 
SSFM International, Inc., for the Maui Inland Sand Resource Quantification Study 
Update; Contract C6477-1, between the County of Maui and SSFM International, Inc., 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 124 
for the Maui Inland Sand Resource Quantification Study Update; Contract C6508-1, 
between the County and Austin, Tsutsumi, & Associates, Inc., for a time extension for 
the WM Roadway Improvement MTV Grant; Contract WC0948 between the County of 
Maui and HDR Engineering Inc. to conduct water system analysis and review for 
Upcountry water administration water meter issuance; Contract C6399-1, between the 
County of Maui and Nelson/Nygaard Consulting Associates, Inc., for Maui MPO Long 
Range Transportation Plan 2040 for the Department of Transportation; Contract 
C7001-1, between the County and Toole Design Group LLC, for a time extension for 
the FHWA Maui MPO FY19 UPWP; Contract C6027-1, between the County and 
CH2M Hill, Inc., for the South Maui Traffic Master Plan; Contract C6701-1, between 
the County and SSFM International, Inc., for Old Haleakala Highway sidewalks; 
Contract WC1027, between the County and Harris and Associates Inc., for the 
Department of Water Supply Strategic Plan, Phase II; and Contract C6817-1, between 
the County of Maui and Brown and Caldwell. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN 
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-169. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Hokama, to approve 
the recommendations in Committee Report 20-169. 
Member Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Your Water, Infrastructure, Transportation 
Committee met on December 3 to discuss communications for referral to Council Chair 
for the term beginning January 2, 2021. Your Committee notes Rule 23 of the Rules 
of the Council provides for the end of term filing or referral of communications pending 
before Committee. 
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend referral and as noted on Exhibit "A". I 
respectfully ask for the Committees, Councilmembers support. And I would like to 
commit and finish work on the Water Use Development Plan at the next term that's 
listed, but, and others. Thank you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 125 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. How exciting. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. With Mr. Sinenci. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. Alright any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please 
say "aye". 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
CHAIR LEE: Opposed, "nay". 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries; 9-0. 
Second to the last page. Madam Clerk. 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with ordinances, second and final reading. 
ORDINANCES  
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 131 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
AS IT PERTAINS TO THE OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, 
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM (ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION), 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (EAST MAUI 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS) 
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 126 
CHAIR LEE: Bill 131. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Wrong Councilmember. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm the Planning and Sustainable Land Use Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I'm just following my notes. It says Paltin here. Okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We're both wearing white. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And we both have black hair. 
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Okay, let's, let's stop the comparison already. Stop the comparisons. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, Chair, if there are no objections, may I request 
the Clerk also call up Bill 132 through Bill 135? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No objections. So, ordered. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. And Ms. Paltin if you want. Yes? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And Madam Clerk, if she wants. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. She has a question. Yes? 
COUNTY CLERK: No, I'm going to read the bills for you— 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COUNTY CLERK: --that are being called up. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 127 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 132 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I, 
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES — SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND 
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS, 
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, (WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND 
OPPORTUNITY ACT (WIOA) RAPID RESPONSE PROGRAM) 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 133 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; 
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE, WAILUKU-KAHULUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, 
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND, 
WAILUKU POLICE STATION FUEL TANK REPLACEMENT; 
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS; 
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS) 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 134 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C — CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, 
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE, WAILUKU-KAHULUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA 
(WAILUKU POLICE STATION FUEL TANK REPLACEMENT) 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 135 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5101, 
BILL NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL 
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS 
(DEPARTMENT OF POLICE — WAILUKU STATION 
FUEL TANK REPLACEMENT) 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 128 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 131 THROUGH BILL 135 ON SECOND 
AND FINAL READING. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by, who said the second; was it Ms. King or Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: All of us. 
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Kelly. Whatever. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's not, we're almost-- 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Fighting over Keani. 
CHAIR LEE: We're down the homestretch now, everybody. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We used to have a tradition of the, the Committee Vice-Chair 
doing the second. That, that prevented all of us hopping up and trying to get the 
second. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It was done in . . . 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Enthusiasm . . . 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But, but we're testing your alertness right now, cause this is at the end 
of the day. So, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and seconded by Vice-Chair 
Kelly King, to pass ordinances 131; Bill 131, 132, 133, 134, and 135 on second and 
final reading. 
Any discussion? Yes. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 129 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bill 131 amends Fiscal Year 2021 
Budget by adding "and other invasive species" to the eradication miconia proviso under 
the Office of the Mayor, Administration Program (Environmental Protection). It also 
amends the Office of the Mayor, Economic Development Program, Grants and 
disbursements for business development and technology (East Maui Economic 
Development, Environmental and Cultural Programs), by correcting "Holani Hale" to 
"Holani Hana". And I see Member Sinenci had his hand up, so he'll probably speak a 
little more to that. 
Bill 132 amends Appendix A, Part I of the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget by adding a new 
appropriation for the Office of the Mayor entitled "Workforce Innovation and 
Opportunity Act Rapid Response Program", in the amount of $64,172. These funds 
will be used for rapid response activities to assess, assist dislocated workers and 
employees, employers in Maui County. 
Bill 133 through 135 amends the, 1) the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, Estimated 
Revenues, Department of Police, Wailuku-Kahului Community Area; 2) Government 
Facilities; 3) Total Capital Improvement Projects; 4) Total Appropriations; 
5) Appendix C; 6) Ordinance No. 5101, Bill 66. And I thank the Members for their 
continued support of these items. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Are there any questions or comments? If not, all those in favor of 
passing-- 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sinenci. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Sinenci. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Real quick. You know, because of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, just got a huge blow to our economy, our lifestyle, and our 
community. So, I just wanted to extend our appreciation to the Administration's 
willingness to make the necessary changes as we navigate these challenging times. 
Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of passing 
these five bills on second and final reading, please raise your hand and say "aye". 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 130 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes" and zero "noes" means motion carries. 
Uh oh, we're at the final page. We're at the final page of 2020. Madam Clerk. 
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS  
RESOLUTION 
NO. 20-181 
EXPRESSING APPRECIATION TO 
COUNCILMEMBER RIKI HOKAMA 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I, I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION AS READ BY THE 
CLERK. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Perhaps now she should read the resolution in its entirety. Okay. 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
(The resolution was read in its entirety.) 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay, so just to clarify what, what 
we're, what we're going to do now, cause no one, no one shared with me. I'm going 
to read my comments and then I'm going to do my lei? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay. Member Hokama, it's been a 
pleasure serving on this Council with you. I will miss your contributions to deliberations, 
your institutional knowledge, and your rationale for decision-making. Even when we 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 131 
disagree from time to time, it occurred to me that you had strong convictions based on 
well-researched information and I could always respect that. I, I've learned a lot from 
you and have always appreciated hearing your perspective on the myriad of issues on 
this Council discussion. 
I wore orange today in your honor. But no one can top Member Paltin's blast from the 
past memorabilia. Chair asked us to keep our remarks brief. 
So, I'll leave you with a poem that I wrote just for you. It is written in . . . Ryukyu style, 
which is similar to a Haiku, but with a different syllable structure; 8-8-8-6, rather than 
5-7-5. Coincidentally, the name of the researcher who described the Ryukyu as 
incantations or chanting, similar to that of a Hawaiian oli rather than a melodic song 
was named Hokama Shuzen. The Samurai class in Shuri and Naha treated Ryukyu 
as poems to be read aloud rather than chanted as songs in their earlier forms. 
Today, Ryukyu may be classified as a poem to honor either a celebration, a season, 
love, teaching, travel, or smallpox. So, let's classify this personalized Ryukyu as a 
celebratory poem in honor of your time on the Council and what's to come in your next 
season, as we send you off with love and gratitude for your teachings as you travel to 
your next position with the Administration. And we can leave the smallpox out of it 
entirely. Okay. So here it goes: 
Year of the Snake, budget hawk 
Big shoes to fill as budget, budget chair 
Uchinanchu Lanai-san 
You will be missed, Riki 
I hope you like this poem. Mahalo, Members. I hope you like this poem. And perhaps 
next time you can join me with acoustics with your new guitar, and perhaps add in a 
bit of your famous Sinatra impersonation swag. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Much mahalo, Keani. Okay, so the virtual—
CHAIR LEE: Ready. Set. Go. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. I gotta come out of the screen? 
CHAIR LEE: Go. Go. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, put it on him. Perfect. Perfect. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 132 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. I got it via the channel. 
CHAIR LEE: Very good. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. Thank you. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: That was wonderful. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member Hokama. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's see. Pro Tern Kama. Can't, mute, mute. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. 
CHAIR LEE: Let it go. Let it go. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Something happened. 
CHAIR LEE: No, no, we can hear you. Nothing happened. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I know, but I had, I don't know what happened to my— 
CHAIR LEE: Your paper? 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yea. 
CHAIR LEE: We'll go to somebody else. Okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yea, thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci. Member Sinenci. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo for the opportunity. Member 
Hokama, it's been an honor to have served my first term with the legendary Riki 
Hokama. At the beginning, I, you came, and you told me that you didn't want to be in 
the EACP Committee. And I figured that you just wasn't interested in environmental 
stuff, but far from it. Throughout the years, I've seen you advocate for planting of 
indigenous trees, helped to manage and mitigate the invasive species, and also to 
support the agriculture land acquisitions. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 133 
If I've learned anything from you this past term, it's to keep the State and County 
governments separate, and to hold the State to their own fiduciary responsibilities. At 
my first NACo conference, I felt proud to see you up there on the stage on the big 
screen with all the other national representatives. And I imagine all the local boys and 
girls of Hawaii Nei accomplishing the same accolades that you have. 
So, with that, with this lei, I wanted to personally wish, wish you the best in your 
transition and good luck in your future endeavors. I know we'll all benefit from your 
works. 
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Very good. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Got it from Hana. I just got this from Hana. 
CHAIR LEE: Time. See how the ti-leaf traveled through time. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, he went the long way, cause he's coming all the way from 
Hana. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, he went to Kaupo? Okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: He went that way and came all the way around. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. You know, Mr. Hokama, 
you have certainly left quite a legacy, much like that of your late father, the Honorable 
Mr. Goro Hokama. And I know dad is certainly smiling. You've certainly put in many 
long hours to ensure that our County maintained its financial stability while balancing 
human concerns, economic, infrastructure, and environmental needs. And you've 
been a wonderful emissary for us on both the State and National level for the Hawaii 
State Association of Counties and the National Association of Counties, respectively. 
And you've kept us all up to date on the latest issues and trends. 
Now, two things that have stood out for me personally at you ails, well, the first thing 
was you always emphasized the importance of decorum and maintaining the dignity of 
the Council and the Council chambers and dressing respectfully. I will tell you, I 
dressed up special for you this morning; to put on this coat and tie, and the lei. And I, 
I said to myself, I'm really excited to dress up for Riki Hokama this morning, you know. 
So, so please consider this as a tribute to you from my, myself, just by the clothing 
alone. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 134 
And another thing that I remember, one of your quotes that I never forgot was you, you 
have said, you stated the popular thing is not always the right thing. And that's certainly 
something to always remember as decision makers. Because, you know, we spend 
the public tax dollars and we need to be mindful of that. And as decision makers, you 
have to, every now and then, make some really, really tough decisions that may not 
always be popular. But when it comes to responsibility to maintain the stability of the 
County of Maui, it's certainly important for that reason. 
And also, you've been a stickler for maintaining that we respect our plan of government, 
which is our County Charter. So, I wanted to share that with you. Those are some 
very important lessons for me that I have taken from you. 
And, you know, I've looked at you as a purveyor of the County of Maui being fiscally 
responsible, and also a watchdog for us on the Council that ensures that whatever 
legislative action this Council take, it's consistent with that of the Maui County Charter. 
So, with that being said, Riki, it's been a great privilege and an honor to work with you. 
And I am so proud to have called you a colleague and a friend. And best of luck to you 
with your new endeavors. Thank you. And now I'd like to present you this lei. 
CHAIR LEE: That lei went across the bridge from Makawao to Wailuku. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Amen. 
CHAIR LEE: That's amazing. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Much mahalo, Mike. Much mahalo, Mike. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Member King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well, after Member Molina's little speech, I had to go put 
my jacket back on, because I did wear this in your honor, Riki, because of decorum. It 
just got, I came back home during lunch, so I got a little warm here. But, and you know 
I had, I had the, well first I wanted to say I almost wish we had done this in the 
beginning, because now we're pretty wiped out after this long meeting. That was an 
exhausting meeting. 
But, but I'm happy to be at this point now. And I was really happy to have the privilege 
of, of the opening remarks and I was able to, you know, give you some of the kudos 
then. But I wanted to add that, to Councilmember Molina's point, that having served 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 135 
two recent terms with you, and I know you're a traditionalist and you're into protocol 
and procedure, and it must have driven you nuts to have four new Members come in 
when I came in, in the beginning; four new Members in the next term. So, last eight 
years, you know. It's been amazing because this last term, I think I've seen you smile, 
more than I've ever seen you smile before. So, I don't know if that's because you knew 
it was your last term, or if we just, all these women made you so happy. But, you know, 
it's, it really has been a pleasure. 
And I also have noticed that you've had immeasurable patience with the sometimes 
violation of protocol and procedures, so I really appreciate that, you know. Things are 
changing and sometimes that's not easy but you, you've had incredible patience. And 
you, I, I kind of wanted to go back to the fiscal responsibility, because you can always 
be proud that you've left Maui in such a good space fiscally. You know, we could be 
hurting a lot more if it wasn't for the last five terms of fiscal responsibility. 
And I was a, I was a, a regular citizen when you and Mike White at the time, started 
looking at the budget in more detail. And I remember jumping up and down saying 
finally somebody's, you know, looking at line items and making sure the money is being 
spent the way it's supposed to be spent. So, I really want to thank you for that. I think, 
I think we went a little too far that way at one point, and we're kind of coming back. 
You know, the pendulum swings back and forth. So, we're, we're, we're at a little more 
reasonable point right now. But it needed to be done. And so, I want to thank you for 
doing what needed to be done. 
I want to thank you for the last two years of just, you know, seeing the Riki Hokama 
smile so much more often and, and putting up with all the new-ness and the, the 
change that's happened on the Council. And I look forward to continued discussions 
about climate change. You've been, you know, a champion of that and have been 
talking about that a lot. And that really, you know, hits me right here. 
So, we'll see you around. I wish you well. I hope you get some time to enjoy some 
measure of retirement before you join the Administration, because that's no cakewalk 
either, you know, getting, being part of the Administration. So, take a little time. Have 
a great holiday. And I have this for you. 
CHAIR LEE: Wow. All the way from South Maui--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: All the way from South Maui-
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Mahalo, Kelly. Mahalo, Kelly. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 136 
CHAIR LEE: --the sunflower fields. That's very special. 
Member Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. This one is for my fellow year of the Snake 
brethren. I had to kind of dig deep for these when you said something nice to say. 
Nah, just joking. You know, what, what hasn't been already said, Member Hokama 
has great historical knowledge, he's fiscally responsible. And, you know, he's a great 
singer. And while Member Rawlins-Fernandez mentioned Sinatra, I was thinking with 
this haircut, maybe the Beatles? He can be funny when he wants to. He enjoys finding 
and remembering great places to eat all over the world. And he loves to talk about 
food. So, here's my lei for you. 
CHAIR LEE: All the way from West Maui. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: That was the fastest drive she did the Pali. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Except for that one time. 
CHAIR LEE: That's terrific. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Mahalo, Tamara. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Riki Hokama, we're all going to miss you. And I just want 
everybody to know that when I first decided to run, people used to tell me, oh how do 
you know Riki Hokama? And I will tell you today that I've met him during high school. 
So, that's how long I've known Riki. As Tamara mentioned like, or Riki mentioned, 
50 years ago. And that's my first encounter with the Riki Hokama from Lanai. And 
through the years, I've been able to keep in touch with him, just through this, the County 
work and Legislature, so I feel grateful for that. 
But the, probably the one story that I, I want to share with you, as all of it would be 
relevant for the Council, is the first year I went to, that I got elected I went to the NACo 
Conference. And Riki and I was supposed to go together, nobody else was going to 
go from Maui County. But at the last minute he canceled. I mean as a true community 
member, a neighbor of his in Lanai had passed away and he had at the last minute 
canceled out of this conference. And, and I went by myself basically with the rest of 
the Hawaii delegation. But what I learned was that everywhere I went, if people 
wondered who I was, I just said I work with Riki Hokama, and they immediately knew 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 137 
that I was from Maui and they, they loved Riki. And that was my opening door to a lot 
of meetings and a lot of activities at that conference. And so, thank you, Riki. 
The other thing that I will always remember is that when I first went to the, the first big 
meeting at NACo. And of course, Riki wasn't there. I was really impressed with the 
3,200 counties that are part of NACo, and my first thought was, how did this kid from 
Lanai get elected to become president of this national organization and have the kind 
of respect and to accomplish the things that he had? I will like to say that the Mayor 
announced that Riki's going to continue on and work in the land management section. 
And I hope that Riki continues on with NACo, because it certainly has brought a lot of 
wealth of knowledge and probably opened doors for the County of Maui that normally 
may not have been there had it not been for him. 
All of you have talked about his fiscal, how conservative he is. And I will tell you that 
when we go out to lunch, people stop him and say how much they appreciate him 
protecting our tax dollars. And I'm surprised at how many people actually watch Akaku 
and thank him for that. 
As I continue on the next term without Riki, I will share with all of you that his staff is 
joining my staff. So, Jordan Helle is going to be my legislative analyst in my, on my 
staff, and I'm looking forward to working with him. And I'm, I know that his many years 
of working with Riki and understanding the budget, he'll bring that to my office. Jen 
Matsumoto will work part-time. And of course, Miki, who's my office manager and my 
constituency person, will be with me, as well as Daryl Fujiwara. But I look forward to 
the new term with the new additions to my office, and I really appreciate them. 
Riki, I'm going to really miss you. I hope we can still continue having lunch. You're 
going to be not far away. And I appreciate the many, many, many years of friendship 
that we've had, longer than most of us on the Council. So, thank you, Riki. And he's 
my lei from Upcountry Maui to you. Thank you, Riki. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Mahalo, Yuki. I wish this was Komoda donut holes. 
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Let's see. Oh, Ms.-- 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Tasha. 
CHAIR LEE: —Pro Tem Kama. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. So, Riki, I want to say thank you 
for giving this County the best years of your life. I say this because of the commitment 
and sacrifice on your part to put in over 40 years of public service. Not bad for a social 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 138 
worker. And the fact that this County is in such great financial shape is due to your 
sticking to your values of what's good for our County. 
Thank you also for paving the way for me to sit on the Finance, Pensions and 
Intergovernmental Affairs Committee of NACo, which actually allowed me the 
opportunity to be the Chair of the County and Tribal Relations Subcommittee of . . . 
You are a statesman in every sense of the word, Riki, and I am honored to have had 
this opportunity to get to know you a little better. I will miss our neighborly office door 
chats, our spur of the moment lunches, karaoke night, but most of all your wise 
counsel. 
It feels like the Hokama Dynasty has come to an end, and we who are seated have the 
privilege of now getting to serve you. Riki, you've taken such good care of us long 
enough, so it's our turn. So, go and dream new dreams, soar onto new heights, 
celebrate your next journey with God's purest and richest blessings always and forever. 
And you know what they, old soldiers never die, they just fade away. Aloha, Riki. 
A hui hou. Me ke aloha pumehana. And I have this lei just for you. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Did she come back? 
CHAIR LEE: Wow, that's from the neighborhood. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: This is from the neighborhood. Much mahalo. Much mahalo, 
Tasha. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Has everyone had a turn to say something? Well, mine will be extremely 
brief, as usual. Riki, we want to thank you for all you've done. Together, all of us 
together, turned another page in history. And we, we've, we've made it through an 
incredible year; probably one of the most difficult anybody would have ever 
experienced. Now, I, I've had the privilege of not only working with you, but also your 
father. So, it's, it's fantastic that I've had the privilege of working with the Hokama 
legacy. 
And before I end my comments, I want to say that, Riki, Dawn Lono and Zhan Lindo 
did the leis. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Oh, mahalo plenty. 
CHAIR LEE: Big hand for them. Big hand for them. So, we wish you all the, the luck and 
success in the world. And I have my lei for you. You ready? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 139 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Yes, I'm ready. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I'll give you a big smooch. There you go. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. I, I hope that was a wet one. 
CHAIR LEE: It was. It was. So, Riki, can we hear from you now, to say a few words to your 
colleagues and to the people out watching. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Chair Lee. Thank you, my fellow colleagues, my 
friends. Gosh, you know, it's pretty tough to come to terms with your last meeting. And 
I know one day each of you will face this last meeting as well. I can tell you, it's been 
an honor, privilege to serve our people. I can tell you I am grateful to all of you. 
And I want to tell our people that there is no higher goal than to provide service to your 
fellow man. And this is one great way to provide service in public office. I still believe 
it is an honorable endeavor. I believe there is still a true amount of us who do it for the 
right reasons. We're not here to be popular. We're not here to advocate our own 
personal goals, but we're here to make our fellow man's lives a little better. 
And so, I commend all of you for running for office, for putting yourselves and your 
families in difficult positions as times, as my family had to face that. And yes, we all 
give sacrifices. And the biggest sacrifice is your family allowing you to be shared with 
everyone else. So, please, even in the darkest time and darkest hours, take pride in 
that you, what you are doing is critical for a healthy island society; whether it's from our 
original kupunas and our Native Hawaiian culture, which from the other culture is from 
the Pacific Basin or from the U.S. 48. There's no higher endeavor, like I said, than to 
serve your fellow man. 
And, you know, interesting enough, a lot of time your actions is going to be proven 
correct after you leave office. I was fortunate enough to get a sense cause I couldn't 
believe what Maui News used to call me when I was so tight with the money. I would 
say I would squeak when I walk. But then 9/11 hit the United States and hit Hawaii. 
And I want you to know that this County took great pride, after 9/11, that we were able 
to respond to our community with financial support immediately because we were able 
to budget well. We followed a strong fiscal discipline. And I just ask you to consider 
that as you move forward in this more difficult times, because the pandemic has made 
life turn over from years to just days. And you're going to make decisions shortly that, 
again, I just ask, that it's going to be hard to forecast the future, so we are going to rely 
on the nine of you to make the best decision for the short term. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 140 
And I would ask that you look at those short-term projects as a great base foundation 
that we can step off to do the greater projects that we need for this County to survive 
in the future. Whether that be with the climate change, sea level rise, whatever it be, 
you have helped determine a change of course in Maui County's future destiny by 
saying we didn't want to continue to be overly dependent upon the visitor sector, that 
we would like to now look more reliance upon the resident sector; through agricultural 
activities and initiatives, things that basically was what our island cultures brought 
together to this County. Whether you were from the Philippines, Japan, Okinawa, 
South Pacific, we as Pacific Islanders all share one thing; our love of the aina and the 
ocean. 
And so, I just share that because we have a lot more similarities than differences. And 
I look to all of you to be the spearhead, to be our leaders, to hold the banner high of 
this County. Because I look forward for you to continue to have Maui County lead this 
State forward. You have the capacity, the capability, and the confidence of the past 
Councils to move forward with great stride, perseverance, and the endeavorment to 
better your fellow man. 
And so, to the people of Lanai, I hope I made you proud. To the people of Maui County, 
I thank you for my opportunity of many years to give service. And all I can say is I miss 
the wind under my wings; that's, they were my parents. And I wish all of you to continue 
to fly high and allow your family to be that wind under your wings to achieve the greater 
glory for this County. 
So, I send you my love, my aloha, and my best wishes to all of you and our people of 
Maui County for a glorious holiday season, a better new year. And I just ask that you 
stay safe, be well, wear your mask. Please, please be kind to one another; not only 
about yourself, but to one another. And as Tiny Tim just said, "God bless everyone". 
Mahalo, everyone. Aloha. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, Member Hokama. We are going to miss you too. And 
you know, what happens when there's a shower outside and there is just a shower that 
came down; so, all of us are blessed. And we thank you for having the opportunity to 
work with you. And we wish you tremendous success in your next endeavor. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Members, take care, and we'll see you soon. And-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Happy Holidays. 
CHAIR LEE: --please behave yourself. And no underage drinking, okay? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 141 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Merry Christmas, everyone. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Wait, there's more. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I don't think we're done. 
CHAIR LEE: No. No, I know we're not done yet. I'm going to adjourn the meeting. I was 
going to next say, like I always say, does anyone have any parting comments before I 
adjourn? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Wait, we have more, resolution. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: We got to vote. 
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait. No, no, don't go getting notes. I mean, you know, like a few 
sentences, yea. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Got to vote. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I'm sorry, did you want to say more on the subject? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, we didn't vote on the resolution. 
CHAIR LEE: Yea. I, no, she was going to get a paper. I'm sorry, were you going to say more 
on the resolution? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think she has a copy of the resolution. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yuki, you just disappeared into your background. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You have to take the virtual background off of—
CHAIR LEE: Yea, you disappeared into your umbrella. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 142 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Turn your virtual background off. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We can't hear you. We can't hear you, Yuki. Did you want to say 
anything on the- 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I don't want to say anything, but I have a role to play, so 
I'm waiting to play my role. I think you want the County Clerk. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You mean like during the vote? During the vote? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member, Member, Chair. Chair Lee. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ask Member Sugimura to take her virtual 
background off so we can see what her role is when it's time. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Alright. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye". 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes" motion carries. 
Now, what were you going to do? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I have a certificate to present to Mr. Hokama from all 
of you. Here you go, Mr. Hokama. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. Okay, any- 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Mahalo, everyone. Mahalo, my colleagues, my friends. 
CHAIR LEE: Any, any last words, every, anyone? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 143 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, but I was going to hand this to Riki. I don't know if you can 
see it, but I got a tissue here for you, Riki. 
CHAIR LEE: She believes in reusing. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, Chair, I have more presentations if I could. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. 
CHAIR LEE: Like how many? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Just two. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this is a, from the Mayor; a certificate and a letter to 
Mr. Hokama. So, this is for Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. Thank you. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And we also have, as Mr. Hokama has all these great 
relationships, we have a certificate from Governor Ige for him. So, this is for 
Mr. Hokama from the Governor. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, thank you very much. I want to remind you, Members-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Then we have one more thing. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, one more thing? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: We have one more thing that staff has been working on 
with some of you, which is a slideshow for-- 
CHAIR LEE: That's right. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Oh, no. 
CHAIR LEE: That's right. I forgot about that. Thank you for mentioning. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 18, 2020 
Page 144 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I hope it's a rap. 
CHAIR LEE: No, it's not a rap. It's a PowerPoint. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: This is dangerous. 
(Members viewed a PowerPoint presentation.) 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Beautiful. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: A hui hou. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Mahalo, everyone. 
CHAIR LEE: A hui hou. Thank you, everyone. Just reminding you that our first meeting, our 
next Council meeting is January 15. It's going to be our only meeting, pretty much, for 
business, regular business in January. And then of course, you may want to set aside 
Saturday, January 2, if you're not busy, yea, for your Inauguration, and then our 
organization meeting. 
So, with that, Riki, much love and aloha. A hui hou. 
This meeting is adjourned. 
ADJOURNMENT 
The regular meeting of December 18, 2020 was adjourned by the Chair at 3:48 p.m. 
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK 
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII 
201218/1ks:jm 

December 18, 2020 
5(5)( Na Hale 0 Maui A COMMUNITY LAND TRUST 
2020 GEC  18 M 7: 46 
	
C 	 Y 
	
— 	 r; T • - - 
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair 	 via email alice.lee@mauicounty.us  
Maui County Council 	 county.clerk@mauicounty.us  
200 High Street 
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 
Subject: CC 2020-609 Approving the Acquisition of Real Property at the Kahoma 
Residential Subdivision and Authorizing the grant of Real Property to Housing 
and Land Enterprise of Maui, dba Na Hale 0 Maui  
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members: 
Na Hale 0 Maui is grassroots, membership-based Community Land Trust created in 2006. We 
first received federal Neighborhood Stabilization Program funds, administered by the State of 
Hawaii, in 2009. Foreclosed and abandoned homes were purchased in the subdivision that was 
most devastated by the Great Recession and the mortgage meltdown. The County of Maui first 
partnered with Na Hale 0 Maui in 2010. Together we continued to purchase foreclosed and 
abandoned homes. Today, Na Hale 0 Maui's 'ohana has grown to 46 Community Land Trust 
homes that provide social benefits beyond 'bricks and mortar' building material. 
The County of Maui is at the heart of our ability to develop and retain affordable and workforce 
homes for income-qualified households in Maui County. Na Hale 0 Maui is a Community Land 
Trust and one 'tools' in the affordable housing tool box needed to increase critically needed 
housing. There is no 'one size fits all' in affordable housing. It takes the community, working 
collaboratively with Government, for-profit and non-profit organizations to create the housing 
we so badly need. 
CC 2020-609 is a step in the right direction. A 10-year deed restricted home built in 2017 was 
offered to the County as required by the owner. When the County fails to exercise its option to 
purchase, the owner is free to sell at market rates, often realizing a windfall profit. The 
County's decision to exercise its option to purchase is a prudent action taken to preserve 
affordability. 
Granting the home in-kind to Na Hale 0 Maui will immediately transform the house from 
temporarily affordable to a permanently  affordable CLT home. NHOM homes remain 
affordable in perpetuity. They never move to market price. Subsidies invested in the home 
remain there, rather than becoming a windfall profit when the owner sells. 
The County previously granted two homes in the Waikapu Gardens subdivisions to Na Hale 0 
Maui in 2014 and 2018. NHOM rehabilitated each home before selling to an income-qualified 
island family at a below market price. The sales proceeds are 'recycled' when invested in the 
next NHOM home. 
1111111 	 190 N. Church Street, P.O. Box 1829, Wailuku, HI 96793 • Ph. 808.244.6110 • Fax 808.244.6115 • www.nahaleanaulorg 
1  

Honorable Alice Lee, Chair 
Maui County Council 
December 18, 2020 
Page 2 
CC 2020-609 is an incredible opportunity to preserve the affordability of a home that will 
benefit one island family and the Maui Community. We respectfully request the approval of 
the Acquisition of Real Property at the Kahoma Residential Subdivision and Authorizing the 
grant of Real Property to Housing and Land Enterprise of Maui, dba Na Hale 0 Maui. 
Mahalo for your ongoing support of affordable and workforce housing in Maui County. 
Cassandra Abdul 
Executive Director 
Chourtg-finw ILveis- one/ ham& at Cli ti441.0 
Mission: To secure and preserve a permanent supply of affordable housing 
alternatives for low- and moderate-income households in Maui County. 

December 14th, 2020 
	
WO DEC 1 S A 7: 44 
G. 
Dear Maui County Council, 
We have been lucky enough to be homeowners here on Maui for the last 7 years. This was made 
possible by the Na Hale 0 Maui program. This program offered us a chance to get out of the rental game 
and provide a permanent roof over our family. This has provided stabilization and security. 
This program provides not only stability to families, but to the community as well. The homes that are 
in the program will either stay in the families for generations or be available to other families in the 
program when it is time to sell. This allows for families in our community to have the option for 
affordable housing. 
In-Kind Grants are incredible opportunities to grow the Na Hale 0 Maui program, provide a win-win 
for the County and Community, and convert temporarily affordable homes into affordable homes in 
perpetuity. 
There are many families on Maui that need affordable housing and this program is helping one family 
at a time. Please support any in-kind grants and/or budget requests for Na Hale 0 Maui. 
I respectfully request the Council approve CC 20-609 for the acquisition of real property at Kahoma 
Residential Subdivision pursuant to the Buyback provision contained in the agreement regarding 
Residential Workforce Housing and grant the property to Na Hale 0 Maui in-kind. 
Thank you, Council, for your support of affordable workforce housing in Maui County and Na Hale 0 
Maui's program that keeps homes affordable in perpetuity. 
By helping one family at a time, we are creating a ripple effect that will touch generations to come. 
Your support for in-kind grants will be felt for years to come. 
Sincerely, 
Christine Estomo 

From: 	 Kerith H <kerith.harding@gmail.com > 	 20211 DEC 17 P 3 37 
Sent: 	 Thursday, December 17, 2020 3:34 PM 
To: 	 County Clerk 
Subject: 	 Social Host Ordinance Testimony for December 18 Council Meeti 7: '. 	 .;' i"- 
..  •:.11.' C.i._:::,'. 
Dear County Council Members, 
I am writing today in support of the Social Host Ordinance. And, I would like to ask that some important changes are 
made to it before its passage in order to make it both a) enforceable, and b) as clear as possible. 
As to enforceability, I would ask the party size be changed from 10 down to 2 or 3. By increasing the original party size 
that had been suggested to such a large number, the ordinance has been weakened. We cannot say that we want to 
help give the police a tool to combat underage drinking and then tie their hands by legislating an unprecedentedly large 
party size. In my conversations with those from the Maui Coalition for a Drug-Free Youth, I am told that no Social Host 
Ordinance in the country that they know of has a party size larger than 3. 
As to the issue of clarity, I would suggest that by listing all State HRS exemptions under the criminal ordinance it 
needlessly complicates things. For the sake of simplicity, and in order to be sure we don't run into problems if the state 
HRS exemptions ever change, it's better just to reference the state exemptions so that it is clear that everything that is 
already protected by state law will continue to be so AND to make sure we don't confuse people into thinking that it is 
ok to give other people's children alcohol. That would be a tragic mistake. Best to be as clear as possible. 
Mahalo for your time and attention to this important matter. Once these changes are made, I have no doubt that the 
passage of the SHO will help keep Maui's keiki safer. 
The Rev. Kerith Harding 
St. John's Episcopal Church, Kula 

MICHAEL P. 'VICTORINO 
Mayor 
ROBERT D. RIVERA 
Acting Prosecuting Attorney 
ANDREW H. MARTIN 
Second Deputy Prosecuting Attorney 
aitlitr:VED 
DIS8 
. 
1t,111/ 	 EiR 
DEPARTMENT OF THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY 
COUNTY OF MAUI 
150 SOUTH HIGH STREET 
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793 
PHONE (808) 270-7777 • FAX (808) 270-7625 
December 17, 2020 
Alice L. Lee, Chair 
Keani N.W. Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair 
Maui County Council 
RE: 	 Social Host Liability Regulations (CR 20-162 / GET-60) 
Comments for Friday, December 18 Council Meeting  
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers: 
The Department of the Prosecuting Attorney supports the 
intent of the proposed social host liability regulations, which 
is to impose strict liability upon a responsible person who hosts 
or permits a gathering where an underage person possesses or 
consumes an intoxicating substance. However, in its current form 
as transmitted from the Governance, Ethics, and Transparency 
Committee in CR 20-162, the proposed bill does not fully achieve 
the desired effect of (1) deterring underage drinking / drug use, 
and (2) combating impaired driving in our community. 
Primarily, we are concerned with the most recent 
amendment that defines a "gathering" as ten or more persons. We 
believe the focus on "loud or unruly gatherings," as referenced 
in the December 18, 2020 GET committee report, is misplaced. The 
primary objective of social host liability regulations should be 
to decrease underage youths' social access to alcohol and drugs. 
The number of persons at a gathering where such conduct occurs is 
largely irrelevant to that objective. 
In addition, the proposed standard for "gathering" 
differs from what is permissible under the related criminal law, 
Promoting Intoxicating Liquor to a Person Under the Age of 
Twenty-One, Hawaii Revised Statutes § 712-1250.5. Differing 
civil and criminal factual standards can lead to confusion, which 
undermines the deterrent effect of the proposed law. 

Alice L. Lee, Chair 
Keani N.W. Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair 
Page Two 
We also are concerned with implementation of some of 
the HRS § 712-1250.5 defenses into the proposed law -
specifically sections (C)((3), (4), and (5) of proposed section 
09.40.030. As written, the "responsible person" can still claim 
the same state-of-mind defenses that could be claimed in a 
criminal prosecution, which undermines the goal of "strict 
liability". The social host proposal should instead complement 
the criminal law, by putting the burden on the responsible person 
to take affirmative steps to prevent underage consumption of 
intoxicating substances at a gathering, rather than allowing the 
responsible person to claim ignorance of age, or that they 
believed the youths had permission. 
Finally, we suggest that the social host prohibitions 
on underaged consumption of marijuana and other intoxicating 
substances be re-introduced into the bill. 	 Drugged driving is 
becoming an increasingly pervasive problem, including among teens 
and young adults. Maui has experienced tragic drug-related fatal 
and near-fatal crashes involving teenagers in recent years. 
Prevention is key, and implementing social host liability for 
underage drug use can be an important part of a community 
strategy to prevent our young adults from getting behind the 
wheel of a car while impaired. 
We greatly appreciate the Council's attention and work 
on this matter, and consideration of our input. 
Respectfully submitted, 
‘AMIO BRA —aN M. SEGAL 
Deputy Prosecuting Attorney 
Vehicular Homicide and Traffic Safety Unit 

County Clerk 
From: 	 lavy sisouvong <lavysis@yahoo.com > 
Sent: 	 Thursday, December 17, 2020 12:10 PM 
To: 	 County Clerk 
Cc: 	 Cassandra Abdul 
Subject: 	 In-kind grant testimony, sisouvong 
Aloha Council Members, 
2020 GEC I / Pfd i= 25 
Ct. 
My name is Lavy Sisouvong, i grew up here on Maui. Married with three children and a dog. I'm a air conditioning technician 
and one of my dreams is to live in house, that I own with my family. And through Na Hale 0 Maui, that dream came true. My 
family and I have been on the waiting list for fours years before we became owners. This program helped us get ready to own a 
home. It help us get financial prepared even through these tough times. This is the reason 1 support Na Hale 0 Maui's request 
for in-kind grant homes. It is important to be able to afford a home, it helps build a strong family infrastructure that will support 
Maui and its community for years to come. 
I thank you for this opportunity, for the in-kind home grant that made our dreams come true, this has changed my family's 
life. The feeling and pride that come with owning your own home is refreshing and joyful, knowing that you have a place to call 
home. 
There are still many hardworking families out there in our county that deserves to have a place to call home as well, so I 
implore you to continue your efforts to help these families by providing more in-kind grant homes. 
Mahalo, 
Lavy Sisouvong and Family 
1 
