MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2020-11-20
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1452,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MlMUIiS
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUl
November 20, 2020
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUl. STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLYVIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 20, 2020,
BEGINNING AT 9:04 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L. LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maul County Council regular meeting of
November 20, please come to order. The time is approximately 9:05.
And before we begin roll call, I would like to say good morning to all of our
Councilmembers in Cambodian; arun suasdey. Arun suasdey. Members.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call.
ROLL CALL
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS G. RIKI HOKAMA, NATALIE A. KAMA.
MICHAEL J. MOLINA. TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, SHANE M.
SINENCI, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KELLY T. KING.
(Councilmember King was not present when roll was called; however, she
arrived at 9:14 a.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Arun suasdey, actually, everyone. And thank you so much for coming. And
we, I'm sure we'll see our, our colleague. Member King, shortly.
Alright, we're ready to begin. We have, what, eight Members present, one excused for
now.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20. 2020
Page 2
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the
Council.
Also present for today's meeting is myself, Deputy County Clerk James Krueger;
County Clerk Kathy Kaohu. And from our offices* Legislative Division; Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida. And also joining us from the
Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation Counsel Moana Lutey.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Or First Deputy Richelle Thomson, right.
Our opening remarks today, we're asking officer, Pro Tem Officer Kama to please
provide the opening remarks. Member Kama.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: We thank you for being on the Council for those beautiful remarks as well.
Now, please join me with the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council, rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk, please proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their
video and microphones muted and should unmute them when it is their time to testify.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 3
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Channel 53 or on
mauicounty.us. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at any time for
breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person we have signed up to testify is Annette Niles. To be followed by
Jason Economou.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Alright.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Annette. We can't hear you. Can you make sure, can you
unmute her, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do see Annette Niles in the meeting, but she is muted
on her end. She has to unmute herself. We cannot unmute her.
CHAIR LEE: Annette? Annette?
PRESENTATION OF WRITTEN OR ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. ANNETTE NILES (testifvinc on Committee Report 20-149):
Okay, how's that?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we got you. Okay. Perfect, perfect.
MS. NILES: Got it? Oh, okay. No mind me, I'm not used to, to this. I'm trying my best and I
live off the grid; so no more lights, lights, you know. So, it's, it's kind of rough. But
anyway, I'm just wanted to, well anyway, aloha to all of you. And congratulations for
all of you back.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 4
MS. MILES: But anyway, I'd like to go on with I, I'm Annette Miles. I'm testifying for myself on
CR 20-149.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. MILES: I just wanted to kind of go ahead with the, the thing on, wait let's see, the creating,
wait I'm sorry, hang on. The long-term rental.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. MILES: The long-term, it's up for, okay. I, I just had some few questions on that, on the
long-term rental. I am a landlord and I've been for the last 25 years. But some of the
stuff on this, I, I don't agree with, cause I've been through so much with renters. I've
had good renters, but I also had really bad renters. And so, my point of this is
apparently, it's supposed to be like a 12-month rental and all of that. But I don't rent, I
rent for six months, month to month thereafter. So, if any problems, I can literally
remove them from the house is what I do. So, I don't like the one year, you know,
unless it's somebody that, you know. Like, I had construction guys that did a one year,
but they took care of the house. You know, they were really good. As men, they were
spectacular, you know.
So, I just want to go back to some of the stuff on that and then trying to, you know, it's
like a burden to us. I mean, it's like trying to pay the mortgage, trying to get, I, I've had
a tenant in my house for eight years and I never raised the rent since the day they
moved in. But because of the property tax going up, I had to raise the rent, and I didn't
want to. Eight years, it was without having to raise any rent because they were good
tenants, you know. But it, it pushed me through the property tax of having the property
tax go up and then of course me having a mortgage to try and repair these houses
when people move. I've gone through so much expense, and I literally can show you
guys the expense I have on these rental homes, you know.
And it's not that I invested in these houses. It's, it's generations of my father giving it,
us the property and having the house put up for us. And what he paid for my house, I
literally, my poor husband, had to repair the house and cost me just as much as he
paid for the house, you know. So, we've been through a lot. My husband is not getting
any younger. He works construction. He works 3:00 in the morning, he leaves, he
gets to Lahaina he's done at seven, and weekends all on the houses. And it's just
tiring, tiring, tiring. We had to, like my parents one, it was so bad that we had to repair
that, and we just sold it. And I don't want to do that. I need my houses for my children.
They're in the mainland right now, and I'm hoping for them to come home, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 5
So, that is my thing on, on putting the kind of a burden on, on a long, on the owners of
these properties. You know, I can see the County's point, cause some of them is
ridiculous. But, but there's got to be a different scenario to this.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. NILES: And then, also, I, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Can, can you conclude your testimony, Annette, please?
MS. NILES: Okay. On this one, or can I get to the other one? I need to go on one more.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, do you have anything more to say on this one, before you-
MS. NILES: No, no. This is, yea, okay, no, no.
CHAIR LEE: This one is pau? Okay, then go on to the next one then. Alright.
MS. NILES: Okay. It was about the condominiumizing, you know. Yes, I totally believe that
it should be where it's, it's not where people coming from the mainland, buying out the
properties, taking our agriculture, and slicing and dicing it into condominiumize, you
know. And I really would like to see something done about that, you know. When they
live here for years, and they do it, it's okay.
You know, like, like I was, you know, we had our meeting and it was like talking about
having it for our, our people, our local people to do something like that. Cause with the
water meter issues, this would, that condominiumize would be a great way to get the,
the local people to get, you know, to condominiumize their place to have their children
and relieve some of the rentals. Cause I know of a lot of people that renting houses
that cannot even get on their family land because of this water meter issues. So, that,
that is my, my thing and that was what I wanted to kind of run by.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. NILES: I don't want it to go away, but I wanted it to be where we could take care our
families. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions for the testifier?
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 6
MS. MILES: Hi.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha, Ms. Miles. Mahalo for your testimony.
MS. MILES: .. . Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLIMS-FERMAMDEZ: So, question for clarification on the long-term rental
rate bill. Is that something that you support, but you just disagree with the length of
time?
MS. MILES: Well, yea, the, the time and also the amount. You know, what is it going to be?
You know, like if people have mortgages and people have to repairs, you know, yea, I
understand it. I didn't even know about the section, cause like I remember, I said about
the Section 8 and about the damage I had in three months from it, which not knowing
that you had some place to go. Cause the County doesn't let you know what kind of
programs you have to fix things, you know. So, it's out of pocket, you know, and stuff
like that.
But, but yea, it's the length. Cause it's, it's scary for people to rent. Yea, you cannot
rent them three months, yea, but six months is perfect. That, and that's how I've been
doing it. And from there on, month to month thereafter. And my tenants stayed eight
years, you know what I mean, in the house. So, it, it was fine. But, but it's just a, I
don't want to see us getting into something that we got to flip. You know, we get some
tenants that wouldn't even let us in the house to inspect, inspect my own house.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLIMS-FERMAMDEZ: Right. Okay. So, as long as it's the same tenant for
12 years, then you would qualify if you would want to participate in that program. But
it, it's, it's also optional. You don't-
CHAIR LEE: Twelve months. Twelve months.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLIMS-FERMAMDEZ: Oh. what did I say? Twelve years?
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Yea.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLIMS-FERMAMDEZ: A year or 12 months. Mahalo, Chair. Okay, I think
we may have lost Ms. Miles. Mahalo, Chair.
COUMCILMEMBER SIMEMCI: Chair, you're muted. I also-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 7
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, in case she comes back on? Or has she left the call.
Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I think she~
CHAIR LEE: Shall we go on with our next, Mr. Clerk?
(Councilmember King arrived at the meeting at 9:14 a.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, I. I see Member King.
CHAIR LEE: You do? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm here.
CHAIR LEE: At this time, we'd like-
Good morning, welcome.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Let the record show that Member King has joined us this morning.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea. Sorry, for being tardy, but it was the only time I could get a
meeting with the Parks Department, so.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk. Is someone timing the testimonies?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Just checking. It seemed a little long-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's go to the next one.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Jason Economou.
To be followed by Nicholas Winfrey.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 8
MR. JASON ECONOMOU. REALTORS ASSOCIATION OF MAUI (testifying on Committee
Report 20-149):
Good morning, Chair Lee. Good morning, Councilmembers. Thank you for the
opportunity. I am Jason Economou. I am representing the Realtors Association of
Maui. I'm testifying on their behalf in my capacity as their Government Affairs Director.
And I would like to address Committee Report 20-149, the real property tax bills.
Now, I've submitted oral testimony before. I've submitted written testimony. I just want
to supplement that a little bit and I'd like to focus first on the Finance Director's bill.
Now, this bill, as I've said, it's got a lot of unintended consequences that everybody
needs to watch out for. I've listened to the fact that, you know, it's probably going to
cause an increase in cheap short-term rental availability, because if people are being
taxed as short-term rentals, they might as well rent out their properties to offset the
taxes. So, you're going to see that. That'll bring in cheap tourists.
You're also going to see people that can't absorb the cost. They will likely sell. The,
the most competitive folks in the market right now for condominiums are offshore
investors. And those are the people that will likely be drawn to these properties,
because they may use it part time of the year and then they'll rent it out the rest of the
time of the year. Thus, more cheap short-term rentals, bringing in more tourists. So,
that's something to consider.
And, you know, at the start of the pandemic everybody was saying we want higher
quality tourists stuck in a resort area, not spread out through the island. This will make
the opposite of that. You're going to get a whole bunch of low-quality tourists. So,
that's the one main concern.
But the flip side of that is you still have that demand for properties that people can use
only part of the year. So, those condominiums that are most affordable, the ones that
are non-short-term rentable, which make the most sense for people buying their first
property, there is going to be an increased demand for those condominiums for people
who intend to only use those properties for part of the time of the year. So, now you're
making the housing market more competitive for the residents here because the
demand for those properties will increase. So, those are a few of the unintended
consequences that we're really concerned about.
Now, to, to move to some other concerns. First off, with Councilmember Rawlins-
Fernandez' bill, that is a better bill than the Finance Director's bill, because it takes
more time. It allows for long-term rentals to, to put people in a different class. And,
and it will give some room for public feedback. If you get a whole slew of folks over
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 9
the next year telling you, hey this isn't going to work, then you could still amend it before
it goes into effect. But the Finance Director's bill, it's just really short notice. Few
people really recognize how quickly this is going through. And even the Finance
Director admitted that this is the shortest possible timeline for him to push this bill
through.
Everybody that testified last year at this same time of year when you guys were pushing
property tax reform, their single complaint across the board was, why are you rushing
this; why didn't you give us more opportunity to give public input, to get education? So,
you followed that up by doing the same exact thing a year later. So, we're against that.
And also, just one last comment, or two last comments if I may? Please make it easier
for people to enter the homeowner classification. If you have local purchasers that
want to owner-occupy, it takes, you know, potentially a year for them to be able to take
advantage of that classification and that tax rate. If you're going to potentially cut off
lower tax rates for, for those people, then make it easier for them to get those lower
tax rates at the offset.
And also, that one-year lease, that is tricky. Most of the time, people advise their, you
know, as an attorney, when I was an attorney dealing with landlord-tenant matters, we
advised people to do six-month leases. And that's for the benefit of both the tenant
and the landlord, because after six months if they don't like the property then they can
leave. But, after six months if they do like the property, it automatically turns into a
month to month lease.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions for Mr. Economou?
Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Good morning, Mr. Economou.
MR. ECONOMOU: Good morning.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thanks for sharing your thoughts with us this morning;
appreciate it. So, what I got from my perspective within me, I liked, because what I
thought I heard you saying is, in a way, for me, is that we should just stick to zoning
then, forget the permits? Stick to zoning. And If we do that, we know what is a
permitted use in every category and we tax accordingly. And you want to do a different
use, you apply for a change of zoning and see if you can get it granted by Council and
the departments. I can go with that. I got no problem with that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 10
MR. ECONOMOU: Councilmember, I, I respect your interpretation of my testimony.
However, that is not the message that I'm trying to send. What I'm trying to send is
spend some more time on this. I, I get that that sticking to zoning is a much easier way
to administrate the tax system. However, it will have bad consequences in the very
near term for the rest of the island, so.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Yea. No, and I agree with you. Because if we believe short-
term rentals does not bring the quality or type of visitor we want, then we should just
get rid of short-term rentals.
MR. ECONOMOU: That's a different issue altogether, Councilmember and I'd be happy to
discuss that with you.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Mr. Economou.
MR. ECONOMOU: Thank you, Councilmember.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Appreciate your... this morning.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any other questions?
Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I kind of see what Member Hokama is saying. Like, to clarify,
this bill is to improve stability because although the owners in this category have the
legal right to do short-term rental, you're saying don't tax them at that rate. You want
it to be taxed at actual use, that's what you're saying?
MR. ECONOMOU: Yes. For, well, to a certain extent. So, what I am saying is just because
somebody has the right to do something doesn't mean that they're actively engaged in
that right. You know, I have the right to start a Fortune 500 company, however, you
do not have the right to tax me as though I owned a Fortune 500 company, because I
don't actually make that income and I'm not actually doing that. You know, you can
tax people based on their potential rights, but that's different than what their actual
uses are.
Currently, our setup allows for people to live in properties that can conduct short-term
rentals. But it allows those people to not conduct short-term rentals and still pay a
different tax rate. That's the reason why they bought those properties, that's how
they're using them. That's how they've been using them for years under many
circumstances. And this wouldn't be taxing people because they're using their
properties as short-term rentals. It's taxing them because maybe they weren't
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 11
sophisticated enough to realize that when they bought those properties in the first
place, they could conduct short-term rentals. So, even if they're conducting long-term
rentals, the Finance Director's bill would not provide the same level of relief as say the
Vice-Chair's bill would.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess the part that I'm not clear on is that this is what already
occurs on all the other properties that aren't condominium or planned development.
And the other part is, if they're actually owner-occupied, it doesn't affect them, so that's
based on use.
MR. ECONOMOU: In part. That's why I gave my, my feedback about allowing people into
the owner-occupied class sooner. So, so there are some property owners. But yes,
you're absolutely right; for the most part, if you're owner-occupying, this won't impact
you. And that's a good thing. I like that part of the bill.
But what I'm saying is, this isn't a terrible bill. There aren't, you know, there are valid
reasons to do the things that you want to do. However, doing it in this fashion is, is not
advisable. That's really what I'm saying. The, especially the Finance Director's bill
with the short timeline that it's on and the lack of, of real, you know, transparency to a
certain degree, I would highly advise against that bill.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yea, I get we're going to get a flood of emails again during tax
time. But given the situation with the pandemic, if everybody chooses to declare that
they're not doing short-term rental again, then we won't be able to provide for the
County in the same ways, right?
MR. ECONOMOU: I am, I'm not sure. I mean, that that would take knowledge of the
budgetary, the County's finances that I don't have off the top of my head. So, so I don't
know if you'd be able to cover the budget differences that you need for next year by,
by other means. You did an excellent job of taking a conservative approach to the
budget this year so, you know, I think that you guys have the talent and skills to do that
without increasing taxes on a whole bunch of property owners just to get $9 million
more.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Economou.
MR. ECONOMOU: Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, may we have the next testifier, please?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 12
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Nicholas Winfrey.
To be followed by Dick Mayer.
MR. NICHOLAS WINFREY. MAUI UNITED WAY (testifvino on Countv Communication
No. 20-569):
Mahalo, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. My name is Nicholas Winfrey. I am the
President and CPO of Maui United Way. I wanted to chat to you all briefly about
Councilmember Sugimura's resolution looking to extend the moratorium on mortgage
and rental evictions.
The data that we're seeing at Maui United Way isn't great. The calls that we're getting
isn't great, aren't great. And we're seeing really the potential long-term for a lot more
issues to be facing our community regarding their rental and mortgages. Right now,
the calls that we're getting via 211, which is our resource list, a lot of the unmet needs
that are actually being seen right now are actually via mortgages as well. So, we do
see this as a really pressing issue. And not to, you know, throw fuel on the fire, but it
is a, we're on the, basically, the edge of a canyon regarding this.
I just want to educate and let you all know that this is a very pressing issue within the
community that we're seeing firsthand. We're getting calls on a daily basis about
people that haven't been able to make it through the State program for those rental
and mortgage assistances. And really, there is a fear coming 2021 about what will
take place within Maui County, let alone the entire State.
So, I would ask just that the Council continue to press as much as possible for support
in this arena. And also, begin planning for capacity building in this space if and when
additional funds do come in via CARES Act to where we can really funnel those, those
resources into the community in a better fashion. We've seen a lot of issues with
systems in place, whether it's via unemployment or the State-run program for rental
and mortgages assistances that have caused more issues than we would have
expected. So, we are going to be planning for the future about how we can build the
administrative side.
But please be aware of that in the long-term about best ways to support our community
on this, this issue that's really kind of slapping us in the face at this point right now.
We're going to continue to, to provide as much information as we can on the frontlines
to our nonprofit sector, as well as the Council. And continuing to work with our partners
both at Aloha United Way and Catholic Charities regarding the State programs and
allocations.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 13
So, thank you, Councilmember Sugimura for sending that to the State. It is a huge
issue that we're seeing right now, and we do not see an end sight right now. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. King. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm trying, yea, I, I tried, I pushed the button three times before it
worked. Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Winfrey for your testimony. I just wanted
to clarify. You said you were building up your administrative capacity. Is that so that
United Way might be in a position to possibly disseminate some of these grants?
MR. WINFREY: We're pretty familiar with it. And thank you, Councilmember King; it's a great
question. I think it's more about planning with our partners, like MEG and Catholic
Charities. Our team is very limited as far as bandwidth right now, as you can imagine
as, as everyone's is. But the skillset that we can bring to the table is connecting the
nonprofit sector as well as volunteers, and really the experts in the arena. And that's
what we're looking at doing, is more of a working group. And, and that's the best way
that we see that we can facilitate right now.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great. And then in the, when you do the working groups,
are you also including some of the landlords in that, so that you can, you know, I mean
we heard a concern from somebody who is actually a landlord about what happens
when we keep extending it. So, having them as part of that conversation I think is
really valuable as well.
MR. WINFREY: I agree with you. I think for, for our perspective though it's, it's really about
how we can get the money to the landlords in that best and fastest way if and when
those additional funds do come in. I think that we can most likely, you know, ask those
questions to the landlords, but really we're looking at a step before that in, in, prior to
the moratorium, it's really how do we get the funds to where there wouldn't need to be
a moratorium long-term.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Great. Thank you. And we'll, we'll all have our fingers
crossed that there will be more funds coming in shortly. Mahalo. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Winfrey, for being here. I
got a question. Somebody asked are, are you still accepting applications? Aloha
United Way or Catholic Charities.
MR. WINFREY: That is a great question. Just to clarify; Aloha United Way is different than
Maui United Way. We've had a lot of confusion in that space-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 14
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, sorry.
MR. WINFREY: -as far as who's operating this. No, you're correct in your statement. I just
want to say that for the public record. Right now, the program is on hold. I believe the
numbers that came through via that program were 200,000 without the capacity to
process those. I think right now they're processing about $1 million a day right now. I
caught up with Aloha United Way yesterday. So, long answer short, the program is on
hold right now. For those that have applied, they can check basically the status of that
via Catholic Charities website as well as Aloha United Way's website. But I don't see
that opening back up again because of the timing with the deadlines for the CARES
Act funding.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.
MR. WINFREY: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any more questions for Mr. Winfrey? Okay. Mr. Winfrey, you know,
related to the children of homeowners and tenants and everyone else, we will be
supporting your holiday toy drive; November 27 through December 11. Good luck with
that too. Thank you.
MR. WINFREY: Mahalo, Chair.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Dick Mayer. To be
followed by Michael Williams.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifvina on Committee Report 20-149):
Thank you very much. My name is Dick Mayer. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Good morning.
MR. MAYER: Good morning to everybody. And congratulations to all of you returning to the
Council. And I want to wish Mr. Hokama a happy retirement from the Council for a
while. Get a, at least after 10 years get a break and we'll see whether you come back
again or not. But in any case, enjoy your next two years.
I've been before the Council several times this week and I'll make it very short. I
support the two measures to take care of the long-term rental situation. Just wanted
to say that I support that, and I'm very pleased the Committee reported those out
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 15
unanimously. And I urge you to adopt those at first reading and eventually at second
reading. And I'll keep it very short, I think that's something we need to do. We need
to do everything we can to promote long-term rentals. So, that, keep it very short.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Mayer. Are there any questions? If not, have a great weekend.
MR. MAYER: You too. Thank you very much. Good luck.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Michael Williams.
To be followed by Lucienne de Naie.
MR. MICHAEL WILLIAMS. MAUI TOMORROW FOUNDATION (testifvinc on Countv
Communication No. 20-576 and Committee Report 20-149):
Good morning, Councilmembers, Chair Lee. I'll be very brief. I'm Michael Williams,
President of Maui Tomorrow Foundation and I'm testifying on both my own behalf and
on behalf of the organization this morning on two matters.
First, on the property tax bills. I know you all voted unanimously for both these bills at
the Committee two weeks ago. And I would, I just want to commend you on the long-
term rental bill. That's a very important step to take toward our long-term reform of the
property tax policies. And I'm glad that both the department and the Council are willing
to postpone the implementation of it for another year, because there's some tweaks
you need to make. One is to create tiers, which I think everybody agreed on at the
Council meeting, I mean, at the Committee meeting. And also, I think you need to do
some tweaking on the problem of tenant turnover. You know, you're going to have a
lot of people can't rent out to the same tenant for 12 months in a row, because tenants
change. And so, you need to, but you got a year to figure that out and, and, and I'm
sure you can do it.
The other bill, I think the, first of all, it's just good equity practice to not let people opt
out of taxation at the highest and best use of their properties. And you're, you're also
at risk of, the reason to do it quickly, I, I hear Mr. Economou's plea to take a year to
figure out how to do this better. But if you don't fix it now, you could have several
thousand more of these condo owners who have lost their short-term rental chances
during the pandemic opt out of the short-term rental tax class and into the non-owner
occupied class and take a pretty big hit on your revenues next year. So, it's, one, it's
a bill for equity and it's a bill you need to pass in order to preserve your revenue options.
If, if the owners come before you next April and May and say, oh our property values
are down, well you'll see that in, reflected in the assessments you get in March. And
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 16
if you want to take advantage of, if they say we don't have enough income, well you
can adjust the rates if you want to. Remember that the property tax division can't use
income as a measure of market, of, of property value. It's not allowed by the Code.
You can only use, for these kind of condos, market value.
Anyway, then on the Honokowai Reservoir, Maui Tomorrow is very much encouraging
the Council to move as quickly as it can to increase the use of recycled wastewater
and stop injecting it into the ocean. And this is a small step in that direction, and we
urge you to adopt it. And that's all I have. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mike. Any questions, for Mr. Williams? If not, thanks again.
Oh, we have a question. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That last item you testified, do you know what number it was?
MR. WILLIAMS: Yea, it's-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 20, 20-576?
MR. WILLIAMS: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And then, I had a question on the, the highest and best
use for the, these short-term rental properties. Would taxing them at that rate preclude
the Council from taking away that authority in the future if they so chose to ... that?
MR. WILLIAMS: No, I think, as Mr. Hokama said, you can use a change in your zoning laws
to phase out those Minatoya condo apartments if you want to. The State law allows
you to do that as long as you give them a reasonable time. But that's a, that's a debate
for another day whether you want to decrease the number of short-term rentals.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But you don't feel that this action would preclude that action if?
MR. WILLIAMS: I, I don't, no, this action, this action doesn't preclude you from making those
zoning changes. This just equalizes the tax rate for everybody in that class.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any further questions? If not, thank you again, Mike. Have a great weekend.
MR. WILLIAMS: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 17
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, are you there?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next person signed up to testify is Lucienne
de Naie. To be followed by Tom Blackburn-Rodriguez. Tom Blackburn-Rodriguez is
the last person we have currently signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Lucienne.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE ftestifvina on Countv Communication Nos. 20-569 and 20-576.
Committee Report 20-149. and Bill Nos. 116 (2020) and 117 (2020)1:
Good morning. Aloha. Nice to see you all again. This has been a busy week. And
thank you all for all you do. I have a few things to testify on today. And I would like to
start by supporting Council Communication 20-569, from Councilmember Sugimura.
And that's extending the eviction moratorium into 2021, urging the Governor to take
this action. As some of you may know, I serve on the board of Stand Up Maui, I'm the
secretary of the Affordable Housing Committee. And I have to say, you know, we're,
we're all working hard to find ways to create more affordable housing, but of course,
we need to keep people in the housing they already can afford. So, if, if we can extend
during these times, when we have such a high unemployment rate, the security that
families feel to know that they'll have a roof over their head as they try to get together
their finances and be able to afford their rent, I think it's the right direction to go. So,
just testifying as an individual in support of that.
Moving on to my next item which is item County Communication 20-567 [sic]. This is
the purchase of the Honokowai Reservoir. As some of you may know, this Reservoir
and another nearby, used to be connected to our County sewage treatment plant,
wastewater treatment plant in Lahaina. And the water was gratefully used by Pioneer
Mill to irrigate their fields. They mixed it with some water from the Honolua ditch
system. And they had a drought proof recipe to have water for their fields when there
was no rain.
Well, we have Hawaiian Homes now owning, I don't know, about 800 acres of land
surrounding the treatment plant. They just gave a wonderful update to the Board of
Water Supply yesterday, saying how much they were moving fonward with their ag
residences hoping to be able to offer them in the next year or so. So, being able to
have this reservoir, fix it up, use it to store R-1 water and make that water available to
Hawaiian Homes wpuld really help their plans and get more people in affordable
housing on land as well. So, thank you for your support of these, these two measures.
They're both helpful for our community for the long-term.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 18
And then moving on to the Council resolution 20-149, that you've heard so much about.
I have to say, as a senior and a retiree, many folks in my situation, especially local
families, rely on having a little rental so that they can make ends meet and, and actually
be retired and not have to have a second or third or fourth job after they retire. So, I
do support this idea of creating an incentive for long-term rentals. And I think that
eventually it would be great to have a incentive for affordable rentals as the Big Island
does. But this is a really good start.
I do agree with those who have said that limiting to 12 months for one tenant, I don't
know how many stories that, you know, I've heard of people renting where after
six months you just know it's not the right fit. So, I think it's more you want it
continuously occupied by a long-term renter for, for 12 months rather than, that it's only
after 12 months that a person, the property is considered a long-term rental. So, I
agree with Mr. Williams. You know, it could use a few tweaks but, before
implementation, but the concept is really sound. Let's support what we know we want
to do; and that is provide rentals that our families here are the first in line for.
And then the last thing I'd like to testify on is, I think it's Bill 116 and 117. I think I only
listed 117. But it's just the support to move forward on creating an expansion of our
Upcountry Agricultural Park. This is something's been talked about for a long time.
And I realize this is just kind of, you know, the finalization of what has been discussed.
But our community does support having more options for land. This piece of land is
maybe not the most ideal in many ways, but it's what we have right now, so it will
provide opportunities for folks. And we should move forward and give those
opportunities, especially as people might be looking to transition into new agriculturally
related businesses. So, thank you for your consideration. And wishing you all a Happy
Thanksgiving.
CHAIR LEE: Same to you. Thank you. Questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. de Naie, for your testimony.
My question is in regards to the Honokowai Reservoir. I just was wondering, are you
aware if this is in good working order, the reservoir?
MS. DE NAIE: My understanding is it is going to need some repairs, because it's old. The,
the toughest part was that there was kind of a breach at the ditch where the reservoir
and the ditch sort of had an interface. And I believe, and there was a tremendous leak
there, like three, four million gallons a day was just being lost. My understanding is
that Maui Land and Pine committed, got insurance money to fix this, and repaired it.
So, that's probably the most expensive thing that needs to be fixed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 19
But I believe I saw a, the Water Commission did a review of, of this idea of the County
taking over ownership of the reservoir. And they did do I think some sort of analysis
that it would need some repairs. But they weren't astronomical. They were like things
that, you know, could be afforded and much cheaper than constructing a brand-new
reservoir. So, it's repurposing and reutilizing something that was once part of the
system. But there's probably more details that the Water Commission report, that
probably is available online.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And then my last question would be, you know, like, so it looks
like from the report on our thing that it's appraised at a lesser amount. And knowing
how you feel about compliance with conditions, there's, this property owner hasn't
complied with conditions on so many of their projects, is it not something that we should
use as a negotiating?
MS. DE NAIE: Well, in your wisdom, if you want to do that, I have long testified about projects
this particular property owner has proposed for just that reason, because promises are
cheap, and fulfillment sometimes is long in being achieved. They did do some good.
They created some affordable housing, they created some parks. But in, in the last,
you know ...
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Like for Kapalua Mauka, we haven't received one compliance
report in the last 13 years.
MS. DE NAIE: Yea. No, that, that's absolutely unexcusable [sic]. I, I, if I were in your position,
I would use this as an opportunity to try to leverage for the public as much as could be
obtained. I, I think it's to their benefit to sell this asset. They're not really using it.
They're not in agriculture. But of course, you know, you need to consult with your
attorneys what you're allowed to do. And certainly, I guess the Administration, the
Council doesn't do these negotiations, the Administration does. But you could certainly
send that message.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I mean, if they're asking for more than the appraisal, eminent
domain seems like the way to go.
MS. DE NAIE: Yea, I, you know, not being an attorney, I don't know much about that. But
that is something, you know, the Council should get information on. This is a needed
part of moving forward. And it seems to me that Maui Land and Pine is really, should
have some incentive to sell. But, you know, I, I think that accountability is very
important.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 20
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any further questions? If not, thank you very much, Lucienne. Appreciate your
testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is Tom Blackburn-
Rodriguez. To be followed by Tom Croly.
MR. TOM BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ (testifvina on Countv Communication No. 20-569):
Good morning, Chair. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Morning. Yes, we can.
MR. BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ: Good morning and, to you and to Members of the
Committee. My name is Tom Blackburn-Rodriguez and I live in Kihei. First of all, let
me wish everyone an early Happy Thanksgiving. We need it. And congratulations on
your election results. You needed it. Also, mahalo to Councilmember Riki Hokama for
his service to the people of Maui County, and the honor he has brought to his family
with that service. Thank you very much, Riki.
I  am testifying in strong support on CO [sic] 20-569 resolution, offered by
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura, "URGING THE GOVERNOR TO EXTEND THE
EVICTION MORATORIUM INTO 2021 AND URGING THE STATE OF HAWAI'I TO
EXPEDITE ACCESS TO CARES FUNDING BY RESIDENTS WHO APPLIED FOR
RENTAL OR MORTGAGE ASSISTANCE PRIOR TO 2021".
In Hawaii, the unemployment rate in October was 14.3 percent. The Maui Food Bank
reported that it served 37,900 people with food assistance just last month. For the
unemployed, let's face it, the State system is broken. We don't need any more
emergency proclamations that run tens of thousands of pages. We need systems that
work. Questions go unanswered and ... are handled by human examiners, because
the system is, to review appeals cannot work with existing computer systems. Months
passed before questions are answered, months without assistance.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 21
The Hawaii State Rental and Mortgage Assistance Program has money, but not
enough staff can process the claims. So, instead of beefing up the staff of the
nonprofits that carry out the program, they just shut it down. What a shame. These
people are probably in charge of ordering lifeboats for the Titanic. Many people are
facing eviction notices the day after Christmas. Landlords are preparing them now.
Even the Mayor's well-intended turkey giveaway has had challenges in distribution
notices. They're still going to the mailboxes looking for the vouchers.
We owe a debt of gratitude to MEO, the Family Life Center, Feed My Sheep, the Food
Bank, and to the many volunteers in community and church distribution centers. One
suggestion to you, use money in the Affordable Housing Fund to pay for rent and
mortgage assistance in the similar way the CARES funding was used for business
rents and mortgage relief. The Affordable Housing Fund says, "It is the intent of this
chapter to encourage the provision and maintenance, maintenance of residential
workforce housing units were both purchased and rental, to meet the needs of income-
qualified households for the workforce, students, and special housing target needs".
I think that in our nation's worst public health ... I'll conclude with one sentence. This
language could be easily interpreted to help with mortgage and rental assistance. I
encourage you to explore it. Thank you again for your service. Happy Thanksgiving.
Thank you, Mr. Hokama. And thank you all for the opportunity to testify and for the
work you are doing for all of us. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Tom. Any questions for Tom?
Yes, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you,
Mr. Blackburn-Rodriguez and for that thought to look into the Affordable Housing Fund
as a possible tool to use to help meet, provide any housing assistance. And you were
very instrumental in helping us develop that fund years ago, so I want to thank you for
your help with that as well. Elaborate just a little bit more on how we can use this fund,
and maybe how to, the distribution of it. It's something worth exploring.
MR. BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ: Thank you very, thank you. Council Molina, and I would
encourage you to explore it. As we have discovered working with the State, oftentimes
there are pots of money sitting around that could be used for something we either didn't
know about it, or we didn't think about using it in a innovative way. It is my belief that
it is a, it is more useful to prevent people from losing affordable housing than it is to
spend 10 years in permits and planning to build affordable housing. The money is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 22
there now. All it takes is a decision by this Council that it falls within the parameters of
the enabling language and you can go forward.
Remember, and I think Kelly King mentioned this, and appreciate this very much. This
is my representative Kelly King. I would say that she pointed out that we were all
hoping for relief from the Federal government. It may or may not come. We, you know,
it almost seems to me like the, the old time when New York City was going bankrupt
and basically the headline said, "adios", you know. We cannot allow money to sit
around and not be used in innovative ways. Thank you for the question, Mr, Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. And it's quite timely, because with the recent
Charter amendment and passed by the electorate will set aside more funding in that
fund. So, so, thank you, Mr. Blackburn-Rodriguez. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any further questions? If not, thanks again, Tom. Have a great
weekend. Happy Thanksgiving.
MR. BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ: Thank you very much. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, we have one more I believe?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The last person signed up to testify is Tom Croly.
MR. TOM CROLY (testifying on Committee Report 20-149):
Aloha, Council.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. CROLY: Tom Croly here speaking on my own behalf. I did talk to you at, in Committee
about the changes to the real property tax. And I did not support them at this moment,
because I don't think that they have been fully vetted, and I don't think that we have
fully considered the unintended consequences that could happen.
However, some questions came up when I, when I testified the last time. And one that
I, I'll ask back right now, since the purpose of this legislation is to try to provide greater
equity, I'm wondering why you left in the ordinance 3.48.305, section D, which basically
says ignore everything else that's in this ordinance, and for this small group of people,
treat them differently, okay. So, if the idea of this ordinance is to treat everyone fairly,
I would encourage you to look at that section that says ignore everything that, that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 23
preceded this and treat just this small group of taxpayers differently than you treat
everyone else. So, that's first.
Second, in terms of highest and best use. I do want to remind the Council that anyone
can make the use of a home business, and in that home business they can employ
two people. And they can have eight cars a day coming to, to their homes, yet, all of
those folks qualify as homeowner. So, again, if we're going to say we want to treat
everyone the same, then everyone should be treated as a commercial business,
shouldn't they? Because everyone has the allowance to have this home business at,
at their home.
So, the, the third thing that I want to make a point is that we actually have a hotel that
gets homeowner under the current Code. So, if we're going to treat people the same
way, shouldn't we treat that hotel not as a homeowner and, and treat them, you know,
as we are everyone else?
That's, I'll leave it at that, because I've probably hit my three minutes. But there is one
more thing with respect to the long-term taxation. I believe that a better way we should
do that is to be giving the benefit to the renter directly and not to the landlord. So, if
we're going to create a long-term tax incentive, it should be directed directly to the
renter, and it should be done through their resident State tax return. And the County
could refund the State for that through, you know, some type of a fund that they set up
that is funded through our real property tax revenues. That way it wouldn't be, we give
the, the landlord a break and they may or may not pass that break on to, to the renter.
But that would require completely restructuring the . . . have the time . . . restructure
the bill next year, because we don't intend for this bill to take effect until the following
year. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions?
Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Mr. Croly, again. I
just, the last statement you made about giving the credit to the tenants, how does that
encourage more folks, more landlords to rent long-term to residents versus going into
short-term rentals, legal or illegal? Which is, the purpose of the bill is to encourage
more short-term or long-term rentals to residents. So, if you give it directly to the
tenant, how does that encourage the landlord?
MR. CROLY: Okay, so to, most properties on Maui are not allowed to make short-term rental
uses, okay. 55,000 units on Maui are not legally allowed to make short-term rental
uses. A very small number of properties have gone through the process and gotten
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 24
permit, either bed and breakfast permit or a short-term rental permit. And then a
medium sized number of properties, about 13,000, are allowed to make those uses in
condominium complexes. But the rest are not allowed to make short-term rental uses
at all legally, right? So, the idea that you would encourage someone who is not allowed
to make that use to not make that use through a tax incentive, I don't think that that
accomplishes anything.
Now, if your goal is you're saying I want to take some of the legal ones that are out
there, you know, perhaps in this case you're talking about condominiums, and
encourage that guy to make this use, again, I don't know that you will achieve that.
And, because the ones that you're talking about in that category, the ones that are
going to be affected by this, are people who own those condo units as their second
homes; that's their primary use of it, that's what they want to continue to make the use
of. And they're not going to give away the idea of using it as their second home to gain
some advantage, tax advantage.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, we're, right now we're, you know, some of the complaints
have been the higher rates on the, on the second homes, which remain empty. So,
that is part of it, is hoping that, you know, or if you want to get a tax break, then rent it
out long term to a resident. But the other part of the goal of this is, is, you know,
possibly giving an advantage to some of the permitted ones who aren't able to rent
them out. But also, the illegal ones, you know, to offer not just the stick, but the carrot
as well, to do the right thing instead of doing the wrong thing. So, you know, anyway,
I just kind of wanted to clarify that cause I'm not sure how giving it to the tenants would
accomplish that. But thank you.
MR. CROLY: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you for your input.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, Tom, I have a question. Which hotel has a home
exemption?
MR. CROLY: So, again, I don't like to speak of specific people in there, but there is a, a series
of cottages on South Kihei Road in the north part of Kihei Road. And I think there's I
think 10 or 12 cottages there. And the owner has a homeowner exemption and gets a
homeowner rate and is allowed to legally rent out those 12 cottages, because his
zoning is hotel. So, he's in hotel zoning, he lives on the property and he's allowed to
rent out the 12 units and, and pay homeowner rate on that. So, again, establishing
equity, which was part of the, the idea of this bill, we should be looking across the
board and not granting these exceptions for one person or another because we, we,
you know, for whatever reason.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 25
CHAIR LEE: Alright. I think Ms. Paltin also has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Croly, for your testimony:
always find it very educational. My clarification was the first part that you were talking
about. I think you were saying something like, if you want to treat this group equitably,
that we should look back as to why it was originally not equitable. And if you can clarify
if that's what you said, and I understood it correctly. And then I don't understand, I
mean, I don't think we're going to have time to do a lot of research between now and
voting. So, I was wondering if you could just-
MR. CROLY: Right. Sure. So, 3.48.305 is our part of the Code that specifies these are the
classifications, right? And then, we have amended that through the years and said, if
you're making this use, or you've gotten this permit, or, you know, these are your
situations, here's the category you fall in. So, all of that code is there. People can
agree with it or not, not agree with it; it is what it is.
But then, at the very end of all that code, we have a Section D, 3.48.305D and with this
new change, you're getting rid of C, so it becomes the new C. And here's what it
currently says, "Notwithstanding the forgoing, real property tax [sicJXhaX does not serve
as the owner's principal residence and was, prior to May 23, 2012, granted a
conditional permit for bed and breakfast or transient vacation rental use in accordance
with the comprehensive zoning ordinance, shall be classified as 'commercialized
residential"'. So, in one place, we say commercialized residential is only the B&B guys
and then we say, oh, except for these guys that we're going to throw in. And that was
your concern last week. So, if we are establishing equity and you're taking out a whole
section of Code, then take out this section too and then you have equity restored for,
for all those folks, okay?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. It, it is on my list. We are working on it.
MR. CROLY: Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I don't know how soon it'll come about, but I have a PAF in on
that.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more questions? If not, Tom, thank you.
MR. CROLY: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 26
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We do not have, we do not have any other testifiers noted. If
there is an individual connected to the meeting who has not testified, but would like to
do so now, please, please identify yourself. You can identify yourself in the meeting
chat, or we'll unmute everyone on our end too if you want to make yourself known.
This is our last call for testimony. If you are connected to the meeting and would like
to testify but have not done so, please identify yourself now.
Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have received written
testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, are there any objections to receiving the written testimony into
the record and to closing public testimony at this time?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
1. Jason Economou, Realtors Association of Maui, Inc.;
2. Sananda K. Baz, Managing Director; and
3. Lori Tsuhako, Director of Housing and Human Concerns.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. You need two minutes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair, if we could request a brief recess?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Just a brief rec~
Oh, yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Did, did, I'm sorry, did we accept the written testimony already?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 27
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, shoot I just wanted to make a correction.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. What correction were you thinking of?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The transmittal that got submitted as written testimony from
Director Tsuhako. That wasn't my condition. I'm just the facilitator. It was proposed
by Councilmember King. So, I just didn't want the record to reflect incorrectly.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Mr. Clerk, can we just make that adjustment?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yea, it's noted for the record. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now at this time, the Clerk has asked for a two-minute recess. So, please
don't go anywhere. He just has to do a couple of things and we'll get right back to
business. Okay, recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:12 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:15 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of November 20, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, shall we continue with minutes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maul's regular meeting of October 9, 2020, was
presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 28
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member Sinenci, to approve the minutes as read by the Clerk.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, any discussion? Any discussion, anyone?
Okay. All those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk, next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 20-562 - JOSEPH PONTANILLA. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK
GRANT PROGRAM MANAGER, (dated November 4, 2020)
Transmitting a notice of grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Office of Community Planning and Development for the CDBG-CV2
grant in the amount of $699,975.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 29
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, may I ask
you request the Clerk also call up County Communications 20-563 through 20-565?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk, could you read the, the county communications, as requested by Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez?
NO. 20-563 - KARLA H. PETERS. DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
(dated November 9, 2020)
Transmitting the quarterly report regarding Fiscal Year 2020 Countywide Park
Facilities for the period of July 1, 2020 through September 30, 2020.
NO. 20-564 - ROWENA M. DAGDAG-ANDAYA. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC
WORKS, (dated October 22, 2020)
Transmitting a copy of the FFY 2019-2022 Maui Transportation Improvement Program
Revision #7 Administrative Modification which includes the Kahana Nui Bridge
Replacement Project, Federal-Aid Project BR-3080(009).
NO. 20-565 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
(dated November 10, 2020)
Transmitting 73 contracts/grants for October 2020.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 20-562
THROUGH 20-565, EXCEPT FOR THOSE GRANTS AND
CONTRACTS THAT COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR
COMMITTEE REFERRAL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 30
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember
King, to file County Communications 20-562 through 20-565.
Discussion? Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I had a, I had one that I wanted to pull out. Is this the, is this
the time you want to do it~
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -before we actually take the vote?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, it is.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Let's see. The, the item that I wanted to pull up is, sorry
about this, I had it right in front of me. Okay, so I'm sorry about that; sorry about that.
The item that I wanted to ask to be referred is G5178, Ka Hale A Ke Ola Mobile Hygiene
Unit. And I'm not sure if that goes to the Affordable Housing Committee or the, the
HFC Committee, the Healthy Family and Communities. But I think maybe to the
Affordable Housing Committee, since I know Member Kama is also interested.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, now we're getting a-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin, can you turn off your mic?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But anyway, I wanted to, I wanted to ask to have that reviewed
since we're having some issues with the, the mobile hygiene units.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Referred to Affordable Housing Committee. So, that's one.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 31
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And, and Chair does that need to, does that also need a referral
for the following, to extend to the following year, or have we, have we done those
referrals yet in the housing committee? I can't remember.
CHAIR LEE: We haven't done the housing committee yet.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: We're going to do it, I think next, next meeting, I think.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: The 30^^
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. And then I saw a hand up by Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry about that. I'd like to pull out C6817-1. And if we could
refer it, I'm not sure. It's about the injection wells. Would that be, Member Sugimura,
would you be willing to have that one?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. WIT.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, she hasn't filed yet, either.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more contracts?
Yes, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Yea, consideration for Grant No. G5249,
Maui Nui Sustainable and Safe Tourism Management Initiative: referral to the Council
Chair for the term beginning January 2, 2021, pursuant to Rule 23 of the Rules of the
Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anymore?
Mr. Clerk, you're taking note of, of these three contracts, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 32
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair, we have them noted.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anymore?
Okay, so the motion on the floor is to file County Communications 20-562 through 565,
except for the three contracts as noted. All those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; Motion carries.
The other three, any objections to referring them to the appropriate Committees?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered. Okay.
Mr. Clerk, you're looking at me like you want us to take a vote on that. No? Okay.
You have that look that you have on your face when, when you want me to do
something. No? Okay, whoa I misread you.
Okay, next item for filing, Mr. Clerk.
NO. 20-566 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR.
(dated November 6, 2020)
Informing of a vacancy on the Salary Commission due to the resignation of Michele
Heile, effective November 6, 2020.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-566.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 33
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Councilmember Molina, seconded by Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to file County Communication 20-566.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The Mayor received
notice of Ms. Heile's resignation from the Salary Commission, effective November 6,
2020. I'd like to thank Ms. Heile for her participation in local government and for
volunteering her time for our community. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion?
Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I think we, we just confirmed
Ms. Heile, yea?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, that is correct. That was quite recent.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Like last month or something. Okay. Okay, mahalo,
Member Molina. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Okay, all in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your
hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk, next item.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 34
NO. 20-567 - JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY.
(dated November 6, 2020)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Report for the month ending October 2020.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Councilmember Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Madam Chair. If there are no objections, I'd
like to also ask the Clerk to also bring up County Communication 20-568?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And what about 569, no?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, can we take it up separately?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Sure.
Mr. Clerk, 567, 568.
NO. 20-568 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
(dated November 6, 2020)
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easements "U-1", "U-2", and "U-3", Kehalani
Modules 12 & 13 Subdivision, Wailuku, TMK: (2) 3-5-001:095, 097, & 102.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Councilmember Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 20-567 AND
20-568.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 35
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Councilmember Sugimura, seconded by Councilmember
Kama, to file County Communication 20-567 and County Communication 20-568.
Discussion, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. These are informational and no, no further
action is required by the Council. Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion,
please say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; Motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
NO. 20-569 - YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated November 12, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "URGING THE GOVERNOR TO EXTEND
THE EVICTION MORATORIUM INTO 2021 AND URGING THE STATE OF HAWAI'I
TO EXPEDITE ACCESS TO CARES ACT FUNDING BY RESIDENTS WHO APPLIED
FOR RENTAL OR MORTGAGE ASSISTANCE PRIOR TO 2021".
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO
THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-567 [SIC],
INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS, AND
TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-569.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 36
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Councilmember Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to
adopt the resolution in County Communication 20-569.
Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Please, may I ask the Clerk to read the
resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Clerk, for reading the resolution.
I wanted to, I just wanted to say that I heard from both sides of this issue. The
resolution spoke to the many people who are still waiting to get back to work. And it's
nice that we have hotels starting to open. And some of the people that I've been
seeing, they, they reported back to work, but it's a slow process just because of the
pandemic. We still have people who are not able to pay their rent because of lack of
income due to the pandemic. And to those people, this resolution was created just so
that they do not become homeless when this eviction moratorium ends ending of this
year.
I had an opportunity to voice my concern during the election to Governor Ige, hoping
that he would extend the eviction moratorium. And as you can, as you could hear from
testimony from Aloha United Way, Nick Winfrey, as well as Mr. Blackburn, you know,
there are people out there still in need. And we need to address that, because as you
all know, we have a homeless problem and we don't have enough housing to
accommodate these people, which may lose a roof over their head because of this
pandemic when there are funds available. So, that was my frustration.
I will also tell you that I heard from the other side which are the landlords saying that
there are people who have received funding or who, who have enough money but are
not paying their rent because they are, they're afraid of what may happen and they
know that they're protected because of the eviction moratorium. And so, that's the two
sides of the spectrum that is, I wish there was a solution so that we could, you know,
could help both sides.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 37
But, Members, I, I ask for your support of this as I, I know that this is something that is
a State concern. It is a resolution made out to Governor Ige, because he has the ability
to create the, to extend the moratorium. And I will tell you also that I already heard,
after this being introduced by the Council for today, that I also heard from
Representative Troy Hashimoto, who is going to be the Vice-Chair of Housing, and he
did entertain a conversation with landlords, as well, you know, both sides with Catholic
Charities or, you know, the processing of that $100 million. So, there's discussions out
there.
But Members, I still stand by the need to take care of those who are being affected
because of the pandemic. We're not out of the woods yet. And I would hate for us to
have our residents who would not have any housing because we don't have enough in
our community to provide for them if we don't help them with this problem. So, thank
you very much. I look forward to hearing from you and what you may feel about this.
But I ask for your support of this resolution. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Molina. You're muted. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Sorry about that. Thank you. Madam Chair. I'd like to thank
Councilmember Sugimura for this resolution. It certainly sends a very strong and
compassionate message to the Governor, and our State and Federal representatives
about the need of, our needs of our residents, especially in light of what could happen
soon.
I would like to ask Member Sugimura if she would consider adding a specific date to
the moratorium, because it says, just into 2021. Just wondering if we should be a little
more specific, December 31, 2021; June 30, 2021? Can you recommend a specific
date we could include in this reso?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You know, that's a very good point, Mr. Molina. I left it
past, or into 2021, because it just depends on this pandemic. If I can guess, I'll guess,
because we're hearing the vaccine to be released, that maybe we can look at midyear
for June 2021. But at the point of writing of this, we're still hearing, you know, the, that
was not as definitive as it is today from what we've been hearing on the news. So,
anyway, that was my reason anyway, for making it like that.
But I, if I can guess just because of the vaccine becoming available and home testing,
the cautions that we're seeing in, in, on the mainland for Thanksgiving, everybody's
supposed to, you know, like stay at home and, you know, be careful, shelter in place
still, so, I'll guess June 30, 2021, and leave it up to you. Members. I think we're all
hearing the same information.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 38
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you very much, Ms. Sugimura.
So, Madam Chair, I guess we could do it as a friendly amendment, or a formal
amendment, just to add more specificity to it, I think would help.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Could you make a motion, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE FIRST "BE IT RESOLVED" IN THE
RESOLUTION TO INCLUDE THE DATE OF JUNE 30, 2021.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Ms. Sugimura to amend the, the motion to
include a specific date to end the moratorium. Any more discussion?
I saw Mr. Hokama's hand up. No?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; Motion carries.
Now, the motion as amended.
Ms. Paltin, and then Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I'd like to move to amend the motion to include
Representative-Elect Kaiali'i Kahele, because it's for 2021 and let's not leave him out.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 39
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now, that could be a friendly amendment; just adding.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Mr. Clerk, did you-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We're all friends.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, did you get the name?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair; Representative-Elect Kai Kahele, right?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Mr. Hokama.
So, we're just going to add that in, with no objections, right?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I speak in support
of the motion as amended this morning made by Ms. Sugimura. I would ask the
Council, yes, to please support it.
I think there's couple of things that we should be aware of, though. You know, Treasury
Secretary Mnuchin has already, this morning in Washington D.C., directed the Fed to
return back $455 billion of unspent CARES money back to the government. And that
is also intended to eliminate all support currently for small business administration and
small business entities. So, we're looking at potential national restaurant closure
epidemic from this pandemic. And so, I just share that because I don't know if the
Governor will have access to CARES, since now, the Secretary of Treasury has made
a directive that unspent or unencumbered funds needs to be returned.
Interesting enough though, the Fed Chair and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has
pushed back strongly against this Administration effort, where they feel it'll be a greater
impact in not helping us regarding the economy and further closures nationwide of
what is now going to be an economic warfare from the pandemic. So, I just share
these things, because this is the reality we're going to have to face, that some of the
pots of monies we're looking at may not be available for us in the future.
Regular Meeting of the Ccuncii of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 40
And so, I just ask us that we need to be aware of what's happening in D.C. The end
of the Trump Administration is creating some challenges that we really don't need at
this time, but they're making it happen. So, we're going to need to fight through this,
and persevere and find other ways to maybe address the concerns. But it will definitely
impact this subject regarding rental and mortgage assistance to our residents. So,
thank you very much. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I support the, the resolution. I would've
supported it with an open ended no date, because we really don't know what's going
to happen, and things could get worse, things could get better. I have hope regarding
Mr. Hokama's information that things will get better after January 20, and funds will be
returned. That our, I mean, there's some, almost feels like sabotage going on right
now in our country by our outgoing leader. But I have hope for the future, and I think
things could turn around.
I, I also wanted to say that I'm not as confident in the vaccine being widely available.
So, I think we can't count on a date certain that we're all going to have access if and
when there is a vaccine. And we also don't know if the majority, in order for it to work,
people have to be willing to take it as well. So, so I think there's a lot of unanswered
questions out there right now and I'm glad that we're giving support to people who are
still suffering, because, and this is the type of thing that I would, would've hoped that
we could've, you know, we keep doing these urging resolutions, because we're not
getting the transparency that the general public is asking for it as well.
So, thank you. Member Sugimura, for bringing this forward, supporting all of our
struggling tenants and residents out there. But, I, I, I, I'm not sure that we aren't going
to need, you know, if it does get extended, have it extended beyond June 2021, or
even shortened. But, you know, let's hope for the best. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Yes, Mr. Molina, and then Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. My apologies cause I going be a
little bit picky again. Just in the second "BE IT RESOLVE", it mentions "to expedite
access to CARES Act funding to residents who applied for rental or mortgage
assistance prior to 2021". It seems a little vague, so I'm wondering if Member Sugimura
and the rest of my colleagues could consider strengthening this by revising the second
"BE IT RESOLVED" to include the specific entities who would have a role in the rental
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 41
or mortgage assistance. So, basically, something could read like what I'm about to
say, state, "that it urges the State of Hawaii and its partners to expedite access to
CARES Act funding through the State of Hawaii Rent Relief and Housing Assistance
Program, Department of Hawaiian Home Lands COVID-19 Emergency Rental
Assistance, and Aloha United Way COVID-19 Rent & Utility Assistance, prior to 2021".
So, I just throw it out there. I mean, if the Members would like to include that as well.
If not, I understand. But again, just trying to do whatever we can to strengthen the
resolution even more so.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, is there a second? Yes, Ms. Sugimura. What is, you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No, I just want to, I just want to make a statement that I
appre-
CHAIR LEE: You muted yourself by accident, I think.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Wrong way. So, I appreciate what you're saying, because
specific, more clarity is better. The only problem is the, I know about Aloha United
Way, Catholic Charities, and then you also have, like, others that I don't know maybe,
you know. And so, that's why I'm afraid of saying specifically, because when I look at
what's happening throughout the State, I know what's happening here on Maui; MEO
is doing a great job, Family Life Center, you know. And, and they're doing CARES Act
funding, but they're, to me they're not the problem. The problem is the State side, you
know, with their broad $100 million and that's what is having a hard time being pushed
out. So, I'm a little, I'm, I'll do what, I'll go with whatever, you know, the Members have
to say. But because of not knowing all the partners out there, I hate to narrow it down,
and then we end up missing maybe something that was important. So, that's my only
caution about that.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Member Sugimura, if that makes you more
comfortable, I'm okay with it. Yea, I wasn't really aware that there could be other State
partners involved. But again, I'll leave it up to you and respect your wishes. But again,
my reason is just to, you know, add as much clarity to the resolution.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, and you're good at that.
So, I have one more thing.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 42
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, before we take a vote, I just want to
announce, because we're talking about Catholic Charities, is that they have a website,
anybody who applied. Because my office has been getting calls, like did we qualify,
did we get the money? And if they could go to COVID-19.catholiccharitieshawaii.org,
and they can put in their name, I don't know if it's social security, whatever-
CHAIR LEE: Ms., Ms. Sugimura, let's take the vote, and then you can say that.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. I'm just speaking in favor of it. Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments or questions on the motion? If not, all those in favor of the
motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much. Motion carries.
Now, your commercial.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Alright, thank you. Thank you. Chair. This Council's so
fun. So, if anybody who applied with Catholic Charities and you're wondering if, if you
qualified or if your application was received, because they were so inundated with
applications. First week, Maui office got like 1500 applications and a lot of them were
duplicates because people were so anxious, but you can check by going to
COVID-19.catholiccharitieshawaii.org. And I'm going to put this on my social media so
that people will know.
And I, I just want to also take this time to commend MEG, who launched the HELP
Program in March. And they were really ahead of the game to make this happen; and
helped a lot of people. But a big gap in terms of financial needs out there in the
community. So, thank, thanks for letting me do my commercial. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, what do we have next on the agenda?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 43
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that's RESOLUTION 20-164.
Proceeding with County Communications for referral. The following County
Communications are recommended referral to the following Committees as noted.
NO. 20-570 - KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated November 12, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 16.16B.R401.2, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO ENERGY CODE
COMPLIANCE FOR LARGE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS".
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-570 be referred to the Climate
Action and Resilience Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Hold it, hold it. Mr. Clerk, one second.
Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO REFER COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-570 TO
THE COUNCIL CHAIR FOR THE TERM BEGINNING
JANUARY 2, 2021, IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 23 OF THE
RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you, Chair. The, just to let folks know that, because
we did our referral already, and the next Climate Action and Resilience Committee is,
meeting is scheduled for December 16, 2020. So, if the item is not, is referred to the
CAR Committee today, there's a chance it could be auto filed at the end of the term,
so I'm just asking to extend it to the next term.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 44
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
NO. 20-571 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
(dated November 10, 2020)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the 2020 Proposed General Obligation Bond Fund as
of September 23, 2020.
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-571 be referred to the Economic
Development and Budget Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's take, hold, hold up, Mr. Clerk.
Okay. Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, you want that referred? Cause I'm going to stop at 20,
20-572.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yea, it can be referred. And I didn't
do my referral for the term, so it'll be~
CHAIRLEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -in my list.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, the next item, Mr. Clerk. Isn't that your item?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Clerk's Office item.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, Clerk's Office, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'll be, my intention is to take action on that item
today. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
Mr. Clerk. If you could read it and then, and then stop, yea. Read it and then we're
going to take action on it, okay?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 45
NO. 20-572 - ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR.
(dated November 13, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX A, PART I, GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE
OF GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND
PROGRAMS. OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK, (CENTER FOR TECH AND CIVIC
LIFE GRANT)".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to waive
the Rules of the Council.
Discussion, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This item is time sensitive. The
urgency is that this funding is from the CARES Act, which expires next month. So,
we'll need to take action on this quickly if we would like to receive the funds. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any further discussion? Well, that's for the Rule, right? Any further
discussion on waiving the Rule? Okay. All those in favor, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 46
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING,
INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS. AND
TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-572.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to pass
the bill on first reading. And so, it is Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez turn to explain all
of this. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The purpose of the proposed bill is
to amend Appendix A, Part I of FY 2021 Budget by adding a new appropriation entitled,
"14. Office of the County Clerk, a. Center for Tech and Civic Life Grant" for $130,456.
The Tech and Civic Life Grant exclusively provides for the public purpose of planning
and operationalizing safe and secure election administration in Maui County in 2020.
This grant provides for such specific 2020 election administration needs, such as ballot
drop boxes; drive-thru voting; election departmental, election department real estate
cost or cost associated with satellite election department offices; nonpartisan voter
education; personal protective equipment for staff poll workers or voters; poll worker
recruitment funds; hazard pay and/or training or expenses, or training expenses;
polling place rental; and cleaning expenses for, cleaning expenses for early voting or
election day; temporary staffing; vote by mail; absentee voting equipment or supplies;
and election administration equipment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 47
The grant project period of June 15, 2020 through December 31, 2020 represents the
dates between which covered costs may be applied to the grant. The County shall
expend the amount of this grant for the stated purpose by December 31, 2020.
This grant may not supplant previously appropriated funds. The grantee shall not
reduce the budget of the County Clerk Election Department or fail to appropriate or
provide previously budgeted funds to the Election Department for the term of the grant.
As a side note, the Office of the County Clerk is currently in the process of reconciling
its election related expenses for submittal to the state of. State Offices of Elections, as
some expenditures by law are prorated and reimbursable from the Office of the, from
the Office of Elections back to the counties. Additionally, the Office of Elections is
administering a statewide elections related COVID-19 response grant that also
provides for some level of reimbursement for unbudgeted expenses incurred in
response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
I respectfully ask, request that this matter be expedited for review and action. We also
have our County Clerk Kathy Kaohu, on the line if Members have questions. Mahalo
for your attention on this matter. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair. For what it's worth, will this
grant provide more assistance to the Legislative or Elections Division? Just curious. I
guess if Ms. Kaohu could answer that if, if she's-
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Kaohu, are you on the call?
COUNTY CLERK KATHY KAOHU: Hi. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
COUNTY CLERK: It, it doesn't extend to the Legislative branch. It's specifically for elections
related expenditures.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: And then just to add a quick, the 50-50 between the State and the County
is pretty much for everything with the exception of voter registration expense,
expenditures and voter education expenditures.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 48
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions? If not, ail those in favor of the motion to pass the
bill on first reading, please say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you.
Next item, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 122 (2020).
NO. 20-573 - MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR.
(dated November 13, 2020)
Transmitting the following:
1. A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL
YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
ESTIMATED REVENUES; DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, GOVERNMENT
FACILITIES, BOND FUND, ACQUISITION OF 60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
BUILDING AND PROPERTY; TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT
APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)";
2. A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL
YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF
FINANCE, ACQUISITION OF 60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET BUILDING AND
PROPERTY";
3. A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE
NO. 5101, BILL NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE, SALE AND
DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE - ACQUISITION
OF 60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET BUILDING AND PROPERTY)"; and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 49
4. A proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION OF
APPROXIMATELY 41,257 SQUARE FEET IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY
NOS. (2) 3-4-013-010, AND (2) 3-4-013:023 (POR.), SITUATED AT WAILUKU,
MAUI, HAWAII, FOR AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $3,720,000.00".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE,
COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember King,
to waive the Rules of the Council.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. As discussed in your Economic
Development and Budget Committee this week, this item is time sensitive. There were
questions that the Members had, and Finance Director Scott Teruya is on the line.
The~
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, all those in favor of waiving the Rule, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 50
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON FIRST
READING, INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE
REVISIONS: ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION,
INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS; AND
TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-573.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass the bills on first reading and filing of the communications.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, as discussed in the
Economic Development and Budget Committee on November 18, 2020, the County
was given the first opportunity to purchase this property, but needs to finalize the
agreement by the end of the calendar year or the property will be listed on open market.
The property at 60 Church Street will, would be used to house the Maui Emergency
Management Agency. The department, the building already includes a generator that
would be beneficial during a natural disaster. In addition, the property is large enough
so that departments that do not require regular interaction with the public could also
be moved into that space, thus freeing up open, freeing up office space in the
Kalana O Maui Building to relocate departments who are currently leasing space
outside of the campus.
As explained by the Director of Finance and the Managing Director, while there will be
some renovation costs, the new net cost would be zero to savings from reduced lease
expenses.
We also have, as I mentioned. Director Teruya on, with, to follow up on some of the
questions that was asked during Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr.-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, if Members-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hokama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 51
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Chair. I was going to ask if you would allow
Finance Director to give his comments? Cause I'm curious as they reported they
responded to Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez' Committee. So, I would like to hear from
Mr. Teruya, what is his answers to the Committee's questions, please.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Teruya, are you on the call?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE SCOTT TERUYA: Yes. Thank you, Chair. Good morning.
Members. Do you guys want to repeat the questions, or you want me to, I, I submitted
about 45 pages to the Committee regarding significant portions of the report that
address the report. I don't know if you want, do you want our version, or you want the
30 second version, or if you have specific questions that you can ask?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Teruya, we definitely don't want the one-hour version. But there may be~
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: -specific questions. Specific questions, though. Members.
Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. Chair. And, yea, thank you, Mr. Teruya. I got
the report this morning. I had a chance to go through it quickly. So, I would say, yea,
it verified a lot of the things that was mentioned at the Budget Committee's review.
And I appreciate the comparisons that you provided, because it shows you can actually
go down below $200 per square foot depending again on your design requirements.
The one thing that I would say, again, if, make it clear for this Council please,
Mr. Teruya. The deadline of the transaction has to be completed by December 31,
according to the seller?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Mr. Teruya.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Thank you. Chair. Mr. Hokama, yes, your, part of the agreement,
that negotiation to get to a sales price and agreement, the seller's request is that they
close by the end of the calendar year, and therefore, the need for us to have gotten
this at the price that we are negotiated at. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. So, just so the Council is clear and all nine of us
understand what you're asking, when you say, "closing by the end of the year", what
does that entail please, Mr. Teruya?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 52
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: In my understanding, that would be, it would be it went through
escrow and it is recorded at the Bureau of Conveyances.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. I, I will say I can support. I, you know, I've got some
mani, not manini, but I got some small issues. But I see the bigger picture and I will
support my Budget Chair recommendation. However, since this is really pushing us at
this time of the term, I don't see a problem why the seller cannot do the recordation
requirements on their own. They want it closed by the end of the month. They can do
and have it recorded and walk it through Bureau of Conveyances or Land Court if that's
what they want; that's fine with me. But I'm happy to support the Budget Director to
appropriate the purchase for the acquisition. Is that something doable, Director?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Absolutely, whichever way expedites it at the best of, of both
parties will be done. We are working in concert with the sellers and the representative,
Mr. Friedlander, on, on this transaction. So, it is in our best interest as well to get it
done as soon as possible, so we can start doing the next phase of getting it occupied
and removing our leases as, accordingly.
So, Members, just a real quick point that if you got my transmittal. Chair Lee's best
example that I'm sure she likes is the last page, which is a one-page summary. So,
Ms. Lee, you can throw all, first 43 pages away and keep the last page, and you'll have
all your information there.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Teruya. I was disappointed you didn't have pictures, but that's
okay. Maybe next time, graphics.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: There is a lot of pictures in there, actually.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Alright. Anymore?
Yes, Ms. Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm not sure I got that transmittal that we're talking about.
Where, where would it be? Oh, it's on the Granicus? That's the one? That's, that's
the same one that's attached to the agenda item, right?
CHAIR LEE: How did, wait. Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk, was it uploaded to Granicus this morning?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 53
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, so, this is in reference to the letter from the Managing
Director. We-
CHAIR LEE: County Communication 20-573, about the purchase of the Hawaiian Telephone
Company property. He said~
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, the only thing we have on~
CHAIR LEE: He said, he said 45 pages, and then the last one is the summary.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, that report, that 45-page one, no, we do not have it. The
only thing that's on Granicus for the Council item is, is the County Communication itself.
But that report, I believe would be in the EDB Committee's files. So, they may be able
to find it there. And then the summary was transmitted to us directly, but that's not
uploaded on Granicus.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: What Mr. Hokama held up, it looks like page 31 of the 154-page
document on Granicus. Is that the one? And then-
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair, what I can, what I can do is basically it's a summary of the
entire packet that you were given. The only thing I added, and I can share my screen,
is the last page. And I, it's, I can do that, I can try to attempt to show that showing,
using, sharing my screen share. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Wait. Ms. Paltin, do you want him to share his screen or just email it to us?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think the one that he's going to share his screen was the one,
is that the two pages emailed by the County Clerk?
CHAIR LEE: James?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Summary of facts?
CHAIR LEE: James?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the, the summary that Director Teruya is referencing, we
did email out to the Members as part of the testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Okay. That's what I thought.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, the Members should have the summary.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 54
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And then the 45 pages that Mr. Hokama's referring to,
that was on our Granicus for Friday from before, then? It's not a new document?
CHAIR LEE: In, it's actually supposed to be in EDB, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, it was on the Council attached to this item. There's
154-page document, and then I think the 45-page one that Mr. Hokama is saying is
within that 154-page document? Something USPAP?
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Yea, Ms. Paltin. If you look on Communication 573 on page
108, you will see the "SUMMARY OF VALUE CONCLUSIONS" that the Finance
Director has provided. The list, cost approach, income approach, direct sales
comparison approach. He provides a 50 percent undivided interest value. And then
the two methods of calculation, they gave us two different numbers that you would see
on the page. And one justifies the request for funding this morning.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's the one with the leased fee and the fee simple? Okay.
And, and we're purching it, purchasing it fee simple?
CHAIR LEE: With the lease buyback. But Ms. Paltin, did you want to take a short recess, so
that you could review these items?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No. I, I reviewed the 154 pages previously. I just wasn't sure
if the 45-page document that Mr. Hokama was referring to was a brand new document.
And it looks like this two-pager that the County Clerk uploaded is the new document.
So, I, I don't need a recess. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure I didn't miss reading
extra paper that came through.
CHAIR LEE: By all means, we don't want you to miss anything, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Fastidiousness.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, that's right. And you're just like our resident librarian. Okay, anybody
else? Okay, are we ready to vote on this matter?
All those in favor of approving the recommendations in County Communication 20-573,
please raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 55
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it looks like nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now I remember, now I remember there was nothing, there was no documentation in
EDB. I forgot about that. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So, Mr. Clerk, moving on. The next item.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, these are BILLS 123 (2020), 124 (2020),
AND 125 (2020); respectively. And the resolution is RESOLUTION 20-165.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Continuing with county communications for referral.
NO. 20-574 - KARLA H. PETERS. DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
(dated November 10, 2020)
Transmitting the semiannual report regarding park dedications for each community
plan area for the period of April 1, 2020 through September 3, 2020.
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-574 be referred to the Healthy
Families and Communities Committee.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-574 WAS FILED LATER IN
THE MEETING. See pages 57 and 58 for discussion.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 56
NO. 20-575 - TAMARA PALTIN. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated November 13, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "REFERRING TO THE MAUI PLANNING
COMMISSION A PROPOSED BILL RELATING TO UNLAWFUL CONSUMPTION OF
INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS 1 AND 2 (LAHAINA)".
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-575 be referred to the Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
(THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-575 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING AND ASSIGNED RESOLUTION NO. 20-166 .
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-575 WAS THEN FILED. See
pages 59 through 68 for discussion.)
NO. 20-576 - ERIC A. NAKAGAWA. DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT, (dated November 5, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING THE PURCHASE OF
LAND LOCATED AT HONOKOWAI RESERVOIR. ISLAND AND COUNTY OF MAUI,
PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.44, MAUI COUNTY CODE".
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-576 be referred to the Water,
Infrastructure, and Transportation Committee.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-576 WAS LATER
REFERRED TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET
COMMITTEE. See pages 68 through 70 for discussion.)
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to referring the items as read by the County Clerk, not including
the EDB item 20-573? Yea, okay. All in favor? No objections? No objections?
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Objection.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 57
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-574
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: I would like to-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry to interrupt. But I would
like to ask for a consideration with Communication 20-574, please?
CHAIR LEE: Alright. You mean to take action now?
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Yes. Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA:
I WOULD LIKE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-574.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Mr. Hokama, seconded by Ms. Sugimura, to file County
Communication 20-574.
Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Madam Chairman. Members, if you take a look
at the report from the Department, it's very short, very concise. And you don't see a
lot of information. One of the reasons why I'm going to ask for a filing is that this is
how you're going to see future reports unless the next Council makes appropriate
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 58
adjustments. Currently, what is in effect now in our Code, by our last adjustments on
real property taxation rates and categories, the community plan regions are basically,
have been whittled down to collecting almost zero revenues from park assessment
calculations. And so, we are not getting the revenues in each regional component.
And if you look at the reports, you will see, even for West Maui and South Maui, has a
potential source of CIP support is dwindling away because we haven't made the
appropriate adjustments in the calculations for park assessments or in lieu of.
I have an item for referral to the next Council already on the master agenda. I'm going
to ask you to please consider filing this report and work on it next year. Or, you need
to make the developer pay for the improvements, because right now, other than that,
we allow the developer to pay us, right now you're going to get zero dollars, and the
General Fund is going to then have to ante up and pay for the developments'
improvements. Okay. So, that's where we are with park assessment fees, currently,
after our last adjustments on RPT.
If there's any questions, I'll be happy to respond. Thank you, Chair. Thank you.
Members.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments or questions to filing this item? Okay, all those in favor of
the motion to file-
Oh, Ms. Sugimura. Oh, you voting, already? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm voting.
CHAIR LEE: Say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries to file County Communication 20-574.
Any objections to referring the rest?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 59
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-575
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I'D LIKE TO MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF
COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL FOR COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-575.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Ms. Paltin, seconded by Mr. Molina, to waive the Rules of the Council.
Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of the entire
membership of the Council will enable the Council to consider the proposed resolution
today.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Question.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. And, Ms., Ms. Paltin, can you just give us an
indication of the urgency to pass it today?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea. This is something that we've consulted with Mr. Lawrence
Kauha'aha'a about in his work with the pilot Clean and Safe Program. And with the,
you know, the County reopening up and the situation on Front Street in the Historic
Districts, this is, it's the start of a very long process. It has to go through the Planning
Commission and Cultural Resource Commission. And it's basically trying to align the
alcohol situation within the Historic District with what it currently is outside of the
Historic District, in terms of Parks properties. So, you know, with the tourists coming
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 60
back, the situation with intoxicating substances going on in the Historic District. I can
explain more if the, I get the waiver.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: We're, we're still on the waiver.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Of the Rule.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Paltin, is a waiver required for this?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's what my notes says.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the waiver, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-575,
INCLUDING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS, AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-575.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 61
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Ms. Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to~
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: -to adopt the resolution in County Communication 20-575.
Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. May I ask, request the Clerk to read the
resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I ALSO MOVE TO AMEND THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION,
MEMBERS SHOULD HAVE GOTTEN A ASF, PAF 20-258.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we have it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
AND THIS WOULD AMEND THE RESOLUTION
TRANSMITTED BY COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-575 AS
FOLLOWS:
AT THE END OF THE FIRST BE IT RESOLVED CLAUSE, ADD
FOLLOWING AFTER THE WORD "AMENDED":", AND TO THE
MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCES COMMISSION"
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 62
IN THE SECOND BE IT RESOLVED CLAUSE. REPLACE
"TRANSMIT ITS" WITH "AND THE MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL
RESOURCE fS/C; COMMISSION TRANSMIT THEIR"
IN THE THIRD BE IT RESOLVED CLAUSE. INSERT THE
FOLLOWING BETWEEN THE WORDS "DIRECTOR." AND
"AND": "MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCES
COMMISSION,".
And as I spoke of earlier, last term, last-
CHAIR LEE: Wait. You can discuss it after we get a second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: You're amending the main motion.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second, seconded by Mr. Hokama.
Okay. Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Now you can explain it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, when we started the Lahaina Clean and Safe pilot program
with Mr. Lawrence Kauha'aha'a, he had a couple appointments to speak with me. And
this was one of the suggestions that he had. Apparently, you know, way back in the
day when they used to do softball around by Malu ulu o lele, you know, the. afterwards
you'd have some drinks and what not. So. they never wanted to not allow liquor in
Parks properties in the Historic District.
But now. Softball isn't played over there anymore, and the area, you know, kind of by
Na 'aikane and like that, the tennis courts and stuff, there's, there is a lot of drinking
and vagrancy and just, you know, general undesirable behavior. And so. this is not
anything different than what Parks allows in their properties outside of the Historic
District. So, in a way. it's trying to align what is allowed in Parks properties.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 63
The, the difference is that because it's in the Historic District, before we can take any
action, it needs to go through the Maui Planning Commission and the Cultural
Resources Commission. So, it's still going to come back to us, but it's just getting the
process started already. You know, it's, with the tourists coming back and those types
of situation.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I thought we could eliminate a step of going to Committee to
refer it to these two Commissions for them to come back to Committee to take action.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Yes, Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Just a quick question for clarification. Ms. Paltin, you've
narrowed it down to intoxicating liquor instead of just intoxicants. So, is, is, you just
going to focus on the alcohol portion of the concern for the area, with Mr. Kauha'aha'a?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, it was, it was basically just removing a section that allowed
for it. And I, I did want to share with the Committee, as well, that my office has checked
in with area stakeholders and they were for this bill. We checked in with Na'aikane O
Maui, Ke'eaumoku and U'i Kapu. We checked in with Theo Morrison, Lahaina
Restoration Foundation. We checked in with Tambara Garrick, LahainaTown Action
Committee; Buff Weaver, who's like, you know, a long-time restaurant guy and now I
think he manages Long's.
So, it was well, well received by many of the stakeholders, and it was suggested by
Mr. Kauha'aha'a to assist the police with consistency and being able to carry out their
duties in this Historic District. Mr. Kapu even wanted to have no alcohol in the Historic
District whatsoever, but this is just, you know, taking, doing what we can to align Parks
properties countywide, especially in our Historic District.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Yea, so this would be my only question or comment of
potential concern, Ms. Paltin, is: one, I hope we would consider, to assist the
Commissions we would attach a overlay or the map of the Historic Districts itself. So,
people who want to look at, know what is District 1, District 2. And then, I believe
Moku'ula is within one of the district areas, right?
And so, I want to make sure that if cultural practice, whereas religious-wise, the kava
ceremony is going to be part of it, that is considered an intoxicant in some instances.
So, would that, you know, I want to make sure that we still can honor and do our
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 64
required cultural and religious practices without being impaired by this type of
language. So, I just share that concern. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr., Mr. Molina, and then Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair. If I could ask Member Paltin a
question. Mr. Kauha'aha'a, as we know, is a retired policeman and I guess he served
as a liaison between the, the Police and everyone else. So, Police are okay with this
too, yea, just for the record?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: He told me yes, that they, they would, it would help them, and
they want it. That's what our conversation was.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Alright. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, I was going to ask similarly the reaction for
LahainaTown Action Committee, Theo Morrison, because you have merchants who
are in the area. I'm not, I'm not really specific, the historic, the map of the Historic
Districts. So, is this also going to affect any of the other, any restaurants that might be
in that area? No?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, no. And just to clarify, Theo Morrison is now Lahaina
Restoration Foundation.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right. Right.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And she was enthusiastically supportive. It, it, it's pretty much
for the park properties.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so LahainaTown Action Committee, which is-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Tambara-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea. They're, they're fine?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I reached out to Tambara-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Okay, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 65
CHAIR LEE: Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I have a question for Member Paltin. I kind of
relate the two intoxicating liquor as kind of redundant. But are there, are there
examples of, of liquor that's not intoxicating?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Maybe NA, St. Pauly's Girl or something.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just don't have the description, the HRS description in front of
me. I'm just wondering, you know, we use that term intoxicating liquor. I thought, I
thought liquor was intoxicating just in and of itself. But that's, and it kind of goes back
to Member Hokama's question too; is there some other type of something that would
be considered liquor that wouldn't be?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: In the ordinance, it says, "intoxicating liquor means the same
as in Section 281-1 of Hawaii Revised Statutes".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And~
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just wondered if you had, if you, if there was something in mind
when using that term, because I, I saw that description but I don't have, this just came,
I didn't know we were going to pass it today, so I didn't have time to look up the HRS.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I have it up if you want.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, maybe Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: You have it? You have it?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, it's liquor or intoxicating liquor under
HRS 281-1, includes alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, okolehao, sake, beer, ale,
porter, and wine; and also includes, in addition to the forgoing, any spirituous, vinous,
malt, or fermented liquor, liquors [sic], and compounds, whether medicated.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 66
proprietary, patented, or not, in whatever form and of whatever constituency and by
whatever name called, containing one-half of one per cent or more of alcohol by
volume, which are fit for use or may be used or readily converted for use for beverage
purposes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, you said, liquor or intoxicating. So, if, by MRS, liquor is the
same as intoxicating liquor it sounds like. Just, just to make it clear to the public that
there's no difference.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I don't think it includes 'awa.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: -so, does it have to be ingested? I mean, because, you know,
American-Indians burns sage, right? And it's almost the, almost same kind of effect.
But, so I'm just asking.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I can, yea, I can, I can read it for you. It says, "Drinking in
public. It is unlawful to consume, whether medicated, proprietary, patented, or not, in
whatever form and of whatever constituency and by whatever name called, containing
one-half of one percent or more alcohol by volume, which are fit for use or maybe used
or readily converted".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. That's, that's fine. I just wanted to, I just wondered if there
was a difference, and it doesn't sound like there is. But, yea, the consumption, I think,
is important. Because you could, if you have a bag, if you have a grocery bag, you
have a bottle of wine and you're walking through town, that's not illegal, cause you
can't open it up and drink it in that district. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And, and to Ms. Sugimura's point; "in any public street, park,
or open space that is owned or maintained by a government agency, without the
expressed approval of the responsible government agency having administrative
authority over the public street, park or open space, and the Cultural Resources
Commission, or in any street, park, or open space that is privately owned without the
expressed approval of the owner of the property-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so this would actually, so this would actually eliminate all
drinking in the street, during, if they ever get back to those Halloween, Front Street
Halloween. This will eliminate all the, you know, and I've seen people, I don't know
even if it's legal, maybe it's not legal for them to-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 67
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, I don't think that was legal.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So probably ... in the first place. Okay. Alright, well and then
we're going to sit, we'll get it back after the Planning Commission, so we can-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And the Cultural Resources.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Cultural Resources. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Ready?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Both.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, ready for the vote.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand. Yea, and
cause we all, as amended, cause we already voted on the amendments, so as
amended. Okay. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, Chair. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. Our understanding is that the body has not voted on
the amendment yet.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, this would be the vote on the amendments, okay.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; that takes care of the amendments.
The main motion, as amended. All in favor say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 68
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 20-166.
And then, we'd just like to confirm with the body if there's any other objections to the
referrals as read by the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Any?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: If I could, I have a question.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-576
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I know the last item got referred to my Committee, and
that's fine. I wonder if, I, I saw Director come into the meeting, and I wonder if Eric
Nakagawa sees an urgency for that last item? If not, I'll take it up in my Committee at
my next meeting on December 3.
CHAIR LEE: I don't think so. We have, we weren't notified.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Paltin. Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, I just was wondering, on the purchase part, is it like a dual
referral to EDB as well?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, because they're, they're. I mean.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 69
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Okay. We, we can do that. Oh, would you just, would you okay,
Ms. Sugimura, just it going to EDB?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, fine.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's send this to EDB.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Like what she did the last time. Oh, there's Eric.
CHAIR LEE: EDB, because it'll be a lot longer if it went to two Committees.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Mr. Nakagawa, are you on the call?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. He's right here.
CHAIR LEE: He's right here, where?
DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ERIC NAKAGAWA: Good morning.
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. So, is there any particular rush to, to move fon/vard with this purchase
of the land located at Honokowai Reservoir?
DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT: Yes, Chair. So, I did communicate with
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez that it would be, I mean, we would appreciate, DEM would
appreciate if we did expedite it, only because we do have funds available this year that
will-
CHAIRLEE: Oh, okay. Okay.
DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT: -lapse next year.
CHAIR LEE: That's enough. That's enough. That's enough. So, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez,
were you going to take action on this today? Were you planning to take-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Not on the floor today. I was going to take, schedule
it at my next Committee meeting as Director Nakagawa said. I just, I, good catch.
Mahalo, Member Paltin. I, I didn't even notice that it was going to WIT and not EDB.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 70
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, the referral to your Committee would suffice for today? Right? Okay.
Thank you. We'll catch you when it's scheduled for EDB, okay?
Any other questions on the referrals, as read by the Clerk?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk, moving on to Committee reports.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-146 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 126 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 3.48, MAUl COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO REAL PROPERTY
TAX EXEMPTIONS FOR VERY LOW INCOME, LOW INCOME, BELOW
MODERATE INCOME AND MODERATE INCOME RENTAL UNIT
PROJECTS," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
and
2. That County Communication 20-455, from the Director of Finance, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-146.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 71
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
King, to adopt the recommendation in Committee Report 20-146.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Economic Development and
Budget Committee met on November 9, 2020, to discuss the proposed bill to amend
Chapter 3.48, Maui County Code.
Your Committee noted that under Ordinance 5000 (2019), the Code allows an
exemption for affordable-housing projects only if they are operating under a regulatory
agreement with the County government. This bill would allow previously eligible
projects that are operating under regulatory agreements with the State and the Federal
governments to continue to qualify for the real property tax exemption.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill and filing of the
communication. We also have Director Teruya on the line if Members have any
questions. I respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support of this motion. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions?
Yes, Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Just a clarification, Madam Chairman, so, so thank you.
Director Teruya, this would be more for you. Regarding exemptions, I understand it,
but if you currently have a balance due, or you're in, or you have outstanding debt, you
haven't paid your previous taxes, you would not qualify for the exemption is my general
understanding of the Tax Code or the County Code currently. Is that a good
understanding, so that in case we are asked by our residents or other property owners?
If they're already in arear, they are not qualified for an exemption, is that correct?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Mr. Teruya.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: That is true for the home exemption and other exemptions. For
this one, no. This one is paying, people, this amendment is basically to right an
amendment we made earlier. This, this bill right here is nothing more than basically
housekeeping in my opinion, to make sure that the people who were exempt initially
are being exempt now. When you're exempt, you probably still are required to pay the
minimum tax of $400 a year. If Ms. Martin is on to correct me if I'm wrong on that. But
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 72
they're still required to pay a minimum tax. If you're not paying the minimum tax, I
believe for this exemption, it's still allowable. Can I get clarification, Ms. Martin, on
that?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Martin. I know, I saw you on the call.
REAL PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATOR MARCY MARTIN: Thank you. Chair. Yes. these
properties will pay the minimum tax. And currently, none of them are delinquent. But
they still can get the exemption if they are delinquent.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Mr. Hokama, looks like he has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Well, not for me. I mean, you know, the County, you know,
somebody in Finance going to have to do the collection and chase the guy down. But
I find it interesting when you don't pay, you still get one exemption, and you're in arears
or you have not cleared your previous taxes to the, to the County. So, I find it
interesting that we created two different groups of people who have, who qualify and
don't qualify based on not paying their taxes to the County is my concern. Thank you
very much for the response.
(Councilmember Sugimura was excused from the meeting at 11:37 a.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other response from Finance?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: No. Thank you. Chair, for the opportunity. And this is something
that we will bring up to EDB Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez for any future
amendments to the Code that we already know that we have other items to clean up.
But all the items that are before you are the bigger items that she had decided to take
up and get completed. So, I appreciate it. Thanks, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, anything else?
Okay, all in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 73
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have seven "ayes", one excused. Mr. Hokama, you're "aye"; eight
"ayes".
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: "No", one "no", one.
CHAIR LEE: One "no", one "excused", seven "ayes"; motion carries.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: The excused is Ms. Sugimura.
Alright. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 126 (2020).
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-147 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 127 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING
THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE OFFICE OF THE
AUDITOR, STATE OF HAWAII, TO AUDIT THE HAWAII EMPLOYER-UNION
HEALTH BENEFITS TRUST FUND TO MEET THE REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS UNDER GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
BOARD STATEMENT NUMBER 75," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and
be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
2. That County Communication 20-347, from the Director of Finance, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-147.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 74
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Hokama, to
pass the recommendations, approve the recommendations in Committee Report
20-147.
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Economic Development and
Budget Committee met on November 9, 2020, to discuss proposed bill to provide
funding for an audit of the Hawaii Employer-Union Health Benefits Trust Fund, EUTF,
for Fiscal Years 2020, 2021, and 2022. The cost for these services would be $3,500;
$3,700; and $3,800, for the respective fiscal years.
(Councilmember Sugimura returned to the meeting at 11:40 a.m.)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Your Committee noted that the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board Statement Number 75 requires the County to conduct an
audit of the schedule of changes in fiduciary position by the County and related notes
to the schedule of the EUTF and the examination report on census data from actuarial
information received from the EUTF actuary.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill and filing of the
communication. Again, we have the Finance Department on. I don't know if we have
the Auditor on.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But I respectfully ask for the Councilmembers
support. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: These items are so recent, I'm sure the Members remember. Okay, any more
questions just in case?
Okay, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Nine "ayes". We have nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 127 (2020).
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-148 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 128 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I, GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE
REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY
DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF POLICE (HIGH INTENSITY
DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS (HIDTA))," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-148.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 20-148.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Economic Development and
Budget Committee met on November 9, 2020, to discuss a proposed bill to add an
additional $65,450 to appropriation for the Department of Police, High Intensity Drug
Trafficking Areas. Your Committee noted these funds will be primarily used for over,
overtime costs incurred by this program.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 76
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill. I respectfully
ask for the Members support of this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say
"aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 128 (2020).
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-149 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 129 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO
REAL PROPERTY TAX," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED
TO PRINT; and
2. That Bill 130 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 3.48.305, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
CLASSIFICATION OF REAL PROPERTY," be PASSED ON FIRST READING
and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-149.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 77
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Molina, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 20-149.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Economic Development and
Budget Committee met on November 9, 2020, to discuss two proposed bills. The first
bill establishes a "Long-term rental" real property tax classification.
Your Committee also discussed the possibility of adding a 10-percent penalty for
property owners who attempt to claim the long-term rental real property tax
classification illegally.
Following the meeting, the Department of Finance recommended against adding the
penalty at this time. This recommendation is due to a concern that a fine in addition to
the requirement to pay the difference in tax rates would cause some people to lose
their homes. The Department is available to answer any questions the Members might
have on this issue.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill.
The second bill amends Chapter 3.48.305, Maui County Code, to provide parity in real
property tax classifications. Under this bill, if the property is allowed to be used as
short-term rentals, the unit will be taxed at the short-term rental rate, unless it qualifies
for an exemption.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of this proposed bill.
Again, we have Ms. Martin and Director Teruya on the line if Members have questions.
And I respectfully ask for the Members support of this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any comments, questions?
Yes, Mr. Hokama, then Ms. Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 78
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. I'll be speaking in support of the motion this
morning, Chair. I just have one question for Director Teruya. This would be on the
last page of the proposed bill; number 3, Director.
CHAIR LEE: Director.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Point number 4, it's the top of the page, that's with the
underscored. I believe that they should be required to have the owner file a return
providing the actual use. And that would be because for record purposes, in case we
ever go to litigation, the County has documentation stating that this is the actual
declaration by the owner. I don't know how much a verbal or an under, a non-written
understanding has standing in court if we go to court on a appeal or a contest of the
tax by the County. Do you have any comments regarding that. Director?
CHAIR LEE: Director.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Thank you. Chair. Mr. Hokama, thank you. Let me first defer to
Ms. Martin on that, on her request. I know a lot of times when you have a lot of
correspondences, the Department will get flooded with a number of correspondences.
So, let me ask Ms. Martin to comment first, and I'll give some closing remarks. Thank
you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Martin.
REAL PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATOR: Thank you. Chair. So, you're referring to
number 4 on the condominium classification. And we will ask for owners to file a claim
attesting to the fact that they are doing long-term rental. If we feel that maybe that's
not the correct use, you know, at that time, we will require further evidence. So,
number 4 is just making it clear that, you know, we can ask for those claim forms. And
in fact, we've already done so in September for this bill.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. And do you folks, Ms. Martin, use a standardized form
for the responses by the owners? Or everyone just sends in their own handwritten or
email that says, this is what I'm doing with my property?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Martin.
REAL PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATOR: Chair, thank you. We have a standardized form.
And currently, you can find it at mauipropertytax.com, under forms, under
condominium classification.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 79
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Ms. Martin. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin, did you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Martin. Congratulations on
your election. But I did have a question. When we were in Committee, I had a request
about, since this was the Department's bill, that you move forward with the education
component of it. And I was just wondering if you can update us as to the steps taken
so far?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Martin.
REAL PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATOR: Chair, thank you. So, right now, all we have
done is collect information, weren't sure where this is going. We, right now, are
processing all the claims that we've gotten. We've got a good response, so that we
can identify those who haven't filed a claim. Once we discover who hasn't filed a claim,
we will contact them and ask them again to file a claim. We also may just be sending
out a letter explaining to them this change, so that they will be prepared for this change,
March and come July. The number we're guess, you know, it's less than 1,900. We're
guessing it might be around 1,500, which is, we have the capabilities of giving these
people a direct mail notification.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Thank you. Finance.
Alright, ready to vote? All those in favor of the motion say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: I see nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Congratulations.
Next. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, those are BILLS 129 (2020) and
130 (2020).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 80
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-150 - GOVERNANCE. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That a proposed resolution, entitled "PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE
REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983), AS AMENDED.
RELATING TO APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS AND
EMPLOYEES," be REFERRED to the Council Chair for the term beginning
January 2, 2021, for transmittal to the next Charter Commission; and
2. That correspondence dated March 22, 2019, from Council Chair Kelly T. King,
be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you very much. Madam Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 20-150.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Ms. King, to approve the recommendations
in Committee Report 20-150.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair. Your GET Committee met on this
matter on February 25, 2020, March 10, 2020, June 23, 2020, and June 30, 2020.
Members, this proposal related to a Charter amendment that would prohibit the Mayor
from appointing a temporary appointee as an administrative head of any department if
that person was previously denied appointment as a department head within the same
mayoral term.
The proposed resolution failed on first reading, but your Committee agreed the matter
was worthy to be considered by the 2021-2022 Charter Commission.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 81
Your Committee voted 7-2 to recommend referral of the proposed resolution to the
Charter Commission and filing of an alternate proposal from Councilmember King
dated March 22, 2019.
So, as additional information, the committee report for this matter was being held
pending possible passage of the County Manager Charter proposal on November 3.
And that if the County Manager Charter proposal had been voted on by the electorate,
this proposal would have been moot.
Now, because the County Manager proposal did not pass, this proposal is now being
fon/varded to the next Council Chair for referral to the 2021-2022 Charter Commission.
I ask for the Members full support. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay I see, Mr. Hokama, are you a "yes" or a "no"? Oh, okay. So, eight "ayes",
one "no": motion carries.
Alright. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with ordinances for second and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 114 f2020L
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING FROM OPEN ZONE
TO R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (CONDITIONAL ZONING) FOR 6.943 ACRES
IN KIHEI, MAUI, HAWAII, IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-9-004:141
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. Oh.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 82
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. I think it's for-
CHAIR LEE: Ms., Ms. Paltin. I'm sorry, I missed it. I missed it.
Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND CONDITION # 16 IN THE CONDITION OF
ZONING BOTH IN BILL 114 (2020) AND THE UNILATERAL
AGREEMENT;
PASS BILL 114, DRAFT 1, ON FIRST READING; AND
DIRECT THE CLERK TO RECORD THE UNILATERAL
AGREEMENT AS AMENDED, BY DELETING THE WORD
"INITIAL" SO THAT ALL SALE PERIODS ARE SUBJECT TO
THE 180-DAY SALES PERIOD REQUIREMENT.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, wait, Ms., Ms. Paltin. First, we need to have a motion on the main, on the
main motion. The main motion would be to pass the bill for an ordinance to change the
zoning, etc.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: And then after we vote on that, then you start making your amendments, okay?
So, I'm assuming you want to pass Bill 114 on second and final reading? No?
Yes, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. It's, this is a kind of unique situation. My
understanding is that because Councilmember Paltin is intending to revise this bill, that
would trigger that it would, you know, go back to first reading. It would require a first
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 83
reading. So, my understanding is that the intent is by putting that altogether, that
creates a main motion. That's staffs current understanding.
CHAIR LEE: Which staff?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, us. Me.
CHAIR LEE: By, by combining the amendment-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I can explain.
CHAIR LEE: -to, to the. No, we, we just trying to do this correctly. I haven't heard of that.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: I think one of the tricky situations I suppose, is that for this bill,
the unilateral agreement has not been recorded yet, to our knowledge, so we're not
certain that a motion to pass on second reading would be in order. I would also defer
to OCS if they have further to add.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, so you, you don't, you're not going to, your plan is not to pass this on second
and final reading. Your plan is to just amend the bill without moving it fon/vard-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: -until the UA, until we get the UA?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes, because we couldn't have passed it today on final reading,
second and final reading because the unilateral agreement hasn't been recorded. And
our legislative attorney had brought up there was a inadvertent error in Condition 16 by
adding the word "initial" it changes the meaning of it. So, I just, as the facilitator, wanted
to pass sound legislation. And I figure that, you know, since we're not holding anything
up, since the unilateral agreement hasn't been recorded anyway, we might as well do
a good job.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I would have tried it anyway, even if it was but, you know.
CHAIR LEE: So, so you're not, you're not, even though it's scheduled to pass on second and
final reading, we're not going-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We're not able to.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 84
CHAIR LEE: We're not going to do that. And instead, because it is noticed, you are planning
to make an amendment to this bill and that's all?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: And leave it on the Clerk's table until the UA is-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: -received? Okay. Is everybody, Mr, Clerk-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And bring it up-
CHAIR LEE: -did you want to say something? Wait, let, let's get clarification.
Yes, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. Our understanding of the motion was that because
it's an amendment to a bill for conditional zoning, it would require another first reading.
So, as opposed to leaving it on the Clerk's table for the next meeting, instead the body
would pass it again on first reading.
CHAIR LEE: Well, well-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: . .. pass it.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Mr. Clerk, if this item goes back to Committee, there's
no need to take action today at all.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, we're . . .
CHAIR LEE: Even on, why would we have an amendment today if this matter is going to be
recommitted? Huh? Why?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, apologies. I wasn't aware that recommittal was being
discussed. Sorry, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I think he's talking about-
CHAIRLEE: Oh, you said-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 85
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -bringing it back to first reading to the full Council, not to
Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: This is first read, this will be first reading once again.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, and this is why it would stay on the Clerk's table. See that's, that's why we
got to get all this cleared up.
Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair, I would like to ask Corporation Counsel whether the,
that proposed amendment, regarding the consideration to remove the word "initial" is
actually substantive enough to go back to first reading. It's not OCS's call on procedure
and format. It's not the Clerk's call. This is a Corporation Counsel call with the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, let's, Moana. Ms. Lutey, are you on the call, or Ms. Thomson?
Corporation Counsel? Ms. Lutey.
CORPORATION COUNSEL MOANA LUTEY: Hi there. Mike Hopper is actually on and he
has been working on this matter.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
Mr. Cooper [sic].
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Hopper.
CHAIR LEE: Hopper. Hooper.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL MICHAEL HOPPER: Thank you. Madam Chair. I, I
think, I think the intention is to send this back to, for first reading, well, it's to actually
pass it on first reading today. Your, this is not going to be passed on second reading
right now. This is going back to first reading. You're going to have a first reading here,
and then your, it's, this is going to have to be reposted. And you're going to have to
look to take action again, because it's being amended.
Now, you, you could normally I think waive your Rules and do an amendment on
second reading, and then pass something. But you can't do that in this case, because,
because the problem is that the unilateral agreement has not been recorded with the
conditions in it.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Right, right. Yea, yea, that's correct.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 86
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: Yea, nor. nor could they be, because if
you're going to amend the conditions, well, then you have to change them in the
unilateral agreement and have those recorded. So, with this, I think is doing in
substance-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hopper.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: -is essentially.
CHAIR LEE: No, the question was, is this a substantive change?
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: The removal of that one word. We understand the, the
requirement of a agreement that needs to be recorded, all the Members do. We're not
questioning that. I'm just asking, if the deletion of that one word is substantive enough
just in, regarding that component enough to go, be back to first reading? Nothing to do
with the agreement. We know it's got to be adjusted and recorded before we take final
action. But I'm just asking if that was already filed, and Ms. Paltin proposes this
amendment, is that substantially enough to go back to first reading? Because in the
past, we've had Corporation Counsel rule at times it is, so we went back. And there
were times when they said it wasn't substantial enough to go back to first reading, and
we passed it on final.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: Yes, I think it is a substantive change,
because you're changing not only the, the initial term. You're changing it, the intent is
to change all of those, the language in that section. Wherever it says, "90 days", it's
going to say "180 days". So, you're essentially doubling the period of time that the units
need to be held before, before those, before each corresponding time period changes.
So, it is substantive.
And, and I think that's the intent though; is to have first reading again and have that go
forward, but to not pass the bill finally. So, I think because of that and, because of both
that and the UA issue, you're going to have to hear this again and I think that that's part
of the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. Thankyou very much, Mr. Hopper, for your comments.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, the, the other question, the other question, Mr. Hopper, is when, after
the amendment is made today, when you say go back to first reading, yea, does it, are
you talking about recommittal or laying on the Clerk's table? Which, what are you
saying?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 87
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: The, the motion, as proposed, states that
right now you're going to pass on first reading, so this would be reposted for second
reading before the next meeting with a recorded unilateral agreement. That's what this,
the Amendment Summary Form, which I, I saw basically about an hour ago, says. You
can, if you like, recommit this. I think that's an option that you have.
But I think that the proposal here was designed by OCS in order to allow for you to take
action to amend this today, to make the change without taking final action because you
can't do that because of no UA and because it's a substantive change, let's you have
another second reading, have that posted with the revision and a recorded UA, and
then pass it on second reading without actually, you wouldn't have to repost for first
reading under, under this proposal. You'll be passing it-
CHAIR LEE: Yea. So, this remains on the Clerk's table?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: I haven't looked at that from a, from a
Robert's Rules perspective and looked at that. From what you're saying, that sounds
like it is correct though.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, I'm pretty sure it is. Okay. Thank you.
Then we have Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and then Ms. Kama.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I don't know, everything is like super
unclear. I was just going to propose another option for it to be clean, and since we're
waiting for the unilateral agreement anyway. Which is to reintroduce it with the
substantive change as a county communication, do a waiver for the first reading, then
we'll have it for the second reading, or when the unilateral agreement is-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay, we'll leave that option, we'll leave that option. Okay.
Ms. Paltin, it's really going to be your option, you know. You're the Chair of the
Committee. So, you want to think about it while we ask other questions, go around and
ask other questions?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, I would like to proceed with this method. You know, I don't
know why the unilateral agreement hasn't had a chance to be recorded by the Bureau
of Conveyances. That's not something within my purview. But it, it hasn't happened,
so there's no way that this could move forward today regardless of amendment or no
amendment. This amendment I didn't catch, because I don't have a law degree and I
don't know substantive or whatever. You know, it was just a human error that was
brought to my attention after first reading.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 88
And I don't want to pass shoddy legislation. So, if we can fix it today and then go on to
pass it second and final reading at the next Council meeting, assuming that the
unilateral agreement will get recorded, I think we can fix the problem. And this
amendment won't hold up the project, because it was held up by not having the
unilateral agreement recorded anyway. So, I feel like it's a win-win, because now we're
passing good legislation and we're not holding up anything that wouldn't have otherwise
been held up by circumstances outside of my control.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Let's finish asking questions.
Ms. Kama, and then Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank, thank you. Chair. So, I was just curious as to why the
unilateral agreement was not signed, and whether or not it had to, whether or not all
the conditions had to be included in that agreement before it could get signed off by
whomever it is has to be signed off with or on? So~
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's my~
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: --that was my question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's, it's been signed. It just hasn't been recorded by the Bureau
of Conveyances. And that I don't know the reason why. That's, I guess, on the Bureau
of Conveyances.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: On them? It's on them?
CHAIR LEE: Yea, it's, it's the State.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: The State Bureau of Conveyances, yea.
Okay, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think that answers my question. I was wondering like who
takes this document to the Bureau of Conveyances to file? Is it us? Is it the developer?
How does it get there?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 89
CHAIR LEE: It's the developer, yea. They, he, he rents this huge canoe and then paddles
like hell to. No, he has to, nowadays, I'm sure you can do it electronically. But I, but
it's, it's not via, it's not in our control.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Cause Mr. Kihune, Mr. Kihune is telling me that they
dropped off a check for the recordation. So, I'm just wondering who's responsible for
the recordation?
CHAIR LEE: It's not us, okay. And, and you need that stamp. You need that stamp that, it's,
something is recorded, yea.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, they could've taken the, the, the document to the
Bureau of Conveyances or done it themselves and not waited for us?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think the Clerk does it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And . . . would then qualify them to be, this is going to be
second reading. Right? Cause you're saying because it was-
CHAIR LEE: Well, no, at, at this point, Ms. Sugimura, although you're asking important
questions, the recordation is beyond our control and it's not going to, it's not going to
change anything we're doing today. So, what, staff, can you please find out the exact
steps and who takes the item to be recorded, etc., okay? We want to move on with,
with the moving, move on with the disposition of this item, because no matter who takes
the rec, something to be recorded or not has no real bearing on this right now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Cause it's not done. But I'm just curious, how come?
CHAIR LEE: No, and so we'll ask you. But, you know, we got lots more second and final
readings here. And, and your, your questions, although important, like I said, has no
bearing on whether this is going fon/vard or not cause we don't have it. We just don't
have it recorded. The unilateral agreement is not recorded and in our hands. That's
what we need.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, it's not done. This amendment's going to be
made. So, in brief again, what? What, what did, where are we right now? It's first—
CHAIR LEE: Yea, well, she's going to make an amendment, which means this matter cannot
pass second reading. It's, the status will be first reading. So, it'll be posted again on
the next Council agenda. And hopefully by then, we'll have the unilateral agreement.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 90
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yea?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Recorded.
CHAIR LEE: Recorded, yes.
Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So, I just wanted, because the conditions are
part of the unilateral agreement, so will this new change go into the unilateral
agreement and it has to be resigned now?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: A little bit above my pay grade. Can we call a friend?
Mr. Remy.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. We're going to phone a friend.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hopper. Who helped you with the, the unilateral agreement?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Mr. Mitchell.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mr. Mitchell.
CHAIR LEE: No, no. But Mr. Hopper is assigned to your Committee, yea? So, he knows
about the conditions, yea? Okay.
Mr. Hopper.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: Thank you. Chair. Yes, you need a new, a
new unilateral agreement. The unilateral agreement has an exhibit, it has all the
conditions in them. That's the whole purpose, is that they run with the land. So, you
would need a new unilateral agreement. And if what I'm hearing is that, that it's actually
at the Bureau for recording, the unilateral agreement may need to be a first amended
UA that would supersede the previous one if, if that one that's there now gets recorded.
Because that may get recorded in the meantime, so you'd want something to
supersede that. But yes, the, the, any amended conditions would have to be in the UA,
because that's the whole purpose of the UA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 91
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Right. So, what happens today, Mr. Hopper, if this item passes, you know the
amendment, then the developer would now take this amended UA to be recorded?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: That's correct.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Okay.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: You would also need to amend the bill to
attach the new zoning conditions as well. So, that's another thing that would happen.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so Member Paltin made a motion, I seconded it. So, is that
still on the floor then? That motion is still on the floor, correct?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, I'm-
CHAIR LEE: Yes. And we're going to need you to repeat it, because we, nobody understood
it, okay, the first time.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I'm just repeating the motion. I moved to amend
Condition #16 in the Condition of Zoning both in Bill 114 (2020) and the Unilateral
Agreement; to pass Bill 114, Draft 1, on first reading; and direct the Clerk to record the
Unilateral Agreement as amended, by deleting the word "initial" so that all sale periods
are subject to the 180-day sales period requirement. I can read the revised condition,
as amended. But basically, I'm eliminating the word "initial".
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You want me to read it?
CHAIR LEE: No.
Ms. King, did you have something to add?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just, no, I just, I was just seconding it again.
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
November 20, 2020
Page 92
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I didn't know if you were-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. She was just repeating what she said the first time.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now, does anybody have any questions for Ms. Paltin?
Okay, all those in favor of the motion, signify by saying "aye" and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I see eight "ayes". Oh, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay, so we're all set on that. Do you need another motion, Ms. Paltin? No, right?
That takes care of this. This does not move forward until the UA is recorded, comes
back to us. Then, then you, we will pass this on second and final reading.
(Councilmember Hokama was excused from the meeting at 12:14 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just wanted to state for the record
that I voted "no" on this at first reading. And, and I, because of a lot of, at first reading,
there. Deputy Director Munsell spoke with us about some of the consequences of, of
this action and I had requested that it be recommitted to PSLU so that we could go
over some of those things that were really not clear. And I, I stand on that. I'm not
clear.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, your vote today is "no"? Your vote today is "no"?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, today is just the amendment. So, I guess I can
vote "yea" on the amendment. But I vote "no" on this item and I would prefer it to go
back to Committee for clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 93
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. What we just voted on is the amendment, you know. And that it still has
the status of being passed on first reading.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, I, I wanted it to go back to Committee for
Committee discussion and not Committee work in Council meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, so, but it was, it'll stay and so. It'll stay in
Council and, and my request is so that it, I would like it to be recommitted. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Too late. We already did it in, you know, on Council. So, I understand
what you're saying. I'm all for not doing work in the Council. But, you know,
circumstances change. And, you know, we're reaching the end of the term and we just
got to get all this work done, you know. Right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh~
CHAIR LEE: I know... but okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, no~
CHAIR LEE: Ms. King.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Not for the, not for the amendment that we just took
up. But at first reading, we had a discussion with Deputy Director Munsell that was not
clear. So, what we did today is fine. I, I, I don't, I don't, but what, what happened at
first reading was not fine. And what happened at first reading is why I wanted it
recommitted.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And I still hold that position of preferring it to be
recommitted so that we can have that discussion in Committee and not on the Council.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 94
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you very much. And thank you for clearing that up,
Keani, cause I, I really appreciate your position on that because, you know, had we
been speaking about other amendments that we originally thought, I would, I would've
pushed for it to go back to Committee too. So, I appreciate your support of our
community.
So, Chair, I just wanted to let you know, I have to leave. I, I was, I have a, I'm late for
a 12:00 meeting. I was thinking we would either be done or taking a lunch break. So,
I just wanted to apologize to the Council. But I need to step out. And I'm assuming
that you'll be done within the hour, so. But I'll, I'll check back in case you're still going.
CHAIR LEE: I'm pretty sure we're going to be done in 10-15 minutes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. So, you know, if you have to leave, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: That's, that's fine.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Just wanted to~
CHAIR LEE: We have enough people here. Mr. Hokama had to leave.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Happy Thanksgiving.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, Happy Thanksgiving, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, nobody is allowed, nobody else is allowed to leave. Just hold on~
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: --another 10 minutes.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes, Ms. Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, I was planning to take up all of the rest in one,
in one motion.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, that's why. And then Mr. Molina has one, so we should be done in
10 minutes or less, okay?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 95
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Ms. King, it's up to you. Up to you.
Alright, Mr. Clerk.
(Councilmember King was excused from the meeting at 12:18 p.m.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 115 (2020)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
COVID-19 DISASTER RECOVERY GRANT.
COVID-19 EMPLOYMENT RECOVERY GRANT
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, may
request the Clerk also call up Bill 116 through Bill 120?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 116 (2020)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
STATE OF HAWAII - UPCOUNTRY MAUI AGRICULTURAL PARK
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 96
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 117 (2020)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
MAKAWAO-PUKALANI-KULA COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
STATE OF HAWAII - UPCOUNTRY MAUI AGRICULTURAL PARK
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 118 (2020)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING,
WEST MAUI TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD) CORRIDOR PLAN
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 119 (2020)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING,
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
WEST MAUI TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD) CORRIDOR PLAN
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 120 (2020)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY,
CHILDREN'S PEACE CENTER;
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
COUNTYWIDE ROAD RESURFACING AND PAVEMENT PRESERVATION,
COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 97
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 115 THROUGH BILL 120 ON SECOND
AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember
Kama, to pass Bills 115, 115 through 120 on second and final reading.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. These bills received unanimous
support and I ask for the Members continued support for this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion,
please say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, PALTIN,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA AND KING.
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", two "excused"; motion carries.
Okay. The final bill.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 121 (20201
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.56, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO BOARD OF ETHICS ADVISORY OPINIONS
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 98
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 121 ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to move bill,
to pass bill on. Bill 121 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair. If you and the Members will recall.
Bill 121 would require, to the extent permitted by law, advisory opinions rendered by
the Board of Ethics to be posted on the County's website within 30 calendar days from
the date of the opinion; and advisory opinions already rendered, to be posted on the
County's website within a reasonable amount of time. I ask for the Members full
support of this bill. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more discussion? If not, all those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, PALTIN,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA AND KING.
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", two "excused"; motion carries.
Hallelujah, we have reached the end of the calendar.
Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I was just wondering if the Clerk could answer
Ms. Sugimura's very good question about how it gets recorded?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 99
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yea, so my understanding is whenever there's a conditional
zoning bill with a unilateral agreement that needs to be recorded, at first reading, as
part of the committee report, one of the things that the report recommends is that the
Clerk record the unilateral agreement. So, the body acts on that there, then we wait.
You know, we receive the unilateral agreement, and then the developer or, you know,
person applying for the zoning, you know, they give us a check and that, you know, to
pay for the recordation essentially.
So, in this case, we got the unilateral agreement, I believe last week Friday, and then,
but we didn't receive the check until Monday. Oh, sorry, apologies. We, we did get
everything last week Friday, but we didn't mail it out until Monday. So, and it usually
takes the Bureau processing time maybe about a week, maybe just over a week. So,
that's why at this time, it's not been recorded yet. They probably just haven't had
enough time with it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, then, if we want to make it for second and final reading by
the next Council meeting, we got to hop to, to get it done, because there's holiday and
everything.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Right. Right. Next week Thursday is a holiday. So, you know,
at latest next week Friday, but the earlier the better for sure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, cause the next meeting is, what, December 4, right?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Right, two, two weeks from today.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, will you be able to have it recorded by then?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: If we're able to get it soon, you know, we'll be able to send it
over to the Bureau. And hopefully they'll be able to process it by, by the 4th.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. When you say, "able to get it soon", what is "it"? The revised ordinance?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The revised unilateral agreement, as well as the check to pay
for the recordation.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And who would draft the revised unilateral agreement?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 100
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We would defer to DCS to handle that, that matter.
CHAIR LEE: So, it's go to OCS, then to you, then to recordation, after you get the check?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Right. Once we have the revised unilateral agreement in hand,
yea, we'll be able to, to send it to the Bureau.
CHAIR LEE: And so, so it has to be mailed, or can you send it electronically?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No. We have to mail it.
CHAIR LEE: You have to mail it?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yea, the, the Bureau is fairly strict on, on the documents that
they accept, so we've been, we've been mailing them.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We all know about recordation.
Ms., Ms. Sugimura, do you have any questions about this process?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, yea, so can, can this be reviewed with the
developer, because this is holding up things? They said they dropped off the unilateral
agreement delivered to County Clerk on November 9, as was required. Was that the
check or is that the doc, who does the unilateral agreement? Us or them?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: They, the developer has to execute the unilateral agreement.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, I'm sorry. You're right, you're right. The executed, he
said, unilateral agreement was delivered to the County Clerk on November 9, as
required.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And today is the 20th.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And the Bureau, right now, has the recordation. So, now
we have to do the amendments, right? So, the Bureau hasn't returned the document
to us, as of this, this meeting, then. Maybe we should have somebody hand carry it.
When I used to work at a law firm in Honolulu at college, we used to walk everything
to the Bureau of Conveyances. We never had computers like now. But it's, got done
faster. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions on this?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 101
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair, for your indulgence.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Well, it's a good learning experience. I would never be a developer, you know.
And face you guys? Forget it. Any way-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: It's the truth.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, everybody have a wonderful safe weekend.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Happy Thanksgiving.
CHAIR LEE: Are we going to see each other before Thanksgiving?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Your meeting on Tuesday.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair's meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Chair's meeting. Besides that? Only Chair's meeting.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: How many times do you~
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Going have a party at your house? We have less than 10 in our
group. We can have a party.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. That's an idea. But no intoxicating liquor, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Might be the violation of the Sunshine Law though.
CHAIR LEE: Yea
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: As long as we don't talk about work.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, who wants to talk about work anyway?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: None of us.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. So, any, anyway, you folks take care.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Have a great weekend. God bless you all.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 20, 2020
Page 102
CHAIR LEE: Yea, you too.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Chair, could you formally adjourn the meeting?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, I just have to make sure that they have no last comments. Any last
comments? If not, this meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of November 20, 2020 was adjourned by the Chair at 12:28 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
201120/lks:jm
Jason A. Economou
Government Affairs Director
441 Ala Makani PI • Kahului, HI 96732
REALTORS^ASSOCIATION phone 808-243-8585 • fax 808-873-8585
OF MAUI, Inc. jason@ramaui.com • www.ramaui.com
November 18, 2020
Council Chair Alice Lee k: — ^ m
Council of the County of Maui H| n L,
200 South High Street, 8^ Floor O ^
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 p
RE: CR 20-149 Concerning Real Property Tax Reform ;7; it; «ja
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Pemandez, and Members of the Council:
I am submitting this testimony on behalf of the REALTORS Association of Maui (RAM)
and our 1,700+ licensed, professional REALTORS regarding Committee Report 20-149 and the
two draft bills contained therein. Though RAM has long encouraged the creation of a
"Long-term rental" real property tax exemption/classification, we must oppose both bills for a
number of reasons.
Our initial objection to both bills is the same objection we had last year when the County
Council was rushing tax reform: this is rushed and you are not engaged in enough public
outreach. In particular. Finance Director Teruya's bill is admittedly being rushed on the shortest
timeline possible to take effect for next year, and its only real purpose is to increase revenue by
potentially doubling the taxes of some property owners for no reason other than where they
purchased property. This tactic of rushing through legislation that will significantly impact some
property owners financially demonstrates a lack of good faith, and is a clear continuation of a
pattern of disregarding public input and involvement in property tax legislation. Please stop
holding property tax legislation for the last minute, and please set an example by not allowing
this legislation to move forward on an intentionally truncated timeline. Additionally, it is worth
noting that Director Teruya's proposed legislation clearly isn't highly necessary if Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Femandez's legislation literally removes any changes requested by the Finance Director
within a year.
Our second and most important concern relates to the unintended consequences of both
of these proposed bills. Both bills essentially eliminate actual use taxation for condominiums and
switch to a "highest and best" use taxing model. It is understandable that such a model is easier
to administer, but this change will have a slew of consequences that you likely haven't fully
considered. Specifically, condominium owners who are currently paying the "non-owner
occupied" tax rate will be faced with difficult choices if they are suddenly forced to pay the
"short-term rental" tax rate. The most likely options for these owners will be: (1) pay double the
taxes and don't use the property for short-term rentals; (2) pay double the taxes and offer the
property as a short-term rental for part of the year to offset the cost; or (3) sell the property to
someone who can afford the extra taxes, who may very likely be an offshore investor or a person
willing to conduct TVR use in their property. Ultimately, these bills will likely lead to a
proliferation of short-term accommodations being offered, which will drive down the cost of said
accommodations across the board. This will only serve to bring in low-spending tourists that will
be spread across the island and have a higher impact than what they provide in revenue. This is
exactly the opposite of what the people of Maui have wanted from our tourism industry.
Moreover, many property owners will likely sell, and the most competitive market participants at
this time are offshore investors.
To be perfectly honest, these very foreseeable unintended consequences will imdoubtedly
result in broad economic benefits to my members involved in sales transactions, property
management, or other services provided to the impacted property owners. However, RAM still
opposes these pieces of legislation because we are more concerned with the wellbeing of our
island than the revenue of our members. I strongly encourage this Council to also shift its
concerns away from revenue and focus more on the likely consequences of these legislative
proposals and what that means for our island. Though your intent is clearly positive, more
analysis and public outreach should occur before the Coxmcil pursues either bill any further.
Otherwise, what you gain in property tax revenue may not offset the broader long-term
consequences of your decision.
Mahalo,
Jason A. Economou
Government Affairs Director
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor
SANDY K. BAZ
Managing Director
JOSIAH K. NISHITA
Deputy Managing Director
RECEIVED
2020 NOV 20
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENTC
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET
WAILUKU,MAUI, HAWAI'I 96793
November 19,2020
:ncE CF th
ij i < i I U V U i '1U {
-J"
APPROVED FOR TRANSMITTAL
N5
O
■*0
hb. cLJ P // Ao/20Mayor Date
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
Mayor, County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
For Transmittal to:
Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
and Member of the Maui County Council
Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair Lee:
SUBJECT: COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-573 - AMENDMENT TO THE
FISCAL YEAR ("FY") 2021 BUDGET (DEPARTMENT OF
FINANCE (ACQUISITION OF 60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
BUILDING AND PROPERTY))
Transmitted herewith is a summary of facts sheet and an excerpt from the report entitled,
"USPAP COMPLIANT APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE AS IF MARKET VALUE FOR THE
FEE SIMPLE AND LEASED FEE INTEREST OF A PROFESSIONAL OFFICE BUILDING."
The report was prepared for the Department of Finance by R.J. Kirchner, SRA of Paradise
Appraisals, LLC on August 26, 2020.
Thank you for your attention to this matter. Should you have any questions, please feel
free to contact me at ext. 7855.
::30
rn
o
rn
a
Sincerely,
SANANDA K. BAZ
Managing Director
Attachment
SKB:ma
cc: Scott K. Teruya, Director of Finance
SUMMARY OF FACTS
\
SUBJECT PROPERTY
ADDRESS:
LAND AREA:
ZONING:
FLOOD ZONE:
GROSS BUILDING:
TMK's: (2) 3-4-013-010 & (2) 3-4-013-023 (por)
60 South Church Street, Wailuku, HI 96793
TMK: (2)3-4-013-010 41,257 SF
(2) 3-4-013-023 (per) 1,679 SF
B-3
Zone X
37,263 SF
Year Built: 1959
1^ floor-10,120 SF
2"^ floor-1,715 SF
Total = 11,835 SF
Year Built: 1971
1^ floor-8,476 SF
2"^^ floor-8,476 SF
3^^^ floor-8,476 SF
Total = 25,428 SF
PARKING STALLS:
VALUE CONCLUSIONS:
30+
Appraiser's conclusion:
Cost Approach:
Income Approach:
Sales Comparison:
$3,720,000 (Leased Fee)
$4,385,000 (Fee Simple)
$4,285,000 (Fee Simple)
$3,720,000 (Leased Fee)
$4,430,000 (Fee Simple)
ASSESSED VALUE:
Value of TMK: (2)3-4-013-023, 50% interest: $25,000
(2)3-4-013-010 $4,738,700
(2) 3-4-013-023 (por) $100
ESTIMATED DEBT SVC: $240,000/Annum or $20,000/Mo
ESTIMATED RENT SAVINGS: $600,000/Annum or $50,000/Mo
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Ma>'or
LORl TSUHAKO
Director
LINDA R.MUNSELL
Deputy Director
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING
& HUMAN CONCERNS
COUNTY OF MAUI
2200 MAIN STREET, SUITE 546
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAI'I 96793
PHONE: (808) 270-7805
November 17, 2020
RECEIVED
OFFrCE
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
Mayor, County of Maul
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
For Transmitta! to:
APPROVED FOR TRANSMITTAt
Mayof
2
O '"*■
C "'5
—i 1
sz 73
C3 rn
a
iTI1. • •
«. ••
rc
ITj i H
aX X
7': 1"; o
.0
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku. Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair Lee:
SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR DEPARTIVIENrS POSITION ON A PROPOSED
CONDITION IN A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE THE
ZONING FROM OPEN ZONE TO R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
(CONDITIONAL ZONING) FOR 6.943 ACRES IN KIHEI, MAUI,
HAWAII, IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-9-004:141
Thank you for the opportunity to provide feedback on a proposed condition to the
Kilohana Makai housing project. In your conversation with Deputy Director Munsell, you
asked for the Department's position on the condition proposed by Council Member Paltin.
Council Member Paltin's proposed condition is:
Ferreira Family Partners, LP. must ensure each unit on the property is owner-
occupied by a County resident within the income group applied to the unit on its
initial purchase date for a period of 20 years from the date of the unit's initial
purchase.
The Department's position is that the proposed condition is not needed, and
unnecessarily complicates the resale of these workforce housing units. The condition
TO SUPPORT AND EMPOWER OUR COMMUNITY TO REACH ITS FULLEST
POTENTIAL FOR PERSONAL WELL-BEING AND SELE-RELIANCE
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
Maui County Council
November 17, 2020
Page 2
also creates a situation in which the County may be liable for subsidizing the unit in order
keep that unit in a specific income bracket. The proposed condition would also have the
unintended effect of keeping the unit from being sold to a qualified lower AMI family, which
is possible under the current law.
The section of Maui County Code (MCC) that applies to the resale of units during
the deed restricted period is found in 2.96.060(f) and (g):
f. Resale. The maximum resale price shall be established by the department using
the following guidelines:
i. An appraisal of the property shall be required before occupancy.
ii. A second appraisal shall be required upon a decision to sell the unit.
iii. Twenty-five percent of the difference between the two appraisals shall
be added to the owner's purchase price.
g. An owner of a residential workforce housing unit that is being resold must sell
the unit to an income-qualified household and notify the department of the sale.
The department shall verify the sales price.
Currently, MCC requires resale of a unit during the deed restricted period "to an
income qualified household", rather than resale to a person who is in the same AMI as
the buyer at the time of the initial purchase. Under the proposed condition, if the County
does not wish to buy the unit back, this means the owner of the unit still needs to find "an
income qualified household" to which to sell the unit. That income qualified household is
determined after the steps in 2.96.060(f) are taken and the sales price of the unit is
calculated.
If Council mandates that the unit be sold to someone in the same AMI as the
original purchaser, we may end up with a scenario where that same AMI individual cannot
afford the unit based on the formula as it applies to the current sales price as determined
under (f). This would mean that the unit would need to be subsidized, either by the
County, or by the original owner to make it affordable, or the unit cannot be sold in that
AMI.
Based on our calculations, the subsidy necessary to keep a unit in a specific AMI
under the proposed condition could vary considerably. In the samples we ran, the
potential liability was less than $100,000 for those units that required subsidy. However,
depending on the timing of the original purchase and subsequent sale under the current
law (and without the proposed condition), in many cases a unit could actually be sold to
a lower AMI buyer.
Attached are sample calculations for your review. To create realistic examples,
staff applied the current law to imaginary workforce housing purchases in 2006, 2009,
2012, 2015, and 2017 for a family buying a 3-bedroom home in the 100%, 120% and
140% AMI categories. We then calculated the resale prices for those units as if they were
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
Maui County Council
November 17, 2020
Page 3
sold in 2018, 2019, or 2020. We tried to stay as close to real data as we could. We used
the interest rates in effect at the time of purchase to determine purchase prices, and used
the Maui single family median home prices for the applicable periods to simulate
appraised values.
All calculations were then completed using the current law, but assumed in all
cases that the units were still in the affordability period. Situations in which a liability is
created for the County under the proposed condition are highlighted. Left without
highlight are the situations in which the units would have been sold either to a buyer in
the original AMI category, or to a buyer in a lower AMI category.
Thank you for allowing us to provide this information. Should you have any
questions, please feel free to contact me at Ext. 7805.
Sincere
LORI TSUHAKO, LSW, ACSW
Director of Housing and Human Concerns
Attachment
xc: Housing Division
3-BEDR001V1 HOME
PURCHASE DATE Sept 2006 Sept 2009 Sept 2012 Sept 2015 Sept 2017
SALE IN 2018
100% AMI
Purchase Price $277,100
Profit to Seller $5,000
2018 Sale Price $282,100
Affordable to AMI 70% AMI
To Keep at 100% AMI
120% AMI
Purchase Price $332,600
Profit to Seller $5,000
2018 Sale Price $337,600
Affordable to AMI 80% AMI
To Keep at 100% AMI
140% AMI
Purchase Price $388,000
Profit to Seller $5,000
2018 Sale Price $393,000
Affordable to AMI 100% AMI
To Keep at 100% AMI
$369,600
$53,500
$423,100
J.T07&
$300
$444,900
$60,000
$504,900
LMkm
$82,100
$414,000
$32,500
$446,500
$443,500
$53,500
$497,000
120% AMI
$517,500
$53,500
$571,000
140% AMI
$533,900
$60,000
$593,900
.150% AMI
<86_enn_
$496,800
$32,500
$529,300
130% AM
<77 nn
$622,900
$60,000
$682,900
$597,500
$32,500
$630,000
[ ^xoxjyo Mivrr
$91,000
J.9U70 MIVII
$38,10q
$408,400
$3,750
$412,150
100% AMI
$490,100
$3,750
$493,850
120% AMI
$571,800
$3,750
$575,550
140% AMI
SALE IN 2019
100% AMI
Purchase Price $277,100
Profit to Seller $36,875
2019 Sale Price $313,975
Affordable to AMI 70% AMI I
To Keep at 100% AMI {
120% AMI
Purchase Price $332,600
Profit to Seller $36,875
2019 Sale Price $369,475
Affordable to AMI 100% AMI
To Keep at 120% AMI
140% AMI
Purchase Price $388,000
Profit to Seller $36,875
2019 Sale Price $424,875
Affordable to AMI 100% AMI
To keep at 140%
$369,600
$85,375
$454,975
$444,900
$91,875
$536,775
$443,500
$85,375
$528,875
120% AMI
$517,500
$85,375
$602,875
140% AMI
$533,900
$91,875
$625,775
$414,000
$64,375
$478,375
$496,800
$64,375
$561,175
[ 140% AMI
$87,875
130% AM
$23,271
$622,900
$91,875
$714,775
$579,500
$64,375
$643,875
$408,400
$35,625
$444,025
100% AMI
$490,100
$35,625
$525,725
120% AMI
$571,800
$35,625
$607,425
140% AMI
3-BEDROOM HOME
PURCHASE DATE Sept 2006 Sept 2009 Sept 2012 Sept 2015 Sept 2017
SALE IN 2020
100% AMI
Purchase Price $277,100 $369,600 $444,900 $414,000 $408,400
Profit to Seller $27,250 $75,750 $82,250 $54,750 $26,000
2020 Sale Price $304,350 $445,350 $527,150 $468,750 $434,400
Affordable to AMI 60% AMI 90% AMI 100% AMI 90% AMI 90% AMI
120% AMI
Purchase Price $332,600 $443,500 $533,900 $496,800 $490,100
Profit to Seller $27,250 $75,750 $82,250 $54,750 $26,000
2020 Sale Price $359,850 $519,250 $616,150 $551,550 $516,100
Affordable to AMI 70% AMI 100% AMI 120% AMI 110% AMI 100% AMI
140% AMI
Purchase Price $388,000 $517,500 $622,900 $579,500 $571,800
Profit to Seller $27,250 $75,750 $82,250 $54,750 $26,000
2020 Sale Price $415,250 $593,250 $705,150 $634,250 $597,800
Affordable to AMI 80% AMI 120% AMI 140% AMI 120% AMI 120% AMI