MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2020-10-23
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1426,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MIMUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUl
October 23, 2020
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUl, STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2020,
BEGINNING AT 9:19 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maul County Council regular Council meeting of
October 23, please come to order.
Ms. Madam Clerk, roll call.
ROLL CALL
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS G. RIKI HOKAMA, NATALIE A. KAMA,
KELLY T. KING, MICHAEL J. MOLINA, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN,
SHANE M. SINENCI. YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
EXCUSED: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: But I also would like to say a special hello to all of my colleagues in Chinese;
Ni Hao. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ni Hao.
CHAIR LEE: Ni Hao. Alright. Madam Chair, we have-
COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: -all Members present.
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: All Members present, and we do have a quorum to
present, a quorum to conduct the business of the Council.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 2
I also wanted to add, assisting from the Office of the County Clerk is Legislative Deputy
James Krueger, and Legislative Clerks Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell
Yoshida.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And I would also like to welcome to the Council meeting our
Corporation Counsel Moana Lutey. Good morning, Moana.
CORPORATION COUNSEL MOANA LUTEY: Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk, back to you. So, we will begin with opening remarks.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair, opening remarks.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Due to our, you know, situation on the island of Lanai, a lot of us are
thinking about them and, and worried about them, concerned about them. And we're
very happy that our Councilmember from Lanai is on Lanai and I would like to ask him,
Councilmember Riki Hokama, to do the opening remarks this morning.
Mr. Hokama. We can't hear you for some reason. Staff. Are we muting him on our
side? It seems like he's on mute.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Okay. Thank you.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Riki Hokama.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, Councilmember Hokama. There's feedback from
somewhere. Okay. Please keep us posted, Mr. Hokama, and let us know, you know,
what we can do to help you help the people on Lanai.
Madam Clerk, is it time for our Pledge of Allegiance?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, it is.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 3
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everyone, please join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council, rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, everyone, before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request
that everyone keep their microphones muted unless it is your time to speak. Decorum
shall be maintained at all times. Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have, moving forward with the presentation of testimony on the
ceremonial resolutions. We have one request to testify on ceremonial resolutions from
Lucienne de Naie.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Lucienne de Naie.
PRESENTATION OF WRITTEN TESTIMONY
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE:
Aloha. Good morning to all. I just wanted to say what a positive impact the entire
family has had here on Maui. And certainly, Willie K is the best-known spokesperson
in our time. But here is a man who, it was, you know, so beloved and, and so famous
that somehow, we always had time for the little things. And I was blessed to have him
come to my tv show and perform and share his mana'o, and I know many others have
similar stories. And we just have a, a great gap in our community losing a person of
such dedicated spirit.
So, for the whole ohana, thank you for sharing your son with our community. And thank
you for sharing your whole ohana with our community, because all of Willie's siblings
equally active and engaged and giving back as, as the parents certainly were as well.
So, mahalo to the whole family. They have set a great example for our community.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 4
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. de Naie. Well said. Are there any questions for Ms. de Naie?
If not. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with ceremonial resolutions.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 20-150
HONORING THE EXTRAORDINARY LIFE OF
THE LATE WILLIAM "WILLIE K" KAHAIALI'I
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Riki Hokama. You're muted, Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA:
I MOVE THAT THE RESOLUTION AS READ BY THE CLERK
BE ADOPTED.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: It's been moved by Member Hokama, seconded by Member King, to adopt the
ceremonial resolution before you.
Discussion, Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. Members. With no objection, Chair, I would like
to request that the Clerk read the resolution in its entirety please?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Madam Clerk, please read the resolution.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 5
(The resolution w/'as read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hokama, discussion? You're on muted, Riki, Riki.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you very much. Chair Lee. And thank you. Madam
Clerk, for reading the resolution. I'm sure many of us have our own special memories
of Willie or Uncle Willie, depending on your age and relationship. For me, you know,
Willie and I go back decades when he had a lot of black hair yet. And both our fathers,
I think was in the 2002 era, were going through cancer, their cancer battles. And Willie
and I got to be good friends seeing one another at times at the oncology center at Maui
Memorial Hospital.
And, you know, after my dad had cancer, we started doing some golf fundraisers for
cancer. Willie was always there willing to kokua, offer his time, his talent to raise money
for worthy causes. And so, when Willie started raising money for the hospital with Wes
Lo, you know, I said it was now my turn to help Willie back. And you know, I did my
best to raise money for him and get golf rounds at, on Lanai to support his great causes.
And so, you know, that's been, you know, how we, we've been going through the years
together.
And whenever I needed someone special to come to Lanai for Pineapple Festival or a
big occasion, you know, Willie would say, yeah talk to my manager. And of course,
being the manager that he had the business, said well this is Willie's minimum and this
and this and this. I went, yes, thank you. And so, I get back to Willie and I would say,
you know, Willie, we can't afford that. This is what we can do; take care of housing,
kau kau, bring your family, you know, we can give you a small stipend. But, you know,
we don't have that kind of resources for your minimums. And Willie would find a way
and get himself to the island and perform for the Lanai community; from his old katchi
katchi hits to his rock and roll. And he even sang opera for us in Dole Park under the
trees at night and he gave Lanai a lot of chicken-skin experiences.
And so, for me, you know, this is my way of celebrating with his life. And I want to
thank everybody who have come. Debbie, I love you, the girls. Mama, you know,
thank you for being here, this is Ivy Nuuhiwa, Willie's mom. And I'll end there. Chair
Lee, cause I'm, I have a lot, I could say a lot more but I'm sure there's others that might
want to share their special memory.
All I can say is Willie had that rubber band in his hair all the time. And I can tell his
experience that he always used to share on Aloha Airlines was he would board last,
the plane would be full, he had to take the middle seat between two potential visitors,
I guess, to Maui. And he plopped down in the seat, and if you can see this, right, Willie
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 6
reaches back, rips off the rubber band, shakes his head, boing, both sides of his hair
is touching those two ladies on the side, right? And they're going like, oh my god is
this what we going to be sitting in the plane till we reach Maui? And Willie would just
be Willie, right? Big smile, stretched out, boing hair, with the two ladies on the side. I
mean, he enjoyed his life. He celebrated life. And thank you, Willie. I love you, brother.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you for those moving remarks. Member Hokama.
Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. And thank you. Member Hokama, for bringing
this resolution forward. It's, I think we're going to be feeling this way for a long time,
so it's, it's not even a timely thing because, you know, we could celebrate Willie's life
every day and not, and not recognize everything that he did on this island. But, you
know, we went back a long ways too from early days in Lahaina. And every time I
would see him at a fundraiser, he'd always pull me aside and remind me of that. So, I
didn't, I, I, my heart goes out to the family. And I don't know the family real well. I had
a lot of dealings with Willie directly.
And one of the fundraisers that really stands out is with Willie Nelson on the big, on
Oahu, the big, big island, Oahu for one of our former Mayor's who's campaign I was
working on. And, you know, we spent a lot of time just talking about the future of Hawaii
in the greenroom waiting for his performance to come on. So, I, I see him as, you
know, just this amazing performer with all this diversity, but also someone who is
deeply involved in our community. And he knew what was going on. He knew at all
levels what was going on with the Council, at the State level. He was very, he, he did
a lot of volunteer, all of his volunteer performances just, you know, tug at your heart
because he, he gave so much and asked for so little in return.
So, I really want to recognize and thank the family for sharing Willie with the rest of the,
not just the community, but the, also the world. I have relatives on the mainland that
followed his performances every time he went over there to the West Coast. And so,
I, I'm so happy to be able to recognize, I wish we were all in the chambers and we
could all give the family big hugs and lei because, you know, that's where our hearts
are. Unfortunately, we have to be separated. But thank you for showing up. And, and
thank you again, Mr. Hokama, for bringing this forward. I love that guy too and I think
we can all say that.
I'm going to stop here, because you can go on and on with Willie. But I do want to say
one of the best compliments I ever got since I got on this Council was running into
Willie at the Millhouse and having him, you know, stop me and pull me aside. And he
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 7
just said thank you for being who you are, Kelly. I really appreciate that. And, and,
you know, that's something that I'll always remember him for. Much love to the family.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member King.
Member Sinenci, and then Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. I, I too want to extend our sincerest
condolences to the entire Kahaiali'i ohana. May ke akua comfort, guide you, and
protect you during these times of transition. And I just wanted to say that, you know,
at his passing and quite being in, in this COVID lockdown, we just got to see all of his
videos just flood the airwaves and flood social media. So, I think we all had a collective
ue moment during this passing. And ke aloha nui... aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sinenci.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, I'd like to also extend my appreciation to
Councilmember Hokama for bringing this fon/vard. I think when Willie passed, we all
lost something of greatness, and I don't think we can express everything that he's
given. I was so lucky in my, in my work. I would have the opportunity of having Willie
perform. And I still always remember when Willie decided and said yes that he would
perform at Wailuku First Friday, we set up the stage on the Main Street side and had
it all clear with the audience all along the street just there to listen to him sing. I too
remember his fabulous voice and I treasured; he would sing opera. So, when, when
he sang opera and it, at Wailuku First Friday, we were just like in awe.
Beginning of this year, I had the opportunity of speaking with him, cause I was trying
to hire him to perform at Piilani Village for their Halloween festivities which would have
been October 31 of this year. And he told me that he could not because they were
planning to go on a cruise, and the cruise had actually hired Willie to perform. And
Willie said that he would be, I've hired him before for that event and he said that he
would be the opening acts at the Piilani Village and the highlight and headliner would
be all the children who came and appeared in their Halloween costume contest. But
he truly, amazingly, wowed the crowd. There were a lot of adults who came just to
hear him sing. And the children loved him. And he would stay all night and watch the
Halloween costume contest when he performed for us.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 8
But Willie is special. He gave from his heart. He has definitely left his mark on the
community. And I love his family, and you will meet them shortly when they speak.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sugimura. Anyone else?
Mr. Molina, and then Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. You know, the Clerk
certainly hit it on the head with all of the accolades and, and accomplishments of
Willie K. There's not too many more adjectives to, to add to this. But, you know, his
legacy is certainly cemented as one of the all-time musical greats of Hawaii. But what
I especially appreciate was how he spread his aloha globally, and not just here. He
was certainly to the truest sense of the word, a real ambassador for us. And, you know,
generations now and in the future will always remember him. And so, that's the
wonderful thing about this too, as we remember him.
And, you know, it's unfortunate that, you know, the Lord took him at a relatively young
age. But, you know, stars will continue to shine even after they leave us. And, you
know, he was the virtuoso, everything. The man could play all kinds of styles. But one
big thing I admired about him, he never forgot where he came from. And he's, he's,
he's us, from Maui County and has made us so, so proud.
And on a personal note, you know, my favorite song is of course what Member Hokama
mentioned, "Katchi Katchi Music Makawao". For many of us, that's the anthem of
Makawao. And that song just resonates so well with us and make you want to dance.
But, you know, it, it's, it's a humbling moment right now, very chicken-skin. And all of
our prayers and to the family. And thank you for sharing Willie with all of us. Mahalo.
Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Molina.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo. Member Hokama for
bringing forward this resolution. All your comments have, have made me very
emotional now. Okay, deep breaths. And, Member Kama, you're not helping. Chair,
can I take a moment? I can go after.
CHAIR LEE: We can come back to you?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 9
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin and Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Member Hokama for
bringing this resolution forward for Willie K. I want to offer my sincere condolences
and love to the Kahaiali'i ohana and for sharing your son with us from King
Kamehameha Elementary, King Kamehameha III Elementary School all the way to
Lahainaluna and beyond. Willie K brought so much pride to the west side and Maui
County and the world.
And, you know, I guess you know my favorite memory of the first time I met Willie K
was at D.T. Flemings Beach Park. I was working and he was just sitting on one of the
park benches. And I was like Willie K, you know. I'm from Hilo, so. And I ran to my
truck, got my CD out of the holder and I'm like, will you sign my CD? And of course,
he signed it. And just, I was like whoa, so awesome.
You know, I spent some years working with his brother that also passed, John Kahaiali'i
at Island Air. And I, I took Papa Olelo Hawaii with his sister Donora at Princess
Nahienaena. And I just, such a big loss for, for Maui County. And I just wanted to offer
my sincere condolences and aloha nui to the family. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Paltin.
Member Kama, Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Councilmember Hokama. This
is very touching. It affects me deeply because we have a close relationship with Aunty
Kaipo. Death hurts because of the loss that we face. And the loss of a child is even
greater, because we always think as parents that we all will go before our children. But
when our children go before us, the hurt sometimes never goes away.
So, I wanted to share one of the first times I actually met Willie, it was at a concert.
And after he had finished playing, you know how people go up to the stage, and so I
waited my turn to talk to him. And he looked like he was having a hard time. So, I told
him, "braddah, what's the matter"? He'd tell, "oh, my gout". I said, "oh my god, and
you up here?" And he said, "well, you know, I got to come, I got to serve my
community". And I thought to myself this guy really is either lolo or he love us so much.
So, today we talk about honoring the extraordinary life of the way, the late William
"Willie K" Kahaiali'i. He was extraordinary, because he understood what it meant to
sacrifice. But he also understood what it meant to really love, to love to a degree that
you can sacrifice your pain because you want to see the joy that you bring on people's
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 10
faces. So, I think today we feel the loss because we know the joy that he has brought
to us, and we remember the joys. But at the same time, we grieve the loss because
we'll never be able to, to feel that again unless we continue to listen to his music over
and over and over and over.
But I wanted to read this for you, Aunty Kaipo. It's something that we read at Pikake's
funeral too. So, I want to tell you "Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God,
believe also in me. For in my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I
would not have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a
place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there
ye may be also." Aunty Kaipo, I hope you and the kids are going to be comforted by
these words. Thank you. Chair. God bless you all.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. That was very beautiful. Member Kama.
I believe we are back to you, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Pro Tem Kama, you're still not
making it easy. Sorry. I first want to extend my aloha to the Kahaiali'i ohana. And like
all my colleagues, wish you aloha and comfort during this time. And to all those who
Uncle Willie K made his ohana, I . . . . I've learned so much through his posts about
his personal life.
Yesterday, marked the 30 years of the stopping of the bombing of Kahoolawe;
October 22, 1990. I was . . . seven years old and just learning about who I am. And
Uncle Willie K, you know, his, his music really helped a lot of, those of us, you know,
my age, all of our ages, find so much pride in our identity as a kanaka. And while his
music brought us so much joy, his, he himself brought so much pride to the lahui and
what he meant to us as a people.
And as Member Sinenci said, you know, it was a, the news of his loss was a collective
way as a lahui, as a County, as all the lovers of his music and our culture. And he was
just larger than life. And it's, you know, he'll always be a legend. And, mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And I think all of you have shared very wonderful stories and
thoughts about Willie K. And I don't think I can possibly add to that, other than to say
we send our deepest condolences and our warmest appreciation for, for Willie K being
a part of our lives. And we hope that the family will have peace and comfort going
fonward.
Now, without any further comments or questions-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 11
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair, I would be remiss, and first, I want to thank you and
all the Members for the very kind words regarding the extraordinary life of Willie K. But
I want to also not be remiss and not thanking Art Vento; Art, out there from the MACC.
Thank you very much for sharing those photos and visuals of Uncle Willie during the
reading of the resolution by the Clerk. I think that help set the tone.
And I hope that we can remember this day by celebrating the great life of Uncle Willie.
His birthday was last week, so I hope I, you know, if we can take anything away from
today. Chair, is we should be celebrating that we had Willie K in our lives. So, listen
to his music, be inspired, and continue the one thing that Willie always shown through
himself; his love for his fellow man. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. At this time, we're ready to vote. Please mute your microphones.
So, all those in favor of the motion to adopt the resolution honoring Willie K, please say
"aye" and raise your right hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries unanimously; nine "ayes", zero "noes".
Madam Clerk. I think at this time~
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: -we would like to introduce the family.
Mr. Hokama, did you want to do that?
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: No, no, no. I would prefer the Clerk, since the Clerk is in
visual view of Deborah and the kids and the mom. So, if the Clerk would do that please.
Chair. And I know that the oldest daughter would like to speak on behalf of the family
after that. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 12
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, could you please introduce the family?
COUNTY CLERK: Let me go and turn on their microphone real quick. And I'll be, I'll be going
up to the podium right now.
Okay, I'd like to introduce mother Ivy; and wife Deborah; and daughters Honai or
Lycettiana, and Antoinette.
CHAIR LEE: Is, is the daughter's mic open?
MS. LYCETTIANA KAHAIALI'I: I would like to send a big mahalo to the Chair and
Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE: Can't hear anything.
COUNTY CLERK: Hold on one moment please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We're just going to have you use the BlueJeans audio, okay?
MS. LYCETTIANA KAHAIALI'I: Aloha. On behalf of my family and myself, I would like to
send a big mahalo to the Chair and Councilmembers for giving my dad this honorable
recognition. I've been watching the video livestream and I see there's a lot of tears
and emotions flying around.
And I would like to share my dad's last words of wisdom he shared to me when my
granduncle passed this past November. And he told me this, it's okay to let the pain
hurt. It's okay to cry, because that's the way we're going to heal. So, let it do its thing,
but at the same time, you shouldn't be holding onto that pain as well. But because of
that, the soul cannot leave this place and be gone. I never thought I'd be saying those
words regarding to the passing of my father.
I want to also thank you for supporting our family ... Kahaiali'i. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very, very much. Would anyone else like to say something?
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Deborah, you don't want to say anything, Deborah?
MS. DEBBIE KAHAIALI'I: For all your support, your love, so just very honored ... recognize
... all the love and the stories that everybody has shared. So, we really appreciate
that. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 13
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Mama, you want to say anything, mama?
MS. IVY NUUHIWA: I cannot talk now.
MS. DEBBIE KAHAIALN: Thank you. Toni, you want to say anything? Mahalo again.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Mahalo for being there. Mahalo for being there.
MS. DEBBIE KAHAIALI'I: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you so much, everyone for coming and, and sharing in this celebration
with us and all of Maui County. Thank you.
And, Yuki, can you help escort everyone out? Yuki. We'll take a, Yuki, are you there?
Is, is Jordan going to help?
COUNTY CLERK: She's at her desk.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, is Jordan going to help escort them out?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, you want to take a quick recess?
CHAIR LEE: I just wanted to check if, if they're okay.
COUNTY CLERK: We have staff--
CHAIR LEE: We'll take a five-minute, five-minute recess. Return at 10:10. Okay? Thank
you. Recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:02 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:15 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT FOR MEMBER
HOKAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of October 23 please reconvene. And thank you.
Members, for your participation in honoring the life of Willie K.
Madam Clerk, do we have testifiers signed up?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we do have some testifiers signed up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Shall we proceed?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 14
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda items. Members
of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting by phone or
video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected to the Council's online meeting intending to testify should notify
staff in the meeting chat. If you do not intend to testify, you can watch the meeting on
Akaku Channel 53 or on mauicounty.us. Individuals connected by phone are currently
on mute and will be unmuted when it is their time to testify. Individuals connected by
videoconference should keep both their video and microphones muted and should
unmute them when it is time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for
three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the item in which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
Chair, our first individual to testify is Gregg Kresge. And Gregg will be followed by Aki
Marceau.
CHAIR LEE: Could you repeat the name again?
PRESENTATION OF WRITTEN TESTIMONY
MR. GREGG KRESGE. (testifvino on Countv Communication No. 20-5241:
Hello. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. We see you too also. Thank you.
MR. KRESGE: Awesome. Awesome. Aloha and good morning. Council Chair Lee and
Councilmembers. My name is Gregg Kresge and I'm the manager of Project Delivery
for electrification of transportation for Hawaiian Electric based here on Maui. I hope
I'm coming across the camera fine, because I've got my other screen up here. But
first, I would like to say that we'll all miss Willie K, his infectious smile, great music, and
gifts to the community. His Christmas music is my personal favorite, and I'll be playing
it a lot soon, so thank you for honoring him today.
I'm offering testimony on agenda item 22-524 [sic], related to Electric Vehicle DC Fast
Charger concessions. Hawaiian Electric has also submitted written testimony. In
addition to the written testimony we've submitted, I wanted to highlight just a few things.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 15
At the end of July this year, charging stations that were part of the membership
program called EVohana were phased out. And EVohana was the replacement
program for what was previously known as JumpSmartMaui, which was developed in
partnership between the Japanese New Energy and Industrial Technology
Development Organization, known as NEDO, Hitachi, Maui Economic Development
Board, and the County Maui, and Hawaiian Electric.
Hawaiian Electric supports the growth of electrification and transportation and
recognizes the need for more public charging sites that concessions requested will
provide an opportunity to move forward with increasing locations for the public to utilize.
Hawaiian Electric is in the process of replacing and operating the chargers on four of
these EVohana sites. I'm pleased to share that over a month ago we installed a new
DC fast charger at Pukalani Terrace and look forward to completing the rest of the
installations by the end of the year.
The proposed resolution that you have before you today will allow us to proceed with
the installation of a DC fast charger at the Lahaina Aquatic Center, meeting, meeting
needs on the west side. Because the equipment for the charging station planned for
Lahaina Aquatic Center is on island now and we are able to fund the installation of the
equipment this year, we strongly support the request before you to waive the referral
to a Committee.
This would allow for the installation to be completed before December 31 while the
funds are available. The equipment and installation would be at no cost to the County.
Installing electric vehicle charging stations support the County's clean transportation
goals and advances the adoption of the electric vehicles which reduces dependence
on fossil fuel and the adverse effects of climate change. They play an important part
of our clean energy future.
So, we appreciate your consideration today. You'll also be hearing from my director
and the Director of Electrification of Transportation, Aki Marceau, who will be offering
testimony in support of the resolution before you today. And mahalo for your time and
consideration. We look forward to working with the County and the, in this service to
the public and are available to answer questions now and when the item is addressed
on the agenda. So, mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions for the testifier?
Ms. King, and then Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Gregg. Thanks for being here. Good
to see you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 16
MR. KRESGE: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yea, it's a little distracting cause you look like you're looking at a
different screen than.
MR. KRESGE: Let me see if I can drag it across so that I can be more in line. How's that?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's a, yea, that's, that's better. Yea, thank you.
MR. KRESGE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, you mentioned a fast charger in Pukalani. Is that one of the
four or is that in addition to the four?
MR. KRESGE: No, so that's one of the four. So, the four sites are the Lahaina Aquatic
Center, Pukalani Terrace Shopping Center, Piilani Village Shopping Center, and the
Queen Kaahumanu Center.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And then-
MR. KRESGE: So, the Pukalani charger is the one that is under the EV Maui Program.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MR. KRESGE: That's one of the four.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. And then are you, so you're planning to expand those
beyond just the four though?
MR. KRESGE: Under that program we've been authorized to do the four sites. So, we're,
you know, in the future we're looking at actually trying to expand the program beyond
what we've currently been approved to do.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay, great. I look forward to that. Thank you. Thank
you. Chair.
MR. KRESGE: Yea. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 17
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Nice seeing you, Gregg. Thank you for
continuing your good work.
MR. KRESGE: Hi. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I understand that this is going to be paid for by
Hawaiian Electric. So, do you know what the total cost is that you're covering?
MR. KRESGE: Yea. So, so, this, actually what's really good about this particular, these four
sites in particular, were chosen for the EV, the old EVohana sites because the
infrastructure, the electrical connection infrastructure is already in place. So, that cost
is greatly reduced. So, with the equipment cost and the cost of the construction, we're
looking at about a third of the normal cost. Sometimes these stations, and I, you know,
it just really depends on the site and at the end of the project. But we're looking at
somewhere around $60-$75,000 as opposed to a green site. If we went in and we
installed without any infrastructure in place, we, we often use like $150-$200,000 as
the, as the numbers. So, there is quite a cost savings by doing this.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you for doing this for the community. And I guess
this is, this is a big benefit, cause it's not going to cost our taxpayers additional dollars.
And you're continuing on with the program that you mentioned; JumpSmart to
EVohana. So, you have a customer base that's waiting for these chargers to be
activated. You do?
MR. KRESGE: Oh, yes. I hear from them every day. So, I know these, it, well, I was part of
the program myself. I'm an EV, electric vehicle driver since, actually since its inception;
January 2013. I was one of their original volunteers recruited. There, so, there is a
need.
The great part about EVohana or JumpSmart was that it really pushed EV adoption.
So, they, the, like the beauty of these chargers that we're putting in is that it's not a
membership base. So, you know, it's, you don't have to have a membership. You
don't have to have a card. Anybody can, with a debit or credit card can show up and
utilize the charger.
And it actually can charge as long as your car has a fast-charging port. It can charge
pretty much a 100 percent of the electrical vehicles out there now. Tesla's, with
adapters, of course, but everybody else, both Asian car market like the Nissan and
then also the domestic car market like BMW or Chevy Volt are good examples.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 18
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions for the testifier?
Yes, Mr. Sinenci, and then Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Mr. Kresge, for being here. Just
clarification. You mentioned that you'd be using already existing infrastructure. Are
you using, you're recycling existing chargers that, that have been left at these sites?
MR. KRESGE: So, there's a couple parts of that. One is we're able to recycle some of the
things, meaning that, not recycle actually, reuse some parts of it and that's the good
part about us doing them at these sites is that we're able to reuse some of the
equipment. Some of the equipment we're not able to get rid of. We tried to, with our
contractor and our contract with that contractor, we do try to have that recycled through
the electronic recycling program that's currently available because it's electronics. But
other parts of it do make its way to the landfill. So, we do have it in the contract that
we want them to recycle what they can.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. And, and of those four sites, they already have existing
infrastructure; EV infrastructure?
MR. KRESGE: Yea, so, so, so the difference, and without going into too much detail, but the
difference between like a fast charger is that it's able to deliver a very large amount of
energy in a short period of time. So, you can actually recharge about 85 percent of a
battery on a 100-mile vehicle in about 10 minutes. But that's very high voltage that
goes into that. So, the transformer connections and, and the electrical conduit is, is for
high voltage, so that it has to be a very safe and secure environment.
So, under EVohana, they had that fast charging capability that, that high voltage. And
we wanted to utilize that because a large part of the cost, if we do this at a site that
doesn't have those connections already, is, you know, transformer connections, putting
in new boxes, new conduit, and making sure that there's no access by the public to
any of that behind or underground infrastructure it's, because of the high voltage
connections.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you, Mr. Kresge. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Kresge. Nice to see you.
MR. KRESGE: Nice to see you too.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 19
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Good morning. Okay. So, I just wanted to
clarify. So, the agenda item that you're testifying on is County Communication 20-524.
MR. KRESGE: Yes, that's correct.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. And the three DC fast charger sites are the
Lahaina Aquatic Center, Haiku Community Center, and Kalana O Maui building?
MR. KRESGE: That's correct.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, the, and the four sites would be, would
come before us at another time?
MR. KRESGE: So, Lahaina Aquatic Center is one of the four sites under the EV Maui
program, which has already been funded and approved, and the equipment has
actually been purchased because we wanted to make sure to be able to do it, because
we were also having inflight already site agreements all the way from last year. Site
agreements take a long time to negotiate between, even the concession agreements
with the County. They go back and forth and, you know, we have to negotiate those,
those, those terms.
So, under the four program with a, within EV Maui, we have those four sites. Lahaina
Aquatic Center is one of them. That's the only County site under that program; the EV
Maui program. The other ones are Piilani Village Shopping Center; Pukalani, which
has already been installed; the Queen Kaahumanu Center; and the, the Lahaina
Aquatic Center; Queen Kaahumanu Center; Piilani; and Pukalani. Those are the four
sites under the EV ...
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo for that clarification. And then, my
last question was in your testimony you said that before the Council is the waiver to, is
the I, matter of waiving committee referral. Who gave you that information?
MR. KRESGE: Well, so~
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me. Excuse me. For clarification, that is going to be requested when
the item comes up.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
MR. KRESGE: Yea, I think Alex, who is going to be-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 20
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry, did, did you get my clarification or was I muted?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I got it
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you got it? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Mr. Kresge.
MR. KRESGE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any more questions? If not, thank you very much. Can we have the
next testifier please, Madam.
COUNTY CLERK: Next to testify is Aki Marceau. And Aki will be followed by Linda Puppolo.
MS. AKI MARCEAU (testifvina on Countv Communication No. 20-524):
Aloha, Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers. As Gregg said, my name is Aki
Marceau. I'm the, the new Director of Electrification of Transportation at Hawaiian
Electric. And I'll be offering testimony on agenda item CC 20-524, so similar to Gregg.
And I really want to mahalo Gregg for the warm introduction. It's a pleasure to meet
all of you. And I apologize for not being able to be here in person. I hope that at some
point I can, in the near future, I can meet you all in person. I just joined Hawaiian
Electric earlier this year.
And I'd like to echo Gregg's sentiments of strong support for this proposed resolution.
As he said, the concession agreement would allow us to replace the retired EVohana
charging station at Lahaina Aquatic Center by the end of the year. And we also
respectfully support the request to waive the referral, which will come, you know, later
today to allow us to stay within this timeline and provide charging to the public in a
timely manner.
I'd like to also offer some additional context, a little bit kind of stepping back a little
related to our overall programs and approach. So, we recognize, and we hear from
the public a, a desire for more public charging. And right now, as a regulated utility,
we're only allowed to install, at large, 29 chargers across our five island territory; and
that includes the four sites that Gregg mentioned regarding EVohana. So, thanks to
Gregg, we've moved quickly to replace the Pukalani charger, just over a month ago.
And we're on track to install the rest by the end of the year.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 21
And to respond to these needs from the public, regarding the desire for more charging,
he, he kind of alluded to this, but we'll be asking the Public Utilities Commission to
expand our public charging program next year. And this concession agreement will
accelerate the installation of additional chargers. And so, we're, we're really grateful
to the County of Maui for your partnership as we work together to provide public
charging to everyone. And Gregg, and Gregg, as Gregg mentioned, we're available to
answer any questions. Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. And we have a question from Councilmember King for you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Aki. Good to see you again. Wow, it's
been a long time. Is that, is that sustainable transportation group at the State level still
happening? You still involved in that?
MS. MARCEAU: The Sustainable Transportation Coalition of Hawaii. I'm not involved in, the
acronym is STCH, I'm not involved with STCH, but Michael Colon from our team is, is
representing Hawaiian Electric. And then Blue Planet Foundation kind of organizes
that whole group.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well, it's good to see you still involved. And then, and my
question is, on the chargers, as we move forward, are, the original four that are in that
program, are those charged by solar or are they still kind of plugged into the electric
company which, you know, still partially runs on fossil fuel?
MS. MARCEAU: Those are, those are connected to the grid. So, whatever the utility mix is,
or the power mix is.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Going fonward, is there going to be a push to get the chargers,
you know, to develop a whole charging system that is powered by the sun rather than
fossil fuel?
MS. MARCEAU: Yea, I think there's a, there's kind of a two-part answer to that. So, one is,
we are, as, as you all know, trying to transition the entire kind of power mix for the grid
to renewable energy. And so, that will feed into the charging stations and, and every
other kind of electrical component that we offer. And then, you know, I think we're
thinking creatively about how we can optimize different programs, either through the
demand and response program or otherwise. And so, I think we're open to that
creativity. And obviously, there's always space constraints and that type of thing. But
we're, we're looking for opportunities.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 22
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well I'm sure, I know from our past association that your,
that's where your heart is. So, I look forward to moving in that direction. But good to
see you.
MS. MARCEAU: Good to see you too. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, seems like you know everybody in this field.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I pretty much do. We all, we're very good at recycling
ourselves around the, around the state, so, so we end up seeing each other in different
venues, but always talking about sustainability.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, very good.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. I was, my question was just I was
wondering if Ms. Marceau would be around when the item comes up in case we have
additional questions?
MS. MARCEAU: Yes. I'll be around, and so will Gregg.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, are there any more questions? If not, thank you, Ms. Marceau.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Linda Puppolo. Ms. Puppolo will be followed by Marc
Takamori.
MS. LINDA PUPPOLO (testifvina on Committee Report 20-130):
Good morning, Councilmembers. Nice to see you all. I want to first say a shoutout to
the Willie K ohana. I too have lost my family to cancer when I was teen. And just by
coincidence, I didn't know there was a ceremonial today, I am wearing pink at the
request of Tyson Miyake at the Mayor's Office, because on Fridays we wear pink to
support October as being Cancer Awareness Month. So, I get how I, my heart goes
out to the ohana. It, it's been 50 years since my parents were with me, and it's still
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 23
emotional after all these years. So, Florence Puppolo, I miss you. Austin Puppolo, I
miss you and I always will.
My name is Linda Puppolo and I am the executive director of the Maui County
Workforce Development Board. I start my testimony by assuring the Council that we
are actively engaged in workforce planning and job creation, but that has to have a
long-term effect on Maui County. It would be my pleasure to share our planning with
you at a time when I have more than three-minute time limit.
Job placement case work has five basic steps; intake, assessment, individual plans,
performance evaluation, and follow up. This case work has Federal, State, and County
layers of compliance. It Isn't a simple process because our unemployed and
underemployed often have significant barriers to employment, which of course is
something we can assist with, but it takes time.
Our programs currently have 523 participants being served by the American Job
Center. It might not sound like a lot of help, but, with thousands of people out of work,
but these programs are lifelines to these people. Our State recognized website,
mauicountyvirtualjobfair.com now has 28,823 page views, 5,575 users, 91 jobs listed,
35 employers registered, and 99 candidates applying for positions. And that was at
the end of September; only two months into the origination of that, that website. It was,
that website was developed by the University of Hawaii, and the Maui County
Workforce Development Board, and the American Job Center staff in collaboration.
And while we continue to develop resources, collaborations, request stakeholder input
throughout Maui County; including Molokai, Hana, and Lanai, we have written several
grants to build on these initial 550K annual money. We've received an award letter,
which we're celebrating this week for 370,000K for disaster funding for Workforce
Development from the U.S. Department of Labor. And we are now currently awaiting,
and we're assured that we're going to get some funding also for a $717,000
employment grant. And we are planning more grant funding. We're writing another
grant right now. All the pieces of this funding build on each other and will provide some
transitional employment, job training, encumber more training and education and job
training, that includes serving the most remote communities of our County.
There is one factor you may not understand. We have been working and assisting our
partner Unemployment Insurance and have literally taken thousands of phone calls
from people that are having difficulty with unemployment. So, many people are not
able to go back to work because their children are still out of school. A lot of people
don't have childcare and many people are still afraid to go to work because of the
Coronavirus. Some people like staying home and collecting until their employment
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 24
funding is drained, and they are just waiting for these company, their, some people are
just waiting for their companies to reopen.
Over 5,250 jobs have been permanently lost due to the pandemic. This makes it even
more important that we have a coordinated plan with this little amount of money that
methodically builds on existing programs. Transitional temporary jobs may give
experience and we can send CARES Act money to give some people experience but
it's, it's not sustainable and what happens then?
We are collaborating on the following project, which are win-wins: Maui United Way in
support of, we're putting the 211 Call Center for Maui United Way at the American Job
Center and leveraging our resources together. The University of Hawaii, we're building
websites with them. The Hawaii Taro Farm, we have workforce support for them.
Broadband Hui, we're working to make sure that if we do remote jobs that they're going
to be possible in these remote--
CHAIR LEE: Linda, Linda, can you conclude? Linda, can you conclude?
MS. PUPPOLO: I've only got like this much more, if you give me just a second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. PUPPOLO: Okay, and the ILWU, this is the best one of all. With the ILWU, we're going
to assist in incumbent worker training to put a health and safety site coordinator at
every single hotel to train in the basics of COVID mitigation and contact tracing. We
can't just get people back to work, because are, there aren't a lot of jobs. The Maui
County Workforce Board and community partners have a plan and we would be happy
to share it with you.
CHAIR LEE: There, are there any questions for Ms. Puppolo? If not, thank you very much.
Okay. Madam Clerk. Next.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Marc Takamori. And Mr. Takamori will be followed by
Scott Shapiro.
MR. MARC TAKAMORI. DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION (testifvina on Countv
Communication No. 20-523):
Hi. Good morning. Council Chair Lee, Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
County Councilmembers. Happy Aloha Friday to all of you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 25
CHAIR LEE: You too.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: I'm Marc Takamori, the Director for the County
Department of Transportation. And I'm here this morning to testify in full support of
County Communication 20-523, the amendment to the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget for
the Department of Transportation - Central Maui Transit Hub Project.
As you are aware, the Department needs to relocate its current transit hub from the
Queen Kaahumanu Shopping Center to the new site off of Vevau Street, near the
Kahului Library. The transit hub project funds includes $2.5 million from HHFDC and
$1.5 million in County General Obligation Bond Funds.
The construction bids were opened on October 1; however, the lowest bid exceeded
the appropriated amount by $200,779. The budget amendment request of $800,000
of General Obligation Bond Funds will cover the construction cost shortfall, as well as
be used for contracting for construction management, utility connectivity cost, and
other unforeseen costs. The overages are unforeseen costs as we had budgeted $4
million for this and we weren't expecting the construction cost to be higher than what
was budgeted.
The license agreement with Queen Kaahumanu Shopping Center originally were set
to expire at the ending of January 2020; however, an extension till July 31, 2021 was
approved. With this budget amendment, we need to get into construction contract
quickly so we're able to get started, finish, and with the ultimate goal of relocating out
of Queen Kaahumanu Shopping Center. If you have any questions for myself and/or
the Budget Director Yoshimura, we can be available as resources for this meeting.
Thank you again for your support on this.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. We have a question from Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Takamori. Happy Aloha Friday
to you as well. Just a clarifying question. So, the budget amendment is to
accommodate the lowest bid, and then the Department will go with the lowest bid?
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Yes, Chair, yes. That is correct. We, we are able to
contract with the lowest responsible bidder and so that would be the shortfall of the
$200,779. And then, the rest of those funds would then be used to contract for a
construction management firm, as well as other costs.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 26
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? If not, thank you, Marc. See you later.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Scott Shapiro. And Mr. Shapiro will be followed by
Lucienne de Naie.
MR. SCOTT SHAPIRO (testifying on Committee Report 20-138):
Good morning, everybody. Good morning. Council. I don't know if you can see this
sign behind me. Please, everybody get out and vote, it says, vote over my bald head.
Anyway, some of you are familiar with that. I'm testifying today on behalf of myself on
Committee Report 20-138. This has to do with Kilohana, I'm not sure of the name of
the subdivision actually, but Kilohana Makai possibly and the conditions of zoning, in
particular.
I've gone to many meetings. Committee meetings, public meetings with the developer.
And in general, I approve of this project. I'm in support of it. My overall feeling is that
it's still too close to the ocean. I'm afraid of sea level rise in this area. And that goes
along with the last testifier, Derek /s/c7Takamori, who is putting a transportation center
very close to the ocean. I hope that the building there is fonward looking and that things
are built with sea level rise as a, as a, you know, something that will happen here.
So, anyway, the conditions of zoning, there are two numbers that I'd like you to look
at; number 2 and number 12. Number 2 is of particular concern to me. One of the
discussions was about how long this will, this housing will be affordable; 15 years,
20 years, in perpetuity. And the developer agreed that 20 years would be workable for
them. So, number 2 it says, "Ferreira Family Partners", who I guess is the owner of
the lot, "must ensure that each unit on the property is owner-occupied for a period of
20 years". It doesn't talk about in affordability for 20 years at all. There's not one
mention of that in here that I can see. So, I hope you can bring that up.
Number 12, one of the things that the neighborhood was concerned about were access
to South Kihei Road through the neighborhood. And one of my concerns was that this
development is workforce housing and so, accessibility to public transportation is
important. There's a bus stop between Lots 24, between Lots 25 and 26. If there were
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 27
to be a footpath built right there between those two lots, people who live there could
access the bus stop right, very easily and catch a bus to go to work which is the whole
point of this development happening here. So, those are my big things.
One other thing that I heard was that possibly the developer might be trying to change
some of these conditions of approval today. And I just want to point out that the public
has not heard anything about any changes to these conditions. These were all agreed
on in Committee. And so, if there are any changes that are to be, you know, looked at
today, the public needs to have further access and further testifying time back in
Committee. It shouldn't, you know, if they're substantial. So, if they're minor, then no
problem.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Shapiro.
MR. SHAPIRO: Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any questions?
Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oops. Thank you. Chair. And thanks for, thanks for being here,
Mr. Shapiro. Chair, I just was wondering if, when we get to this item, if we, if
Mr. Shapiro's available if we can ask him to be available as a resource?
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Mr. Shapiro, thank you for, for testifying and
for your sign. And I wondered if you could tell us about your last requirement to get to
the bus stop. I was looking, I was pulling out my conditions. So, can you cite the
condition again, and?
MR. SHAPIRO: Yea, thank you. I can slow it down a little. So, number 12 talks about that
the "Ferreira Family Partners", or the developer, basically, "must construct one or more
publicly accessible footpaths, at least four feet wide, connecting the project to the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 28
surrounding neighborhood". It doesn't talk about access through the neighborhood. It
just says, "connecting the project to the neighborhood". So, if, if it were to say, after
the surrounding neighborhood in that first sentence, "connecting the project with the
surrounding neighborhoods. One of those footpaths must be located between Lots 25
and 26", which I think, I was guessing kind of where the bus stop was. It's right in
there; 25 and 26 or 24 and 25. So, I think if that is a short little span, taking two feet
from each lot and creating an accessible pathway to the bus stop, that's what I was
saying that's why we're putting affordable housing here.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you very much.
MR. SHAPIRO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you, Scott. We'll see you later.
MR. SHAPIRO: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Lucienne de Naie. And Ms. de Naie will be followed
by Mike Wysocki.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE (testifvino on Countv Communication Nos. 20-528 and 20-529:
and Committee Reports 20-20-129. 20-130. and 20-138):
Mahalo, everyone. Nice to see you again. I'm testifying on a number of items today.
Most will be very brief. But I did request that I add item 20-138, which is the change in
zoning that Mr. Shapiro was just addressing, to my list. Because I, I've tracked this
since the days of the Community Plan in 1998 and, you know, it's like what a, a twisted
path we have here. So, I'd like to start with that one if I could. So, we're on Number
20-138, first reading to grant a change in zoning from Open Space to Residential
District.
This was put in open space, you know, back during the debate in the 90's, because of
its proximity to the ocean, possibility of future flooding, other, other sorts of reasons.
And also, because South Maui was growing and any place that could logically remain
open space seemed a good idea for future public use. Okay, so the family that owns
the lot is proposing housing now. And I just think that there are conditions that were
worked out. This was a very contentious project.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 29
It was, it was held up at the end of the last session in 2018, so a town hall could be
held on the matter. And so, I think we should honor the process that it has been
through. If the Committee did recommend these conditions to make it an acceptable
project, then we shouldn't be pulling last minute conditions in and, and negating that
effect.
I agree with Mr. Shapiro that the idea of perpetuity for 20 years as affordable housing
is important to keep clear, because we all remember what happened to that Lahaina
housing project that we thought was going to be affordable for 50 years; didn't have
clear language. So, let's make sure we have clear language here.
I'll move onto the next topic, which would be item 20-130. And this is the resolution
about the Hawaii Community College [sic] partnering with the construction unions and
healthcare trade unions, the County Workforce Development Board, etc., etc., to
develop more workforce programs to put our residents back to work. I'm just in
complete support of this. It's a resolution. We're urging everyone to work together to
do this. And I'm sure you all support it. But please know that the public supports
anything that leads us towards better opportunities for working people on this island to
pursue new careers that might have likely a long-term employment opportunities here.
And certainly, construction and healthcare are two fields that we'll never do without.
So, thank you for your support of this.
I'll move on to item number 20-529. This is just referral to a community, to a Committee
on planning relating to floodplain and drainage areas. This is so essential. So many
times I, some of you know I'm involved in cleanups with various organization; Malama
Maui Nui, Sierra Club, various town, town organizations. And so often we see that
these areas that are, are really needed as floodplains and, and drainage areas just
become dumping grounds. They're not well-managed. And we really need a
management plan. These are ... areas that provide essential services. So, it's good
that the Council is talking about this. Some of them may end up being flooded in our
future. So, we might as well like have some, some clear plan about how we want to
manage them.
And item number 20-528. This is about our, our proposed closing of the
Gastrointestinal and Ambulatory Surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic for Kaiser
Permanente. This whole process of the Certificate of Need, which this resolution is
just urging the State to conduct a full public disclosure through the Certificate of Need
process. It really seems that people need more health services, not fewer right now.
And that anything we can do to have this be our, our model of where we're going, would
be good.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 30
I haven't read all the details of this, as probably most of us have not. But I, I think the
public definitely supports, since we have only one health provider, basically here, you
know, Maui Memorial is now under the, the Kaiser management. We need to make
sure that the public has a say in this and that the procedures have, if you're going to
close a facility, there's really a in-depth justification and I think the suspicion is, is that
there hasn't been that in-depth justification provided for this proposal.
And the last item that I'm testifying on is the Committee Report from the Affordable
Housing Committee on matter 20-129. This is the adoption of the resolution
disapproving the Lihau'ula Workforce Housing Project in Olowalu. I definitely would
support the committee report being adopted. This area was considered recently in the
update of the West Maui Community Plan by the Citizens Advisory Committee. They
in their wisdom decided that this was not an appropriate place for housing of this, you
know, continue to build larger scale housing projects.
This is of course a small project, so that they can kind of get, try to dodge sewage
treatment requirements and so forth. It's just kind of, it's a can of worms. And this is
an area where its future needs to be carefully considered. It's a high-impact area for
our reefs. And it's a high-impact area for traffic. So, and it has no, no public sewer
system. It has kind of a marginal water system. We, we should hold off. Support what
the Committee decision came to and wait to see what a better project would be for this
area. Thank you for your consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you, Ms. de Naie. Any questions?
Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thanks for being here again, Lucienne. And
a wealth of information. I have a question. Since you were, you know, this question
came up about the Kilohana Makai project. Since you were, you know, involved back
then with the Kihei-Makena Community Plan, it ended up with this kind of funky
designation of OZ, you call it open space, but it actually I think was designated open
zone. So, was that a-
MS. DE NAIE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -mistake then or was that a deliberate meaning, was that a
deliberate kind of wishy-washy thing and they didn't want to stamp it open space?
MS. DE NAIE: Well, we had a lot of things that were open zone at that time. We didn't have
an open space ordinance.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 31
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MS. DE NAIE: I actually served on the Mayor's committee on open space ordinance back in
2000. So, in '98, we didn't have that designation for zoning. I think that what the open
zone meant was that it's an area that could have impacts in it, so don't build in it. And
the, though, though, that was my recollection.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you for clearing that up. That's been sort of a
mystery that's been hanging out there. Thank you.
MS. DE NAIE: Yea, it is a mystery.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. But you said there were other open zone
designations on the maps as well, or?
MS. DE NAIE: There were. I think there was one in Lahaina side. There were, they were in
various places.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MS. DE NAIE: I can't recall if there were any others in South Maui, but yea.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Great. Alright, thank you so much.
MS. DE NAIE: And it, and it might have been a typo, you know. But the intention was this is
a place that has some, you know, ecological or environmental impacts, and let's just
leave it open.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MS. DE NAIE: That was, that was the first intent there.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more questions? If not, thank you, Ms. de Naie.
Madam Chair, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mr. Mike Wysocki. Mr. Wysocki will be followed by
the telephone number with the last four digits of 1221.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Call that person again, please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 32
COUNTY CLERK: Mr. Wysocki, with the telephone number 6044, ending digits.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's go on. We can come back to him.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Last four digits of the telephone number 1221. And moving fonward
from that, Juli Patao.
MS. JULI PATAO (testifying on Committee Report 20-130):
Hi. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. PATAO: Aloha, Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE: Are you Juli?
MS. PATAO: Hi there.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. PATAO: I want to say thank you for all the work that you guys do. I know it's; it's
sometimes not as appreciated as we all want it to be as much. So, I just want to say,
truly, thank you all for the work that you guys all do. So, mahalo. And yes, ditto with
Uncle Willie K; loved him, especially performing at Kimo's, loved going there.
Needless to say, I'm here to testify about CR, I had it on my screen, so sorry, about
the workforce development resolution. And I just want to say on behalf of UH Maui
College, we are doing everything we, we possibly can participating in community
collaboration events hosted by Linda and her Workforce Development board partners
and players to identify, and create, and be innovative with every possible area that we
can tap into everyone's resources.
I want to tell you that that Maui County Virtual Job Fair website has over 28,000 visitors
that have actually come and seen our site. It is very Maui-centric. So, people who visit
there are finding Maui only jobs. That's a huge way to get, connect people to what's
available in Maui. Obviously, we don't have as many jobs open as we do have people
looking for jobs. But if, but if our citizens go there, they'll be able to find everything they
need to partner with either community partners, the American Job Center with
trainings, if they want to come back to school and they find that that's something that
they want to do.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 33
So, I just wanted to share that it's, the work that we're doing is so important, so valued.
And we're really trying to partner to serve our community. Even coming up with that
website is super innovative in the sense that often we get Oahu-centric postings and
so it's easy for someone to get lost. If people don't have technology skills, they can
visit American Job Center in person to get the help that they need. So, we're here to
help our people, our Maui community citizens. We're here to partner with entities that
will offer these innovative approaches to diversify our economy.
More importantly, UH Maui was just awarded some CARES Act funding, so I'm helping
with the modern internships to help businesses with technology skills and partner them
with our students. That's being a great fit. A lot of the businesses that signed up are
actually already partnered with our students. So, we're, we're starting that efforts, well
not starting, we've already started all the efforts, we're trying to create opportunities
and connect people who are unemployed to the workforce. So, I just want to say that
we appreciate all the work.
Our trade, our apprenticeship trade school, there's over 350 students in there. I'm not
sure if you know that while you're in the trades, you also have to be working to accrue
"x" amount of hours. That's how you kind of work up the ladder, the pay scale. So,
obviously, our construction industry wasn't as impacted by COVID like everyone else.
Like, construction still went on, there's a lot of projects in Kihei.
And so, we're maxed out on all of that, the trades coming here to UH Maui College.
So, I just want you to know that there's even another trade school where there's the
painters and the glazers that are here as well, because they're also working. So,
combined, we've increased the amount of trades are available to our community. And
we're helping people to further their skills in trainings so they can be employed.
So, I just want to share with you, we're doing the best that we can and we're willing to
hear any solutions or suggestions that other people might have so we can try different
things. But the plan that Linda shared earlier is a process. She has a great design
with how to intake that whole social work process and all the different sector
partnerships is what we've been doing here on Maui. And I feel that it's a great
opportunity for anyone who needs help, they know where to go. That Maui County
Virtual Job Fair website is critical and I'm so thankful that it was created. So, thank
you so much for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Juli. Are there any questions?
Yes, Ms. King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 34
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thanks for being here, Juli. I think I, I love
that, the fact that there's a website for job seekers. Do you have a way of, want to find
how many people actually get jobs through the website?
MS. PATAG: Yea. Actually, our design people have the statistics that show that. I'm, I'm not
the data person behind that, but there is statistics to show that. We've been meeting
almost; we were meeting actually weekly during the summer and now we're like
meeting maybe every other week. And we always talk about the statistics, how we're
getting hits, what websites are driving people to the site. So, we have all these, the
statistics to report on-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Do you know what that number is? Do you know what that
number is to date? Like, how many people have actually found jobs and been hired
through the job fair?
MS. PATAG: I don't know that that syncing part of the posting, because sometimes employers
don't go on, and we don't have a, verify that you hired someone. But we get a lot of
hits to connect people and we're constantly, like employers and businesses are signing
up into our site.
We also have plans to host a virtual job fair. We also have resources. So, like, how
do you search for a job? So, we're taking it step, by step, by step to help people to get
into these different high sector industry areas, even healthcare with CNA, and partner
with the partners such as Hale Makua and what have you. So, we have different
collaborations to get that information out to our community.
CGUNCILMEMBER KING: Gkay. Well, I look forward to hearing those statistics. And I think
it would be really helpful to the Council if we had numbers on who was seeking jobs
and what industries. Because, you know, as we go through our discussions on
diversifying the economy, it's, it would be helpful to know where the talent already
exists and where people, where people's interests already exist; which industries we
want to, you know, tackle first. If the, if the talent is there, we should be definitely
developing healthcare, for instance, you know. So, if you can, if you can get those
statistics for us, I think that would be, that would help us in our work going forward.
MS. PATAG: Great. Thank you. We also did a site visit at Mahi Pono and we went to see
their crops, see what kind of innovation they have going on in partnership. So, you
know, that's a huge component, right? We're, we're saying diversify ag; how do we do
that and what that looks like. So, that's also another project going on too. So, thank
you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 35
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, we, we're definitely focused on ag. I just wonder what, if
you can help us with the other industries? And, and, so thank you for being here.
And then Chair, I just wanted to let you know that Mr. Wysocki is on. He just is on his
phone, so I think he just forgot to mute when you called him earlier, so he's standing
by.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Questions?
Ms. Paltin. Don't, don't leave, Juli.
MS. PATAO: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Patao. Thank you for
meeting with me earlier this year as well. I just was wondering, in addition to
Councilmember King's question, are you also putting it out, like, you know, the jobs
that are chronically vacant here in Maui County, like, putting an emphasis for folks that,
you know, there's pretty good job security because of the lack of people to fill those
types of positions?
MS. PATAO: Great question. Thank you. And, yes, so we just, we were just on a meeting
with the business, business group meeting; people from different areas. We talked
about CNA Healthcare being huge demand, lack of that, right? We talked about
teacher shortage. We talked about childcare. Like, these industries that really need
more, I would say, like, a whole facelift with regards to marketing and promoting. And
part of that, to me, has to deal with recognition, because like so underappreciated, but
they provide so much value and work for our whole community.
And so, we've been talking about that. We're going to share some blogs or participate
in web development items so that people can either become childcare providers,
caregivers, give them steps to be a teacher. We have those steps here at UH Maui
College to help people to become teachers if that's what they'd like to do.
We have to stop bringing in people to do our work. And so, how do we do that, right?
So, we just have to create these opportunities and we're doing that surely through
some of our blog postings at our Maui County Virtual Job Fair website. The College is
open for, you know, we're taking calls, we're, we're creating Zooms with people who
might call in. There's a chat function when you visit our website. So, there's a lot of
tools available for people to connect with these high demand industries so that we can
provide them the tools to that next step. So, that's one component.
The other component is I truly feel we need to do more recognition of these, of these
jobs.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 36
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Great.
MS. PATAO: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sounds like you have it covered. Thank you so much.
MS. PATAO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? If not, thank you, Juli.
MS. PATAO: Thank you. Aloha. Happy Friday.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, you too.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is the last four digits of telephone 7281. 7281 will be
followed by Mr. Mike Wysocki. 7281.
MR. KENNY BARR (testifvinq on ceremonial resolution):
Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. BARR: Can you hear me? This is-
CHAIR LEE: Can you identify yourself?
MR. BARR: Hi. This is Kenny Barr calling from Kihei. And let me turn the TV off. Hi. I
screwed up this morning. I was trying to testify on the Willie K ceremonial thing, and
may I still do that for about a minute?
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead, Kenny.
MR. BARR: Okay. Many people know Willie in all facets of his life, certainly his Hawaiian
community. Mine was more through music and through photography. And he was a
photographer's dream come true through his many expressions and his intensity in
playing his guitar. Seeing him in a small club like Hapa's, or a famous club like
Fleetwood's, or a big club like the Maui Arts Center and his blues festivals, etc., his
persona, his personality, and his guitar expertise was like seeing Eric Clapton, Freddie
King, Prince, and Bruce Springsteen all wrapped up into one, on one stage in one
night.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 37
He was one of a kind; the term used in many obituaries, but truly the moniker that he
owns. And to those of us who truly love Maui without the dollar signs, he was the
greatest in telling it like it is. He didn't care if the tourist or local haole paid money to
see him. He would tell them, from the stage, what he thought; if you don't like cane
burning, go back where you came from. He was and is a classic.
And it was, it was, if you put it in another perspective how good he was, is that if you
grew up in the mainland and you looked fon/vard to a concert, say a Bruce Springsteen
concert or something, all day long you would be so excited to be able to see that, cause
you knew what you were going to see. And it was the same feeling with Willie here on
Maui. And I know a lot of musicians and, felt the same way about it; that it was a real
honor to play with him. And that's my two cents on Willie K. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you. Thank you, Willie. Not, Willie. Did you, did you want to, Kenny,
did you want to speak on another item as well?
MR. BARR: No. No, no. I was just waiting to do that this morning and I missed getting on.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
MR. BARR: So, that's all. Just want to give my two cents.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you for hanging in there.
MR. BARR: Okay. Have a good day. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: You too. You too.
MR. BARR: Okay. Bye.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, do we have another speaker?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we have a few more. Our next speaker is Mike Wysocki.
Mr. Wysocki will be followed by Grade Esperanza.
MR. MIKE WYSOCKI (testifying on Committee Report 20-138):
Thank you. It's a, thank you it's Mike Wysocki. I'd like to verify first if you can hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 38
MR. WYSOCKI: Yes? Excellent. Well, thank you, guys. I'm speaking on 20-138, on the
Kilohana Makai housing complex. So, first I'd like to thank, obviously, I'd like thank the
Committee, I'd like to thank the Council, and all the help and all the assistance we've
had, as well as Lehua Builders. Every, everybody's been nice and great, that we've
got a chance to get some community input. Recently, I just heard, obviously, some
information that there is some changes that are going to occur. It would be great if the
public could know and we could also work with the Planning Committee to hear what
those changes are going to be. So, that would be one subject I'd like to verify.
The other thing too I'd like to verify, I don't have as much detailed notes as Mr. Shapiro,
but regarding the walking paths, right now there's a walking path to the beach there,
going through their complex, so if they could keep it at two walking paths, that would
be great. The whole community, the whole area is very walkable friendly. As we know,
we had a lot of environmentalists on today and I think that would be very helpful just
because the fact that we don't, you know, less cars, less pollution, less traffic, less
danger, etc., as we all can attest to and understand. So, that would be something that
would be much needed for that complex. Moreover, opening up to Kilohana via Wela
Street would be great as well. It would make a nice clear path and now ingress-egress.
Also, no ohanas to the area. So, it's similar to the, all the other housing complexes in
the area. There, there are no ohanas in the similar structures in the other streets. And
during the complex building, if it's possible, it would be excellent to have a temporaiy
walking path for the people that actually do, you know, go, you know, use the public
transportation as well as go to the beach. A lot of the people in this area use the
beaches consistently, we try to walk there as much as possible. Moreover, also adding
homeowners' association to the area as well, that's very similar to the other
homeowners' associations that are in the area. It would be great.
One issue that I've definitely butted heads with, with everybody pretty much, because
they said that it can't be done, but I just think the opportunity for these, for this housing
complex, if there's any way to tie it into people, to be put at the top of the list with a
Hawaiian bloodline, I think that's imperative. Cause if we are trying to do our best to
help everybody in the community, it's, somebody who just arrived here a year or two
ago from the mainland gets the chance to get an amazing complex, or get an amazing
house very close to the beach. Whereas we have had families here for hundreds of
years, thousands of years possibly, and that will just be shut out because their number
wasn't called. If there's any way we can tie it into it. I think it's been called
discriminatory from a few people, but I just think it's the right thing to do.
So, and I think I got my three-minute buzzer right there. So, again, thank you for
listening and we hope for the best. We hope it's going to be a great community for the
area, and make South Maui look as, as amazing as it is. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 39
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Aloha. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, thank you
very much.
And may we have the next one?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Grade Esperanza. Ms. Esperanza will be followed by
Rita Ryan. Grade Esperanza.
CHAIR LEE: Next.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think she's, she's there.
COUNTY CLERK: Move forward?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: She's just muted. She needs to unmute. I can see her.
CHAIR LEE: Grade, can you-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: She has a mic.
CHAIR LEE: —unmute yourself? You know how to unmute yourself?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: There should be a microphone and a video, if you can unmute
both of them. We saw the video before.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think we lost her when she went to unmute herself.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh no.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's go to the next one for now.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Our next testifier is Rita Ryan.
MS. RITA RYAN. CLIMATE ACTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND CLIMATE REALITY
PROJECT (testifving on Countv Communication Nos. 20-521. 20-524. and 20-526):
Aloha, respected Members of the County Council. And thank you for the opportunity
to testify today. I am testifying as the Chair Pro Tem of the Climate Action Advisory
Committee of Maui County, and also as the Maui County Chair of the Climate Reality
Project.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 40
However, as a private citizen, I would like to say that I was very moved by the
testimony, or not the testimony, but the, the remarks regarding Willie K. And I was
brought to tears. I didn't know Willie K personally, but I danced to his music, enjoyed
his music, and shared in his aloha and supported his causes. So, thank you so much.
Council, for taking the time to honor, you know, a jewel of Maui County.
I want to testify today as part of the Climate Action Advisory Committee on CC 20-521,
the wastewater facilities and sea level rise zones. Prohibiting construction, of course,
is common sense. So, we don't want to, you know, waste any money building anything
in, in sea level rise zone that we would have to rebuild later. The managed retreat for
existing wastewater facilities is much more difficult. You know, moving a wastewater
facility out of sea level rise is going to be very, very costly.
I just want to say thank you for presenting this resolution, because even though the
cost will be high, the cost will be exponentially higher to move that wastewater facility
after the sea level, if there's a storm inundation event, to have to move that facility out
of sea level rise zone once it's destroyed. And think of the damage to our ocean
environment. It would be significant and irreversible. So, thank you for taking this up.
And it's, it's, it's a tough time. We need to take this climate action. It's pay now or pay
lots more later. So, we are in support of the resolution on the wastewater facilities and
sea level rise zones.
The other issue I would like to testify on is CC 20-524, the EV DC fast chargers. There
is much discussion within the, the Renewable Transportation Committee of the Climate
Action Advisory Council on this issue. Some of the concerns was that the cost of
charging is very high, much higher than of course the residential rate of 38 cents per
kilowatt hour. And the cost to charge a typical 100 range electric vehicle is sort of on
par with gasoline charges of energy efficient vehicles. However, we found that
although this cost structure may not incentivize consumers to buy EV's, it does give
existing EV drivers the opportunity to charge their vehicles and reduce the range
anxiety or getting caught uncharged and having to get a tow.
So, we are in, in support of that, with reservation on the cost. We realize that that's a
PUC issue. However, reviving the station, the EV charging stations that we once had
here on Maui County is a great idea, and we support HECO in that endeavor. We
know that the technology changes constantly. There will be more competition in the
future as there is more EV adoption. There will be private charging stations and there
will be some competition, but we do support this resolution because we need this, and
we need this now.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 41
The other resolution that I would like to talk to is as a private citizen, and that is
CC 20-526, the disposable bodyboards. I am, thank you, thank you, Councilmember
Paltin, for bringing this up. This is, it's horrible when I see those in the trashcans, on
the beach, and thrown at the side of the road. And these are big environmental deficits
to our environment, to have these plastic and polystyrene bodyboards, and we, and I
support, as a private citizen, I support the move to make these illegal. Thank you for
your time today and listening to my testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Ryan.
Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Rita, for being here again. And I
hope you had a happy birthday the other day.
MS. RYAN: Thank you. It was.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, I, I wanted to go back to your testimony on the EV chargers.
And thank you for supporting that. I know, I did hear from a couple people that the rate
was high. But then I just wanted to clarify. Do you see this as, first of all, thank you
for the new term range anxiety. I haven't heard that before. But the, the, the, the, that
the cost of this, we're sort of at the beginning of Maui's, you know, Maui entity taking
over these EV chargers, that it may be, has the Committee discussed the fact that it
may be similar to where we were at, at the beginning of PV installations, where the
cost was high and then as more people got on board, the costs drops?
You know, and the, and like you said, there might be competition with private chargers
even being installed. So, do you see this as a long, you know, kind of a short-term
investment cause over the long haul it'll, you know, as EV's have gotten less expensive
as well, that the charging system meets, you know, the, the actual charges to the
customers may get cheaper.
MS. RYAN: Right. Well, I, I think that as we adopt more renewables the costs will come
down; the costs of electricity will come down on its own, so therefore, those costs can
be reassessed. And I understand that it's the PUC, but please correct me if I'm wrong,
that sets those rates. So, that is something that we could, can take up with the PUC
in the future as electrical costs do come down.
We, we do understand that it's a premium over the cost of electricity to the residential
customer, because the cost of these fast-charging stations is quite high, and
maintenance is not cheap. And so, we understand all of these factors. Of course, we
would like to see it as cheap as possible. But more importantly, we would like to see
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 42
a working network in place to support the EV's that are, are in operation today and to
support EV adoption.
Not, having dysfunctional or nonfunctional chargers does not incentivize people to buy
an EV. It requires that they have to install a Level 2 charger at their home and that
comes at I think around $7,000. That's, that's not affordable for most people of Maui
County. I was lucky enough to get one free through the jump, JumpSmartMaui
program. I don't know how I would live without it. And it's certainly not something that
we could have afforded on our own.
So, I do look forward also to, it's not, not quite to your question, but to some other
incentives regarding getting these Level 2 chargers in places like condominium,
condominium associations. And if we can make incentives to have these available to
people where they live, not just on the road or where they work, but are in parking lots,
you know, that sort of thing, but have them accessible where they live. That's
something we definitely support, because that's something that's going to be
necessary. People who live in apartments, or renters, or travelers who are renting EV
vehicles, EV rental vehicles, will need access where they live or where they stay, where
they rent, to these charging facilities in order to-
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Rita.
MS. RYAN: -come close to-
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Rita. You know, we're, we're, right now, the agenda is focused on
specific locations, yea.
MS. RYAN: Okay. I'm sorry. I got long-winded there.
CHAIR LEE: But, but we heard, we heard your other message. Thank you.
MS. RYAN: Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you, Rita, for coming back to testify.
Now, I believe the previous person who was called is back on online. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier will be Grade Esperanza.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 43
MS. GRACIE ESPERANZA. UNITE HERE LOCAL 5 (testifying on County Communication
No. 20-528):
Hi. Thank you so much for bringing me this opportunity.... We need to defend good
jobs on Maui. We need more access to healthcare no less. We know the barriers that
our neighbor, neighbor-island resident have to endure with having to face many
barriers with, with their majority of their healthcare services and support, and currently
supported by Oahu.
Working families are already have hardships. We're taking time off and financial
expenses with any travel or overnight accommodation, cost that may be unforeseen if
these services are no longer provided to the residents of Maui. Given the current
situation we are living under, ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, reopening of tourism, and
Kaiser is not being in partner with the workers, with the community, and the future of
Maui. We hope that the Council will consider taking up the resolution number 20-528
on the floor on Friday, Friday's full Council hearing. Thank you and mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Esperanza. Are there any questions?
Yea, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: None here. Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
Ms. Kama. Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Ms. Esperanza.
So, do you represent a organization or a union or something?
MS. ESPERANZA: Yes. I'm a proud Local 5 Union member. And I also work in solidarity
with our HNHP, which is the nurses of Kaiser.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: You sound like Local 5. You . . . aloha. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Okay. Thank you, Ms. Esperanza.
Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is telephone ending in 0376. 0376 will be followed by
Mark Deakos.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 44
MS. LESLIE WILKINS. MAUI ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BOARD (testifying on County
Communication No. 20-524 and Committee Report 20-130):
Aloha. That telephone number is Leslie Wilkins, President and CEO of Maui Economic
Development Board. Thank you. I am here to testify on two agenda items; No. 20-130,
the Economic Development Committee Report on workforce, and No. 20-524, from the
Energy Commissioner.
Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members. Thank you so much
for your beautiful tribute to Willie K this morning. What a virtuoso talent that left so
much behind. And our prayers and thoughts are with his family.
First of all, I will add onto the earlier testimony that you heard from Executive Director
of the Maui County Workforce Board, Linda Puppolo, as well as a very enthusiastic Juli
from the University of Hawaii Maui College. We are all working in concert to bring the
resources for upscaling, retraining, and helping to get our residents back to work.
I just wanted to let you know that, unfortunately, the way the U.S. Department of Labor
works with its funding for our Maui County Workforce Board and the American Job
Center here at the Maui Mall, it's formulaic. And it was based on last year's numbers
of unemployment rate, where Maui County was the lowest, and among the lowest in
the nation at under three percent. They got only 550,000.
We have very limited staff. Linda's doing yeowoman's work is the best way to describe
it. She is also hustling, and as mentioned, brought in over $1 million in disaster funding,
which is the good news; it's not CARES Act funding, so we're not in this crazy
accelerated pace to try to retrain people and bring them into whole new career
pathways. This has some longer term lengths.
And I'm pleased to report, I'm honored to chair our State Workforce Development
Council. And only the Governor's committees were allowed to apply for this. So, we
partnered with UH Maui, excuse me, the UH community college system to apply for a
grant to the U.S. Department of Education funded by the Lumina Foundation for
reimagining workforce. We were only one of eight States that got that competitive
grant. It is $13 million. We just received that.
And let me give you some of the stats of what that is going to do. We are focusing on
the in demand arears to upskill and train people. We're focusing on participants that
are dislocated and displaced workers, or graduates from college and high school that
came out in this pandemic to dismal careers. It, it's focusing on healthcare, all the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 45
multifaceted jobs in healthcare, technology, which is IT, and clean energy, and
cybersecurity and skill trade.
We're looking to give 3,500 people short-term industry standard certificates. There are
credentials, another 3,000. More than 1200 apprentices in those trades and giving
people more than two quarters of education for another 2600 people. Now yes, that is
statewide, but you bet with my being Chair and with the enthusiasm you heard from
Juli, the UH Maui College, and Leslie are going to do everything we can to get Maui
County's share of that $13 million to bring people into new career pathways that are in
demand career pathways.
Also, under my own umbrella, our own MEDB organization, we are out there in the
Federal market as well. We just applied for a STEM Challenge Grant with EDA. And
we expect to, we will bring on another $700,000 in Federal funding by the end of the
year for STEM.
Now, my transition into my other reso that I'm testifying. Madam Chair. I would also
like to give support to the Energy Commissioner's proposal to accelerate without
referral to Committee, the approval of the charging station installations on the County's
property. As you know, MEDB was involved in the initial JumpSmartMaui. We were
the nonprofit that took ownership of those charging stations, so they were not pulled
out and away from the users in our, on our island at the end of that program. And we
ran the EVohana transitional program for much longer than we thought it was going to
take, because as you know, it was PUC regulated to get to this point.
I want to remind you that it was Ulupono, the County of Maui, Blue Planet, and MEDB
as a community consortium that approached the utility and asked them to put together
a transition plan to take over parts of the network that were built by JumpSmartMaui.
And that's what you heard Gregg and Aki say earlier. We did an environmental scan.
We did a business plan scan at looking at whether or not private companies at that
time could take it on. And there was no way it penciled out between the capital
improvements and a small volume, although increasing of EV users that a private
company could make it work. It was only the utility and we're grateful they took it on.
It has been about a two-year process getting all the PUC approvals in place and all the
documents and agreements required. And so, we're grateful for their leadership in
taking these over.
So, as mentioned, our EV owners rely on this infrastructure, and so anything you can
do to expedite the four county charging stations, one critically needed on the west side,
it would be greatly appreciated. And I believe that both Gregg and Aki are staying on
to answer any technical questions you might have. Thank you for your time and the
ability to testify on both.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 46
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Leslie.
Madam Clerk, anymore testifiers? How many more?
COUNTY CLERK: We have, we have three more testifiers. Our next testifier is Junya Nakoa.
And Uncle Junya is going to be followed by Cindy Aban.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifvina on Committee Report 20-130):
How's it? You guys can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can. And we can see you.
MR. NAKOA: Yes. Yes, I sorry you guys gotta see me. But I like talk about that workforce,
the workforce one eh. I don't know, I going tell you the, I'm here at the Andaz for that
Temptation Island production, yea. I've been, this Sunday I make six weeks I was
stuck over here. But what I when learn from being over here and what we got to take
advantage of, Maui got to take advantage of, the opportunity for our keikis to get
involved and get more career opportunities.
Get plenty stuff that these guys do. Get the, the, get the group, the grips where they
set up everything, they build everything, they magical. That's all 100 percent Hawaiian
people, Hawaii's people. They get cameras, they get sounds, they get lightings, they
get edit, editing, production assistants. What these guys do is do everything; they
clean up rubbish, they'll put everything away.
So, with this workforce thing that, what is her name, the lady Juli from Maui, UH Maui.
I know they get one film, film stuff over there. We got to get these, our kids educated
in this film industry, because get plenty money that we can make by, in the film industry.
Because these guys, they come over here, they use our island, they use our resources,
and then they dig out. And I like tell you this, plenty of the, I got one roll call list and
we can get plenty more 808 numbers on this list. If we start getting these guys
educated about the film industry, instead of us guys, like, eh, I wanted to try stop this
project in the beginning, because I never know nothing about um.
But what I when learn in the six weeks is plenty jobs that my kids that I coach in
baseball and canoe, when they graduate, they can jump right into this industry. And,
cause get plenty kids that is only 19, 20, 21 right now working for this production and
they making good money. So, Juli, the . . . lady, my number is 796-6421. Linda
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 47
Pulolo [sic], Puppolo, my number 796-6421. Call me up, let's go talk story. Let's take
advantage of the film industry.
Talk to the State Film Commissioner about trying to do all of this, and then this film
industry they so secretively. So, we got to stop being secretive and to be more open
so that our kids can get more involved. But the State Film Commissioner; ah, she junk,
she no listen. But our County Film Commissioner, like Tracy Bennet; he, he listen, he
getting into it. He has a couple ideas, so try go talk to that guy. Let's get involved.
Let's make this as one different, to diversify our economy. Get involve, get this career
of film industry so our kids no need only do hotel, you know what I mean?
And only, again, eh my daughter stay doing the nursing so ... but eh some kids they
not, not like that. They no like, they no like go like my, my daughter go nursing and all
that stuff. But this film industry, we gotta get, we gotta take advantage. I'm glad I was
here. Kinda junk stay over here, but glad that, yea, I when educate myself over plenty
things. So, when I get out of here, all you Councilmembers will be getting calls from
me, cause we going make this happen. We gotta take advantage of it, cause they
come anyway. Look, get one other one at Four Seasons happening right now.
But how the . . . you know, we got to get more Maui people, not Hawaii only, Maui
people involved, and they can make the money. And the film industry did, these guys
I know they spent over $1.5 million on just the local economy, the mom and pop kind,
not, I told them no go Safeway, I told them no go, no go Home Depot like that. And
so, they, they, they when call the local people. And I when call em for double-check.
But yea, so the Linda lady and the Juli lady, please call me up. Councilmembers, you
guys know my number, call me up. Let's make, let's take action and get our kids back
to work, and our community back to work. Plenty, get plenty stuffs that can, can do.
Like, I know get plenty luaus around Maui that they do sounds, and they do lightings.
Shit, they can come over here go do the, the production instead of getting mainland
people for come over here. Let's get our Maui people back to work.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Junya.
MR. NAKOA: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you, Junya.
MR. NAKOA: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: We have questions for you, starting with Ms. Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 48
MR. NAKOA: Aw, man.
CHAIR LEE: Paltin, Kama, and King.
MR. NAKOA: Okay. I go try answer um.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Nakoa. And if you cannot answer now, you
can get back to me. But I just was inquiring as to the opportunities for local people to
direct content and tell our stories, because, you know, we have a lot of stories to share
with the world. And, and sometimes the content that is put on us isn't necessarily what
we want to project to the world. I mean, not that it's not something but, I mean, we get
plenty stories for tell. So, just was wondering if you can push that idea as well. We no
only like be behind the camera, in front of the camera; we like tell the stories too.
MR. NAKOA: Yea, Tamara. You know I stay, I stay telling these guys that. But you know
what is telling the producers, you know I telling, I get plenty camera mans who would
like to do um, but I, I not going in front the camera. I like somebody else like who, who
... go do um. But I'm working on that, Tamara. I'm totally on the same path you
thinking about, cause I going use this opportunity and make it useful for us.
And I going, I going get the grip guys, one, the head of the grip, this, the guy that does
everything, he live here on Maui. He's open to help us with the, everything; the lighting,
the, and, and he, he like get the, like you get, get our culture, get everything that we
have to, that we need to educate America about. And awesome, I, I, I working on that
as we speak. And Tamara, yea, I going call you up anyway after this and I'm going to
make you ...
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Right on. Thank you. Just checking. Tell Matt Tavares I said
hi.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. That sounds like-
MR. NAKOA: Will do.
CHAIR LEE: That's great. That's great.
Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, again, Junya, for being the
watchdog over there for us. So, is you flashing your number an invitation to collaborate
with those who want to be able to create an industry here in Maui?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 49
MR. NAKOA: Sorry, I could, somebody was calling when you when talk. I never hear the
beginning, what you was asking, sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, my question to you is, the purpose of you wanting people to
call you is to be able to begin a discussion and collaboration on the film industry coming
here to Maui?
MR. NAKOA: Yes, yes, yes. Because, like I've been talking to Tracy Bennett and we, he,
he, he solid, the State one is kind of jam up, but-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yea, . . . statewide.
MR. NAKOA: -Tracy is working on it to do that. And we like, well, I like hold these producers,
like I, like I when hold these guys accountable. I was one pain in the okole, you know,
what I mean, being over here? And good, good of us because we need to hold them
accountable. Make them listen to us. Make them listen to the island people and, and
follow our rules and our culture values. And I like, yea, I like everybody. I like, I going
like everybody, give everybody my number. We going make this work.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. I will call you.
MR. NAKOA: -if you single ... the number if you single.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MR. NAKOA: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: I hope you're single.
Ms. King.
MR. NAKOA: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, Junya, I already have Junya's number, so no need to call
me. We've been talking while he's been in this what I'll call, loosely call incarceration.
But, yea, thank you for what you're doing. I know it sounds like a luxury trip, but I know
that you're, you're going through a lot of hardship not being able to leave. So, I really
appreciate you doing that. And I also really appreciate you calling me up and asking
me for recommendations on where they could buy food locally versus, you know, going
to some big chain store or restaurant. So, what I wanted to ask you though, is because
you've been there for six weeks now, that I've been getting reports that, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 50
they're up to somewhere just below maybe 1300 tests and no, no positives, positive
COVID cases.
So, is your, in your, where you're, you're at with the project and what you're seeing,
would you call this a success with the protocols they've been using?
MR. NAKOA: No, not yet, cause we going finish this thing with zero positives, all negative,
then I can tell you then it's a success.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MR. NAKOA: I, I could've, I could've leave little bit early, but they wanted me to finish this
whole thing to the end so we can finish um and I said okay. I going hold them
accountable and they going get... Yea, that, I stay on my seventh test up my nose.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well, thank you so much for what you're doing for us,
Junya, being our watchdog and sacrificing the time away from your family, cause I
know that's not easy. But we all really appreciate it.
MR. NAKOA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions for Junya?
Yes, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Really quick, yea. Mahalo, Mr. Nakoa, for
being that watchdog. I think you provide this really important service for us on the
island. I think the original protest of Temptation Island was the content. And like
Member Paltin, you know, we, right, we don't want to put out, you know, Temptation
Island is about infidelity. And, and of course, we definitely don't want any adult, adult
or any of those types of industries, in the film industries come to Hawaii and set up
shop over here. So, I think you provide something that's very important.
We did have rumors on the East Maui community that filming did, was there any filming
that happened on East Maui along the Hana Highway.
MR. NAKOA: Okay, I going start up with what you said in the beginning. Yea, me, I no, I no
care about the content either. I no even, you know, I no even, when, wherever get the
camera, this guy is not by the camera, so I no even pay attention to what's happening
in this thing. The produce, the producer, they like try get me, you know, to like . . . ,
but I no give a damn what the show is about.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 51
But yea, we going get more, like Tamara said, we going get, we get more films about
our culture and our living and how for come Hawaii safely and listen to the rules and
wear your mask.
But, and then Hana one, I going tell you, yea, rumors, rumors, rumors. I have every
single, what do you call that? They, they call um one, one draft whatever. But
whenever they leave this, this property, anybody, for filming, I, I, I, I get up in the
morning, I go over there 4:00 in the morning, I watch everybody get tested. And none
of them went to Hana, none of them. They never even go Lahaina yet. They only went
as far to Olowalu and Upcountry for that, that, that Kula Farm thing.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Mahalo. Mahalo, Braddah Junya. And aloha to
Braddah Tyson ... Aloha.
MR. NAKOA: Oh, yea, yea, yea. That's a crazy buggah.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more questions? If not, thank you, Junya.
MR. NAKOA: You're welcome and thank, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good.
Madam Chair. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Cindy Aban. And Ms. Aban will be followed by Faith
Chase.
MS. CINDY ABAN. UNITE HERE LOCAL 5 (testifvina on Countv Communication
No. 20-528):
Hi. Good morning, everybody. Aloha Chair Lee and City Councilmembers that's here
today. I appreciate giving me the opportunity to speak. My name is Cindy Aban. I
serve as a medical assistant here on Oahu, and also the union organizer for Unite
Here! Local 5. I represent our Kaiser Maui members on Maui County, which we
represent approximately about 220 members there. And also, unfortunately our
members our, our Local 5 members at Kaiser and our Hawaii Nurses Healthcare
Professional union sisters and brothers, unfortunately they're not able to submit their
live testimonials today because they're providing quality care to our patients. And that's
why I'm here today on behalf of our workers and our, our community for our Maui
County members.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 52
I'm asking our County member, our Maui members to, to support the County
Communication 20-528, "URGING THE STATE OF HAWAII TO CONDUCT A FULL
PUBLIC DISCUSSION THROUGH THE STATE CERTIFICATE OF NEED REVIEW
PROCESS TO EXPLORE THE CONSEQUENCES OF KAISER PERMANENTE'S
PROPOSED PLANS TO CLOSE THE GASTROENTEROLOGY AND AMBULATORY
SURGERY SERVICES AT THE KAISER WAILUKU CLINIC". Time is, time is of the
essence, so we ask that you please pass this resolution today on the floor on
October 23.
For one thing, as a healthcare provider, we already know that there is not a bunch of
an abundance jobs in Maui and also for the neighbor-islands. We know that here on
Oahu we have the luxury to be able to have many services and entities here on Oahu.
Unfortunate, unfortunately, you guys don't have that.
And also, being, being able to provide specialty surgery, coordinating surgery cases
here on Oahu for our neighbor-island folks. I understand the barriers what your, your
community faces on, you know, having to make that hard decision on whether or not
they can provide the time off and also provide the financial beings to be able to fly here
on Oahu.
And if they need to be required to stay overnight, to be able to pay for the hotel
accommodations because for one thing many of the whole, many of the insurance
companies do not include hotel accommodations if you're doing post-op care,
especially doing same-day surgery services if you're not being admitted as an In-
patient in the hospital services.
So, with that being said, we believe this is a bad decision that Kaiser is wanting to
outsource these services. And again, we believe that maintaining these jobs and, for
Kaiser, and especially this is going to be beneficial for the Maui residents, because we
want more access. And I think that's what we're trying to achieve as the healthcare
industry and also for, for union labors as well, to ensure that our community and our
workers be able to have more accessibility and options. And to ensure that the type
of quality care is provided to our residents here in Hawaii and that folks are not having
to make that hard decisions on whether or not, do they need to stay, are they able, are
they not able to go to their doctors' appointments, do their minor surgeries, and do their
preventative cancer screenings such as, one, colorectal cancer screening is a huge
major factor here in the State of Hawaii.
And we know that specialty services, sometimes it can take about three months to
six months and be on a long waitlist for you to be able to do these procedures and to
figure out whether or not are you a high-risk patient or were we able to bite that bullet
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 53
and not, and not be, and not put you in a predicament where you might have colorectal
cancer and so forth.
And we've already seen that LPN, the, our licensed practitioner nurse, we already have
a hard time on being able to recruit these positions, because for one thing we're having
a nationwide job recruitment for LPN's, because one, a lot of healthcare industries
decide we're going to, we're going to reduce RN services in either the hospital or in the
clinic setting and vice versa. They had done that 10 years ago with LPN's in the
hospitals in numerous other hospitals, not only at Kaiser but our Kaiser-
CHAIR LEE: Ms., Ms. Aban. Ms. Aban, can you please conclude your testimony?
MS. ABAN: Thank you. So, so with that being said, I think this is a huge importance for our
Maui, Maui family and the neighbor-islands, because it will be a ripple effect to Oahu
and on the Big Island as well if we do not preserve these services on Maui. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Aban. I just wanted to
clarify and ask of the sense of urgency about passing this on the floor today. I know
that there hasn't been a lot of communication with the workers, but I had heard that
surgeries and procedures weren't being scheduled past the middle of next month. And
I just was wondering if, if you could confirm that.
MS. ABAN: So, originally, the company's plans were to lay them off on October 15. Our, our
unions, and our members, our workers were able to advocate to postpone, to delay
that. And at this moment, we're hoping, our goal with the union and our workers, is to
preserve these jobs in the long run. We are in discussion with, with the company and
we do, we want, the reason for the urgency is because we believe that the public
should have a say, especially the patients in the community in Maui, to be able to
provide their feedback in regards to whether they're Maui Memorial patients or Kaiser
patients, right? Because they'll be the ones that will have to see the, the ripple effect
on what's going to be the overall outcome on whether or not these services are going
to be outsourced all into the Maui facility.
And we've already seen on the staffing needs that Maui Memorial had to endure when
you guys had to have, when there was a COVID pandemic and a positive case with all
of their staff members. Many of our Kaiser RN nurses had to fly in from Oahu to provide
the staffing needs on, on Maui at Maui Memorial. So, it's vice versa, right? You guys
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 54
have limited services and, you know, with this time being we're not sure how long is
this pandemic going to be impacted to all, to all folks. And so, that's why that, this is a
urgency, cause we want to ensure the longevity of not just our jobs, but also the
longevity on the healthcare, the healthcare services for the patients there on Maui
County.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MS. ABAN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more questions? If not, thank you, Ms. Aban.
MS. ABAN: Thank you, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Faith Chase. And Ms. Chase will be followed by Sean
Lester.
MS. FAITH CHASE ftestifvinc on Countv Communication Nos. 20-521 and 20-526:
Committee Report 20-132 and 20-135: and Bill No. 101 (2020)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha, Councilmembers. First of all, I just would like to mention that
Willie K was an absolutely one of a kind artist and human. He had the ability to make
every wallflower get up and boogie and it was amazing to watch. I just want to send
love to his family and his fans. I personally pray I get to see a musician with that kind
of energy one more, once more in my life.
I quickly want to go onto record, I quickly want to go on the record supporting
CC 20-251 [sic], "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE WASTEWATER
FACILITIES IN SEA LEVEL RISE EXPOSURE AREAS".
And I also want to support the, the excellent proposal, 20-256 [sic], "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE PROHIBITING THE SALE OF RENTAL OF DISPOSABLE
BOOGIEBOARDS" [sic]', abso-fricken-lutely. It's about time. Thank you for that.
I am taking this opportunity to mention that I am pleased to see the corrective language
with, in 20-132, that properly reflects the appropriation for the Food Security Hawaii.
With respect to number 3, within 20-132, regarding the Countywide Road Resurfacing
and Pavement Preservation, I need to make comment on this. I'm going to take this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 55
opportunity to go on record to impress that there is a very large vacancy in monitoring
with regard to paving projects within Maui County. We recently experienced an
unfortunate dumping of petrochemical ground cover in one of our most abundant
watershed areas of Waikamoi. When asked, the majority of the County departments
and agency were not concerned about this dumping because it was below the water
diversion area, which provides water to the other major municipalities of Maui.
Gratefully, by the way of the Environmental, Agricultural, Cultural Preservation
Committee Chair, the situation was remediated last week, or began to be remediated.
The County of Maui, State of Hawaii, Maui Police Department, and Hawaiian Dredging
were all on site to begin removing the material.
Unfortunately, I have learned that the reuse or the refuse of this material does not have
proper monitoring, follow-up, or reporting. I understand the enforcement is difficult in
many areas of our government, but it is critical that the Environmental Management
Division, the Planning Department, and or Zoning Department need to work to provide
real solutions for remediation. This appears to be an area that has gone amiss and I
personally will present some form of regulatory reporting, so this foul activity does not
occur again.
Because though I have not confirmed, I have learned from unnamed witnesses that a
recent fire at the landfill may have been caused by this material that was removed and
dumped there. This is a different fire than the one that was at T J Gomes green waste
composting two weeks, which also is another conversation that we should return to at
another time.
I'm pleased to see Bill 101, the "BILL FOR ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
WITH THE U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, PACIFIC ISLANDS WATER CENTER,
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (COOPERATIVE WATER-
RESOURCE MONITORING PROGRAM)". Might I mention perhaps this monitoring
will elevate the lack of monitoring that A&B, EMI, and Mahi Pono has skirted and failed
to produce.
In closing, I'm pleased to see CR 20-135, recommending the filing of the
communication relating to the Maui Island Plan, Economic Development, relating to
the agricultural tourism in the Agricultural District. Agricultural tourism is the nucleus
of sustainable agriculture opportunities in Hawaii and Maui, Hawaii at large. Thank
you for your time and attention today.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions for Faith? If not, thank you.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 56
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mr. Sean Lester. And Mr. Lester will be followed by
Albert Perez.
MR. SEAN LESTER (testifying on County Communication No. 20-524 and 20-526: and
Committee Report 20-132):
Okay. Mahalo kakou. Can you hear me well?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. LESTER: Okay. Aloha, Chair Lee. I have several things I want to talk about. First of
all, the lady that was just here, wow, we need about 200 of her; she was amazing.
So, as far as the 20-132 with road preservation, I'm living out on the Hana Highway,
and occasionally, I see some things out here that aren't so good either, as far as where
they dump things and whatever. And I'm, I really do back what she's stating on that
side.
I also support 20-256, to get rid of the disposable boogieboards [sic]. That's a real
problem. We have a lot of disposable materials that are coming in here.
The main reason I'm calling today, or, or, or on today and testifying is dealing with
20-524, which is the concession with Hawaiian Electric on the charging stations. And
I have several, several things I'm concerned with on that. One of them is the price that
they're charging. They're looking at 50 cents, 56 cents a kilowatt hour. So, I'm
concerned, when you work that out with the, with the little Nissan Leafs and other less
efficient charging systems or, or batteries as far as the charging is concerned, you're
not much less than we're charging for regular petrol at this particular point. So, I am
concerned about the price on that. I know it's only three of the units that they're looking
at putting in.
However, if we get fortunate and there's a change in the Federal side, the vice, the
pres, the vice-pres, Vice-President Biden is taking a look at putting in 50,000 charging
stations across the United States. But one of the things I'd want to do is to definitely
as soon as, as, as that is a possibility, to be very aggressive in trying to bring that in.
Ultimately, for us to start taking a look at the fact that, you know, we just had a 200 plus
million-dollar renovation and buildout at the airport, but there are literally no electric
charging stations there whatsoever. The ability to start pushing ourselves towards an
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 57
electric vehicle mandated island is something that I think is very, very important over
the next period of time.
So, my question just comes up as to whether that 56 cents is really a viable number
and if there's some way to be able to come up with a better number on the cost of
those stations regarding usage? So, that's it. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Sean. Any questions? If not
ch, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Sean. I don't, do
you have your video on? I don't see you.
MR. LESTER: I was, I was, I was trying to figure out, let's see here-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's alright.
MR. LESTER: It has to do with the view. Yea, I, I was able to find, it, it, there should be a
little click, clicker here for the video, but I only got the, okay, so.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well, my, my question was about, you know, when you
mentioned, cause I've heard this from a couple other people about the cost of electricity
at these charging stations. But you know how that compares with, if you look at how
many miles you can go, you know, for the cost, I don't know what it is, is you swipe
and you can go 100 miles, the cost per mile or the, how that compares to the cost per
gallon of gasoline?
MR. LESTER: Well, I just did a, I did some quick numbers. I don't have them here with me
right now. But when you're looking at a standard vehicle, I, you know, you're, you're,
if you're looking at a 25 mile per gallon or 28 mile per gallon scenario with the gas
being at Costco like $2.40 a gallon, when you're charging 50 cents, 56 cents a kilowatt
hour plus you also got, there's a, when you're charging batteries it doesn't really work
out as if it's 100 percent efficient. The efficiencies are lower. By the time you get
finished with it, you're not really saving much by electric. And if we're looking at pushing
the electric vehicles as our main point here on the island versus a petrochemical
combustion engines, we really need to take a look at, at being able to massively
decrease that.
When we, when we bring, when we bring what we're looking at, instead of looking at it
pejorative and she was, this is the cost, when we reach a point as a County of being
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 58
able to see people say, wow, we're excited because this is where we're moving to,
there's a difference. There's a change in perception. If we put in-
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yea, I, yea, I, I just, I wanted to, I just wanted to find out if there
was like a comparison, because I don't necessarily agree that the goal is to be cheaper.
I think first the goal is to know that it's going to cost us more if we don't do this. But I
wanted to find out that. And also, if you guy, if the Advisory Committee is planning to
address that at the PUC, at the Public Utilities Commission, because they're the ones
that authorized those prices?
MR. LESTER: We can. Since we're only looking at three charging stations, the challenge is
how, how involved are we going to get. Is this simply the beginning? Or that's the
reason I brought up the Federal level. If the Federal is going to have subsidies coming
in, then the County itself may be able to do this directly without having to be concerned
about the utility. And we can utilize that, that structure as a County. So, I wanted to
put that out into all of your ears now to start thinking about. The instant Biden becomes
President, I'm going to be on the phone to IEEE and all of the folks that I know to, to
try to get a few of those stations for Maui for sure.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MR. LESTER: So, you know, in-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You can give him my number if you want someone else to talk
about, to talk to, I mean.
MR. LESTER: Okay. Sure will.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
MR. LESTER: Thanks. You're very welcome. Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Sean, for being here.
MR. LESTER: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? If not, thank you, Sean.
MR. LESTER: You're welcome. Thank you, Alice.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 59
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mr. Albert Perez.
MR. ALBERT PEREZ. MAUI TOMORROW (testifvino on Committee Report 20-129):
Aloha, Chair Lee, Members of the Council. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. And see you.
MR. PEREZ: Okay. Good morning. Hi. I'm Albert Perez. I'm with Maui Tomorrow, testifying
on CR 20-129, adoption of a resolution disapproving the Lihau'ula Project in Olowalu.
So, again, I would like to thank you for your service. And I realize that you are under
pressure because of the 45-day deadline that's imposed on you. Maui County needs
housing that is truly affordable for our residents and then also, carefully considers long-
term impacts on the communities, lands, and waters of our islands.
The proposed Lihau'ula Project in Olowalu does not meet any of these criteria. With
prices in the $500,000 to $800,000 range, this project is not truly affordable. It's not
supported by the West Maui community. It would potentially harm Olowalu's amazing
offshore reef and threaten the many cultural sites in the area. So, Maui Tomorrow
supports the Affordable Housing Committee's recommendation to disapprove the
proposed Lihau'ula Project.
There are developers who specialize in providing affordable housing, quality affordable
housing, and we have supported them in the past. We need to encourage those types
of developers, instead of allowing 201H exemption for developers who take advantage
of the process and provide only the minimum required affordable housing, while
maximizing profit from the market portion of their development.
The West Maui Community Plan Advisory Committee carefully considered
development in the Olowalu area, and they rejected it. West Maui folks are going to
be the ones most affected by projects like this. The efforts of our citizen volunteers
need to be respected, or faith in government will be undermined.
So, in summary, Maui Tomorrow urges the Council to disapprove the Lihau'ula Project,
and to send a message that responsible developers who will provide 100 percent
affordable housing in areas that respect the community plans will be encouraged.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anymore, any questions, actually? If not, thank you, Albert.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 60
MR. PEREZ: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted at this time. And I'll give
one last call if any individuals connected to the meeting has not testified, but would like
to do so, please identify yourself now. We are unmuting everyone on our end, and you
can inform staff via the meeting chat that you would like to testify. Again, this is the
last call for testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony and,
into the record, and closing public testimony?
Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just wanted to clarify that the Hale Kaiola testimony that we
received is not on the agenda today. And it won't be coming back to us. It's Maui
Planning Commission October 27. And it's not the same as the Kilohana Makai
Project. Those are two separate projects. So, just for clarification for the record if
anyone comes and looks at all the testimony and get confused.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any further comments or questions about that or anything else?
Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, just a question about that. What happens with testimony
that comes in that doesn't, isn't pertinent to the agenda. Does that get still recorded
into the record, or does that get somewhere else? Maybe the County Clerk would
know what the procedure is for that.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, are you listening?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: It's, it's just assembled with the meeting packet. But it doesn't connect to
anything that's on the agenda, so-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 61
COUNCILMEMBERKING: Okay. But it still goes into the? I just wondered, because if people
come before us verbally and try to talk about something, a lot of times they get told,
you know, that's not on the agenda, so they don't get to talk. And I, I just was wondering
what the situation was with the written testimony. But we're putting that into the same
packet.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBERKING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I've sent numerous replies trying to distinguish between the Council and the
Planning Commission, so many people know. And, and I have encouraged the
developer to, to contact them all and make that distinction and then have, have more
meetings, informational meetings. Hopefully, they can work things out.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I know they ... did already, so.
CHAIR LEE: Are there anymore? Pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I know that he did have a meeting, but I'll follow up with him
on how that went.
CHAIR LEE: Good. Thank you.
Ms. Kama, did you have your hand up just now? No.
Okay. Well, it's lunchtime folks. I would like to recommend that as soon as, well, did
we accept the, so no objections to accepting the written testimony into the record, and
closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
1. Aki Marceau, Hawaiian Electric;
2. Grade Esperanza, Unite Here! Local 5;
3. Cindy Aban, Unite Here! Local 5;
4. Arlene Alvarez;
5. LarsAsplund;
6. Doug Bausch;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 62
7. Michele Bausch;
8. Sarah Bergeson;
9. Rebecca Buckley-Battaglia;
10. Mary Frances Bulawan;
11. Sarah Bumpus;
12. Michael Bursack;
13. Justin Cabigas;
14. Marcella Carranco;
15. Melanie Chan Vinoray:
16. Monique Chicheportiche;
17. Lance D. Collins;
18. Audrey Dack;
19. Roscelyn Dalut;
20. Lorianna Daly;
21. Ashoi Dantra;
22. Ruksshana Dantra;
23. Lisa Davis;
24. Mark Deakos;
25. Carrie DeMott;
26. Glen and Leni English;
27. Susannah Evangelista;
28. Brianna Everett;
29. Crisanta Fillazar;
30. Amy Fonarow;
31. Joann Garcia;
32. Ari Halperin;
33. Sandra Harris;
34. Mikahala Helm;
35. Julian Henao;
36. Virginia Hertz;
37. Julie M. Higa;
38. Carol H. Holland;
39. Napua Hueu;
40. Nichole Johnson;
41. Addie Jones;
42. Patty Jones;
43. Michele A. Katsutani;
44. Emery Kaya;
45. Kaleleonalani Kekauoha-Schultz;
46. Larry Kihne;
47. Sabrina Kihne;
48. Ellen Levinsky;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 63
49. Ines Levy;
50. Ruby Littao;
51. Loren Malenchek;
52. Jane Moorhead;
53. Melanie Nakoa;
54. Off da Grid futureoffgrid@gmail.com;
55. Analu T. Okimoto;
56. Joanne Okita;
57. Heather Pilliod;
58. Catherine Lahela Rapozo, Unite Here! Local 5;
59. Kristina Rau;
60. Kathy Reynolds-Cuddihy;
61. Anne Rillero, Maui Nui Marine Resource Council;
62. Adrianna Rivera;
63. Surain Romany;
64. Margaret A. Santos;
65. Gary G. Savage;
66. Fay Somera;
67. Amy Stephens;
68. Maggie Sutrov;
69. Nicole Napuaonalani Suzuki;
70. Shirley Teano;
71. Deena Souza Toma;
72. Anna Nalaniewalu Vinuya-Palakiko;
73. Cade M. Watanabe, Unite Here! Local 5;
74. Tina Wildberger, House of Representatives;
75. Martina Wing;
76. Kalman Wirth;
77. Gail Wood; and
78. Harold Wood.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We, we kind of didn't finish that part because there were questions.
Alright. So, ordered.
So, Members, if you don't mind, I would like to call a lunch break? Where's my gavel?
Okay, here's my gavel. 1:30, how's that? 1:30, okay? Alright, no, no objections. And
we will reconvene at 1:30. Have a nice lunch everybody. Meeting is in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:14 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:37 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBERS
HOKAMA AND SUGIMURA, EXCUSED.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 64
CHAIR LEE: Well, will, well. Will the meeting of the Maui County Council, October 23 please
reconvene? Hello, everyone, again. We're at minutes. Everybody turn to your
minutes.
County Clerk, shall we resume-
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: -the agenda?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of August 28, 2020, and
September 11, 2020, were presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE MEETING MINUTES AS READ BY
THE CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Who said second? Oh, okay. It's been moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember Kelly King, to approve the minutes of the
regular meetings of August 28 and September 11.
And then, any discussion, anyone? If not, all those in favor of approving the minutes,
signify by saying "aye" and raising your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 65
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA AND SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We have seven "ayes", and two "excused": motion carries. The two
excused-
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications-
CHAIR LEE: Let me say who the two excused are. The two excused are Councilmember
Yuki Sugimura and Riki Hokama.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Yuki Sugimura is in the chamber with us.
CHAIR LEE: She is?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: I don't see her.
COUNTY CLERK: Oh, okay. She's having problems logging in as well. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: I think she's trying to join by phone right now. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you can continue with communications.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 20-504 - TIVOLI S. FAAUMU. CHIEF OF POLICE.
(dated October 5, 2020)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Distracted Driving Enforcement grant in the amount of
$76,263.39.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 66
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May I request the Clerk also call up
County Communications 20-505 through 20-515? If there are no objections.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just, just-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We, except for the grants and contracts, we might want to pull
out of, that's number 2013, or 513.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We usually-
CHAIR LEE: 14, okay. Normally we go through them all and then you, then you pull out
whatever. Okay. So, let's go through them all first.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And I didn't make a motion yet.
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm just calling them up.
CHAIR LEE: Yea okay. Just for her to read it, read them.
County Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
NO. 20-505 - TIVOLI S. FAAUMU. CHIEF OF POLICE.
(dated October 5, 2020)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Roadblock grant in the amount of $418,062.82.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 67
NO. 20-506 - TIVOLI S. FAAUMU. CHIEF OF POLICE.
(dated October 5, 2020)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Traffic Records grant in the amount of $211,581.
NO. 20-507 - TIVOLI 8. FAAUMU. CHIEF OF POLICE.
(dated October 5, 2020)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Speed Enforcement grant in the amount of $169,475.35.
NO. 20-508 - TIVOLI S. FAAUMU. CHIEF OF POLICE.
(dated September 25, 2020)
Transmitting a copy of the letter from the Maui Police Foundation for the Maui Police
Auxiliary Program in the amount of $22,000.
NO. 20-509 - TIVOLI S. FAAUMU. CHIEF OF POLICE.
(dated October 9, 2020)
Informing of the receipt of $15,769.10 in Forfeiture Funds from the Department of the
Attorney General, State of Hawaii.
NO. 20-510 - TIVOLI S. FAAUMU. CHIEF OF POLICE.
(dated October 9, 2020)
Informing of the acquisition of forfeiture items from the State Department of the
Attorney General.
NO. 20-511 - TIVOLI S. FAAUMU. CHIEF OF POLICE.
(dated October 8, 2020)
Transmitting a copy of the letter from the Maui Police Foundation to increase the
budget by $677.64 for the Traffic Division's Drone Program.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 68
NO. 20-512 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated October 6, 2020)
Transmitting Contract Modification Order No. 6 from the State of Hawaii, Executive
Office on Aging for the Title ill Program in the amount of $1,445.
NO. 20-513 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
(dated October 6, 2020)
Transmitting 106 contracts/grants for the month of September 2020.
NO. 20-514 - MARC TAKAMORI. DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION.
(dated October 6, 2020)
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Department
of Transportation for the Federal Transit Administration, 49 U.S.C. Section 5311
Non-Urbanized Area Formula Program in the amounts of $492,600 and $534,000.
NO. 20-515 - ROWENA M. DAGDAG-ANDAYA. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC
WORKS, (dated October 9, 2020)
Transmitting a copy of the Request for Project Authorization, Agreement, and/or
Modification approving the federal funds to advertise for lolani Street, Liholani Street,
and Makani Road Pavement Reconstruction, Federal-Aid Project No. STP-0900(099).
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 20-504
THROUGH 20-515, EXCEPT FOR THOSE GRANTS AND
CONTRACTS THAT COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR
COMMITTEE REFERRAL.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 69
CHAIR LEE: Alright. We have requests for-
Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Contracts C7167, C7139. Do you
want me to read the item, the contract name?
CHAIR LEE: Not really.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. And last, C7176. So, those are a total of
three.
CHAIR LEE: Ms., Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes. Thank you. Chair. So, I have, I'd like to request Grant
G4954-1 and G5005-1, be referred to the CAR Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. May I request C7158 and C7178 for referral
to HFC?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're muted, Alice.
CHAIR LEE: Did you mention which Committee you're asking for referral to? You did?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Please HFC.
CHAIR LEE: Oh no not you. Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: To EDB.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: EDB. Yea, we got the other ones. Alright. Alright. Any more requests for
contracts? If not, all those in favor of the motion to file ever^hing except those
contracts that we're pulling out and referring to the Committees as mentioned, signify
by saying "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 70
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Opposed, "nay".
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA AND SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries with seven "ayes" and two "excused".
County Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for clarification, clerks wanted to know if 7-167 [sic], 7-139 [sic],
and 7-176 [sic] is to be referred to the EDB Committee?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's correct.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Thank you. Okay, continuing on with county communications.
NO. 20-516 - ERIC A. NAKAGAWA. DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT, (dated October 1, 2020)
Transmitting the 2020 Annual Compliance Report in accordance with the Polystyrene
Food Service Container Ban, Ordinance No. 4457.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-516 WAS LATER
REFERRED TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL, AGRICULTURAL,
AND CULTURAL PRESERVATION COMMITTEE. See page 72
for discussion.)
NO. 20-517 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR.
(dated October 2, 2020)
Informing of a vacancy on the Police Commission due to the resignation of Roger J.
Dixon, effective September 28, 2020.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 71
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, you're muted.
COUNTY CLERK: -for a moment.
CHAIR LEE: It's stuck on mute.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair.
AS IT RELATES TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-517, I
MOVE TO FILE THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to file the
communication.
Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you, Madam Chair. The Mayor received notice of
Mr. Dixon's resignation from the Police Commission effective September 28, 2020. I'd
like to thank Mr. Dixon for his participation in local government and for volunteering to
serve our community. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other discussion or comments? All those in favor of the motion, say "aye",
raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA AND SUGIMURA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 72
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Seven "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Two "excused"; Sugimura,
Hokama.
County Clerk. Went up to 20-519.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-516
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Chair, I didn't know if you needed to call on Councilmember Sinenci
for 20-516?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yup, that's fine.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci, did you want to do anything with this?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yea, we can refer it to the EACP Committee Chair. Thank
you.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Thank you for that clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
NO. 20-518 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
(dated October 1, 2020)
Informing of the acceptance of Access Easement "A-1", The Gorilla Foundation
Subdivision, TMK: (2) 4-3-001:017 POR.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-518 WAS LATER FILED.
See pages 76 and 77 for discussion and action.)
NO. 20-519 - JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY.
(dated October 6, 2020)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Report for the month ending September 2020.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-518 WAS LATER FILED.
See pages 76 and 77 for discussion and action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 73
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, just, can I just make a point of, point of process. Usually,
we get the, you know, to be referred to the Committee. So, if you could just, Ms. Kaohu
just announce which Committee they're being referred to when you, when you read out
the county communication.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I think those, those items are supposed to be filed.
But Member Sugimura is not here. So, Member Sugimura is in the chambers. Would
Member Sugimura like if one of us moved to file them?
COUNTY CLERK: Member Sugimura has relocated to her office because she couldn't get
connectivity. So, if we could take a quick recess, I can go check on, or have staff check
on her.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, never mind. We'll skip over, let's skip over those.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We can come back. No, I was just asking if you could, when you,
when you announced the county communications, if you could refer, if you could
announce who, which Committee that they being referred to?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, that's what I was saying. Member King.
CHAIR LEE: The last one.
NO. 20-520 - ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR.
(dated October 16, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF
ERIC ABE AS COUNCIL SERVICES TECHNICIAN IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL
SERVICES".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
TRANSMITTED BY COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-520, AND
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-520.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 74
CHAIR LEE: Second? Second.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it was seconded by, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded
by Councilmember Kelly King, to adopt the resolution in County Communication
20-520.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mr. Abe received his Bachelors of
Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Hawaii at Manoa.
He is currently employed as a Data Processing User Support Technician II with the
State of Hawaii, Department of Education. Prior to that, he was employed with,
employed by Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. and Maui Electric Company Ltd. in
various technical and engineering positions. Mr. Abe's technical experience will make
him a great asset in the Office of Council Services.
I did have an opportunity to meet with Mr. Abe. And I really look forward to welcoming,
welcoming him to our team. He is quite delightful. I ask for all the Members support,
full support in adopting the resolution for Mr. Abe. And I believe he's also on the line if
any of the Members have questions for him. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Do any of the Members have questions for Mr. Abe?
Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, thank you. Chair. I, more, it's more of a question for, you
know, I tried to set up a interview with Mr. Abe and was never confirmed, so I didn't get
a chance to talk with him. But is this a position that will work with Bruce Hashimoto?
And will it replace the person that we use to fly over here all the time and pay a
consulting fee to?
CHAIR LEE: I, I don't think it'll, he'll replace that person, the resource person completely.
But, you know, Bruce is kind of overwhelmed, so Eric, you'll be helping Bruce, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 75
MR. ERIC ABE: Yes. yes.
CHAIR LEE: And taking good care of all the Councilmembers, right?
MR. ABE: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. There you are. Now, I can see your face at least.
MR. ABE: Hello. Hello.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -but I'm going on your resume and I wish we would have had to,
had a chance to get interview, do the interview.
MR. ABE: Yea, sorry about that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's okay.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? So, all those in favor of approving Mr. Abe, raise your hand and
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA AND SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eric, you have seven "ayes", two "excused".
MR. ABE: Thank you very much. Mahalo. Looking forward to getting started.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Welcome aboard.
MR. ABE: Thank you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries. The two "excused" are Members Hokama and Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 76
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-518 AND 20-519
CHAIR LEE: So, Madam Clerk, how about we just set 518 and 519 aside, and just take care
of everything else? So, without objections-
COUNTY CLERK: Excuse me. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: I did get word or confirmation from Councilmember Sugimura that it would
be okay if another Member would make the motion to file.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we'll just-
COUNTY CLERK: And she may be, oh, go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. What?
COUNTY CLERK: She may be logged in by phone, I was just informed.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I thought I saw your hand-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
ON BEHALF OF OUR WIT COMMITTEE CHAIR, I'LL, I MOVE
TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 20-518 AND 20-519.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 77
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Molina, to file
CC 20-519, 20-518.
Okay. Any discussion? Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. By the looks of these, it looks like it's
for informational purposes for the record. And I'm sure we have the Council's support.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anymore comments or questions? All those in favor of filing these two
items, raise your hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA AND SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", two "noes", I mean, seven "ayes", two "excused"; motion carries.
The two "excused" are Hokama and Sugimura.
Alright, so that takes care of all of the county communications. All them are being filed
except for the ones-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: -that we pulled out the contract.
Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I, I think we're on County Communication 20-521 now. We're not
done with them yet.
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
COUNTY CLERK: That's my part.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 78
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Those are the-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I wonder why, why there was a break over here?
Okay, go ahead County Clerk; 521.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Chair, proceeding with County Communications for referral. The
following County Communications are recommended for referral to the following
Committees as noted:
NO. 20-521 - KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated October 16, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled 'A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO
COUNTY WASTEWATER FACILITIES IN SEA LEVEL RISE EXPOSURE AREAS".
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-521 be referred to the Climate
Action and Resilience Committee.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-521 WAS REFERRED
TO THE CLIMATE ACTION AND RESILIENCE COMMITTEE.
THE MATTER RELATING TO COUNTY WASTEWATER
FACILITIES IN SEA LEVEL RISE EXPOSURE AREAS WAS
LATER REFERRED TO THE WATER, INFRASTRUCTURE,
AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE. See pages 79 through
84, and 91 for discussion and action.)
NO. 20-522 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
(dated October 8, 2020)
Transmitting the Short-Term Investment Reports for Fiscal Year July 1, 2020 to
June 30, 2021 as of September 30, 2020.
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-522 be referred to the Economic
Development and Budget Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 79
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-521
CHAIR LEE: Alright, can you hold on one second?
I thought 521 was a triple referral. Not, that's not the one. Member King?
COUNTY CLERK: 529.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 529.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: There's, there's a, it's a different one.
CHAIR LEE: A different one?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 20-529, is triple referral.
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Because, generally, this item would come, well,
it's going-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Because it says, it's sea level. It's a sea level... issue.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. so~
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, the one, the one you're talking about is 20-529. That has a
triple referral.
CHAIR LEE: No, no, but the 521 is going to EDB?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, going to CAR.
CHAIR LEE: I must have a different version. Okay, let's take a five-minute break so I can get
this clarified, yea?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Five-minutes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 80
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 1:59 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2:04 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER HOKAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting please reconvene? Now, I don't see Member
Yukimura, ah Yukimura; Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Here I am.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. Very good. Don't go anywhere now. Okay, now do you see-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'll try not to.
CHAIR LEE: CC 20-521.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Correct.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We are having a discussion on whose Committee this would go to. And
I am suggesting that this be referred, if anything, a dual referral to your Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's good.
CHAIR LEE: Don't say it's good.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: There's a, we're going to have to have a discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, it, it, it's logical for me that this goes to your Committee and Ms. King's
Committee. So, Kelly, do you, Ms. King, do you, do you agree to that?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I don't, because first of all because I wrote the bill, but also,
DEM is also in EACP. So, you know, that's an environmental, the environmental issues
are there too. But this bill is, addresses specifically climate action and resilience.
That's the purpose of the bill is to, to address the issue of resilience and managed
retreat, which are in my Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 81
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, Member King mentioned that she
plans to schedule this right away. Procedurally, perhaps a question for our OCS
attorneys, that if one Committee takes action by scheduling, recommending passage
to the full Council, and then it gets passed but the item is still in another Committee,
what would happen to that? And the, the two amendments in the proposed bill defines
"managed retreat" and "sea level rise exposure area", and I think those are the only
two, or is it a new chapter? It's a new chapter; "SEA LEVEL RISE EXPOSURE
AREAS".
CHAIR LEE: Yea, but~
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mr. Raatz.
CHAIR LEE: -the fact, the fact, the fact that this involves County wastewater facilities is
specific to OEM, yea? It's not Public Works.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: DEM is also in EACP.
CHAIR LEE: It's not the Planning Department.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: DEM is also in EACP, cause that's environmental.
CHAIR LEE: I know.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So~
CHAIR LEE: But it, the primary Committee is WIT.
Okay, so Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I disagree with that.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, before I get back to you, Ms. Kama, did you have your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: No?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. So, in the, in the reso it talks about having to move DEM.
That's what it talks about; that we can't, we can't put wastewater treatment facilities in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 82
these low-lying areas. But it also talks about the plan to move it. So, who would
develop the plan to move this facility if it's, if it's what's written in this reso? Who would
have oversight of that?
CHAIR LEE: This is not the time to be discussing.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I realize that but that's how you determine whether or not they're
going to have some kind of input or not, or whether they belong at the table or not.
CHAIR LEE: Right. That's a, that's a good point.
Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Another way we've decided who it
would, would, would take the item if it has to be one is who would take it up sooner.
So, there, there was a couple items where I asked for a re-referral to another
Committee, because, you know, say EDB is just, you know, too bogged down and if
someone else was willing to take an item, I would be happy to let that, you know, that
Committee take it up so that it can get heard quicker. I, I, and so, I don't see the harm
in putting it in the Committee that'll take it up sooner for full discussion. I think Member
Sugimura, oh no. Member Sugimura is not on the CAR Committee. Oh, you are?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm not, no.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, you're not a, you're not a voting member of the
CAR Committee. So, I guess my question, I guess, would be if, what would be the
obstacle for having a dual referral?
CHAIR LEE: Yea, that's my question too.
Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, I was just thinking that everybody's on WIT, so maybe we
should just give it to WIT, cause all nine of us are there.
CHAIR LEE: Did I see other hands up?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Your call. Your call. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Then if it's my call, I would make it a dual referral.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sounds good.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 83
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'd like to, Chair, I'd like to make a motion to refer this item to the
Climate Action Resilience Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, if it's disputed, then we have to have a motion, so. So, I'd
like to move.
CHAIR LEE: You know-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: This was my bill that I wrote, and it comes under, it clearly comes
under climate action.
CHAIR LEE: And that's why we're saying dual referral. We're not disputing that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We're not disputing that at all. But what we're saying is, the wastewater systems
clearly come under WIT.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so is that going to hold true then for other items, like if the
other, other Committees want to take up, you know, say renewable energy for
transportation since that comes under CAR as well, that would be a dual referral?
CHAIR LEE: If we had, you know, up to now we haven't had any problems with a dual referral,
because people understand that there, sometimes there are different aspects of an
item that belong in one Committee, and then some of it belongs in another Committee.
And that's why at, further down the line we have, as you know, a triple referral coming
up.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. That was suggested in Committee. But, no, I did suggest
earlier in the year about having an item on, on EV sent to my Committee, but it was, it
was argued by Ms. Sugimura that it should go to her Committee. So, in those
instances, then I guess we'll be doing dual referrals?
CHAIR LEE: We can do dual referrals, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just want to make sure it applies to everybody, because I don't
want to get, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 84
CHAIR LEE: Yea, it will apply to everybody. I'm not sure what happened before. But all I'm
saying is that, let's figure out ways where we can work together so if, if, if both, two
Committees have the same item, that one, that the two Chairs say okay you take that
component and I'll take that component and work things out like that, you know. Rather
than be fighting over who gets what. Okay. Is that okay?
Any objections to the dual referral? Any objections say "aye".
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, seeing no objections, CC 20-521 will be referred to the WIT Committee
and the Climate Change and Resilience Committee.
County Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with county communications.
NO. 20-523 - MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR.
(dated October 15, 2020)
Transmitting the following proposed bills entitled:
1. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5101, BILL
NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL OBLIGATION
BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF
SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION - CENTRAL MAUI
TRANSIT HUB)";
2. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, WAILUKU-KAHULUI COMMUNITY
PLAN AREA, GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND, CENTRAL MAUI
TRANSIT HUB; TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT
APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, could you stop for a second. County Clerk? Did you read off 20-522?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 85
CHAIR LEE: You did?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: So, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, you want to take these together or
separately, or?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. For County Communication 20-522,
that can be referred to EDB. And if the Clerk finished reading 20-523, I would like to
take action on that on the floor today.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Alright. Alright. Thank you for the clarification.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: County Clerk, sorry, sorry for the interruption. Go ahead.
COUNTY CLERK:
3. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5101, BILL
NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL OBLIGATION
BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF
SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION - CENTRAL MAUI
TRANSIT HUB)"; and
4. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
CENTRAL MAUI TRANSIT HUB".
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-523 be referred to the Economic
Development and Budget Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 86
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's been moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to waive the Rules of the Council.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. As you heard in Transportation
Director Takamori's testimony this morning that this item is urgent, because of our
contract ending, expiring with the Queen Kaahumanu Center. So, action on the floor
today would be necessary.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? All those in favor of waiving the Rules, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Molina, had a question.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, no. no sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I'm going to comment later. Yea, this is just, not on the vote
to waive referral. Sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Sorry, "aye".
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Those opposed, say "aye".
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 87
CHAIR LEE: Alright Seven "ayes", no "noes"; motion carries to waive the Rules. Two
"excused", I mean, one "excused" now. Sorry, I'm counting you out, Ms. Sugimura.
Eight "ayes", one "excused"; Mr. Hokama.
Alright. Mr. Molina, did you have a question now, or you want to wait?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No. I can wait till, once we get into the discussion phase of
the matter.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING,
INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS AND
TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-523.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's been moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Councilmember King, to pass the bill as read by the Vice-Chair.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Again, as we heard, the Director
shared with us in testimony this morning that the lowest bid did come in at about
$200,000 over, and we would need an additional $600,000 for contracting construction,
contract, and fees, which is why the proposed budget amendment is to increase the
budget by this amount.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And we have Director Takamori and Budget Director
Yoshimura on the line if any of the Members have additional questions. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 88
CHAIR LEE: Thank, thank you.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you, Madam Chair. Question for either Director
Takamori or Budget Director Yoshimura. One, who did the estimate for the project and
what was the main reason for the differential in the appropriation and the bill? And
what are the reasons given for, by I guess whoever we're going to hire to do the job?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Takamori.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION MARC TAKAMORI: Thank you. Chair. Thank you.
Member Molina, for that question. With regards to the estimates, we have under
contract for planning and design Fukumoto Engineering, who has been reviewing the
different bids. What is interesting, when we first did the estimation, we were expecting
it to be under 4 million, which would include funds for, you know, for contingency and
construction management and, and what not. So, when we went out to bid, we were
believing that it would still be under 4 million. We were a little surprised that it was
above 4 million, however, when you, when we reviewed all of the different various bids,
the low bidder, and the second, third, fourth, and fifth bidders are actually quite close
to each other in their bids. So, we know that it's a strong bid at around $4.2, between
$4.2 and $4.4 million were the different bids that were quite close together. So, we
know that they're coming in quite close with everybody within the Maui construction
industry pricing.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions?
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Quick question, Mr. Takamori. This
morning, we received testimony about one of the bus stops being planned a little close
to ... . Is this something that you considered in the construction and design, further
away, I don't know?
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Could, sorry, could you repeat that question? I, I
missed, yea, it cut out.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sea level rise. The one in, in our-
Regular Meeting of the Counoil of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 89
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION; Oh, sea level rise, yes. Sorry, I, I missed that. I didn't
hear the sea level rise part. Yes, so, when we were going through the . . . and SMA
review process, we did look at sea level rise as a concern. I know that in the past.
Member King has also brought this up as a discussion point. And we, based on the
maps that were provided, I think through UH, they provide the various heights between
three and five-feet sea level rise, and we are not, we are not in that, that area, so we
are okay, yea.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Director. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, sorry. Madam Chair. Just one more question for Director
Takamori. So, again, when you did the, I guess, you guys, did you guys foresee the
additional cost or construction management, utility costs, and all of these unforeseen
costs when you did the initial estimate? Or was this something you had to review
again? And I'm sorry to be a pest about this, because this is a, you know, fairly
significant amount.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you for that question. Chair. So, basically, that,
those were unforeseen. It actually came out higher than what we were estimating it to
be.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Alright, thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Marc, did, were you able to use, I, I think I know the
answer to this, but I just thought I'd ask it anyway. Were you able to use any of that
7 million that you received in additional Federal funding for, for this? Or did you just
have to put it all~
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -expand back the bond.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Okay. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 90
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Takamori.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you. This, be, I guess when the project first got
started, it wasn't expected to use Federal funds, so we, we're not able to use Federal
funds for construction at this point.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And, and none of the CARES Act, that 7 million you got
for, from ... original CARES Act money?
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: No. No.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright, just checking. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Okay, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's all, all "ayes", no "noes". Seven "ayes" [sic], one "excused"; motion
carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think that's eight "ayes".
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry, eight "ayes". I'm sure glad I have all these people helping me;
you on the left and Tamara on the right.
Yes, Ms. King. You, you're just waving to me?
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you very much.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I didn't have a, I didn't have a question.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 91
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Motion carries, eight "ayes", one "excused": Mr. Hokama.
(THE PROPOSED BILLS PASSED ON FIRST READING WERE
ASSIGNED BILL NOS. 103 (2020), 104 (2020), 105 (2020),
AND 106 (2020), RESPECTIVELY. COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-525 WAS THEN FILED.)
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-521
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, before moving forward, I've been asked by the Legislative Clerks
to clarify County Communication 20-521. There's only one legislative vehicle at a time
that can be out there, so the bill I guess could go to the CAR Committee, with the
subject matter going to WIT.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Or vice-versa.
CHAIR LEE: Sure, we can do that.
COUNTY CLERK: Subject matters can go multiple places, but one, only one bill, one
legislative vehicle. Okay. Thank you.
NO. 20-524 - ALEX DE ROODE. ENERGY COMMISSIONER.
(dated October 16, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING THE OPERATION OF
ELECTRIC VEHICLE DC FAST CHARGER CONCESSIONS BY HAWAIIAN
ELECTRIC COMPANY AT THE LAHAINA AQUATIC CENTER, HAIKU COMMUNITY
CENTER, AND KALANA O MAUI BUILDING".
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-524 be referred to the Economic
Development and Budget Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 92
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I'm waiting. Which one of you?
Ms. Sugimura. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENTS OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR THE RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO THE COMMUNICATION IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to waive the Rules of the Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura, you have discussion, any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea. Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of the
entire membership of the Council will enable this body to consider the proposed
resolution today. This matter is time-sensitive, time-sensitive that was discussed in
the meeting, as I request for your support.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Okay. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise
your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 93
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. Excused is
Mr. Hokama.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-524,
INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS AND
TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-524.
I need a second.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
adopt the resolution in County Communication 20-524.
Any more discussion? Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, just a question for Ms., Mr. De Roode, since I see Alex on
the call. Thank you for being here, Alex.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. De Roode.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, I, my question is, on the list it says, Kalana O Maui building.
Is that the charger that's out in front the, in the public parking area in front of the building
on High Street?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. De Roode.
ENERGY COMMISSIONER ALEX DE ROODE: Yes, Councilmember King. It's the charger.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, and then-
ENERGY COMMISSIONER: -front.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And I, and I thought at one time someone told me that if you park
there and charge, it's free. But then, if you're on a fast charger and you park there for
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 94
free, you could leave your car there all day and keep someone else from charging. So,
how does that work with, is it free parking, or is it limited time?
ENERGY COMMISSIONER: So, up until now under the EVohana and formerly
JumpSmartMaui program, it was kind of self-regulated, where people who were
members of the EVohana program and you, you needed to have membership in order
to use the DC fast chargers, would courteously take turns and leave each other notes
on their cars. And so, there was some degree of self-regulation there for, between EV,
EV charger users.
The, the Level 2 charging did not have a fee to the user attached to it, although there
was electricity consumption occurring, which was covered under MEDB's management
of that program. So, all, under the new DCFC chargers, the usage will be using a credit
card, so no longer will there be a require, or debit card, no longer will it be a requirement
to be a member of the EVohana.
And there will be a limited amount of, once your vehicle is fully charged, if you, it's a
much smarter application now, these, these newer machines, so you'll actually receive
a message on your smartphone saying your vehicle is fully charged, you have, you
know, 15 minutes to come and move it or a fee will be assessed. There, there are
abilities to do that now. So, but there's a little more responsibility from the user.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. So, you have to have a phone number attached to
your usage of the charger then, so that they can~
ENERGY COMMISSIONER: I mean, you'd have to have a debit or credit card. I'm not sure
with the technology that, which is ... is the, is the manufacturer of the DCFC charger.
It's the same that's installed at Pukalani Terrace. Perhaps Gregg Kresge could speak
to whether a smartphone will be needed in order... the machine or just the debit or
credit card. I believe he's still on with us. If not, maybe Aki Marceau could speak to
that. But we could, if, if they're unavailable, we could get back to you with specifics.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, yea, I'm just curious because I know people who have told
me, oh it's great cause you have free parking at the County parking lot, so they would
park there for indefinite amounts of time, previously when it was under that other
program. So, I was just curious as to how you were going to regulate the parking spot.
ENERGY COMMISSIONER: I think through the, through the apps that users do need to
create an account, I believe, in order to use it. We're also parallel to the DCFC
charging, we're pursuing Level 2 charging under a separate initiative. County RFP.
And I don't know if you've seen, but for example, at the Costco parking lots, they have
the, the blue lights that kind of strobe if you will, if, if a vehicle is fully charged. So,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 95
there's a little bit of just, you know, community responsibility. There's a, you can't leave
your car there and take up that, that spot all day, because other people may need to
charge, alright. So, yea, we'll, we'll, we can get you some more details on exactly how
that will be managed.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any, any other questions for Mr. De Roode? If not, thank you, Alex.
Where are we now?
ENERGY COMMISSIONER: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Council.
MR. GREGG KRESGE: Hello. This is Gregg. Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Gregg?
MR. KRESGE: Hi. Sorry, so I hope there's no double, hold on, let me. I, I had to call in by
phone because my computer locked me out. So, let me get muted so that, there we
go. Can you hear me well now without an echo?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Ms. King, did you have questions of Gregg?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I, I think we decided that we could work it out, or they were
going to get me the information off line about how the charging was going to work as
far as the person who's parked in that parking spot; how long they have and all that.
So, that was what we're-
MR. KRESGE: Yes, so I, I can quickly answer to the technology side. Of course, you know,
the ... parking stalls are actually administered by the, by the County, so that end result
decision would be, I guess based on the County. But from a technology standpoint,
the chargers that we currently use, they have a ability to start a charge in one of four
ways. So, and, and part of the beauty of that is that you don't have to have a
smartphone or a phone to start a charge.
You could actually request a, a, you know, a card kind of like the EVohana program
had where you tap it on the front. You could start it with a credit card. If you had a
phone, like for example I just talked to somebody the other day who had a flip phone
and he doesn't have a smartphone, so he can't load the app on the, on his phone. He
can actually call the network, the charger administrator, which in this case is .... And
then with a credit card, they could actually start a charge for him remotely.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 96
So, the idea is that these charges happen very quickly. So, it doesn't, I mean, unless
somebody is going to abuse the situation and unless some, you know, there's, there's
something else put in place to limit that, these charges happen within about 10, 10 to
12, maybe 15 minutes to get them the charges that they need to continue going on to
the location that they're at.
This is not like a Level 2 charge where you would sit for long periods of time and receive
a very small charge. So, I think it's educating customers and doing a lot of, you know,
education around fast charging. And of course, like Alex said, a lot of this is kind of
self-regulated. It is, this is across the nation still at this point with EV users, you know,
getting used to these devices and, and being good with each other. So, I hope that
answers your question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I was just, thank you, Gregg, for that. I was just wondering
if, so, it sounds like if, if, you know, we have these meter maids that come along in our
parking lot at Kalana O Maui, and they tag you. So, if there, if they were going to tag
your, your, your tire sitting at, in that parking lot, you'd still be within that hour and half
they're giving you, or whatever the time is, to get the charge and then move on. So,
you would still be expected to adhere to the parking rules as far as timewise?
MR. KRESGE: Yea, so I think, I don't know if that has changed over time. In the past, and,
you know, we might be able to get to more information around this, Alex probably could
if, talking to the Police Department and how they monitor that. But I do know that in
the past, the fast charger did have like a two-hour time limit, cause I've charged there
before myself. And they would tag the tire and then, you know, you would get a ticket
if you were there longer than two hours. But I don't know if that was the case with the,
with the Level 2 charger that didn't require the membership. So, and again, that would
be looking into or asking the Police Department how they go about monitoring that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Yea, I think, I, I just think it's, it hasn't been real consistent,
so it's confusing for people when they go from charger to charger, you know. What the
rules are and if they get a ticket or not, but.
MR. KRESGE: Yea, and we've, we've discussed internally, you know, across all of our
chargers so that, you know, because this is going to be more of an issue and there's
more and more EV adoption and more people needing to use the chargers. So, and
like Alex said, there is some technology out there that, you know, let's you know when
your charging is finished and that sort of thing.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright. Well, we'll follow up maybe outside of this meeting
and just, I want to, just wanted to make sure that people I'm talking to is just like, you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 97
know, some of them don't work, some of them work like this, some of them work like
that. So, we've had these ongoing challenges. But you know-
MR. KRESGE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -it's ... would be good. Alright, thank you. Thank you. Chair.
ENERGY COMMISSIONER: And Councilmember King, if I, just one last comment on that.
We will coordinate with MFD, Public Works, and HECO as we roll this out, and keep
you apprised of. And I, I, I agree that a consistent policy is, is best so that that would
likely include some type of signage letting people know what the rules are and
coordinating with MPD.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well, maybe we could talk about this in Committee too,
under the climate action and renewable energy subject. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other comments or questions? Okay. Thank you.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk, are you there?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair. Chair, for the record, that's RESOLUTION NO. 20-152.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
(See page 98 for vote on the motion.)
NO. 20-525 - ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR.
(dated October 16, 2020)
Relating to HB 1862, Environmental Protection.
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-525 be referred to the
Environmental, Agricultural, and Cultural Preservation Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Well, any objections to referring this
matter to the EACP Committee? This has to do with like feral animals, like deer, etc.
So, if, if you don't mind taking this matter.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 98
VOTE ON COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-524
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, just a point of order. Did we vote on that 524? I thought
we made a motion and I asked a question. I don't think we ever took the vote.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Okay, but that's why I called on you, Madam, I mean-
COUNTY CLERK: Apologies.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, to, and then you gave me the number that, as if we voted. So, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Call for the question.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's go back. Let's go back. Okay, all those in favor of the motion, this
is CC 20-524, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes", eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Mr. Hokama.
So, now we can take 20-525, which if there are no objections, I'll be referring this to
your Environmental, Agricultural, and Cultural Preservation Committee.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the feral animal item was taken up in Member
Hokama's Committee when we had it up for discussion, I believe.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. It's, it's not exactly feral animals.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 99
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, feral animal. I mean-
CHAIR LEE: Yea, it's a bunch of animals out there. And it has to, the reason why I didn't
attach, I wanted to attach the bill, but I was advised against doing it, so, but take my
word for it, it has to do with animals.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Axis deer.
CHAIR LEE: And environmental protection. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And environmental protection?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Right now, that's probably the last thing on Mr. Hokama's mind is taking some,
something like that up.
Alright, now, we're on 526. Madam Clerk.
NO. 20-526 - TAMARA PALTIN. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated October 16, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE PROHIBITING
THE SALE AND RENTAL OF DISPOSABLE BODYBOARDS".
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-526 be referred to the
Environmental, Agricultural, and Cultural Preservation Committee.
NO. 20-527 - ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR.
(dated October 16, 2020)
Relating to a lease of State property located at TMK: 3-1-004:005, Kahakuloa, Hawaii,
by Ahupua'a O Kahakuloa for a distance learning center.
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-527 be referred to the Healthy
Families and Communities Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23. 2020
Page 100
NO. 20-528 - TAMARA PALTIN. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated October 16, 2020)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "URGING THE STATE OF HAWAII TO
CONDUCT A FULL PUBLIC DISCUSSION THROUGH THE STATE'S CERTIFICATE
OF NEED REVIEW PROCESS TO EXPLORE THE CONSEQUENCES OF KAISER
PERMANENTE'S PROPOSED PLANS TO CLOSE THE GASTROINTESTINAL AND
AMBULATORY SURGERY SERVICES AT WAILUKU CLINIC".
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-528 be referred to the Healthy
Families and Communities Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Is this is something that you wanted to~
Oh, Ms., Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes, I was asking the Councilmembers indulgence to pass this
on the floor today.
CHAIR LEE: You want to make a motion? Is that a motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
I SECOND THAT.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, cool. Yea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO ADOPT--
CHAIRLEE: Oh, go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
--THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 20-528, INCLUDING ANY
NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS, AND TO FILE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 20-528.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 101
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
CHAIR LEE: It's been moved by Member Paltin. Member Kama had already seconded from
before, so that's why I called on her, okay, to adopt the proposed resolution in County
Communication 20-528.
Discussion, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I'd like to read the resolution in its entirety.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Oh. sorry. I, can l~
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. I'm sorry. There was that pause.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We had a little-
CHAIR LEE: There was that pause, so I thought you weren't going to say anything. Go
ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO MOVE TO AMEND THE PROPOSED
RESOLUTION TO AMEND THE TITLE WHERE THE, THE
FOURTH, THE TITLE, THE FOURTH WHEREAS PARAGRAPH,
AND THE FIRST BE IT RESOLVED CLAUSE TO THE
PROPOSED RESOLUTION BY STRIKING THE WORD
"GASTROINTESTINAL" AND REPLACING IT WITH THE WORD
"GASTROENTEROLOGY". THE AMENDMENT MORE APTLY
IDENTIFIES THE NAME OF THE SERVICES AT KAISER
PERMANENTE.
CHAIR LEE: You, you sent around a summary thing on it right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea. Amendment Summary Form.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 102
CHAIR LEE: Summary form. Yea. Okay. Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, would that be a friendly amendment to myself, or to my
resolution?
CHAIR LEE: Well, I was just wondering, you know, if, if that summary amendment form would
have sufficed. But we'll check with the Clerk.
Clerk. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: It would be cleaner to do a motion and discussion in both.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But somebody else would have to make a, the motion.
COUNTY CLERK: And a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
I MOVE.
CHAIR LEE: So-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
CHAIR LEE: So, Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
TO REPLACE, TO REPLACE THE WORD
"GASTROINTESTINAL" WITH GASTROENTEROLOGY", IS
THAT RIGHT? OKAY.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Enterology.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Enterology.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
ENTEROLOGY.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 103
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: So, that would be a motion by Member Kama, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to make that change. Any discussion? If not, let's vote on the~
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just that the amendment more aptly identifies the name of the
services at Kaiser Permanente.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Yea. Yea, we saw it on the summary amendment form. Okay, so any
other comments? Okay, all those in favor of the amendment, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. One "excused".
Member Hokama.
So, going back to you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: The amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Do you have anything more to say, Ms. Paltin, because I have to call on other
people?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just wanted to say, you know, this past Monday
I met with the workers of the Wailuku Clinic and it's kind of a, a dire situation, you know,
that we would be shutting down this side service during a pandemic when the last two
times that we had significant numbers of outbreak, the hospital was a major cluster.
And, and given the promises made at the time Kaiser took over services, it's just a
really time sensitive urgent situation.
What I had heard during the discussions is that appointments are not being made past
November 15. And with the situation on Lanai currently, and the uncertainty moving
fon/vard, I think it would be a real disservice to the people of Maui County to lose this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 104
resource, especially during these times. And so, I respectfully ask the Members
consideration to pass this as it's very urgent, not only for the workers, but for all the
Kaiser health and-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Patients.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -and our statewide, statewide health system.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and then Mr. Molina, then Ms. Kama.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I fully support and echo all the
sentiments shared by Member Paltin. I recognize the urgency as well.
AND I WAS HOPING IF THIS IS AMENABLE TO EVERYONE,
I'D LIKE TO, I MOVE TO AMEND THE RESOLUTION IN THE
THIRD BE IT RESOLVED CLAUSE TO INCLUDE OUR
CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It's been moved and seconded by Member Fernandez. Any, any more
discussion on this?
Okay, all those in favor of the amendment, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Opposed, "nay".
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 105
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries; eight, zero, one "excused", that would be Member Hokama.
Anything else, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And I'll make it quick. I just, I, I hope
this impresses upon the, the State, the urgency of this to take it up as soon as possible.
And that's why I think including the Congressional delegate, delegation to help us to
put pressure on the Department of Health to take this up immediately, because we, we
cannot wait, as Member Paltin said. We need to help our community in this pandemic,
as well as the nurses that are, you know, giving it their all. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair. I want to thank Member Paltin
for shining light on this issue, because now as I understand this, you close this
outpatient service and instead if they do continue it, but it'll be as an inpatient service
and I believe there is a higher cost, right? Now, if it's inpatient, it might require you to
stay overnight in the hospital and it's more cost to the patient. And let's face it, it's
probably higher insurance premiums as well.
So, I certainly support this resolution to take a look at the Certificate of Need, so that
way, you know, we can determine things like, you know, the need for and accessibility
of the proposal, quality of the service, and of course the cost and financial impact of
the proposal and relationship of the proposal to the existing healthcare system.
And, you know. Madam Chair, we have an aging population, and this is a very vital
procedure. And so, well, it means we need to get some questions answered. And,
and the realities is, you keep this, you turn this into an inpatient service, people are
going to be paying more money and this is just not the time to have our population be
impacted for those who use Kaiser with, with more cost. So, it's just unfortunate. But
I support the resolution. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Molina.
Ms. Sugimura. Oh, wait, wait a minute. Ms. Kama, did you want to say something?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yea, I did. I, I fully support the resolution, because I think that
the State has to get into a discussion with Kaiser. I mean, if they're having some
issues, then we should, the State should be at a place to at least help to bail'them out,
because we bail out a whole bunch of people, we should be able to help, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 106
our healthcare system so that our healthcare system can help our people. So, I just
wanted to echo that; what everyone else has been saying. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And then now, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I support this. I went through the testimony
and boy, I stopped after 29 testimonies; and they're compassionate. And when I looked
through the list, a lot of them are friends of mine and I, and I sent responses saying
that my entire family, include, including my mother, when she passed away they took.
Kaiser took really good care of them, care of her. But there's so many of us who are
Kaiser members and I value their service. So, I, I'm grateful you're doing this.
I mean, I hate to say it, but at my age I've had several colonoscopies and it's not fun,
but it's, it's better doing it outpatient rather other services. And, but thank you very
much. I support this. And thank you everybody who took the time to send us their
testimony. We hear you loud and clear.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sugimura, for sharing that bit of information. Just what we
needed to know. Anything else?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: TMI.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else want to share what kind of operations you had?
Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, that was a little TMI. I'm not going to share my experience
with that. But I do, yea, I support the, I support the reso and I hope that this has an
impact. I just wanted to ask, and I'm not sure is, maybe Member Paltin, you know who
is going to make this final decision? Is it the head of the Department of Health?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It was, it was proposed by Kaiser to just close it. They were
supposed to close October 15. So, they were, I think, to me, they were trying to fly
under that radar and hope that nobody noticed that it was going on. The, from the
meeting that I attended, it was difficult for the workers to get information. They weren't
being told exactly when it was happening. But there was some coordination that, as
far as they knew, the last day that they were scheduling was around November 15.
And, and-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, no, I heard that-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -there is also other-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 107
COUNCILMEMBER KING: My, my question was, who is going to be making that final, I mean,
we're urging the State of Hawaii. So, who are we urging at the State of Hawaii to, you
know, to put a stop to the-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, there's a, a Certificate of Need process that we're urging
them to go through. And, and that's similar to the process that, you know, when West
Maui or South Maui wanted a hospital you have to go through this Certificate of Need
process. So, it's a open, if, if the Certificate of Need process begins, it's, it's a more of
a public process than like we're just closing, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, we're asking the State to make them go through that process?
Right? Okay, I just wanted to be clear that who we are asking, who we are urging,
since it said State of Hawaii. Okay. Thank you.
You're muted still, Alice.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Call for the question.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Opposed, "nay".
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. One "excused", Mr. Hokama.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Members.
(THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION WAS ADOPTED AND
ASSIGNED RESOLUTION NO. 20-153 COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-528 WAS THEN FILED.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 108
NO. 20-529 - KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated October 15, 2020)
Relating to flooplain and drainage area management.
The recommended action is that County Communication 20-529 be referred to the Climate
Action Resilience Committee; Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee; and the Water,
Infrastructure, and Transportation Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're still muted, Alice.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections to referrals made by the Clerk, read by the Clerk?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: No objections?
Okay. Oh, yes, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, actually, no objections, but just a question on the triple
referral. Basically, maybe if Member King, how will the Committees, I guess, determine
any overlapping?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, it's a subject matter, so I think as the Committees decide to
take up some of these actions, you know, whoever takes them up first is, can address
them. But this was, this was something that was agreed upon in Committee on this,
when we got a report on this subject matter and decided to keep it, you know, going,
we agreed that the three of these Committees should take up this subject matter.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Alright. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Yea, and hopefully the three Committee Chairs will work out something
that amenable to everybody. Alright.
Committee Reports, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. Proceeding with committee reports.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 109
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-129 - AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Resolution 20-154 . entitled "DISAPPROVING THE INDEPENDENT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIHAU'ULA WORKFORCE HOUSING PROJECT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 201H-38. HAWAII REVISED STATUTES," be
ADOPTED;
2. That the proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING THE INDEPENDENT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIHAU'ULA WORKFORCE HOUSING PROJECT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 201H-38, HAWAII REVISED STATUTES," be
FILED; and
3. That the proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING WITH MODIFICATIONS
THE INDEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIHAU'ULA WORKFORCE
HOUSING PROJECT PURSUANT TO SECTION 201H-38, HAWAII REVISED
STATUTES." be FILED.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Still muted.
CHAIR LEE: Muted. Okay. Member Kama. I've been causing so much reverberation that
I've been shy on, low on, on putting my microphone on.
So, Member Kama.
(Councilmember Hokama returned to the meeting at 2:57 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Would you like to speak to this committee report?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I think I should make a motion. Don't you think so?
CHAIR LEE: Yea, sure.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 110
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMITTEE'S RECOMMENDATIONS AS
STATED IN CR 20-129 BE PASSED, NAMELY ADOPTION OF
RESOLUTION DISAPPROVING THE LIHAU'ULA
WORKFORCE HOUSING PROJECT ON 27.79 ACRES IN
OLOWALU, MAUI, HAWAII, IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION
201H-38, HAWAII REVISED STATUTES, IDENTIFIED FOR
REAL PROPERTY TAX PURPOSES AS TAX MAP
KEY (2) 4-8-003:103; FILING OF RESOLUTION APPROVING
THE LIHAU'ULA WORKFORCE HOUSING PROJECT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 201H-38, HAWAII REVISED
STATUTES; AND FILING OF RESOLUTION APPROVING WITH
MODIFICATIONS THE LIHAU'ULA WORKFORCE HOUSING
PROJECT PURSUANT TO SECTION 201H-38.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: So, moved.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I'm sorry. Mr. Molina, did you say second, or was it Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I, as the Committee Vice-Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. So, just for clarification, so the, the proposal is to disapprove, right?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Correct.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, any discussion on this matter? If not~
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: l~
CHAIR LEE: -all those in favor, pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Do you want me to read the Committee Report, or just-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 111
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: -go right to the-
CHAIR LEE: Not necessarily.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: I think we, we remember the details of this project.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Your wish is my command, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye"; to disapprove.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: All those against the motion, say "aye".
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA AND SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so we have Mr. Hokama back, so it's, it's seven "ayes" and two "noes";
motion carries. Okay. So, that takes care ohhat item.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-130 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Resolution 20-155 . entitled "CREATING AND EXPANDING
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS TO GET MAUI COUNTY
RESIDENTS BACK TO WORK." be ADOPTED; and
2. That County Communication 20-428, from Council Chair Alice L. Lee, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 112
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-130.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Muted again. Okay, moved by Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King,
to adopt the resolution in Committee Report 20-130.
Discussion. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Economic Development and
Budget Committee met on October 7, 2020 to discuss a proposed resolution urging:
(1), the University of Hawai'i Maui College, the construction-related trade unions in the
County, the State, and the Maui Economic Development Board to create and expand
workforce development programs to get Maui County residents back to work; and (2)
the Governor and the Mayor to allocate CARES Act funding to programs in the State
and County dedicated to workforce development and training programs during the
COVID-19 pandemic.
Your Committee amended the proposed resolution to incorporate references to health
care programs and trade unions, and positions that are chronically vacant in Maui
County; references to the Maui County Workforce Development Board and the
Economic Recovery Task Force; acknowledgement of Federal fund, Federal funding
similar to CARES Act funding that may be received in the future; urging the Mayor to
create more public input opportunities and include temporary hires for the County in
funding workforce development and training programs; and urging agricultural,
conservation, and environmentally-related nonprofit groups and community
organizations in the County and State to work on expanding apprenticeship and other
training programs.
Your Committee discussed the importance of providing County residents with
additional training, apprenticeship, and employment opportunities to support their
return to work in jobs outside of the tourism industry.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolution
and filing of the communication. We all thank you again. Chair, for introducing this
resolution. And I respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support of the motion.
Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 113
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Vice-Chair Fernandez, Rawlins-Fernandez.
Any more discussion, questions? If not, all those in the, in favor of the motion, say
"aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Looks like we have nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-131 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 107 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 3.27, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO A VEHICLE
DISPOSAL FEE FUND," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED
TO PRINT; and
2. That County Communication 20-416, from the Budget Director, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-131.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23. 2020
Page 114
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember
Kelly King, to pass Committee Report 20-131.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Economic Development.
Budget Committee met on October 7. 2020. to discuss a proposed bill to correct an
erroneous reference in Chapter 3.27. Maui County Code, which established by
Ordinance 5096. effective June 15. 2020. The bill would amend Section 3.27.030(B),
Maui County Code, to clarify that deposits to the Vehicle Disposal Fee Fund may be
only used for the purpose stated in Section 3.27.020.
Your Committee noted the Vehicle Disposal Fee Fund is intended to be used "solely
for the purpose of providing funding for the County vehicle disposal program, which
simplifies the process for residents to properly dispose of their unwanted vehicles", as
stated in Section 3.27.020.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill and filing of the
communication. Respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support of this motion.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not. all those in favor of the motion say "aye", raise
your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: I see nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: That would be BILL NO. 103 (2020) [sic]. Oh. I'm sorry; 107 (2020).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 115
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-132 - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 108 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUl AS IT
PERTAINS TO DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,
SOLID WASTE ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM - SOLID WASTE
MANAGEMENT FUND, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
SUSTAINABILITY FUND; OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM; DEPARTMENT OF POLICE, MOLOKAI POLICE
STATION ROOF REPLACEMENT," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT;
2. That Bill 109 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUl AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX A, PART I, GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY
DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC
SAFETY; DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS,
(FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA) PUBLIC
ASSISTANCE GRANT)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED
TO PRINT;
3. That Bill 110 (20201. entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUl AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT
OF PUBLIC WORKS, COUNTYWIDE ROAD RESURFACING AND
PAVEMENT PRESERVATION, COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM,"
be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
4. That Bill 111 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUl AS IT PERTAINS
TO SECTION 14 OF THE GENERAL BUDGET PROVISIONS," be PASSED
ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
5. That Bill 112 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUl AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX A, PART I, GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES -
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 116
SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY
DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS, OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT (CDBG) PROGRAM," be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
6. That County Communication 20-475, from the Budget Director, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND THE
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-132.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember Kelly
King, to approve the recommendations in Committee Report 20-132.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Economic Development and
Budget Committee met on October 7,2020, to discuss proposed bills to amend various
sections of the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget.
The first bill corrects the appropriation of fringe costs from the Solid Waste Fund to the
Environmental Protection and Sustainability Fund. In addition, it corrects a spacing
error to line the appropriation up with the title for the Food Security Hawaii grant.
Finally, it adds subtitle "Government Facilities" as the project type for Molokai Police
Station roof replacement.
Second bill amends Appendix A, Part I, to move $250,000 in funding for FEMA Public
Assistance Grant, and a proviso for the purchase and installation of an ice machine
and generator for Lanai Senior Center, from the Department of Fire and Public Safety
to the Department of Housing and Human Concerns.
Third bill amends Appendix C to reflect $17,533,000 in Federal Aid fund for Capital
Improvement Project in the "Countywide Federal Aid Program" and removes projects
under the "Countywide Road Resurfacing and Pavement Preservation" deleted by the
Council during the FY 2021 budget deliberations.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 117
The fourth bill amends the General Budget Provisions to reference "A" through "Z"
rather than "A" through "Y" to reflect the addition of Home Acquisition and Ownership
Programs Revolving Fund, Chapter 3.34, Maui County Code, under Appendix A,
Part II.
Fifth bill and final bill amends Appendix A, Part I, to add a proviso related to
disbursement of salaries and premium pay. The proviso allows salaries and premium
pay to be disbursed from the Community Development Block Grant Program
Administration fund for three employees currently working in the program.
Your Committee noted, your Committee noted that these are housekeeping
amendments that did not require additional amendments in other areas of the budget.
The Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bills and filing of the
communication. I respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support of this motion.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, something's wrong with my equipment, so I
didn't hear anything after number one. Nah, just kidding. Okay. Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I know . . . just talking too much. I figure I'd be like
okay, that's alright.
CHAIR LEE: That was a long one.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Call for the question.
CHAIR LEE: That was a long one. Okay, any discussion? Any more discussion or
questions? Okay, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
We only have two more pages. And if we don't fight too much we can get through this
real quickly.
Okay. Madam Chair. Clerk. Chair Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 118
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-133 - GOVERNANCE. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE:
Recommending that the Miscellaneous Communication, dated September 16, 2020,
from the County Clerk, relating to contact-tracing applications, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 20-133.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to adopt
the, approve the recommendations in Committee Report 20-133.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Your GET Committee met on this
matter October 6, 2020. And your Committee discussed the legal opinion received
from the Corporation Counsel relating to the Council's legal obligations, liabilities, and
responsibilities to approve the use of a contact-tracing application before it is made
public within the County.
The Deputy Corporation Counsel summarized the opinion and advised your
Committee that the Council's adoption of Resolution 20-125 does not impose the
Council to legal obligations or liabilities.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend filing of the Miscellaneous Communication.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Molina. Any other questions or comments? If not, all those in
favor of the motion, say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 119
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Opposed, "nay".
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries; 9-0.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-134 - GOVERNANCE. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 20-156 entitled "RELATING TO THE
APPOINTMENT OF MELODY UCHIMURA TO THE MAUI COUNTY COMMISSION
ON PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES." be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 20-134.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr., Member Molina, seconded by Member Rawlins-Fernandez, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 20-134.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Your GET Committee met on this
matter on October 6, 2020. And your Committee interviewed Ms. Uchimura. And she
said that serving on the Maui County Commission on Persons with Disabilities would
be a way to give back to the community, and work with individuals with disabilities in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 120
areas she is passionate about. And Ms. Uchimura is currently employed by the Arc of
Maui, a nonprofit that works with people with intellectual and development disabilities.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend adoption of the resolution approving her
nomination. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Molina. Any further questions or comments? If not, all those in
favor of approving the Committee Report and the motion by Mr. Molina, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Motion carries; 9-0.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-135 - PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending that County Communication 15-153, from Councilmember Don
Couch, relating to the Maui Island Plan, Chapter 4, Economic Development, relating to
agricultural tourism, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Councilmember Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 20-135.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 20-135.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 121
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, this proposed agricultural tourism bill received
unanimous disapproval recommendations from the Lanai, Maui, and Molokai Planning
Commissions in 2016. There is significant concern that the proposed bill does not
adequately verify bona fide agricultural activity prior to permitting higher-value non-
agricultural tourism usage, including vacation accommodations.
Given the concerns and age of the proposed bill, your Committee expressed support
for further analysis and community input before passing an improved definition of
agricultural tourism.
I respectfully ask the Councilmembers support of my motion to file. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say
"aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-136 - PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending that County Communication 17-105, from the Planning Director,
relating to the repetitive loss properties floodplain management plan and annual status
report, be FILED:
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 20-136.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23. 2020
Page 122
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the
Committee Report, the recommendation in Committee Report 20-136.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Committee received a presentation
from the Department of Planning explaining the County's status in the National Flood
Insurance Program Community Rating System and received an update on
implementation of the Floodplain Management Plan. Due to participation in the
community rating system, all Federally backed flood insurance policies in the County
receive a 15 percent discount.
The Department explained the CRS discount could be increased to 20 percent if the
Council adopted a more recent International Building Code.
Because the County's status in the CRS no longer requires an annual update and no
legislation is attached to this item, the Committee recommended filing of the item. I
respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support of my motion to file. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion, signify
by saying "aye" and raising your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 123
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-137 - PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 113 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 19.35, MAUl COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO ACCESSORY
DWELLINGS," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT; and
2. That County Communication 20-421, from the Planning Director, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 20-137.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member-
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to pass the
recommendations in Committee Report 20-137.
Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Your Committee received information from
the Department of Fire and Public Safety and Department of Planning explaining that
the proposed bill will correct an inconsistency in the permitting process for accessory
dwellings.
The Departments explained that the current regulations do not allow accessory
dwelling units to be built with sprinkler systems as an adequate substitution for
properties that can't meet the 20-foot-wide fire apparatus access road requirement.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 124
Your Committee expressed support for the proposed bill which would better align the
accessory dwelling regulations with the Fire Code, therefore, allowing more accessory
dwelling units to be built without compromising public safety.
I respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of approving Committee
Report 20, the recommendations in Committee Report 20-137, say "aye", raise your
hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 20-138 - PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 114 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE
THE ZONING FROM OPEN ZONE TO R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
(CONDITIONAL ZONING) FOR 6.943 ACRES IN KIHEI, MAUI, HAWAII,
IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-9-004:141," be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
2. That the County Clerk RECORD the Unilateral Agreement and Declaration for
Conditional Zoning; and
3. That County Communication 20-191, from the Planning Director, be FILED.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 20-138.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 125
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee discussed
this proposed Change in Zoning for the Kilohana Makai Workforce Housing project
located in Kihei, Maui, mauka of Keawakapu Beach Park. If enacted, the bill will
change the property zoning from Open Zone to R-1 Residential in alignment with the
Community Plan and State Land Use designations Single Family and Urban District.
Furthermore, the bill will allow the properties development in accordance with the
workforce housing agreement that requires 100 percent of the 28 single-family units to
be sold as workforce housing units.
Your Committee recommended the bill be passed with 16 conditions to mitigate the
development's impacts. This includes a 20-year owner-occupied requirement and
prohibition of transient accommodation permits to ensure the long-term affordability of
the project. Additionally, to ensure public safety, a condition requires that lot, requires
the lot located in the tsunami evacuation zone be used as a park or open space.
Your Committee voted to support this project due to the significant need for residential
workforce housing near job centers in the Kihei-Makena Community Plan area.
I respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other discussion?
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, Madam Chair. Just curious, were there any proposed
amendments for this consideration committed by the applicant?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin. Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure. I propose we amend Condition 2.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, oh, wait, wait, wait, no, no. Okay, right now, we're at the, the stage of the,
the main motion, yea. So, he, he was just asking if, if you were going to, I suppose, if
you were going to make amendments or add conditions? So, the answer to that would
have been yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, sorry. Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 126
CHAIR LEE: So, Ms. King, did you have-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, I was-
CHAIR LEE: -questions?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I was just going to second the motion by Ms. Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Okay. Any more questions?
Ms. Paltin, take it away. Are you going to make amendments?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Just in response to the testimony we received from
Mr. Shapiro, it was the intent of what he said, but maybe it wasn't worded correctly.
SO, I PROPOSE TO AMEND CONDITION 2 TO SAY
"FERREIRA FAMILY PARTNERS, LP. MUST ENSURE EACH
UNIT ON THE PROPERTY IS OWNER-OCCUPIED", THIS IS
THE CHANGE PART "BY A COUNTY RESIDENT WITHIN THE
INCOME GROUP APPLIED TO THE UNIT ON ITS INITIAL
PURCHASE DATE FOR A PERIOD OF 20 YEARS FROM THE
DATE OF THE UNIT'S INITIAL PURCHASE DATE SALE".
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And I guess I had a question if you wanted to do these one at
a time.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, I think so, one at a time. So, do you want, do you want to explain that
further, or you think that's pretty much self-explanatory.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: This was what we had thought what we were doing in
Committee. But we didn't word it correctly in the condition, as pointed out by
Mr. Shapiro, that what he said.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Now, I saw some hands.
Ms. Kama, and then Ms. Sugimura. You're muted.
And, Ms. King, could you turn, mute yourself?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 127
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea. No, I was, I was going to speak as a seconder, but.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I'm sorry. Why don't you go ahead, and then Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. Thank you. Chair. Just wanted to also say that when
we had the discussion in Committee, we talked about the, the need for expansion of
the, the deed restriction period to, to 20 years. That was agreed upon by the developer.
And it was also, this example was also used in another development to also put the
same restriction, the 20-year deed restrictions.
So, you know, because we haven't gotten around to hearing the changes, I think there's
a proposal for changes to the workforce development ordinance, but until that
happens, we're, I think what we're trying to do is be consistent across the board. So,
that's the reason. And that was supposed to be in, you know, I agree with Member
Paltin that that was supposed to be in the original wording.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. So, I'd like to propose a couple of
amendments to some of the conditions there.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Before, before you do that-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: -can we get more, everybody's questions out of the way on this one, or
comments?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, okay, go. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I just wonder if the developer, who's on the line, if they
could just comment. Cause as we went through the conditions during Committee and
now we're finessing it, or whatever we're doing, I just wonder if we could ask them to
also comment. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to doing that? Okay, if not, Mr. Kihune, are you there?
Mr. Kihune, are you on the line?
MR. HOWARD KIHUNE: I am. Hang on. Hang on. Can you see me and hear me now?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 128
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
MR. KIHUNE: And you talking specifically about the proposal from Member Paltin, correct?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. KIHUNE: Well, you know, we, we follow 2.96, and 2.96.060, specifically is set up for that
particular item that we're discussing right now. And we follow that and that's part of
our workforce housing agreement. So, to add something else, which already is in
place, I, I'm not sure if it makes any sense. So, there are specifics and a procedure
when you, if you need to sell. And that is all part of, like I said, 2.96.060 already. So,
if we reference 2.96, that would be great.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Paltin, I thought you were making an amendment just to clarify
language? Not any substitute-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea. It was, and I believe the thing that Mr. Kihune is speaking
of, his original offer wasn't 2.96, because 2.96 is 10-year deed restriction. And they
had originally offered 15-year deed restriction. So, I don't know if that's entirely correct,
that he was going to follow 2.96 to begin with. That wasn't my recollection. And then
when we were in Committee, we put this condition of 20 years and it was meant to be
the deed restriction of 20 years. But I guess it was not worded incorrectly, that was
the intent if we want to go back to the minutes of the meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Before we go on, I need to clarify something with the County Clerk. And, so
Kathy are you there? I wanted to check-
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, I'm here.
CHAIR LEE: -if any of these amendments that we make would require the, a, a change in,
or update in the unilateral agreement?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: All of them. Everything.
CHAIR LEE: So, it would have to go back to Committee? Or be tabled until-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: They would have to do a new-
CHAIR LEE: -the new unilateral agreement comes back?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 129
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. It could sit on the Clerk's desk until it's amended, and recorded, and
received back.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Just so that everybody know that we can't just make changes and then
go fonward. We can, any changes we make will require revising-
Is somebody's, Ms. Sugimura, can you turn off your mic please?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin, can you turn off your mic please?
Ms. Kama, can you turn off your mic please?
Getting back to you, Kathy. Just want to make sure that everybody understands that
any changes we make would require a revision of the unilateral agreement, so that you
will not be able to move this item until that unilateral agreement is revised, right?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, you can accept the amendments, and then we would incorporate
those new amendments into a revised unilateral agreement. And then once we receive
payment for processing, we'll submit that amended unilateral agreement to the Bureau
of Conveyances.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, now, let me ask you a question, Ms. Paltin. Do any of the
amendments you have, or anybody, I should say, any of the amendments that you're
going to propose, are there, they substantive or just clarification types of amendments?
Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, that one was a clarification of what we did in Committee.
The rest of the amendments that I'm aware of, I guess Ms. Kama would be proposing,
from what I know, is that we may want to check with Corporation Counsel as to whether
or not they would sign off on the form and legality, possibly deleting a condition that
would be a substantive change, I would imagine.
CHAIR LEE: So, okay, just starting with you though, do you have any, any more amendments
that are more, that are substantive?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll just do that one and leave the rest to Member Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 130
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
Member Kama, what, how many amendments do you have and are they substantive?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, I, there, I have Condition 8, 9, 12, and 13; four
amendments. And I think they're substantive.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: But as we go through them, we can figure it out.
CHAIR LEE: Well, I'm wondering if this should be recommitted or placed on the Council, I
mean, the Clerk's table? There's a difference. If they're fairly simple, yea sure, let's
go through them. But if they're not, then we need to go back to Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, what?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I would, I will go ahead and, and make a motion to amend the
conditions and I'll read them. Or you just want me to just read them?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, hold on one second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Did we want to vote on the first amendment?
CHAIR LEE: You want to vote on the first amendment? And then, okay, let's vote on her
amendment, and then go to you, Ms. Kama, to see if they're-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: -you know. Okay. Does everybody remember what the amendment was, the
motion was?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, can we have it restated please, for the record?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Molina asked for it to be restated.
Ms. Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 131
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry, just a sec. Okay. This would be what it says for
number 2: "Ferreira Family Partners, L.P. must ensure each unit on the property is
owner-occupied by a County resident within the income group applied to the unit on its
initial purchase date for a period of 20 years from the date of the unit's initial purchase
date sale".
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Good. Yea.
CFIAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura. You're muted too.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You might want to ask the Department for a comment on
that. Linda Munsell sent me a text. She said that's, that's significant.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Is she on the call? Linda Munsell, the Deputy Director.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, she's saying there's some issue. Linda Munsell is, are
you logged on, Linda?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. She, she'll have to tell us, okay, for the record.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I didn't know that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, whoever's not talking, can they mute
themselves please?
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama. Member Kama, can you mute yourself please?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I'm sorry. I just, yea.
CHAIR LEE: That's alright. It's okay. Just mute yourself, okay.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS LINDA MUNSELL: Thank
you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait, you still didn't mute, okay, now you did. Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 132
Yes, Ms. Munsell.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Thank you. Thank you for
the opportunity to, to, to talk about this. The ordinance 2.96 actually tells us how to
establish the resale price for a unit, for a family who buys one of these. So, if you're
requiring that the unit be resold in the same AMI, if our calculation for the purchase
price from the original owner drives the price up above that AMI price, then I'm
assuming that the Affordable Housing Fund will have to be used to make that original
owner whole to keep that price down in that AMI level. So, you know, to monitor this,
I just don't see how the Department can actually do this without committing future
Committees or future Councils to apply Affordable Housing Funds to make, to keep
that price down.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin, comments?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You know, in my experience, I haven't seen the conditions be
enforced a lot. But, you know, basically, this is extending the deed restriction to
20 years instead of the 10 years in 2.96. And we talk a great deal about affordable
housing and affordability, and ten years is a drop in the bucket, you know. At least one
generation is 20 years. But, you know, let's just vote because I think we all know which
side of the thing we're going to vote on already. No amount of discussion is going to
change people's mind.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. King. Then we'll get back to you, Ms. Munsell.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yea, I just wanted to say, I didn't hear that
come up in Committee. I know in Committee we were very clear about the deed
restriction. The proposal, original proposal by Member Molina was for 30 years. So,
this, the 20 years was actually a compromise between his proposal and what the
developer originally proposed at 15 years.
But I, I'm just kind of, I, I'm, I'm just, I'm trying to process the information that you're
giving us, Ms. Munsell, because that didn't come up in Committee and it also didn't
come up when we put the 20 year deed restriction on Hale Kaiola. So, I, I would, I'm
not, I'm not sure I'm understanding your objection, I guess.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Munsell. Ms. Munsell.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 133
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: So, the objection isn't to
the length of time for the deed restriction. That is between you and the developer, and
whether the developer can sell these units to, you know, with that deed restriction.
That's not what we object to. What we object to is limiting the resale of that property
to the same AMI level. And it may be that it all falls together and that works. But when
we do the buyback calculation for the owner, there's a very specific calculation that we
have to use.
If after we buy it back, we then look at what the sales price for the AMI, the original
AMI was. If the sales price that we are required to buy it back from the current owner
is higher than the affordable sales price for the original AMI, then somebody has to
come up with a difference between the amount we're allowed to sell to, versus the
amount that we have to buy from. That's the, that's the problem. Not the deed
restriction period; it's the requirement to sell in the same AMI.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, I think, so, I, I, if I, if I understand correctly, so what
you're saying is, we can still put the 20 year deed restriction on there, but you just, you
have a problem with us limiting, putting a language in there about selling it at the same
price that it was sold for originally? Is that what I'm hearing?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Yea. I mean, I mean, we
could send you some, if, if this goes back to a Committee for more discussion, I mean
we can, we can do some calculations. But often, that's the challenge with long deed
restrictions and keeping them affordable is you are required to purchase it back at a
certain price that's, that's outlined in the law. And then, it you're putting an added
restriction that we have to sell it at a lower price, then somebody's got to come up with
that money. And, you know, I would assume that that's going to be the County.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, okay, I think I understand then. So, you, because you,
because you were, you didn't, I guess with the way we originally worded this was just
a 20-year deed restriction. We didn't go into the details of, of the buyback. That, that's,
that's the problem I think I'm hearing what you're having. Okay. I think I understand
but, you know.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, it sounds like it. It sounds like it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It sounds like it might have to go to, back to Committee anyway
to work out some of these things.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 134
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Can I, can I try and amend that amendment to something that
may work better?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, you want to withdraw your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Or friendly amend myself?
CHAIR LEE: Let's hear it. Let's, then we can judge, you know, how, how substantive-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Howfriendly-
CHAIR LEE: -or nonsubstantive that is.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
FERREIRA FAMILY PARTNERS, L.P. MUST ENSURE EACH
UNIT ON THE PROPERTY IS OWNER-OCCUPIED FOR A
PERIOD OF 20 YEARS FROM THE DATE OF THE UNIT'S
INITIAL PURCHASE DATE, AND ENSURE THAT EACH UNIT
ON THE PROPERTY SHALL QUALIFY AS RESIDENTIAL
WORKFORCE HOUSING UNITS AS DEFINED IN MCC
SECTION 2.96.020, FOR A PERIOD OF NOT LESS THAN
20 YEARS AND FOR ALLOCATED INCOME GROUPS STATED
IN THE RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING AGREEMENT
EXECUTED BETWEEN FERREIRA FAMILY PARTNERS, LLC
AND THE COUNTY OF MAUI, DATED JANUARY 23, 2019.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Discussion, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we ask Ms. Munsell if, if, forthat-
CHAIRLEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -alleviates her concerns.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Munsell, where are you?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 135
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Hi. Thank you. Thank you
for, for asking. Again, for the lower AMI's, that probably won't be an issue. But the
higher AMI's, again, that, those units are close to market already. And if the AMI, the
sales prices of the AMI's fluctuate, it's going to be, again, difficult to maintain that. .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can you tell us what part of that new wording is, is problematic
for you?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: The issue that we have to
ensure that it's sold within the AMI's. We do not control the purchase price of those
units. So, but you're forcing us-
CHAIR LEE: So, wait, wait. Ms. Munsell, rather than repeat what the problem is, can you
suggest a solution?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: To simply leave it with a
20-year deed restriction.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, too many microphones on. Can, can you say that again?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Yes. If, if you would just
leave the wording as it is, that, that takes care of it. I understand what you're trying to
do, but the liability created for the County or for the developer 20 years from now is,
can't calculate that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, just, can I ask a~
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ~a follow up question because I don't understand. There's
nothing the, the new, did you hear the new revision? It doesn't, it doesn't, doesn't
specify a resale. It just says the "each unit on the property shall qualify as residential
workforce housing units as defined in Maui County Code". And then it gives a section,
"for a period of not less than 20 years and for allocated income groups". So, it doesn't,
it doesn't, I'm not sure what part. Because if you're asking us to leave it as it was, it
doesn't even specify. All it says is it has to be owner-occupied for 20 years. It doesn't
specify the deed restriction in affordability.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Munsell.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 136
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: So. if you refer back to the
Maui County Code 2.96, it actually restricts the resale purchase price of the current, of
the owner, right? So, there's a calculation that we have to go through. And then it's
resold based on, based on that purchase price. So, it could be an affordable unit. And
it might be an affordable unit for a very, very long time, but there's no way to guarantee
that. Those sales prices in our, in our spreadsheets fluctuate, as you know, depending
on the economics and the income. So, again, you're committing future Councils to
somehow make a current owner whole when they sell the unit, because we have to
sell it at below the price.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin.
Were you done, Ms. King? Were you done, Ms. King?
Okay. Ms. Paltin, and then-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just had a clarification question for Ms. Munsell. When this
originally came to our Committee, the developer had proposed a 15-year deed
restriction. And so, what was the difference? What is the difference in how you enforce
it between a 10-year, a 15-year, and a 20-year? If you can do it for 10 years and you
can do it for 15 years, what is stopping you for doing it from 20 years?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Chair. There's, there's
nothing that's stopping us from doing it for 20 years. What you are trying to define
though is that we're forcing it into a certain AMI level, or even forcing it to remain
workforce. If it becomes, if the purchase price from the owner is higher than the AMI'S
or the workforce housing tables, that's what we're concerned about. Not enforcing the
deed restriction that has to be owner-occupied and that the buyback price is a certain
price point; we don't object to those things. But we, we are objecting to the issue of
having to, it then ensure that that price point that we buy it back at is within the
workforce housing guidelines. That's what we're concerned about,
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The part that I'm not understanding is, don't you do that if they
sell it within 10 years?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Yes. Yes. That's a, we
do. So, we purchase it back, but what we're not trying to do is force fit the sale, the
subsequent sale price into a specific AMI; that's the problem.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let me get a clarification here. Ms. Munsell, this really doesn't have to,
anything to do with the developer, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 137
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: The developer-
CHAIR LEE: The, once the developer sells the house, that, that takes care of his obligation.
Now it's your obligation to ensure that for the next 20 years these houses remain
affordable. And the reason why you would get involved is if somebody dies, has to sell
that house, now you have to make arrangements on how to make sure that that house
remains affordable, and the people who were there get a certain percentage of equity,
right? This, all of this has nothing to do with the developer, right?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: That's correct. The, the
developer is gone, and now it's the County who is overseeing and tracking these
homeowners who are supposed to be living In the units and who also want to eventually
sell these units.
CHAIR LEE: So, you can't think of the, the appropriate language to use so that we can
address your concerns and move fonA/ard to the next, to the next amendment?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Well, as I said, it's not the
deed restriction period that we have a problem with.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Yea-
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: It's trying-
CHAIR LEE: -we agreed. Yea, we already figured that out.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: It's, it's trying to force us to
sell. What we're going to do is we're going to sell it hopefully for the price that we
purchased it, so that we haven't, we don't pay more money out, right? We're going to,
we're going to try and resell it for what we purchased it at. And we're hopeful that that
money is, or that is going to be within the affordable sales guidelines. But if I've got a
market home or very close to a market home, the upper AMI's, there's no guarantee.
CHAIR LEE: Well, again, it's, it's a financial issue, concern of the County's; the County's and
the homeowner.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Can I, maybe I can give
you an example. We've got several units right now because of the situation with the
COVID-19 where families have bought workforce housing units. And these families
have lost their jobs. And for one reason or another, they found a job on the mainland,
so they're going to move. The County, and this is going to come before you relatively
soon. The County is going to buy those homes back, and then we have to dispose of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 138
them. We have to either sell them again to another buyer, or we have to grant them
to an organization like Na Hale O Maui. Whenever you do that, we are trying to not
commit more County money than we have to into that purchase while still trying to
maintain the home in affordability, right?
So, in a situation where we do a buyback, it's very possible that we would grant this to
an organization like Na Hale O Maui. But the County's going to have to kick money in
for that purchase. So, what you're doing is you're saying not only do we have to buy
the house back, but we have to sell it at, we have to guarantee that it's being sold at a
lower AMI than we might have purchased it. And that's what I'm concerned about. So,
I'm happy to buy the house back, which is what our obligation is, but I don't want you
to say to us, and I completely understand what you're trying to do, I don't want you to
say that that we have to sell it at a lower price than we had, than we are required to
purchase it from. That's all that I'm asking.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, can I ask a question?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. I'm just trying to figure this out. Why would we buy
it back at a higher rate? Because the whole point is to keep it In affordable, in that
affordable range for 20 years. So, why would we be forced to buy it at a higher rate
than we can turn around and sell it for if it has to stay in that rate?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: So. if I can read from the
ordinance. So, the resale price, the maximum resale price is established by the
Department using the following guideline: "an appraisal of the property shall be
required before occupancy. A second appraisal will be required, upon the decision, to
sell the unit. 25 percent of the difference between the appraisals will be added to the
owner's purchase price". And that is our repurchase price. Now, that sounds like that
would keep it in affordability for a long, long period of time and it's very possible that it
would.
But we don't, again, control all of the, all the economics of this, right? So, if incomes
go down and the sales prices go down, it's very possible that that house would fall out
of affordability. And so, we, we buy it based on the ordinance that Council passes,
right? And now what you're trying to do is say, is now condition the sale, the resale of
that. And it's okay as long as this body is willing to understand that there is future
financial liability in order for us to maintain that. We have no problem with that if that's,
if that's what this body wants to do. It may make it, you know, it's going to make it more
challenging to administer. We don't have a problem with that, but it's just the future
obligation that we're creating for someone else; that's all.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 139
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Your, you're muted. Alice, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: If you have some fairly simple kinds of amendments to make, that's one thing.
But I want to remind the body that what Ms. Munsell is talking about isn't unique to this
developer or development. It's, it's going to apply to all housing projects, yea, that
have deed restrictions. And this one project, or projects like this, shouldn't be required
to resolve issues that are unforeseen, like a pandemic or something like that, or people
losing jobs, you know. That's, that's a separate issue. That is totally a separate issue.
So, I, I, I would like to draw your attention back to this project, and the issues that, you
know, the neighbors brought up, or the public brought up, and developer brought up,
and every, all the things related to this project. Our discussions should be germane to
this project; that's all I'm saying.
Okay. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. I just had a clarification question of
Ms. Munsell. So, Ms. Munsell, are you saying that, like, the, in 20 years when we go
ahead and do another appraisal of the property, that appraisal will be higher? Is that
what you're saying?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: They're not always higher.
I mean, so back in 2008 and 9, right, housing prices dropped. So, there's very, there
is a possibility that a buyer could lose money. So, we like, we like the way this
ordinance actually structures the buyback, because there is, they share the risk. In the
past, we've had ordinances that guaranteed them a 7 percent increase in their
investment, whether or not the house actually, price went up or not. So, this ordinance
actually controls that a little bit better. But there's no guarantee. We just don't know.
But again, it, it'll be up to this body. What we would prefer, though, is that we stick to
2.96 in the way that that's structured. If you want to add a longer affordability period,
you know, that's between you and the developer's ability to sell these units. And I'm
not going to, I'm not going to try and argue that. I'm just, I'm just concerned about the
future liability for the County.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And then we're talking about 23 homes, yea?
CHAIR LEE: 28.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: 28. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 140
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, and then Ms. Kama.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. You know, like you've alluded to and
other Members, it sounds like Committee work that we're doing right now. And perhaps
we should just recommit the item to PSLU or just recommit to Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms., Ms. Kama, you had a question?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, yea, I did. So, my question is, what happens if I move into
this place and I'm a homeowner, but something occurs that's in the first 20 years and
I have to leave. What's the downside to Ferreira Family Partners?
CHAIR LEE: Nothing. They, they, once they sell all the houses, you know, they're pau with
their responsibilities, then-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: But it~
CHAIR LEE: -the responsibility-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: But it says you have to ensure each unit on the property is owner-
occupied for a period of 20 years from date of the original purchase. So, that means
somebody, is that what it is, Tamara?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I can answer. The, these conditions run with the title. So, you
know, after this Ferreira Family is going to sell it to Aina Lani or whoever, and then
they'll be responsible. Aina Lani sells it to whoever, they are responsible. So, whoever
is the current owner is responsible for it. The, the conditions run with the title. That's
why it's recorded at the Bureau of Conveyance.
CHAIR LEE: No. Well, yes, but the Department has to oversee and implement the rest of it
if people sell their homes and so forth. Because these obligations run with the land.
Okay. So, unless you have fairly easy amendments, I'm going to recommend that we
send this back to Committee and try and resolve it. Although, I have to say that the
issue seems to be with the Department and not the developer.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, is it okay to just try vote on it and then see if we can
pass it through today.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, we could. Okay. Okay, so all those in favor of the motion, you remember
we said it twice.
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 141
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, I, we, we've discussed it a lot and it does, it still
doesn't sound like there's sufficient understanding of what it means, which is why I
support recommitting because we don't want to be putting the County at risk of legal
challenges. Because it, it's been clear from this discussion that we've had that not
everyone, you know, agrees with what was discussed at Committee and then, you
know, is now here with the Committee Report at Council. The intentions of what we
discussed at Committee, as Member Paltin, you know, said earlier when she made her
motion, wasn't reflected in the Committee Report exactly. And what we're trying to do
was more of a reflection of what we had intended to do at Committee.
But now. Deputy Director Munsell's explanation of what we were trying to do sounds
like it doesn't work. And I think, you know, I agree that we, we should send it back to
Committee so that it can be fully vetted and we're not irresponsibly taking a vote on
something that we don't fully understand. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But as you know, most of, I think we, we do have to give a certain amount
of deference to the Chair of the Committee. So, her recommendation is to vote on her
amendment. So, are you willing to do that much?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I. I, I cannot say that I fully understand what the
motion is right now and what it means after Deputy Director Munsell has explained it,
number of times she has in this meeting. And the questions that the Councilmembers
have asked and the responses from Deputy Director Munsell, I, I, like, I'm not
convinced everyone fully gets it. Like, I don't fully get it. I, we want a 20 year deed
restriction on it and I, and I see that that's what our PSLU Committee Chair is trying to
do, you know, keeping it at the AMI level if it's sold prior to the deed restricting being,
deed restriction being completed. And so, I, I don't feel comfortable voting on it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, we got that one. We got it. We got you. One not comfortable.
Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just wanted to explain my understanding, like, what
Ms. Munsell is saying, is that, you know, in the future, depending on what the land
values are and the assessments and whatnot, we may have to pay to keep it in that
affordable range. And so, she didn't want to commit future Councils or the future
liability to pay to keep it affordable in that range. But to me, to pay to keep it affordable
in that range is much cheaper than paying for an entire affordable house for another
10 years. If, if that makes sense. We can, we can commit to making up the difference
in the AMI for a future Council, or we can give a future Council only 10 years of
affordability instead of 20 years of affordability.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 142
And so, for me, I'd like to commit to possibly paying the difference in AMI depending
on what the land values are in the future, which, you know, she's saying, you know,
they don't always go up, look at 2008. Look at us right now in the middle of a pandemic.
The land values aren't going down. So, it's a gamble that we may need to commit
future affordable housing funds to make up the difference. But it's a gamble I'm willing
to take, because the payoff is 10 extra years of affordable housing, which otherwise
we would have to go through a whole new development to get 28 more houses
affordable for another 10 years, which would be much more than the difference of the
AMI. So-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, I mean, you know me, I, I, I support in perpetuity.
So, I, I, I have no problem with 20 years. In fact, I'd rather go 30 years. So, you don't
have to convince me for a longer deed restriction; I'm all for it. What I'm saying is I
believe that that's a false dichotomy that came from Deputy Director Munsell. I don't
fully agree with her assessment on this and I would actually like to be able to have that
discussion a little longer, and in depth, and get a second opinion. I, I don't agree with
the discussion that just happened and I'd like to have that discussion in Committee,
because we never heard her say that before. This is the first time she's saying that.
And I would like to be able to have that discussion in Committee and not here on the
floor, having to pass this on first reading. So, that's where I am. I support a 20-year
deed restriction, I do. And I want to keep it in affordable rates for as long as possible,
even longer than 20 years. But, but I don't believe that it would need to be subsidized
by Affordable Housing Fund. That, that's, that's what I'm saying.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Wait, Ms., Ms. King.
Mr. Hokama, we haven't heard from you. Mr. Hokama.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair, my experience from running corporate housing,
employee housing, doing a employee workforce housing for Castle & Cooke and my
time on the Council, I would say I look at workforce housing slightly differently from
affordable housing or subsidized housing.
In the past, when we did the Lalakoa projects on Lanai, that multiple three phases,
when a employee or purchaser for good valid reasons had to give up their house, they
notified us, the employer, the corporation and we would work with the County housing
department. What we did, though, in the same time, was look for another employee
that was also interested in purchasing that didn't make the original lottery and ask them,
are you still interested?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 143
Usually, we would find a buyer that qualified, then we would go to the County housing
office and say that we would ask you to waive your first offer for purchase to refuse.
We as the corporate developer will waive our second offer of purchase and refuse,
because we already have an employee resident that will qualify and can purchase the
unit. So, that's how we did it for Lanai, and it worked very well with both the County
and the developer refusing to purchase back because we had a qualified resident
employee ready to go into a workforce housing unit. And, and that's how I'm looking
at this.
So, when I look at condition 1, it's clear to me that that's the only thing we are going to
allow them to build; residential workforce units. And because they're employees, after
20 years of whatever is agreed upon, rate of, of increase of value, 3 percent, 5 percent,
7 percent, whatever is the appropriate percentage or a adjustable rate because of the
way the financial market is, at the end, we supported the employee's right after the
term to go and use that equity for their family requirements; whether it was to renovate
the unit, pay for college, unknown medical bills. But we felt the employee should
receive, if they chose to sell, that earned equity because they went through the
20 years of living under the condition of restricted equity. And so, that's how we
approached it. It worked for Lanai. I don't know if it'll work for Kihei, South Maui at this
point in time, but it worked. The program worked in that manner.
So, I, that's my comments. Chair. And I understand the comments of my colleagues.
And I hear Ms. Munsell well, because Affordable Housing Fund wasn't meant to
artificially make up the difference of what we want valuation or actual price to be from
what is the mass appraisal number. I think maybe you might want to have RPT to
chime in because the County's going to screw around with valuation and assessment.
But remember now, it's a mass appraisal, a process that we go through. And you may
be hindering us in other potential property categories. Thank you.
Chair, you're muted. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I need to get a temperature from everybody. We already got Molokai's
temperature. Everybody else, do you want to try and work it out now or do you want
to recommit this item? But keep in mind, that's all I'm asking. Keep in mind that this
financing issue goes beyond this project. It applies to all projects, yea. So, that's all
I'm saying.
So, Mr. Hokama, do you prefer to recommit this item or try and deal with it now?
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair, I can make a vote today. I am very clear in my mind
what is being proposed and what I can and cannot support. So, I'm okay. Chair. I'm,
I can, I'm ready. I can vote.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 144
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura. You're muted now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm fine to vote today.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I'm, I'm okay to vote on this amendment, because I see it
as a corrective measure for what we actually decided on in Committee. In fact, I would
think it might be, go back to that earlier discussion we had about correcting committee
reports, because this, it should have been in the Committee Report as a 20-year deed
restriction.
But I, I can't say I'm ready to vote on this project right now, because I don't know what
other amendments are going to be proposed. And they may be very substantial, so
they may, you know, additional amendments may send this back to Committee. But
as far as Ms. Paltin's motion, I would like to vote on that because I think it corrects the
record of what the Committee Report should have been. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: You want to vote on her amendment, but you want to refer this back to
Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, depending on what other amendments are going to come
up. I don't know, because the other, this amendment to me doesn't change what we
decided on in Committee. It just verifies it. So, what I'm saying is there may be other
amendments that are going to be substantial that will send this back to Committee
anyway, but~
CHAIRLEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -I think that what we're trying to do here is correct the record.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, I have you down as a definite maybe.
Ms. Kama. Quickly. Come on. We're going down the line. Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: You know, my sense, my sense about things political, is that if
you want something to die, send it back to Committee. That's just my sense of stuff.
So, I'd rather work it out on the floor today. And it's either up or down. I mean, we
spent almost an hour on this. And I haven't even, I just wanted to read the amendments
to you all; just wanted to read it. Didn't have to do anything about it, but just listen to
it, at least for the record. But-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 145
CHAIR LEE; No, no, but Ms. Kama-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: -at this point, I would, I would go, I would go with just deal with
it today.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But Ms. Kama, people are saying that if there are substantive changes,
which only you, only you are-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Well, that's why I wanted to read it 45 minutes ago, then you
would have been able to distinguish if they were substantive or not. I think they are,
but, you know, you haven't, but you all should've gotten the, the Amendment Summary
Form sometime from the Clerk's Office. I don't know if he did it or not, but that should
have been done. But, so that's why.
CHAIR LEE: Well, Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Let's put it, let's put it this way.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: General, generally speaking, when people make, when Members make
substantive amendments, that is reason for an item to go back to Committee. If you
don't make substantive changes, then that's a possible reason for it to proceed to a
vote. So, essentially, it's all your fault. I'm just kidding.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: I, I haven't, I haven't looked at your, honestly. But I'm going to get, we need to
get more temperature checks on this.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, yea. Madam Chair, I just, I was going to echo what you
were saying. If you propose anything substantive, then that's cause for going back to
Committee. But if it's non-substantive, then we can take action. I mean, my preference
is to take action. However, if the proposed amendments are going to be substantive,
then, you know, we got no choice.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 146
But what about the option of tabling it? I mean, is that an option that's applicable to
this, or it just depends on the amendments?
CHAIR LEE: It just depends on the amendments.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: It appears. Okay, let, let me take the temperature of Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, did you, do we want to hear Member Kama's
amendments?
CHAIR LEE: So, is that an, a yes or a no? I mean, is it like maybe or what?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I, I'm okay with voting on the amendment just to be productive
today and, you know, use all this, all this constructive time that we've spent just to get
some done. But-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you're open. Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: So, Ms. Paltin. Ms. Paltin, you're the Chair, what is your pleasure?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. For this particular amendment, I agree that we're
just, you know, correcting the discussion. And personally, on the other amendments,
you know, Member Kama is not a Committee member and so I would give her a little
leeway. I don't think that at this point I would like to vote on the amendment, this
amendment. I don't know if we want to hear Member Kama's amendments or not, but
she can't, I mean, the only way she can propose the other amendments would be to
show up in the Committee or something like that, because she's not a voting member.
So, you know, I would just as soon, I don't think that there's anything more that can be
done in Committee. I, I think it's pretty, to me, it's pretty clear where everyone stands.
I would just take the vote on this amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, prior to the reorganizing. Member
Paltin wasn't a Committee Member of the Affordable Housing Committee and she
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 147
added many conditions to projects last year. So, I think if anyone wanted to add
conditions to any project, they can easily do it as a non-Committee Member. They
don't have to be a Committee Member to do that. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: They just got to show up.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, I'm trying to think, I, I don't recall a non-Committee Member making a, but,
but if you said she did, I believe you. Okay. I'm not saying, questioning your veracity.
I'm just trying to think procedurally-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, I'm just saying that if, if it, if it is, if it is
substantive as Pro Tem Kama says it is, then it should go back to Committee, and she
can bring her amendments to Committee, and someone can make em, make the
motion on her behalf. We've taken Member Paltin's proposed conditions in Affordable
Housing prior to her becoming a Committee Member, and we added those conditions.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Sugimura. Okay, you're muted. You got my disease. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, in this discussion I heard some of the Members
say that Ms. Munsell's explanation was the first time they've heard it. So, it, I don't
think it was. I don't remember that coming up in Committee as, and so for clarifying
and saying that this clarifies what was discussed in Committee, it doesn't jive. And I
think it's something new, that's why it was causing all of this discussion. And the
Department is opposed to it, from what we're hearing. And they're trying to give us
good advice to not encumber funds for future Councils to have to pay for this
discrepancy.
And, and I think Member Hokama tried to explain his real-life experience with this when
he was with, I don't know which Lanai development company, but I thought that was
interesting. That, that's just my observation just listening to this discussion and value
of the Department's input.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. As much as I respect Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez's and
Councilmember King's opinions, it appears that the majority feels that they can move
forward and, today. Because what really happened today, if you think about it, is, I
hate to say this, but Ms. Munsell threw everything off. Nobody was thinking along
those lines, yea? And she brought up stuff that I believe has merit in a different
discussion, that applies to all projects, yea, not just this one project.
And, you know, I, I couldn't believe my ears when I heard Ms. Paltin talk about
subsidizing housing. It's, I've been preaching that for like two years, and I like felt like
nobody was ever listening to me. You probably don't listen to me, but still, the idea.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 148
the idea that, and now I'm talking to Ms. Munsell, is it's better to pay $100,000 from the
fund or from general fund, whatever, to subsidize a house than go and try and develop
one. As you know, a new house costs $500,000. If we can get a house for $100,000,
terrific. Subsidizing, right? That's the word; subsidizing. So, I was shocked when you
said that, Ms. Paltin.
But anyway, if you don't mind, I think we need to move forward with the vote. And, and
I know you probably have good ideas, Ms. Kama. But I probably, deep in your heart,
you don't want to add more burden to Ms. Paltin's agenda, right?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: You're absolutely correct. I do not want to burden you all any
more than we already have to each other. So, let's do the vote and see where it flies
and where it goes.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, we, did we vote on the amendment? Did we vote on it?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: On, on Tamara's?
CHAIR LEE: Yea. But you made the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No.
CHAIR LEE: You didn't even make the motion? Yes, means you made the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I seconded it. She made the motion, I seconded it.
CHAIR LEE: Moved, moved by Ms. Paltin, seconded by Ms. King, was it?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And you, everybody remembers the amendment? Because even
Mr. Molina asked for it to be said again and it was said again.
All those in favor of the motion, say "aye" and raise your right hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KING, MOLINA, PALTIN,
SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: So, one, two, three, four. Is your hand up, Ms. Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 149
CHAIR LEE: No.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, AND
SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: So, one, two, three, four, five, six; six "ayes", three "noes". Right? Motion
carries.
Now, the main motion is to pass this project as amended. Correct? Okay. All those
in favor of the main motion, well, you got to make the motion. I don't think you did. Did
you?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: She did.
CHAIR LEE: You did?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I did.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. All those in favor of the main motion as amended, raise your
right hand. This passes the project on first reading.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, I have one, two.
Ms. King, is that your hand?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, we're not, we're not doing any other amendments?
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We're just, okay, we're.
CHAIR LEE: Is it, so do you have an "aye"? One, two, three, four, five.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: So, we have eight "ayes". "No", anybody, "no"?
NOES: VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 150
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "no"; motion carries. So, the project passes first, first reading.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Who's the "no"?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, who wanted it to go back to Committee. And we all
said, yea, that was a, that would've been fine but it's just a lot more work if, but it seems
that the majority wanted to move it out today; that's all. Okay.
Yes, Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I want to take a short break.
CHAIR LEE: You want to take a short break? Five, five minutes?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, less than that. But I'll just need to go take a break.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, go ahead.
In the meantime. Madam Clerk.
(Councilmember Kama was excused from the meeting at 4:22 p.m.)
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Did you get that, that motion passed?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so are we on the last page?
COUNTY CLERK: We are. We're on second and final reading.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, second and final reading.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, are we-
COUNTY CLERK: Ordinances.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 151
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, just, can you just, I don't know if you can do this in recess,
but we, since we talked about it already, so now it goes back, now you have to redo
the-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We're not in recess.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -you have to do the-
CHAIR LEE: We're not in recess. But, but what is your question?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I just, I just wanted you clarify something you said earlier.
So, now you have to redo the unilateral agreement?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
COUNTY CLERK: To reflect the amendment. Not us, the developer, with Committee
assistance.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Alright. Oh, you know what, why don't you start reading the information
on the second and final reading ordinances. And I'm sure Ms. Kama will be back,
cause it's been one minute already. She said she only needed on minute.
Go ahead, Ms., Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Or we could jump ahead to 101 and 102.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's jump ahead to 101 and 102.
(Councilmember Kama returned to the meeting at 4:23 p.m.)
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, could I check real quick and make sure Akaku doesn't have us on
a recess? Oh, okay, nevermind. I got that answer. Okay, 102.
CHAIR LEE: No, it's, go ahead 100, 100. Ms. Kama is back.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 152
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Proceeding with ordinances, second and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 100 (2020)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.35, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO GRANT OR LOAN REQUIREMENTS
CHAIR LEE: So, who's this? Oh, yes, Ms. Kama. Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Chair. I'm sorry.
CHAIR LEE: I have you down for Bill No. 100. You want to pass this on second and final
reading? You need to make a motion to pass Bill 100.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
WELL, I'D LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO PASS IT ON SECOND
AND FINAL READING, CHAIR.
CHAIR LEE: Bill 100.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Kama, seconded by Ms. Sugimura to pass Bill 100 on
second and final reading.
Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 153
CHAIR LEE: No? No discussion. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: I see nine, nine "ayes". Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk. Woo, two more.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 101 (2020)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUl TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, PACIFIC ISLANDS WATER
SCIENCE CENTER, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
(COOPERATIVE WATER-RESOURCE MONITORING PROGRAM)
CHAIR LEE: Did you say Bill 101?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, I did.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Just wanted to clarify.
Alright, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 101 ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING, CHAIR.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 154
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to pass Bill 101 on
second and final reading.
Any discussion, Ms. Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: This was discussed in Committee. Bill 101 proposes to
authorize the Mayor to enter into an ongoing joint funding agreement for water resource
investigations and continue the Cooperative Water-Resource Monitoring Program
during the period of October 1, 2020 to September 30, 2021. I ask for the Members
full support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of passing Bill 101 on second
and final reading, please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: I see nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk. The last one.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 102 (2020)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF
MAUl TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
HONOLULU BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY, HAWAII COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF
WATER SUPPLY, AND KAUAI COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY FOR
MUTUAL AID AND ASSISTANCE DURING EMERGENCIES (HAWAII WATER
AGENCY RESPONSE NETWORK (HIWARN) INTRASTATE PROGRAM FOR
MUTUAL AID AND ASSISTANCE)
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 102 ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23. 2020
Page 155
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I need a sec-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to pass
Bill 102 on second and final reading.
Member Sugimura. You muted yourself. You muted yourself.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Wrong way. Bill 102 proposes to authorize the Mayor to
enter into an IGA that will allow the Department of Water Supply to participate with
other water agencies in the State to provide mutual support during an emergency on
the condition that in order for us to request assistance, the Council must first approve
the request for assistance by resolution. I think we're the only County in the State that
requires that. I ask the Members full support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise
your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. That is all the business we have for the day.
CHAIR LEE: Well, Members. Wow, we made it. Thank you so much. I mean, I, I know some
of us are disappointed and some of, some of us, you know, are may be a little frustrated
but, you know, we got through this and we got through it together and nothing's perfect.
I did have a request to bring Koa, my little dog, to say good-bye to all, everybody. But
she's kind of busy, she's busy right now chasing the cat. So, on her behalf, I say
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 156
goodbye, and have a wonderful weekend, and take care, and come back again next
week. Don't forget.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, no, no, no.
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No meetings next week. No, no Committee meeting.
CHAIR LEE: We always have meetings. We always have something.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But good luck, Mr. Hokama, on Lanai. I hope, I hope things go
well. We're all-
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Yes, thank you, Members. We look forward to a very
successful drive test tomorrow for our community. And so, yea, keep our fingers
crossed and hopefully the results will be better than we hope. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And look out for my, look out for my brother-in-law driving the
Expeditions.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I will be praying for you, Riki.
CHAIR LEE: We all will. We all will.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Yea. Thank you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else.
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Our community appreciates it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other parting words, anybody?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, have a good weekend.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Mr. Sinenci, then Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Again, yea, prayers out to our Lanai ohana and loved ones.
And mahalo, Chair. Have a good weekend, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 157
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: You know-
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paltin, did you want to say something?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes. I just wanted to offer my best wishes. I hope that Lanai
pulls through okay. And also, my gratitude for the Kia'i at Kauaula. They were standing
vigil when human remains were, were desecrated this morning. So, just my gratitude
to them as well for, for standing up for the burial grounds and trying to prevent that
from happening.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yea, so, our thoughts and prayers to
our sister-island Lanai. Molokai got through it, and I'm confident that Lanai will get
through this too. So, our, but our prayers for a speedy recovery to everyone there.
And I hope that in Kauaula, the work stopped. Mahalo for sharing that update. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. And I too, Lanai, thank you, Riki, for taking
care of your Island. I can just see your passion. You reacted immediately and tried to
put all the pieces together, along with the State and the Mayor. So, thank you very
much for taking care of your people.
I also, we opened with a tribute to Willie K; thank you for doing that. We all adore him.
And I guess we heard about Barry Rivers and his son. So, we hope they're, a speedy
recovery.
And I just also wanted to share my, my thoughts to Rod Antone, who has been a big
part of us, he represented the hotel association and he recently had the passing of his
son. I've been watching him and his grieving to somebody very special. We met him
during budget, cause when he testified through Paia Town and then we saw him go to
Takamiya Market buying poke and he had his son in the car and he was hoping his
son would move back and live with him during, you know, that summer. So, anyway,
I just wanted to also express my love and aloha to Rod Antone, cause he's been a big
part of our community. And my heart grieves with him. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 23, 2020
Page 158
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, I just wanted to certainly share my condolence with
Mr. Antone and, you know, and also with Mr. Hokama. I know Lanai is in very good
hands with you as our senior, senior, senior Councilmember. And, you know, all our
best wishes and prayers to the folks out there on Lanai and of course, whatever
happened out there in Kauaula Valley as well too. So, quite some news about-
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Well, I think in times like these, what we need is peace in our
hearts. And that my prayer for all of us is that we have peace as we go forward. Thank
you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. King, you have any final comments?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, this is so sad, everything is so sad. I just hate to add to it.
I just found out a couple days ago that my son-in-law's mother and sister have COVID.
And, you know, likely caught it going to church, so I just want to-
CHAIR LEE: On the Big Island? On the Big Island?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, on the mainland. But I just want to, just make everybody
aware too that, you know, it's not safe to go in these large congregations indoors.
They've been in, one of them has been in the hospital and she has asthma, so we're a
little worried about that.
But on a lighter note, tomorrow is my husband's birthday, so I'm trying to get very
creative with how to celebrate that indoors and on Zoom with our kids and, you know,
relatives on the mainland. So, that's one happy thing that's happening this week for
me. But, yea, there's a lot of sadness and my heart just goes out to everyone.
CHAIR LEE: Well, we want to wish Bob a Happy 39th and hope you have a wonderful time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
October 23, 2020
Page 159
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Itwas-
CHAIR LEE: Yea. And the one thing, we're all lucky. We're very fortunate to have family
and to have each other, because you are our work family, right? So, everybody take
care and give your family an extra hug this weekend, okay? This meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of October 23, 2020 was adjourned by the Chair at 4:34 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUl, STATE OF HAWAII
201023/lks:jm
pcpnriVPr)
2020 GCi 22 Fll 3' 00OCTOBER 23, 2020
TESTIMONY BEFORE THE MAUl COUNTY COUNCIL 0' - f,
Agenda Item CC 20-524 . , : -
Proposed Resolution
AUTHORIZING THE OPERATION OF ELECTRIC VEHICLE DC FAST CHARGER
CONCESSIONS BY HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC COMPANY AT THE LAHAINA AQUATIC
CENTER, HAIKU COMMUNITY CENTER, AND KALANA O MAUl BUILDING
Dear Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Council Members,
Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. ("Hawaiian Electric" or "Company") is writing in
strong support of Proposed Resolution CC 20-524 AUTHORIZING THE OPERATION
OF ELECTRIC VEHICLE DC FAST CHARGER CONCESSIONS BY HAWAIIAN
ELECTRIC COMPANY AT THE LAHAINA AQUATIC CENTER, HAIKU COMMUNITY
CENTER, AND KALANA O MAUl BUILDING," and respectfully submits the proposed
comments for your consideration.
Support of the resolution would allow the County of Maul and Hawaiian Electric
to enter into concession agreements to install direct current fast chargers (DCFC) at
County sites where retired EVohana (JumpSMART Maul) chargers are installed.
These chargers provide the following benefits to the public;
1. Charger installations align with the County of Maui's Clean Transportation
goals.
2. Charger installation and operations are at no cost to the County.
3. The chargers are regulated by the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission
("PUC") and aim to ensure equity and fairness for all electric utility
ratepayers, who are the same population as County taxpayers.
4. Public charger installation has a positive impact on electric vehicle ("EV")
adoption which reduces dependence on fossil fuel in the transportation
sector and adverse effects of climate change.
5. Time of Use ("TOU") pricing at the regulated chargers promotes
renewable energy use with the cheapest time to charge during the solar
peak when there is an abundance of photovoltaic ("PV") generation
6. Charging can be started with credit or debit card with no required
Hawaiian Electric po box 398, kahului. maui, hi 96733-6898
Page 2 of 2
membership
7. All EVs with fast-charging ports can use the chargers
8. Reduces range anxiety by providing quick charging on-route
Hawaiian Electric recognizes the importance and positive impact the County has
as a partner in leading efforts toward decarbonization. Hawaiian Electric has developed
an EV strategy that acknowledges the need for more public charging to support the
expected growth of EV users in Hawaii^ and has undertaken several efforts to support
the adoption of electric vehicles, such as the development of a growing DC Fast Charger
network which now has over 20 locations across the islands we serve. Recently, a new
DC Fast Charging station was installed at the Pukalani Shopping Center and Molokai's
first charging station was installed at the end of 2018.
Hawaiian Electric supports waiving referral of this matter to subcommittee to
enable installation of the Lahaina Aquatic Center to be completed by December 31,
2020. A waiver would allow for the installation at the Lahaina Aquatic Center to proceed
and provide EV users a needed DC Fast Charger station at a key location. The
necessary equipment for this site is on island and funding for installation costs is
available, however these funds must be expended by December 31, 2020.
Accordingly, Hawaiian Electric supports the proposed Resolution. Thank you for
the opportunity to testify and for consideration of our requested waiver.
Sincerely,
Aki Marceau, Director of Electrification of Transportation
https://www.hawaiianelectric.com/documents/clean energy hawaii/electrification of transportatio
n/201803 eot roadmap.pdf
Hawaiian Electric po box sos, kahului, maui, hi 96733-6898
£our^Clerk
From: Grade Esperanza <mgonceinalifetime@yahoo.com> OC ; '/CQ
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 10:06 PM »—w . ^
to: County Clerk 2® OCT 23 <15
I  I _ O . ' . .
"I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discusgQTjitj^.p"U^
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence please pass this resolution on
the floor 10/23/2020."
thank you,
Gracie Esperanza, Local 5 member
recoivsD
County Clerk
From: Cindy Aban <caban@5.unitehere.org>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 10:20 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Mike J. Molina; Yukilei Sugimura; Kelly King; RikhHokama;
Tasha A. Kama; Keani N. Rawlins; Alice L Lee; County Clerl<502O OCT 23 7* ^7Subject: In support of County Communication No. 20-528 on Page 5 of the Council Agenda 10/23/2020
OFl'lCei Or- THir
Aloha Chair Lee and Members,
My name is Cindy Aban and I serve as Medical Assistant & Organizer for UNITE HERE Local 5 - a local
labor union representing approximately 220 Kaiser workers in Maui County.
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through
the states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed
plans to close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the
essence please pass this resolution on the floor 10/23/2020.
As a healthcare worker we need to defend good jobs on Maui. We need more access to healthcare, not
less! We know the barriers that our neighbor island residents have to endure with having to face many
barries with relying on the fact that majority of healthcare services and support is primarily on
Oahu. Working families are already have hardships with taking time off and financial expenses with any
travel or overnight accommodation cost that maybe unforeseen if these services are no longer provided to the
residents of Maui.
Given the current circumstances we are living under - ongoing pandemic, reopening of tourism and Kaiser's
reluctance to commit to holding off on closures - we hope that the Council will consider taking up the
attached resolution on the floor at Friday's full council hearing.
Thank you & In Solidarity,
Cindy Aban
Unite Here! Local 5 Organizer
(808) 675-8874
Telephone: (808) 941-2141
Fax#: (808) 941-2166
caban@5.unitehere.org
www.unitehere5.org
www.aikeahawaii.org/what-we-stand-for/
1516 S King St.
Honolulu, HI 96826
SHOUID
-BE-
^oun^Clerk
From: Arlene Alvarez <arlenef.alvarez@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 10:22 PM
To: County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Riki Hokama; Kelly King; Yukllei
Sugimura; shane.sineci@maulcounty.us; Tamara A. Paltin
Subject: Testimony of Support -10.23 Council Agenda - CC No. 20-528
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the
state's certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to
close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time Is of the essence please pass
this resolution on the floor 10/23/2020.
OC
C3
O
73
rn
;:o o
o
—I rs?
o  ^ <.
iTI ^
r;
o
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Greetings from Sweden.
Lars Ake Asplund <lars.ake.asplund@aspengrove.se>
Friday, October 23, 2020 1:39 AM
Mike J. Molina; County Clerk
the protection of the Olowaiu Reef
REC;::IV£D^
CCT 23 AH 7=
of the
ro'"-  / • ^ V L -• V
We've visited Hawaii a couple of times and just love the islands. So from the other side of the globe we strongly support your
commitment for the environment and especially the protection of the Olowaiu Reef off the coast of Maui. We wish that yoti-will
succeed In your struggle.
Best regards
lA Asplund
from Borlange, Sweden
Hi: Detta e-postmeddelande harsokts igenom efter virus med antivirusprogram fran Avast.
www.avast.com
From; Doug Bausch <douglasbausch@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 5:25 PM
To: County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Rlki Hokama; Kelly King; Yukilei
Sugimura; Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
Subject: In support of County Communication No. 20-528 on Page 5 of the Council Agenda
Aloha,
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the state's
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic.
I have had cataract surgery at the center, as well as a colonoscopy at the Gl clinic. I do not like the idea of moving these
procedures to the hospital or Oahu since that will results in delayed procedures and increased COVID-19 risks. Unfortunately, I
have a family history of cancer and a delayed colonoscopy is what helped kill my father at the young age of 55. We should not
increase these risks in our community.
In addition, as a taxpayer, 1 feel that Kaiser is moving these procedures so that they can benefit from the taxpayer subsidies at
the hospital, and negatively impact the Maui economy through additional job loss. Time is of the essence, please act quickly and
pass the proposed resolution CC No. 20-528 on the Floor on Friday, 10/23/20.
Sincerely,
Doug Bausch . ,
o!
r.i
:x3
rn
ro
cp
o
w>
o
;t!
O
County Clerk
From: Michele Bausch <michelebausch@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 7:43 AM
To: County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kanna; Riki Hokama; Kelly King; Yukilei
Sugimura; Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
Subject: county communication 20-528 Regarding Kaiser clinic closures
I am writing to express my concerns about the closure of the Kaiser Wailuku Ambulatory Surgery Center and Gastroenterology
department.
Please know that I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through
the states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20, please pass this
resolution on the floor.
This needs to happen because these closures not only affect the workers and kaiser members, but the whole community of
Maul. I work for Kaiser and have for over 13 years. The last 5 of those years here on Maul. I am a Registered nurse and I went
Into nursing with the dream of eventually being able to travel the world helping people get the healthcare they deserve and
need. My children are almost grown so that dream is getting closer but when kaiser announced that they will close these
services here I quickly realized my dream of helping communities was closer to home than I realized. Maui community is unique
In that it is a close knit community without easy access to healthcare. We cannot drive to the next town or city for care. We
have to fly and at great expense and difficulty. To close these services here puts ail of us at risk. My mission is now to help to
make sure affordable quality health care is here, where I live. So I am writing to you to implore you to help. We need more
access to health care on Maui, not less. This is not just about a business, but the health of all. The health of a community affects
everyone and Kaiser is intimately involved in this.
Please take a moment and consider this resolution and vote to pass it on Friday. It is more than just jobs at stake..
Thank you for your time and consideration .
with much Aloha,
Michele Bausch RN BSN ro
NO
cp
County Clerk
^ t- ,-v > - r t ;~., p-^
From: Sarah Bergeson <sarah.bergeson622@gmail.com> ' ^ C' -• l'. • L: ' J
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 8:54 PM
To: Mike J. Molina 2320 GOT 22 .'T' C- C4
Cc: County Clerk
Subject: Olowalu Reef -j.-, ... . ^...
CO' ;/.'v . ■■-
What comes to mind when I say the Olowalu Reef?
1) The only reef on Maul that is 50 - 90% coral cover and accessible to everyone, directly from the shoreline
2) Oldest living corals ever dated in the Main Hawaiian Islands
3) Best developed micro-atolls in the Hawaiian Islands, some 60 - 70 years old surviving in just inches of water
4) Home to some extremely rare corals (P. duerdeni, P. solida-pictured, P. cf. annae)
5) Incredibly diverse invertebrate fauna at wading depths (31 species of hard corals, 169 species of opisthobranchs, 19 species of
sea cucumbers, 14 species of hermit crabs, 15 species of brittle stars, etc.)
6) blacktip reef shark nursery
7) The #1 priority reef in the Maui Nui Reef Recovery Plan
8) Mother reef that seeds coral larvae to West Maui, South Molokai and the North coast of Lanai
9) Critical habitat to the largest known manta ray population In the United States with over 550 unique Individuals identified, a
population isolated to the Maul Nui region
10) Designated a Sylvia Ear! Mission Blue Hope Spot in 2017
On Friday October 23, Councilmember Mike Molina will make the deciding vote to protect the reef against high density housing
and 40+ septic systems that threaten the reef. He needs to hear from you to thank him for denying the Lihau'ula development in
Committee and asking him to stand by his decision in the Full Council Vote on Friday.
Please help us!
Coun^Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Rebecca Buckley <hanamauirentals@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 20, 2020 8:10 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; RikI Hokama; Kelly King; Yukilei
Sugimura; Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
In support of County Communication No. 20-528 on Page 5 of the Council Agenda.
To all council members:
I am writing in support of the proposed resolution that would urge the state to conduct a public discussion of the State's
Certificate of Need Review Process to explore the consequences of Kaiser's proposed plans to close the Gastronintestinal and
Ambulatory Surgery Services at the Wailuku Clinic.
Rebecca Buckley-Battaglia
OQO t.)
::^rn
o o
I
rn-s
7JX
CD
c->
ro
O
:x)
m
o
m
<
m
o
Coun^Clerk
From: malulanib@hawaii.rr.com
Sent: Tuesday, October 20, 2020 12:41 PM
To: County Clerk
Cc: Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Riki Hokama; Kelly King; Yukilei Sugimura; Mike J.
Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
Subject: In support of County Communication No. 20-528
Aloha,
I am In support of County Communication No. 20-258 on page 5 of the Council Agenda.
I am currently employed as a registered nurse in the Ambulatory Surgical Center that Kaiser will be closing. The closure of these
two departments will affect myself, my family and the entire Maui community's accessibility to health care. Maui Memorial
Medical Center is the only acute care hospital that serves Maui. What will happen when there is another serge in Covid-19 cases
with the re-opening of our state to tourism? We need the state of Hawai'i to conduct a full public discussion through the State s
Certificate of Need Review Process to explore the consequences.
I urge you to act quickly and pass the proposed resolution in County Communication No. 20-258 on the Floor on Friday,
10/23/2020.
Mahalo,
Mary Frances Bulawan
Waikapu
o C)
c
■>0
<
r:^
C)
o
r~ *
rn
TO
C-) n
o m
iO
xr
m
a
/
^oun^Clerk
RirnevEDFrom; sarah bumpus <sallybumpus@mail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 12:57 PM 2)20 CCT 22 ?\\ 1*02
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk
Subject: denying the Lihau'ula development __
G r f i 3 c O r i 1" 'i c:
COUNTY CLcRK ' ,
mr molina-
protectlng olowalu reef from destruction is so important to so many on maui.
thank you for denying the Lihau'ula development in Committee, and PLEASE stand by his decision in the Full Council Vote on
Friday.
wlht aloha
sarah bumpus
15 kaimao st, paia, hi
County Clerk
From: Michael Bursack <micl<bursack@gmail.com> KC-'u.l v
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 6:29 AM
To:
vvcui icsuay, w^-uuuci c. i, £.yjc.\j r\ivi ^ ^
County Clerk ^20 OuT 2* Afl 7*
Subject: Save Olowalu's Reef
VHc:
Aloha, -vv
I'm emailing out of concern for the pains to further develope Olowalu with lasting effects to it's reef. Here are 10
environmental reasons to not develop Olowalu. There are some many more (unaffordablity of the project for "normal"
people being another. I'm a bartender at Lineage in Wailea that rents in Kahului, and I couldn't afford a "worker"
housing in that project.), but I did want to share these with you today to convince to take action to save Olowalu's
reefs.
1) The only reef on Maui that is 50 - 90% coral cover and accessible to everyone, directly from the shoreline
2) Oldest living corals ever dated in the Main Hawaiian Islands
3) Best developed micro-atolls in the Hawaiian Islands, some 60 - 70 years old surviving in just inches of water
4) Home to some extremely rare corals (P. duerdeni, P. solida-pictured, P. cf. annae)
5) Incredibly diverse invertebrate fauna at wading depths (31 species of hard corals, 169 species of opisthobranchs,
19 species of sea cucumbers, 14 species of hermit crabs, 15 species of brittle stars, etc.)
6) blacktip reef shark nursery
7) The #1 priority reef in the Maui Nui Reef Recovery Plan
8) Mother reef that seeds coral larvae to West Maui, South Molokai and the North coast of Lanai
9) Critical habitat to the largest known manta ray population in the United States with over 550 unique individuals
identified, a population isolated to the Maui Nui region
10) Designated a Sylvia Earl Mission Blue Hope Spot in 2017
Mahalo,
Michael Bursack
County Clerk
RECHlVtUFrom: Mr Cabbages <allthecabbages@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22,2020 11:59 PM KM 7:
To: County Clerk ®
Subject: Please Help Maul County.. Testimony of Support -10.23 Council Agenda - CC No. 20-528li County.. Testimony of Support -10.23 Council Agenda - CC No.
OrMCE o?IHir- r'.l
Asking for your help..Please support the proposed resolution In CC No. 20-528 on the Floor on Friday, 10/23/2020
I am Kula, Maul born and raised. With so much going on in the world; Keeping our Ghana Strong, Preparing our Keiki for this world we
live in. Protecting ourselves and loved ones from something that has affected everyone globally.
Our Healthcare Facilities are few and limited here on Maui. We need to protect the safety and success of our island.
Please vote In support of county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the gastroenterology
and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic.
Mahalo for your time and concern.
JustinCabigas
County Clerk
From: Marcella Carranco <marcella.carranco3@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 11:02 PM
To: County Clerk; Alice L Lee; KeaniRawllns@mauicounty.us; Tasha A. Kama; Riki Hokama; Kelly King;
Yukilei Sugimura; Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
Subject: Kaiser Permanente plans to close services at Wailuku Clinic
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20, please pass this
resolution on the floor.
Mahalo for your attention to this matter as mentioned above our community is in danger of loosing vital health care services
that is greatly needed more than ever. We the people of Maui know that we have but one hospital to take care of our fast
growing island , we need more healthcare facilities to deliver proper and safe care to our community now more than ever in the
middle of a pandemic and beyond these uncertain times not less.
Aloha for your time
j  "
-  - •
Marcella Carranco -n f? '
Kaiser employee, patient, -
Maui resident "
Sent from my iPad
Coun^Clerk
From: Melanie Chan <ms.melanie.chan@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 12:38 AM
To: County Clerk
Subject: County Communication No. 20-528 on Page 5 of the Council Agenda
^ ' V. gO
>.1: c~>
Maul County Clerk —; (
County of Maul f
Wailuku, HI 96793 5s-
rn
RE: County Communication No. 20-528 on Page 5 of the Council Agenda r:-. i,. O
'  I' "
Esteemed County Clerk,
Aloha, as a Maui County resident, homeowner, educator, parent, and Kaiser member for 45 years, I strongly
support Maui County communication 20-528. The proposed resolution urges the State of Hawaii to conduct
a full public discussion through the State's Certificate of Need Review Process in order to explore the
consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the Gastrointestinal and Ambulatory Surgery
Services at Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, hence, I sincerely ask the Council to act quickly and pass
the proposed resolution in CC No. 20-528 on the Floor on Friday, October 23, 2020. Mahalo nui loa for your
time and attention to this matter.
Sincerely,
Melanie Chan Vinoray
692 Alulike Street
Kihei. HI 96753
Melanie Chan-Vlnoray
M.Ed. Learning Design and Technology
t ■ * '^ • '^ \ \ ^ ^ I ^
From: Monique Chicheportiche <monique-c@hawaii.rr.com> v viJ-'•->• ••" '
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 1;19 PM
To: County Clerk 2020 OCT 22 Fit J OOSubject: communication 20-528
Grrvsz OF tiff:
COwMVY CLuRK '
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a
full public discussion through the states certificate of need review process to
explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is
of the essence please pass this resolution on the floor 10/23/2020.
LAW OFFICE OF
LANCE D COLLINS Post Office Box 782, Mokawao, Hawai i 96768
A LAW CORPORATION 1808) 243-9292 • lawyer@maui.net
October 16,2020 ^ ^25 3 mAlbert Perez — O
Executive Director O ^
Maui Tomorrow Foundation ti ^
55 Church St rii H
Wailuku HI 96793 - q^ 2
o
Re: Affordable Housing Projects (AH-1) Lihau'ula LLC's Workforce Housing Project proposal
to develop 59 lots on 27.799 acres of land located at TMK No. (2) 4-8-003:103, Olowalu,
Maui, Hawai'i.
Dear Mr. Perez,
Several community groups including Maui Tomorrow Foundation have asked additional
questions regarding Applicant Dhau'ula LLC's (Applicant) Lihau'ula Workforce Housing Project
proposal to develop the 27.799 acre Lot 20 of the Olowalu Mauka subdivision as 59 lots, located at
TMK No. (2) 4-8-003:103, Olowalu, Maui, Hawai'i (project), dated June 2020 (application)
subsequent to the October 5, 2020 committee meeting. We have addressed your questions thus.
1. Project proposes 69 units because agricultural dwellings on the 10 market-rate
agricultural lots cannot be restricted pursuant to HRS §205-4.6.
At the October 5, 2020 committee meeting, councilmember Michael Molina inquired as to
whether HRS §205-4.5 applies to the ten agricultural lots such that these lots would be entitled to
build two units. In response, the Planning Director responded that HRS §205-4.5 provisions for
agricultural district lands would not apply to the 49 residential lots after those lots are reclassified to
the urban district. This statement appears nonresponsive to the councilmember's inquiry.
The project consists in 49 residential lots and 10 agricultural lots, on which agricultural lots
two farm dwellings may be built per lot. Maui County Code (MCC) § 19.30A.050(B)(1) (describing
"accessory uses" to include "[t]wo farm dwellings per lot, one of which shall not exceed one
thousand square feet of developable area."). Each of these farm-dwelling are defined to mean a
single-family dwelling. HRS §205-4.5(a)(4). This means the project proposes 69 dwelling units: 49
units in the urban district, plus 20 units on ten lots in the agriculmral district.
The Applicant's representations that it can restrict accessory dwelling units is incorrect. See
Application, Appx. G at 1. Even if the Council were to impose a condition preventing accessory
dwelling units or additional farm dwellings on the agricultural lands, the Applicant could not
implement this condition. Agricultural uses and activities defined under HJ^ §205-4.5(a), including
construction of farm dwellings "shall not be restricted by any private agreement contained in any"
deeds, sale agreements, land conveyances, or condominium declarations, maps, bylaws, and other
documents dealing with real property. HRS §205-4.6(a). The Applicant lacks the authority to
impose restrictions on accessory dwelling units in its conveyances to lot-buyers, which thereby
increases the density of dwelling units in the approximately 27.8 acres of the project.
2. Corporation counsel memorandum, dated October 5. 2020. does not refute our
conclusion that the project requires environmental review and violates DOH rules.
The Application incorrectly states: "There are no Chapter 343 "triggers" and Chapter 343
does not apply[.]" Application at PDF 34. Corporation counsel's memorandum recites certain
provisions of HRS chapter 343 and State Department of Health (DOH) rules relating to wastewater
systems. We concur with corporation counsel's memorandum inasmuch as it concludes that HRS
chapter 343 environmental review is required for reasons set forth in our October 1, 2020
memorandum.
Environmental review documents for the project must be prepared pursuant to HRS chapter
343. The project is an "action" because it is a project initiated by the Applicant. HRS §343-2. An
environmental assessment is required for actions that "[pjropose any: Wastewater treatment unit,
except an individual wastewater system or a wastewater treatment unit serving fewer than fifty
single-family dwellings or the equivalent." HRS §343-5(a)(9)(A). Because there is no publicly
operated treatment works near the project, each of the proposed 59 lots will be required to have its
own individual wastewater system. Application at 53. The project triggers requirements for an
environmental assessment because the individual wastewater systems will be serving 50 or more
single family dwellings.
Corporation counsel also appears to acknowledge that under a plain reading of HAR §11-
62-31.1, titled "General requirements for individual wastewater systems," the project requires a
wastewater facility. Corporation counsel, however, reaches no conclusions about whether the
proposed individual wastewater systems (IWSs) for each lot either violate DOH rules or trigger
environmental review and rather refers to an email from a DOH wastewater branch employee.
HAR §11-62-31.1 (am. Mar. 2016) provides in relevant part:
(a) Individual wastewater systems may be used as a temporary on-site means of wastewater
disposal in lieu of wastewater treatment works under the following conditions:
(1) Developments involving dwellings.
(A) There shall be 10,000 square feet of land area for each individual wastewater system;
(B) Total development of an area shall not exceed fifty single family residential lots or exceed
fifty dwelling units except for developments consisting of one dwelling unit per acre or
greater;
(C) Area of the lot shall not be less than 10,000 square feet, except for lots created and
recorded before August 30,1991. For lots less than 10,000 square feet which were created
and recorded before August 30,1991, only one individual wastewater system shall be
allowed.
(D) The total wastewater flow into one individual wastewater system shall not exceed one
thousand gallons, and one individual wastewater system shall not serve more than five
bedrooms, whether they are in one welling unit or two.
[....]
The rules apply to the density as a function of the "total development" as a whole. According to
the Applicant, the total development will consist in 27.8 acres. The project proposes 69 dwelling
units on those 27.8 acres, which means the total development consists in is 1 dwelling unit per 0.4
acres (17,550 square feet). The development does not "consistQ of one dwelling unit per acre or
greater" and exceeds fifty residential lots or fifty dwelling units. HAR §11-62-31.1 (a). Even if the
project proposed only 59 units on 27.9 acres, the total density of the development would be one
dwelling unit per 0.47 acres.
As discussed in our October 1,2020 memorandum, an email from a DOH wastewater
employee is not official department policy, does not exempt the project from HAR §11-62-31.1, nor
the environmentally-protective purposes for which this rule is in place. See HAR §11-62-01
(wastewater rules are meant to "ensure that the use and disposal of wastewater and wastewater
sludge does not contaminate or pollute any valuable water resource ... and does not become a
hazard or potential hazard to the public health, safety, and welfare.").
A similar issue arose in Ma'alaea Community Association et. al v. Director of the Department of
Housing and Human Concerns, Civil No. 15-1-0623(3) (Hawai'i 2d. Cir. Ct.). Plaintiffs, which included
Maui Tomorrow, filed a lawsuit in Maui's environmental court on the basis that the Ma'alaea project
required that a more comprehensive environmental impact statement be prepared and challenged
the finding that the project would not have significant environmental impacts. In their motion for
preliminary injunction. Plaintiffs cited the environmental impacts of Developer MVI, LLC's
proposed HRS chapter 201H affordable housing project that included 58 residential lots, each with
an IWS, on 16.9 acres, as part of a 117 lot rural-residential subdivision on 257 acres. Maui's
Environmental Court granted the Plaintiffs' preliminary injunction primarily on the basis that the
Ma'alaea project would violate DOH wastewater rules. In Ma'alaea Community as in the instant case,
more than 50 IWS cannot be used on less than 50 acres.
3. The project land use reclassification must be processed by the Land Use Commission.
The Application proposes to obtain a district boundary amendment (DBA) to reclassify 14.7
acres of the 28 acre agricultural parcel to the urban district. Applicant proposes to accomplish this
reclassification pursuant to HRS §205-3.1 and Maui County Code §19.68.040, which removes
processing of the DBA application from the state Land Use Commission (LUC) and rather requires
the Maui County Council to process the application. HRS §205-3.1 (b). Application at 6-7. Such
DBAs "shall be determined by the appropriate county land use decision-making authority for the
district and shall not require consideration by the land use commission pursuant to section 205-4;
provided that such boundary amendments and approved uses are consistent with this chapter."
HRS § 205-3.1 (c).
In interpreting its rules and the statutes that it oversees and implements, the LUC urges the
counties to utilize "a thorough evaluation of the uses' actual footprint and the impact of the use on
the parcel/property" in the initial determination as to how to determine whether a county special
use permit (SUP) application should rather be processed as a district boundary amendment
application. Letter from D. Orodenker, Executive Officer, Land Use Commission to M. McLean,
Director, Maui Planning Department, Re: Special Permit Application Process (Aug. 1,2019).'
1  https://luc.hawaii.gOv/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/LetterToMMclean.pdf (LUC letter)
Hawai'i courts accord persuasive weight to the construction of statutes by administrative agencies
charged with overseeing and implementing a particular statutory scheme. See Sam league, iJd. v.
Hawan Civ. Rights Comm'n, 89 Hawai'i 269, 276 n. 2, 971 P.2d 1104,1111 n. 2 (1999).
The "actual footprint and the impact" of the project's use of land includes at least the
entirety of the 27.8 acre parcel. LUC letter at 1. Where an applicant proposed two residential units
on two 5-acre portions of a 24 acre lot, the LUC questioned whether the remaining 14 acres of the
parcel would be usable for agriculture. "It is unlikely that agricultural activity would or could
continue given the need to ensure the safety and enjoyment of the tenants. As such, it would appear
that the application proposes a significant change in the use of the 24 acres and that more than 15
acres of the parcel would be impacted by the [special use permit], LUC review would therefore be
required under Section 205-6(d) HRS." LUC Letter at 2.
The LUC similarly interpreted HRS chapter 205 with respect to a church proposed for a
portion of a 25 acre parcel where the nonagricultural uses include an access road and in light of the
"extremely high" likelihood that the remainder of the 25 acre parcel would be used for other church
purposes. Likewise, the entiret)' of the Lihau'ula project is essentially devoted to residential uses,
including the balance of 13.1 acres that will remain in "agriculture." Key to each of these examples
is whether lands outside of those designated for the non-agricultural use - here, urban residences -
wiU render the rest of the lot unusable for agriculture.
Indeed, the LUC has numerous concerns about the project, including whether actual
agricultural activities are properly assessed for the agricultural lands remaining in the parcel.
Application, Appx. K at PDF 724.^ Here, the agricultural lots abut many of the proposed urban
residences and will use the same access roads.
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, the Applicant is required to: (1) prepare an environmental impact
statement for the proposed project; (2) reduce the number of IWSs or construct a wastewater
treatment facility or connection to the same; and, (3) submit a district boundary application to the
Land Use Commission for the entirety of the 27.8 acre parcel. Please do not hesitate to contact me
if you have additional questions.
Very truly yours,
LAW OFFICE OF LANCE D. COLLINS
LANCE D. COLLINS
2 The LUC also notes the subject parcel is within the petition area for Olowalu Town LLC and
Olowalu Ekolu LLC's petition to reclassify approximately 320 acres of agricultural land to urban and
rural districts. LUC Docket No. AlO-786.
County Clerk
From: Audrey Dack <audrey_dack@yahoo.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 7:07 PM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk
Subject: Olowalu reef
Aloha Council member Molina,
I ask you again to support a healthy reef at Olowalu. The development proposed would have harmful impacts from both sediment
and human waste treatment. The reef is critical to reef ecosystems extending to some of the other islands. Sediment is deadly and
although Individual Waste Water Systems are theoretically safe for our environment, studies reveal they are rarely maintained to
Best Management Standards here in Hawaii and nationwide. This leaves them mostly contributing to waste water pollution which,
so close to the ocean, will be damaging to the environment. Sediment (per a PHD coral expert I once heard speak at Olowalu) is
more deadly than a nuclear blast since it smothers the coral polyps and the substrate upon which new coral polyps land to
establish new coral colonies.
Please vote and oppose the Olowalu proposed development and preserve our Maul reefs.
Mahalo,
Audrey Dack
527 Kualau Street
Wailuku, Hi 96793
^  h:'
•  '..I -n
L; rn
'  ; i' > ' ^
: I;I
u
£oun^Clerk
From: Rosceiyn Dalut <whiterosebud_1980@yahoo.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 8:43 PM
To: County Clerk; Alice L Lee; KeanI N. Rawiins; Tasha A. Kama; RikI Hokama;
Riki.king@mauicounty.us; Yukilei Suglmura; Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
Cc: Rosceiyn Dalut
My name is Rosceiyn Dalut, I am one of the housekeeping at the Ambulatory Surgery Center (ASC). I support county
communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states certificate of need review
process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the Gastroenterology and Ambulatory
Surgery Services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence please pass this resolution on the floor 10/23/2020. Thank you so
much and more power to you all.
-  J
r-"n rr:
J-O
-J
o
Countj^^lerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Councllmenber Mike Molina,
Lorianna Daly <loriannadaly@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 21, 2020 12:05 PM
County Clerk; Mike J. Molina
PROTECT Olawalu Reef
i \ i— I- -' '
2020 OCT 21 FH 12^ S?
Orf ilvZ CF Ylic
C 0 U ^
Thank you for denying the Lihua'ula Development in committee. Please vote against this project as the effects would be
detrimental to the Olawalu reefs environmental structure.
Thank you for your continued hard work with smart growth principles.
We must protect what little we have left.
-Lorianna Daly, NJ
From: Ashoi Dantra <ashoi@icloud.com> REC^T.! s/cDSent: Friday, October 23, 2020 4:00 AM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk 2(gO QCT 23 W 7^
Subject: Against the project.
C" i O"
BOUNTY CLuRKGood day, . t
This is to show my support as I stand with Mike Moline, who is against the housing project.
This is because of the Olawalu Reef and the Manta Ray population.
Thank you!
Sent from my iPhone
•• r).
Coun^
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Good day,
Clerk
Ruksshana <ruks27(a)gmail.com>
Friday, October 23, 2020 4:50 AM
County Clerk; Mike J. Molina
In support Of Mike Molina
received
M OCT 23 AH 7:2|7
Ci i JOc. O;- The;
COUNTY CLf-RK
This is to support Mike Molina in opposing the building of the housing project.
Please count my response as it is very necessary to save the Olawalu reef and in turn save the mantas.
'tJi^
Thank you!
Ruksshana Dantra.
Ruksshana Dantra
+919821181651
County Clerk
From: Lisa Davis <ldavis723@aol.com> 1 .7. i V C>.-J
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 8:16 PM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk 2[;20 OCT 23 i.il 7'
Subject: Protect Olowalu Reef
Dear Coouncilmember Molina,
I am writing to ask you to please continue to help protect the Olowalu Reef, a precious natural
resource that is home to some of the oldest and most rare corals in Hawaii. Thank you for previously
denying the Lihau'ula development. I ask that you stand firm in preventing this high density housing
and continue to stand against this development which will surely put tremendous pressure on this
already stressed ecosystem.
Thank you,
Lisa Davis,
Wailuku District
^oun^Clerk
» \ V ^EOFrom: Mark Deakos <deakos@hawaii.edu>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 11:36 PM 2nV) QpT '■p-y lu 7.J17
To: Alice L Lee; Yukilel Sugimura; Tasha A. Kama; Riki Hokama; Tamara A. PaitirtShaTre M'Smenci;
Kelly King; Keani N. Rawtins; Mike J. Molina
Cc: County Clerk OFrlCE OF TKE
Subject: Please Deny Lihau'ula in Full Council Vote CL"RK
Attachments: Deakos_Testimony_Deny_LIHAUULA_220CT2020.pdf
Greetings Members of the Maui County Council,
First I want to thank you for supporting the Affordable Housing Committee's recommendation to deny Lihau'ula In the final full
Council vote and out of respect for the wishes of the West Maui Community.
However, to be frank, I'm perplexed by the narrative that if someone is not in support of $600K - $800K high density homes,
built on agriculture land, with septic tanks only a few hundred yards uphill from an iconic coral reef and fish nursery area, then
you must be against affordable housing??? I have yet to hear a single testimony or a single Councilmember say that they don't
support affordable housing, it's Important to understand that the reason West Maui is suffering from obscene traffic, poor water
quality, dry streams, drained aquifers, lost beaches, dead reefs, and armored/contaminated shorelines is because WE DESIGNED
and PLANNED it that way, by Implementing a policy of growth at all cost, growth without responsibility. And to suggest that the
solution to affordable housing is $600K homes that flip to market value in 10 years, built in the worst place possible at any cost,
is ludicrous.
I was perplexed when Peter Martin submitted such a dismal project that makes no attempt to mitigate any of the community
concerns with his business as usual, high impact development practices. But maybe it's not surprising if he knows he has at least
4 of the 5 Councilmember votes regardless of the garbage he puts forward, since nobody will ask him why he hasn't even tried
to implement regenerative or even smart growth principles into his design? Why is he not being asked why he can't implement
any regenerative grovrth principles such as:
1. 100% renewable energy on site to reduce utility bills for low income families and eliminate power lines that spark fires
in an area 20 minutes away from the nearest fire department
2. Dry toilets and onslte greywater treatment without toxic chemicals to reduce utility bills, save 40,000 gallons of water a
year per household, recharge the streams and aquifers rather than deplete them and protect the adjacent coral reefs
from harmful septic systems
3. Urban agriculture so low Income families have access to low cost, healthy, local produce
4. Using non-toxic materials so the residents of these homes and their children aren't breathing in harmful volatile
chemicals
5. Building close to schools, work places and stores so low-income home owners aren't dependent on having multiple cars
and the expenses associated with that and so elders can get access to the things they need without the need for a car
6. Building public spaces that are accessible to everyone and benefit the entire community
7. Reintroducing native habitat as part of the landscaping to restore ecosystem services and bring back native plants and
animals and to slow and filter stormwater in order to protect the reef and recharge the aquifer
Why is he not being asked to show some leadership in regenerative design and implementing frameworks that others are
implementing across the country to repair the damage we have caused instead of continuing with traditional development
further exacerbates our environmental and social issues. If we don't expect better from our developers, what could possibly
incentivize them to adopt the regenerative growth frameworks that we so desperately need here on Maui?
Let's tackle our affordable housing crisis holistically by building affordable homes that are also affordable to live in and that
repair and restore the environmental and social Injustices that we have put In place over the past 50 years.
Mahalo,
Mark Deakos
P.S. If you are wondering what all the hype is around the Olowalu Reef, here are a few highlights:
1. The only reef on Maui that is 50 - 90% coral cover and accessible to everyone, directly from the shoreline
2. Oldest living corals ever dated in the Main Hawaiian Islands
3. Best developed micro-atolls in the Hawaiian Islands, some 60 - 70 years old surviving in just inches of water
4. Home to some extremely rare corals (P. duerdeni, P. solida-pictured, P. cf. annae)
5. Incredibly diverse invertebrate fauna at wading depths (31 species of hard corals, 169 species of opisthobranchs, 19
species of sea cucumbers, 14 species of hermit crabs, 15 species of brittle stars, etc.)
6. blacktip reef shark nursery
7. The #1 priority reef in the Maui Nui Reef Recovery Plan
8. Mother reef that seeds coral larvae to West Maui, South Molokai and the North coast of Lanai
9. Critical habitat to the largest known manta ray population in the United States with over 550 unique individuals
identified, a population isolated to the Maui Nui region
10. Designated a Sylvia Earl Mission Blue Hope Spot in 2017
4c)|c:|c4c)|t:|e:tcitc:|c:(c:)c4c4c9|c:|c:|t:|t%:|(4:^(:|c%:|c4ii|ci|c:|i9|c:|c:ti4c:|e)|c4c:|c:|c:|c4c:tc4c:|ea|:
Mark H. Deakos, Ph.D.
Executive Director, Chief Scientist
HAMER
Hawaii Association for Marine Education and Research, Inc.
PMB#175
5095 Napilihau St. 109B
Lahaina, HI 96761
808-280-6448 (cell)
866-594-1896 (fax)
www.hamerinhawaii.org
RECEIVED
JSO OCT 23 «• 7: 47 October20,2020
Maui County Councilmembers
OFFICE OF TH-H
RE: Testimony requesting the Maui County Coundi) vote yes'on^2d-l29: "ADOPTION of
resolution disapproving the Lihau'ula Workforce Housing Project on 27,79 acres in Olowalu, Maui,
Hawaii, in accordance with Section 201H-38, Hawaii Revised Statutes, identified for real property tax
purposes as tax map key (2) 4-8-003:103
Honorable Members of the Maui County Council:
Once again the people of West Maui find ourselves confronting another unwanted 201-H
project seeking approval from 5 of 9 members of the Maui County Council in order to bypass
the expressed wishes of the West Maui community, the West Maui Community plan, the
recently revised draft West Maui Community Plan and the basic tenants of "smart growth" that
the planning department is trying to instill.
We absolutely need "true, affordable housing" in West Maui and lands are available in the
Lahaina area, some of which Peter Martin owns, that would meet the criteria of "smart
growth." By building next to existing infrastructure, not only do you preserve agriculture land
and open space and avoid unnecessary threats to our precious Olowalu reef, but you build a
walkable community, where residents have easy access to schools, work and supplies, without
the high cost of a car and exacerbating traffic. You also avoid the need for costly private water
treatment systems (ATUs), which rapidly turn into septic systems when owners choose to no
longer pay the $400/year maintenance fee or when they shut off the air pump to save
electricity costs. Forty new septic systems a few hundred yards uphill of the reef is
irresponsible.
Affordable housing is also about affordable living. There is nothing affordable about living in
Olowalu and the need to drive everywhere, especially when 70% of the homes proposed will be
over $600K and applicants will need to show income greater than $100K to qualify. The 201-H
format allows for properties to be sold at market value after 10 years, which completely defeats
the purpose of getting ahead of our affordable housing needs.
Since the last time an Olowalu high density project was debated and denied, nothing about this
project addresses any of the concerns to protect the adjacent reef, access affordable, healthy,
local food, limited water, excessive traffic and the cost of living for low income families.
We rely on our elected County Council to honor the wishes of the community, which has been
loud and clear, that they do not want high density development in Olowalu. In fact, the new
draft plan prepared by the CPAC explicitly restricts 201-H projects in this area. Agriculture is a
perfectly acceptable use for lands in urban growth designated areas as expressed by the Maui
Planning Department.
AMI Group Configuration
80-100%
80-100%
100-120%
100-120%
120-140%
120-140%
3-bedroom, 2-bath
4-bedroom, 2-bath
3-bedroom, 2-bath
4-bedroom, 2-bath
3-bedroom, 2-bath
4-bedroom, 2-bath
Max. Sales Price
$506,400
$582,360
$607,700
$698,855
$708,900
$815,235
Figure 1. Of the 40 homes proposed, 28 (70%) will cost more than $600K.
I ask that you request the developer resubmit a project that meets the criteria of "smart
growth" and strive to meet the criteria of "regenerative growth" to help restore natural habitat,
ecosystem functions, add clean energy, net positive water, natural and inexpensive wastewater
systems, use of non-toxic materials, landfill diversion of waste, local sourcing of materials, and
addressing the health and equity of the residents and surrounding community. A developer
should strive to meet all of these criteria for a net positive impact on both the environment and
the people. This is being done across the country and across the globe through frameworks like
Living Buildings (https://living-future.org/lbc-3 1/basics/} and doing them at the same cost of
regular development. The proposed project has made little to no effort to meet any of these
criteria.
The days of "minimizing impact" are over. We absolutely need to demand more from
landowners and developers to apply the new mindset that is sweeping this country, one that is
restorative, with an overall "net-positive" impact. All we need to do Is emulate what others are
already doing and we need our leadership to incentivize those standards.
Please do the right thing and deny this project and demand that developers do better to meet
our affordable housing needs with frameworks that meet "smart growth" and "regenerative
growth" principles.
Mahalo,
Mark Deakos, Ph.D.
Living Future Institute Ambassador
Naplll
808-280-6448
[ — f ^ l" f \ / r*~ )~sFrom: Carrie DeMott <carrie.j.demott@gmail.com> « \ t_ c. i •/ cz tj
Sent; Wednesday, October 21, 2020 8:53 PM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk 2020 ClT 22 /iJ 8*03Subject: Olowalu Reef Testimony
Aloha Mr. Molina and County Clerk,
c,- Tht
cou;;ry cL-r
I am writing to express my deep concern in the development that has been proposed in Olowalu. I voted for you to continue on
the council, due to your previous support for environmentally sound policies. This development is not ecologically sound and
will devastate the largest reef of Maul.
Fifteen years ago I moved to Maul to teach Science on the West Side, where I lived and worked for 10 years. I now teach Science
in Kihei. For years I have participated in reef counts, water quality testing, coral disease transactions, and other environmental
studies in the area. I've taught coral reef ecology to local students and have taken many of them to study the reef systems
around the islands. In those 15 years, I have seen incredible sedimentation, bleaching, and decline due to poor run-off
management.
I watched the decline and death of the largest coral head in that area, one we called Big Momma. She was a seeding reef, one
that could sexually reproduce and send corals to grow in other areas, even as far as Molokal. That coral head was there when
King Kamehameha landed on Maui's shores. OUr misuse and lack of care led to her death and will lead to the degradation of the
reef and ultimate collapse of the ecosystem there. It will ultimately become a slimy mess of rubble, like many other areas here.
While I recognize the dire need for affordable housing on the West Side, as a member of a non-profit for affordable
housing board and a low income home-owner, 1 also recognize the importance of its placement. Using the building of a few
"affordable" units to pass through a large development is irresponsible at best.
Please, please vote no and don't allow the development, in its current format, to pass. We have already been entangled In
litigation about septic issues and water quality and don't need to allow more of the same old polluting.
I hope that my vote for you this election continues to honor your past acknowledgement of the importance of ecological
preservation. I know this is a very challenging issue. Thank you for taking the time to read and consider my testimony.
I am attaching a picture of some of my students surveying the Olowalu reef, counting herbivorous fish cleaning invasive algae.
Please save Olowalu.
Mahalo,
Carrie DeMott
Science Teacher and Resident
RECEIVED
2020 0CI21 AH9=n1
The Honorable Alice Lee
Council Chair-County of Maul '•'U'"'
Walluku, Hawaii 96793 ^ ^ ' f5 ^ >1?^COUMTY CLlzRK ;
Subject: Testimony In support of County Communication No. 20-528 on Page 5 of the Council
Agenda.
Dear Chair Lee:
Please accept our testimony requesting that the County Council act quickly to pass the
proposed resolution In CC No. 20-528 on the floor on Friday, 10/23/20.
Our immediate family of six are lifetime Kaiser Members. Collectively a total of 192 years. Our
surviving parents, ages 92 & 83 are long time Kaiser members as well. Over the years, we
have under gone surgical procedures that required overnight hospital stays. We also
experienced multiple procedures performed at Kaisers Gastrointestinal and Ambulatory
Surgery Services at Wailuku Clinic. Comparatively, the latter, is without question a critical &
responsive resource in meeting our immediate health care needs efficiently.
In the recent two months our family members were able to receive necessary surgical care
twice. Our elder parents were looking forward to having their surgical procedures done there
as well and now apprehensive about needing to be serviced at the Maul Memorial Hospital. It
is simply a tragedy to our community for Kaiser to close it's Gastrointestinal and Ambulatory
Surgery Services at Wailuku Clinic. Moreso, during a pandemic when our community needs
the assurance of efficient and safe medical care & resources being available.
We respectfully request that the County Council pursue every measure to keep Kaiser from
closing and discontinuing the Gastrointestinal and Ambulatory Surgery Services on Maui. We
further request that the Maui County Council expeditiously seek to urge the State of Hawaii to
Conduct a Full Public Discussion Through the State's Certificate of Need Review Process to
Explore the Consequences of Kaiser Permanente's Proposed Plans to Close the
Gastrointestinal and Ambulatory Surgery Services at Wailuku Clinic.
Please feel free to contact us by email: kulaQleni@vahQQ.cQm or 808-357-5950. Mahalo for
your favorable and expeditious response to this matter.
Respectfully Submitted,
39 Kauilaaha Place
Kula, HI 96790
Cc: Maui County Clerk & Council Members &
County Clerk
•- d Q
From; Sannah & Ed <ny2mauI91@yahoo.com> i \ v •' —
Sent: Thursday, October 22,2020 6:41 PM 7- I'li
To: County Clerk 2J-0 23 7* ■
Subject: Resolution 20-528
•  " 7 ~ " i"'; "• 1 i ' i"
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through
the state's certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed
plans to close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the
essence please pass this resolution on the floor 10/23/2020.
The situation is, we have only one hospital on Maul, and frequently Maui Memorial fills up, and the patients
are backed up in the ER. When this happens, it means that there are no hospital beds available, so all
elective procedures are canceled. This would include all colonoscopies, endoscopies, and elective
surgeries. If something were to happen during the procedure, and the patient required a hospital bed, and
there wasn't one available, that would be negligent.
What happens if there is another Covid cluster at MHS? When this happened, they canceled all elective
procedures, as stated above. We have a backlog of over 500 patients. We find colon cancer all the
time. Would you want to wait?
Kaiser needs to invest in Maui. Kaiser purchased the Wailuku Clinic in 2018 and has promised to
renovate. They have once again canceled their plans to renovate the clinic. We need to keep the
Gastroenterology department and the Ambulatory Surgery Center open. Enough is enough.
Mahalo Nul Loa,
Susannah Evangellsta RN
Gastroenterology
T")
County Clerk
From: Brianna Everett <hanagirl143@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 9:14 PM
To: County Clerk 21 0 C . l ^ T
Subject: In support of County Communication No. 20-528
Aloha,
I am writing in support of the county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public
discussion through the states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser
Permanente's proposed plans to close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery center at the Wailuku
Clinic. Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20, please pass this resolution on the floor.
I was born and raised on Maui and I am currently a registered nurse at the Kaiser Wailuku ambulatory
surgery center. I am not only concerned about my job (and my coworkers) but I am concerned about how
this will affect our patients, and the entire community! I really think that Maui needs more access to medical
services, not less! It is imperative that the correct certificate of need process is followed. The community of
Maui should be involved and given the opportunity to voice their opinions, and ask questions regarding
these proposed changes.
I ask that you please pass resolution No. 20-528.
Sincerely,
Brianna Everett
From: Crisanta Fillazar <cfillazar@twc.com> Rb-C^.-vED
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 9:44 PM
To: County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. K^fjU^: k^il^iSng; Yukilei
Sugimura; Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
Subject: Subject: Testimony of Support -10.23 Council Agenda - CC No. 20-S2Q.
.jFhiGi.:. Oir Tnc
COUNTY CLERK
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology (Gl) and ambulatory surgery services (ASC)at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence please pass this
resolution on the floor 10/23/2020.
I am a registered nurse at Wailuku Clinic for the past 2 years. I worked at the hospital in Labor and Delivery for 12 years. I know
how unsafely short staff the hospital is. The hospital does not have the staff to support all the procedures that are currently
being done at Gl and ASC departments.
There is a domino affect should Gl and ASC service be outsourced to the hospital. Kaiser members will have to "fight" for surgery
or procedure slots against non-Kaiser (HMSA, UNA) members at the hospital. This delay in care will affect everyone on this
island.
Thank you for your time,
Crisanta Fillazar, RN
—
R;-C-1V2DFrom: Amy Fonarow <afonarow@yahoo.com> ' ^ ^
Sent: Thursday, October 22,2020 6:36 PM ,,, -t. i'ij|
To: County Clerk; Mike J. Molina 2. J C-' ^
Subject: Mahalo for Voting Against the Lihau'ula Development Proposal
-rF:r,z Cr Ti::-....... .. . -,-y :
Dear Councilmember Molina,
Thank you for understanding that building directly across the road from Maul's largest coral reef is not a wise decision, and that
doing so would have negative effects on the health of Olowalu Reef as well as the reefs that Maul's "Mother Reef seeds along
West Maul, Lanai, and Molokai.
Living, thriving coral reefs produce our surf breaks, food and shelter for marine animals, speed bumps for wave energy and
weather events hitting the shoreline, and - for many people - income. No one is stoked to visit a dead reef.
In fact, I recommend that we preserve the land mauka of Olowalu as conservation land, never to be developed. Can we make
that happen? (If I can help, please let me know how.)
I realize that true affordable housing is needed on Maul, and I request that such building occur near existing infrastructure, full-
service grocery stores, and roads, not to mention bus stops that can be reached on foot easily by residents of all ages and
abilities, including our kupuna.
Thank you again for saying no to this particular development project In this particular place: Lihau'ula.
Malama pono, and have a beautiful day.
Sincerely,
Amy Fonarow
Amy Fonarow
Writing • Editing ♦ Video Production
afonarow.wlxsite.com/settingthingswrite
808.838.9527
Coun^
From:
Sent:
To:
Clerk
Joann Garcia <joanngarcia@hawaii.rr.com>
Thursday, October 22, 2020 7:11 PM
County Cierk
n
1 \ iVED
2320 CCT 23 All 7= 'l"!
To whom it may concern, i I
"Y C
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the
states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close
the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20.
please pass this resolution on the floor.
Thank you,
Joann Garcia
Sent from my IPad
County Clerk
P p p f \ / p: r\From: Ari Halperin <ari.halp@gnnail.com> ,/CU
Sent: Friday, October 23, 2020 7:37 AM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk 23 hH 7- 17
Subject: Olowalu Testimony
^ "O iN i V C L K r\Aloha Mike,
I want to start by thanking you for denying the Lihau'ula Development in Committee and for your continued support of
affordable housing that addresses all the community needs through regenerative and smart growth principles.
I've been a Hawaiian resident for over 5 years now, and Olowalu reef is one of my favorite places to visit on Maui for
the following reasons:
•  Olowalu is critical habitat to the largest known manta ray population in the United States with over 550 unique
individuals identified
•  Olowalu is the only reef on Maui that has 50-90% coral cover and accessible to everyone, directly from the shoreline
I am counting on you again today, this Friday, October 23rd, to deny this project as the deciding vote to protect the
Olowalu Reef.
Mahalo in advance,
A concerned citizen,
Ari Halperin
Ari Halperin
Cell - (301)814-1954
^oun^Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Sandra harris <sandralharris808@icloud.com>
Thursday, October 22, 2020 9:05 PM
Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
County Clerk
Testimony of Support -10.23 Council Agenda - CC No. 20-528
Pass the proposed resolution In CC No. 20-528 on the Floor on Friday, 10/23/2020
"I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence please pass this resolution on
the floor 10/23/2020.
Sent from my iPhone
r».->
r;
O -:.f
c..:
C">
c >
!
^ c..>K • - ■
r~ '' i:.-:
- 4 I > 1
RECEsv'ED
Mikahala Helm 2020 OCT 20 Pi I ? 45
2493 Vineyard Street
Wailuku, hT 96793 ^ ^ ..,.O r r i it- iz U i' ■ f i''i c
October 20, 2020 C O U N T Y C L E R K '
Aloha,
I am writing to request your kokua and support for county communication 20-258 urging the
State of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the state's certificate of need
process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic, Time is of the
essence, so on10/23/20, please pass this resolution on the floor.
Your support will help to address this serious health provision problem facing the Maui Nui
Community & those who visit our shores.
Mahalo nui,
Mikahala Hem
^ount^CleH^
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Dear Mr. Molina,
Julian Henao <julian.henao.n@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 22, 2020 7:55 PM
Mike J. Molina; County Clerk
Olowalu Reef- Thank you for your kind support
2020 c:i 23 2:
r.'^r Cr ■<
I wanted to thank you for putting forth your efforts to protect the Olowalu Reef. I hope we are able to protect this
important reef for the manta rays and the endless species that depend on this fragile ecosystem.
The development of this high-density housing project along with its septic infrastructure will undoubtedly have a detrimental
effect on the Olowalu Reef and our broader ocean.
1 hope you are able to support this cause and I wanted to let you know that I, and many others, stand beside you In support as
well. We need to protect our oceans and you are fighting for what is right. You have my full respect and support.
Thank you,
Julian Henao
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Virginia hertz <mauiginn@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 22, 2020 12:20 AM
County Clerk ru
Maul County Council
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence please pass this resolution on
the floor 10/23/2020.
We need more access, not less! The closure of these units will have a huge negative impact on health care in Maui.
Virginia Hertz
JULIE (Juliana) M. HIGA
187 ALOHI PLACE
PUKALANI, MAUL HAWAII, USA 96768
MOBILE: (808) 264-2765
Email: mauiplanner@gmaiLcom
October 20, 2020
TO:
FROM:
SUBJECT:
Honorable County Council Chair Alice Lee
Honorable County Council Vice Chair Keani Rawlins-Femandez
Honorable County Council Member Tasha Kam
Honorable County Council Member Riki Hokama
Honorable County Council Member Kelly King
Honorable County Council Member Yuki Lei Sugimura
Honorable County Council Member Mike Molina
Honorable County Council Member Shane Sinenci
Honorable County Council Member Tamara Paltin
Kathy Kaohu, Maui County Clerk
Julie (Juliana) M. Higa, Member of Kaiser Permanente Health Care
System
In Support of County Council Communication No. 20-528 on Page 5
of the Council Agenda
As a member of Kaiser Permanente Health Care System (Kaiser), I am in
support of County Council Communication No. 20-528 in urging the State of Hawaii to
conduct a full public discussion through the State's Certificate of Need review process
to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
Gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic.
In addition, I would like the County Council to amend this Resolution to request the
State of Hawaii to investigate the Maui Health System's 10-Year contract on whether
there is a conflict of interest between Kaiser Permanente and its subsidiary, Maui Health
Systems in the management and operations of facilities and the provision of services
and employment in Maui County and whether or not they have adhered to their verbal
commitments upon entering into contract with the State to provide these services and
employment for the people of Maui County.
I am appalled and afraid (as many of other Kaiser patients have told me) of the
decision that Kaiser made in regards to closing their surgery services at Wailuku Clinic.
I was told by various State and Federal agencies I contacted, upon my complaints about
Maui Health System's management and operation of the Kula Hospital, that Kaiser and
Maui Health System were separate entities. In which case, my question among many,
is whether Kaiser Permanente, in trying to save money, will be paying a fair rental price
JULIE (Juliana) M. HIGA
187 ALOHI PLACE
PUKALANI, MAUh HAWAII, USA 96768
MOBILE: (808) 264-2765 : . : : -
Email: mauiplanner@gmail.com
for the space they will be using at the MMMC Surgery Center and whether or not other'
private medical groups were given the opportunity to use MMMC's Surgery Center? Is
the State of Hawaii Health Department and the Certificate of Need standards and
requirements being met by MMMC in use of their facilities by a "third" party, and
whether or not the MMMC services to the community at large are being compromised?
Does Kaiser and Maui Health System quality for a non-profit status when they seem to
be operating more as a for-profit organization by cutting comers in quality of care,
supplies, staffing, facilities, and treatment of its staff. In addition to tiie Certificate of
Need, the State Legislature should also be evaluating and investigating Kaiser and Maui
Health System's contract In operating and managing the State's facilities in Maui County
and on Oahu as well as the conflicts of interest and the quality of care and support for
local employees.
About a month ago, I was a patient at the Kaiser Wailuku Surgery Center and
received excellent care and services from the staff there. In less than two weeks after
the diagnosis, they were able to schedule me for surgery. Will that be possible in the
future if the Kaiser facility is moved to the hospital? I was glad that the surgery could
be done at the Kaiser Wailuku Clinic instead of the MMMC, especially with this
pandemic and the COVID-19 cases that occurred at the hospital. I doubt very much
that my surgery could have been scheduled so quickly if it were at the
hospital...competing scheduling with other non-Kaiser patients. I have been a Kaiser
member for about twenty-plus years and seen the decline in services over the years so
the closing of the surgery center is very disconcertingII
If you havae any questions, please call, text or email me. Thank you for your support in
passing Maui County Resolution No. CC20-528.
Sincerely,
^lie (Juliana) M. Higa
cc: Honorable Mayor Mike Victorino
Honorable Representative Kyle Yamashita
Honorable Senator Kalani English
Page 2 of 2
i \ L- ^ •"
From: Carol Holland <chrosetta@hotmail.com> ^ ^
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 2:21 PM 2020 OOl
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk
Subject: Protect Olowalu . - t . u
Thank you for all the work you have done and continue to do. I urge you to vote to protect Olowalu from
overdevelopment as we are learning and continue to learn our ecosystems are threatened and we are in
danger of losing treasured resources. Please continue to vote NO on high density housing and septic systems.
We cannot keep up this unmitigated development and destruction of our resources.
Thank you
Carol Holland
Carol H Holland, M.Sc. Oceanography, M.A Secondary Education
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined." -Henry David Thoreau
County Clerk
From: maui-gov@l<ingdomofthehawaiianislands.conn
Sent: Sunday, October 18, 2020 9:59 PM
To: Scott.fretz@hawaii.com; lance.k.desilva@hawaii.gov; aioha@windwardaviation.com
Cc: County Clerk; atftips@atf.gov; college@peta.org; hawaiiag@hawaii.gov
Subject: Hunters (Tenants) in KOOLAU, HANAWI, KAHIKINUI FORESTS
Aloha,
This email shall serve as a second and final notification that there will be groups of hunters in the Koolau, Hanawi and Kahikinui
forest tomorrow - Monday October 19th, 2020. Various parties of hunters and legal observers will be positioned in each of these
forest reserves for subsistence gathering purposes and to document the any human rights violations and war crimes by the State
of Hawaii, in their attempts to conduct aerial eradications of subsistence resources (wild animals) that belong to the People and
Chiefs. Please note that if any hunters are harmed in tomorrow's eradication - the State of Hawaii DLNR, specifically Windward
Aviation, Lance K. Desilva and Scott Fretz will be held liable for the damages to human life and habitation. Stop creating
desertification of our watershed by removing hoofed animals. State of Hawaii conservation works to epistemologically and
physically remove us from the 'aina and we will no longer tolerate these threats by the DLNR to steal our identity and
community sustenance. The Department of Land and Natural Resources and their belligerent aerial eradications are putting our
Native and Non-Native Tenants in danger and creating predicaments of starvation. The DLNR is ordered to cease and desist its
planned aerial eradications on October 19th, October 30th, November 13th, November 20th, December 4th, December 11th
and December 18th. We have coordinated hunters to be in the Koolau, Hanawi and Kahikinui forest on these dates.
Napua Hueu, Governor of Maui Office
Maui-Gov@KingdomoftheHawaiianlslands.com O O §
« 7)
52 § mHI ^ Kj
oO " -S <
rRH ^ fit
Rizi^[Plv^r)From: Nichole J. <ndnorth@gmail.com> ' ' -'-
Sent: Wednesday, October 21,2020 12:53 PM
to: county Clerk 20/0 OCT 2 I Ri != 32Subject: Kaiser Closure
I support county communication 20-528 and would strongly urge the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion. With the
states certificate of need to review the process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans. The closure
of thegastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic would greatly impact the members and patients
of Maui.
Thank you,
Nichole Johnson
County Clerk
From: Addie Jones <addiejones1122@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 8:33 PM
To: County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Riki Hpkarpa; K^ll>i?-Kin^ Yukilei
Sugimura; Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Pattin
Subject: To whom it may concern ., ;-
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through
the states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed
plans to close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the
essence please pass this resolution on the floor 10/23/2020.
Thank you
Addie Jones LPN
General surgery department
Sent from my iPhone
,o ,^ , RECL-iVEDFrom: elv8rgri@gmail.com
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 7:31 AM ^ pj
To: County Clerk 2020 OlT 2 1 AH 7- 56Subject: Olowalu Reef
C- r F i C E 0 r i H c
COUNTY CLERN '
SAVE THE REEF
NO CONSTRUCTION
Patty Jones
(925) 405-7493
County Clerk
From: Michele Katsutani <mkatsuta@hawaii.edu>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 1:13 PM
To: County Clerk
Subject: County Communication 20-528
J v ; - ' •' *— '
2020 OCT 21 Fil 1=
or Tlir, • >, 1 -[->_/ r-1 r. r;' •
Aloha,
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion
through the states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser
Permanente's proposed plans to close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the
Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20, please pass this resolution on the floor.
Mahalo,
Michele A. Katsutan
Maui Resident
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Emery Kaya <kiheigirl55@yahoo.com>
Tuesday, October 20, 2020 12:34 PM
County Clerk
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Riki Hokama; Kelly King; Yukilei Sugimura; Mike J.
Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
Resolution 20-528
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion
through the states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser
Permanente's proposed plans to close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the
Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20. please pass this resolution on the floor.
Aloha,
Emery Kaya,RN
Born and raised on Maui
9.^
Hrn
r" "
m —:
CD
CD
r>o
o
-o
-CS
73
m
o
<
m
D
County Clerk
From: Kalele Kekauoha-Schultz <kekauoha.schultz@gmail.com> p.! j i \ • J
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 8:43 PM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk 2j'} CC i 4 . - C-
Subject: Protect Olowalu
Just do the right thing. "The time is now Let us be the ancestor that our descendants will thank." Winona LaDuke.
This is easy. Tou won't regret it. As a school counselor and servant to our community, I have no more words or energy to
convince you that our 'aina and kai deserves care and protection from continued misuse, abuse, and pollution from
development. If you do It get it, I just can't right now. But I will continue to sweat and bleed for the next generation so we at
least leave them something worth fighting for. I hope to thank you Mike Molina.
Sincerely,
Kaleleonalani Kekauoha-Schultz
Sent from my iPhone
From: Larry Kihne <kihne@msn.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 8:42 AM
To: County Clerk
As a long time scuba diver and snorkelers, I have always found Mauls reef a unique treasure.
Please do all that Is possible to protect this natural wonder
Get Outlook for Android
O O
f  J * S "
h*' roV ' ■ r-j
s ^ ' i. •
r" ■ ■ " ■ : ■ '
n-' o
County Clerk
From: Sabrina K <skoyster(a)gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 8:02 PM
To: County Clerk
Subject: Olowalu Reef Protection
Dear Sir,
Please use your position to do everything in your power to protect this vital reef from the high density housing plan and
septic tank impact under proposal at this time. Your consistent resolve will be protecting the ability for the Olowalu marine
area to survive. Thank you for your efforts to deny the Liuala'ula development thus far.
Respectfully, Sabrina Kihne
4 r?
I  ;
•J
I..
c.p
W
\V
Zj
^oun^Clerk
O  ' V ' —
From: Elien Levinsky <ellenfeatherart@mac.com> ^ " ' "
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 9:11 PM
To: County Clerk . ^
Subject: communication No. 20-528, friday council agenda
.  ' i' V .. N,.' * f r* * *
^  ^ t —y r- \ — • ' .
AlohaCounty Clerk-
This is in support of County Communication No. 20-528 on Page 5 of the Council Agenda. Please Include my testimony at
fridays council meeting. Mahalo
My name Is Ellen Levinsky, I've lived on Maul 41 years, 35 years in Lahaina. I am concerned about Kaiser Permanente's proposed
plans to close the Gastrointestinal and Ambulatory Surgery Services at Wailuku Clinic. I read about this in last week's Maui News
and thought it was wrong to reduce medical functions and staff on Maui where we currently do not have enough doctors,
nurses, and medical specialists for our increasing population of residents, seniors, and visitors. I just had a colonoscopy at
Kaiser Wailuku Wednesday October 21, 2020, all of the staff were very professional, and kind to me which helped me stay
relaxed in a stressful situation; the preparation the day before having a colonoscopy is very difficult. After commenting to a
nurse on the article I had read I was told about this item being on the council's friday agenda. It doesn't make any sense to have
Maui Memorial Hospital be the only location on maui to have Gastrointestinal and Ambulatory Surgery Services-what if there's
another cluster of Covid-19 at the hospital? Then there is no place for any gastro to be done and the huge backlog of patients
would have to wait even longer for their important medical procedures to be done. And how many of the dedicated staff will be
fired? In thisyear of an international health crisis it seems dysfunctional to reduce medical services and staff. I support the
proposed resolution that would urge the State of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the State's Certificate of
Need Review Process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the Gastrointestinal and
Ambulatory Surgery Services at Wailuku Clinic. Please act quickly and pass the proposed resolute in CC No. 20-528 on the floor
Friday 10/23/20. 1 am sorry I didn't send this to you sooner but as I said I had a colonoscopy 2 days ago and the preparation for
It the days before it I was focused on my health. Thank-you for taking the time to read and consider my testimony. Stay safe.
Aloha, Ellen Levinsky
From: Ines Levy <ineslevy@mail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22. 2020 9:37 AM
To: Mike J. Molina
Cc: County Clerk
Subject: Let's protect the Olowalu Reef!
Dear Mr. Molina,
Thank you for denying the Lihau'ula Development in Committee and for your continued support of affordable housing
that addresses all the community needs through regenerative and smart growth principles.
We are counting on you, again, this Friday, October 23rd, to deny this project as the deciding vote to protect the
Olowalu Reef.
We, Mother Nature and the wildlife- THANK YOU!
Yours Sincerely,
Ines Levy
O f ^ ::3
s.^
»•-
c>
County Clerk
n L". f c ■ i •' pi
From: Ruby Littao <rlittao@yahoo.com> i\L-. l-i
Sent: Tuesday, October 20, 2020 4:56 AM
To: County Clerk 2820 OCI 20 AH 7= 50
Subject: Resolutions
Orfiaa 09 rm
COUNTY CLERK
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through
the states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed
plans to close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the
essence please pass this resolution on the floor 10/23/2020
Thank you
Ruby Littao- Kaiser Member
Sent from my iPhone
From: Loren Malenchek <loren@hawaii.rr.com>
Sent: Monday, October 19, 2020 10:00 AM
To: County Clerk
Subject: Affordable Housing Committee - TESTIMONY for September 23, 2020 meeting
Aloha kakou
I vehemently urge Maui County Councirs Affordable Housing Committee to deny approval of the proposed
201-H housing development in Olowalu for the following reasons:
•  inadequate infrastructure, walkability, and access to schools, markets, medical facilities &
workplaces
•  fire prone area, places residents at risk.
•  the state of Hawaii hasn't identified the location of the realignment of Honoapi'ilani. This housing
project site is one of the proposed routes.
•  runoff from this development could severely impact Maui's "mother reef
•  this area has significant cultural history that needs proper review and protection
•  this project is UNAFFORDABLE
Please do not approve this development.
Mahalo
Loren q §
C "tl
^ SLoren Malenchek - o
Malenchek Media ^ m
808-283-7122 ?
Representing Innovative Digital and Print Media 5 —i « 01Hawaii Magazine - hawaiimagazine.com PO ^ nMedia Max Network - First Party Programmatic and Conde Nast City Buys X •<>
nMedia - co-op and dedicated eblasts to affiuent, frequent travelers
Questex - Travel Agent and Luxu ry Travel Advisor web and print
ss
Confidentiality: The content of this message is intended only for its recipients and should not be forwarded or shared.
From: Jane Moorhead <jane_moorhead@mac.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 3:55 AM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk
Subject: Protecting Olowalu
Olowalu reef is a unique Maui treasure. With reefs under threat all over the islands, Olo\A/alu remains one of the most
accessible, diverse and fragile. Its accessibility allows both snorkelers and divers to experience It's wonders, diving with black-
tipped reef sharks, green sea turtles and an astonishing array of flora and fauna. While the closure of the islands has been an
economic hardship, it has helped us realize that we can live more lightly on the land and sea, allowing the natural environment
to heal.
It must be protected from the damage of pollution and sediment from development. I want to thank you for denying the
Lihau'ula development in Committee and standing by your decision in the Full Council Vote on Friday.
Jane Moorhead
Kihei
{925)980-9889
O
c 7' Pi m
o
-  ^ 's. J
f'Y \"h;;
n:-
rn
a
County Clerk '
From: Melanie Nakoa <melnakoa@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, October 23, 2020 5:16 AM
To: County Clerk 20?0 OCT AH 7' ^7
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public djku.ssib(iii;^l)rdbgh-tbe$tates
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed' pia'n^ td cltTse the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of th
County Clerk
From: Off da Grid <futureoffgrid@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, October 16, 2020 6:07 PM
To: County Clerk
Subject: Oppose lihauula
do not support Destruction of oluwalus ecosystem just to add fake affordable housing stop Lihauula.
^ W -rn
8? 6 mI
m
o
. o
5 <
w
o
r«
County Clerk
From: papio29@hawaIi.rr.com R E C Ei. 1V E D
Sent: Tuesday, October 20, 2020 6:36 AM
To: County Clerk 2® OCT 20 AH ?• 50
Subject: Resolution 20-528
OF THS
Aloha, COUNTY CLERrs
I am writing to you to ask for your support of Resolution number 20-528. As a
Kaiser member I am concerned about the closure of services at the Wailuku Clinic. The
closure would impact all of Maui County by directing all patients to Maui Memorial
Medical Center, This congestion will cause longer wait times as the hospital is not
expanding its surgery center. Please support this resolution that urges the State of
Hawaii and State Department of Health to conduct a full and public discussion through
the State's certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser
Permanente's proposed plans to close the gastrointesetinal and ambulatory surgery
services at the Wailuku Clinic.
Mahalo,
'Analu T. Okimoto
Wailuku
CountyClerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
[A
Joanne Okita <jo.okita7@gmail.com> ' -
Wednesday, October 21, 2020 9:10 PM
County Clerk 2A'3 uL. . . ..
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Riki Hokama; Kelly King; Yukilei Sugimura; Mike J.
Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin -f: -
Testimony No. 20-528 , " .
Dear Maui Council Members,
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the
states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close
the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20,
please pass this resolution on the floor.
I am a registered nurse at Wailuku Ambulatory Surgery Center. I have been working there for 12 years. I am very
concerned about the decision to close the departments stated above not only for myself but also for kaiser
patients. Decreasing access to patient care during a time of Covid 19 is outrageous. Please act quickly and pass this
proposed resolution.
Thank you,
Joanne Okita
£our^Clerk
From: Heather Pilliod <hpilliod@yahoo.com> • ■-
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 7:41 PM
To: County Clerk 2v'2j 0-^ 23 '
Subject: Testimony of Support-10.23 Council Agenda- CC No. 20-528
r '•
Aloha,
I just wanted to reach out to you before your council meeting tomorrow to let you know that I support the County
Communication 20-528 on page 5 of the Council Agenda. This communication urges the state of Hawaii to conduct a
full public discussion through the state's certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser
Permanente's proposed plans to close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic.
Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20,1 ask that you please pass this resolution on the floor. I am frustrated and
saddened to hear that we could possibly lose valuable services to our community, especially during a
pandemic, if Kaiser decides to close the above services at the Wailuku clinic. Thank you for your time,
consideration, and your service to our beautiful island.
Sincerely,
Heather Pilliod. RN. BSN
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Catherine Rapozo <helavah@icloud.com>
Thursday, October 22, 2020 9:05 PM
County Clerk
Subject: Testimony of Support -10.23 Council Agenda - CC No. 20-528
Aloha Maui County Clerks office:
"I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Waiiuku Clinic. Time is of the essence please pass this resolution on
the floor 10/23/2020."
Sincerely,
Ms. Catherine Lahela Rapozo
Local 5 member
Kaiser employee
Originally from Upcountry Maui
Sent from my iPhone
V .1
O -:j
cr y
i
crs
c
ro
;a
n
i n
County Clerk
From: Tamara A. Paitin ^ 0
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 9:26 PM
To: County Cierk 2020 OCT 23 AH 7' 15
Subject: Fwd: Testimony of Support -10.23 Council Agenda - CC No. 20-528
OFFICE Of THE
COL'MTY CLllFK
Get Outlook for iOS '
From: Lahela Rapozo <helavah@gmail.com> - ...
Sent; Thursday, October 22, 2020 9:24:58 PM
To: Tamara A. Paitin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Testimony of Support -10.23 Council Agenda - CC No. 20-528
Aloha Maul councilwoman Paitin,
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states
certificate of need review process to expiore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Waiiuku Ciinic. Time is of the essence piease pass this resoiution on
the fioor 10/23/2020."
Maui CANNOT afford to lose these resources. With the growing population and aiready limited providers and access to many
services, this wouid put many of our people in danger and risk their safety, weli being and heaith.
Piease pass this resolution.
Sincereiy,
Ms. Catherine Laheia Rapozo
Orlginaiiy from Upcountry Maui
Kaiser employee
Local 5 member
Sent from my iPhone
County Clerk
From: Kristina Rau <blackfish85@gmail.com> RcC uli vt. D
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 11:58 AM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk 2020 OCI 2' Fii 12*
Subject: Say NO to Lihau'ula!
0 r f". '.I- C- i J i t
Please continue to vote NO on the Lihau'ula housing project! Olu\A/alu is more important thafa^crtSfe^lOvV iiWdTtik hb\jsing project
that will aid in the destruction of our mother reef I
Many Mahalos
County Clerk
D iZ," f j .'I ' ^ p\
From: Kathy Reynolds <kreynold13@yahoo.com> ^ V CU
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 5:17 AM
To: Mike J.Molina 21 AH 7' 54
Cc: County Clerk
Subject: Olowalu Reef '•w" I r. c 01 ■ f I'-i in
COUNTY cler;{"
Aloha,
Olowalu reef is a unique Maui treasure. With reefs under threat all over the islands, Olowalu remains one of the most accessible,
diverse and fragile. Its accessibility allows beachgoers, families, paddle boarders, kayakers, snorkelers and divers to experience
it's wonders, diving with black-tipped reef sharks, green sea turtles and an astonishing array of flora and fauna. While the
closure of the islands has been an economic hardship, it has helped us realize that we can live more lightly on the land and sea,
allowing the natural environment to heal.
It must be protected from the damage of pollution and sediment from development.
I want to thank you for denying the Lihau'ula development in Committee and standing by your decision in the Full Council Vote
on Friday.
Mahalo
Kathy Reynolds-Cuddihy
County Clerk
' .-—v
From: Anne Rillero <anne@nnauireefs.org> ' > -•
Sent: Thursday. October 22, 2020 9:11 PM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk ••
Cc: Robin Newbold
Subject: Mahalo for saying no to the Lihau'ula development and yes topreit^-trngrOlowakj-re^
Dear Councilmember Molina,
1 would like to thank you for your recent vote against the Lihau'ula development during the Affordable Housing
Committee review of this project. With the Lihau'ula project coming up before the entire Council tomorrow, I humbly
ask you to stand by your "no" vote and to vote against it again.
My husband and I, and the team at Maui Nui Marine Resource Council, are in favor of affordable workforce housing
for Maui County. However, we feel strongly that Olowalu Is not the right place for it. This development would result in
40+ septic systems being added to an area that's in close proximity to the coast and to Olowalu Reef, a one-thousand
acre reef designated as a priority for protection in the Maui Coral Recovery Plan, a document created by some of
Hawaii's most esteemed coral reef biologists. The reef has some of the oldest coral in the main Hawaiian Islands and
acts as a coral nursery to replenish and populate the reefs of Maui, Moloka'i and Lana'i.
Developing Olowalu threatens the survival of this reef, which is already enduring the stresses of climate change.
There are no municipal sewer lines to this area and so the Lihau'ula project would utilize "private wastewater
treatment systems" (septic systems) for the 40 homes and 19 house lots. Septic systems do little to remove heavy
concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus, which leach through the soil and into the ocean, harming marine life and
creating coral reef "dead zones" in nearshore waters.
Why add these stressors to Olowalu reef, when there are far more suitable locations for workplace and high-end
housing where such housing can be clustered in and around an existing town, to provide easy access to essential
services and stores - and to sewage treatment plants.
For all of the reasons cited above, please vote no on the proposed Lihau'ula development in Olowalu.
Mahalo for all the ways you've helped protect Maui's coral reefs and ocean water quality with your vote. Please
continue to protect the reef with your vote tomorrow.
With much appreciation,
Anne
Anne Rillero
Communications, Community Outreach and Development Manager
Maui Nui Marine Resource Council
wv/w.mauireefs.oro
anne@mauireefs.orq
(808) 707-1078
^ount^Clerk
From: Adrianna Rivera <radrianna84@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 2:22 PM
To: Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Riki Hokama; Kelfy King; Mijce.J. Mplifta;T^ara A.
Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura; County Clerk
Subject: Detrimental access to quality healthcare and accessibility.- • • r
CQL . r. ■
Aloha mai.
My name is Adrianna Rivera. I am a medical assistant in the Gl department at the Wailuku facility. I have been with
Kaiser since 2011. 1 was born and raised on Maui.
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the
states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close
the Gastroenterology(GI) and Ambulatory Surgery Center{ASC) at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, please
pass this resolution on the floor 10/23/2020.
I would like to start by expressing my genuine concern for the people of Maui if this transition takes place. Right now,
as it stands, our Gl clinic is booked solid through the end of the year. Currently, our clinic uses two procedure rooms
to perform endoscopies every day. We service around 8-10, sedated procedures daily. We do this, with two dedicated
rooms for Gl procedures. We also service our more high-risk patients several days a month in our ASC In the Wailuku
clinic. On those ASC days, we have a dedicated room to perform procedures for our members.
For Kaiser members who need Gl care, the access problem, I think, is already reaching a concerning level by way of
wait time and physical capacity to treat patients. My fear is that if we move to the hospital and we share the existing
space that is already there, from what I've heard, seeing maximum allowable amounts of patients; How can our
existing patients, who are waiting several months to see us already, be absorbed into the schedule at the hospital?
I would really like to know if Kaiser's plan includes a dedicated space to Gl procedures at the hospital. This is the only
way we could possibly transition the existing schedule to the hospital without creating a critical access problem. Now,
if this is not the case, then will Kaiser members and non-Kaiser members be fighting for the same spot? How will
urgency of referrals be determined between Kaiser and non-Kaiser members if we are sharing procedure rooms?
Also, will non-Kaiser members and quest members be at a disadvantage for their own health care if Kaiser patients
have a dedicated procedure room? How can Kaiser guarantee health equity at the hospital? I don't see how this
would be fair and it seems like those who may be affected by health disparities and health differences could be at a
greater disadvantage if this Is the model Kaiser choses to follow. But at this point, we have no idea what their plans
are for this transition.
I am also really concerned for myself and my coworkers. On August 25*\ a letter was leaked by the union discussing
Kaiser's plan to cut the ASC and Gl departments. It wasn't until the following week that our nursing supervisor and
upper management came down to deliver the news that our departments were in fact being cut and that they have
no other information to provide us at this time. That's it. No timeline, no Information, and no transparency.
So here I am, 1 month later, and I still have absolutely no idea about my future with Kaiser. I am a single parent. I am
100% financially responsible for my two young children. Our livelihood depends on my employment. Currently, my
insurance is very affordable through my position at Kaiser and my union contract. So, If I lose that, I fear for the
wellbeing of myself and my two kids. I don't know what's going to happen.
But one thing I do know is what I want to get that public hearing. The type of hearing that I want, is one where I can
find an ally to help stop what's happening. I truly believe that this transition will be bad for Maui. I want someone
who will have my back and the backs of my coworkers. The type of public hearing I want, is a public hearing where we
can fight this thing. I want a hearing where we can talk about saving our jobs and saving our departments and where
we can continue to deliver meaningful and compassionate care and service to our community. The fact is whether I
retain a position in Kaiser or not, Kaiser will greatly contribute to growing health access concerns on Maui, if they
move the Gl and ASC services to Maui Memorial Medical Center.
Mahalo nui for your consideration.
Adrianna Rivera
808-298-5323
radrianna84(5) email.com
r-j- , f i\ ;V"
From: Surain Romany <surain.romany@gmail.com> Xrfi ' P" '"'L^
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 3:45 PM 4Ui:UUoi /i > .3
To: County Cierk
Subject: Lihau'ula Development OrFi3--. OF ThE
p i I i Vv i_ s . 1V
Thank you for denying the Lihau'ula development in committee and for your continued support of adorable housing that
addresses all community needs through regenerative and smart growth principles.
County Clerk
From: Margaret Santos <margaretasantos@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, October 19, 2020 10:03 AM
To: County Clerk
Subject: Council of the County of Maul - TESTIMONY for October 23, 2020 meeting
Aloha,
I am a homeowner on Olowalu Village Road and urge the Maui County Council to deny approval of the
Libau'ula workforce housing project in Olowalu.
I believe this proposed housing project is inappropriate for many reasons as follows:
IVIore sprawl: no nearby access to schools, markets, medical and workplaces adding more vehicles to
an already bad traffic situation. . Two similar housing projects by the same developer (Peter Martin) were
proposed last year (2019) in the Launiupoko area (closer to Lahaina) that were denied for very similar
reasons.
NO infrastructure: issues include access to water - no public transportation. Also the State of Hawaii has
yet to identify the location of the realignment of Honoapi'ilani Hwy - this proposed housing site is one of the
proposed highway realignment routes under review.
At Risk: the area is a tinderbox prone to fires putting residents & property at risk... I personally have
been evacuated several times due to fires. This development could put Maui's Mother reef at risk due to
development runoff... denigrating Maui's best near shore reef for generations to come.
Cultural Significance: the area has several cultural / historic sites (including petroglyphs) that need proper
review and protection.
Affordability?: Is it really affordable for local families right now ?
I respectfully request your serious review of all aspects of this inappropriate development and please deny
this housing project!
Sincerely,
Margaret A. Santos
S m
I: o-o rn
o% m <
rrsrJ © ^orv>
^ountj^£leH^
From: Tamara Paltin <tannpaltin@gmail.com>
Sent: Sunday, October 18,2020 8:15 PM ^
To: County Clerk »Z0 OQ I 9 AH 7=
Subject: Fwd: Olowalu development
RECEIVED
OFFICE OF T{-^
COUNTY CLERK
Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:
From: Gary Savage <kanalusavage(S)gmail.com>
Date: September 23, 2020 at 12:40:23 PM HST
To: tampaltin@gmail.com, tamara.paltin@mauicounty.us, ah.committee@mauicounty.us
Subject: Olowalu development
Aloha kakou, Aloha no.
E hana no ke akua 1 ala.
I am happy to share my experience and knowledge of what happens with our reefs and how we can protect our
beloved natural resources.
My name is Gary Savage I am a waterman and an amateur naturalist. I have been diving the reefs surrounding
Maui neifor50+ years.
1 have first hand experience with the tragedy of what Is happening to our beautiful coral reefs.
They are dying. There are multiple causes.
Here are just a few.
Run off from development
Warming ocean temperatures
Over fishing
Sewage...injection wells and the algae blooms from the Sewage water.
Sun block.
I am strongly opposed to this development.
One of the very last reefs that is surviving Is by Olowalu.
Some of these corals are unique to this location.
All development without exception on Maui
Has excessively damaged the living reefs.
It's not complicated.
I have seen it with my own eyes.
1 remember the healthy reefs of our island from 50 years ago and what they look like today. It's shameful and
devastating.
The very few reefs that are barely surviving are in protected ares or in patches away from developments.
The reefs near Olowalu Ahupua'a are such reefs.
No matter what science the developers offer us and their endless Promises that they will be sure runoff...and or
Sewage treatment isn't going to be a problem for our reefs, our experience with this process has proven to us
conclusively that our reefs die next to any development.
I have proof. I am happy to show you first hand. Come in the water with me and see this priceless reef by
Olowalu and then I will show you the dead and dying reefs all around our Island and the obvious causes.
Mahalo kakou
Aloha no
Feel free to contact me
Gary G. Savage
1010 Front Street B104
Lahaina HI 96761
kanalusavage@gmail.com
808 298 6183.
Coun^
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Clerk
Fay Somera <fay.v.somera(a)gmail.com>
Thursday, October 22, 2020 7:47 PM
County Clerk
County Agenda
RECEIVED
2020 G2I 23 .V 7:
I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public
discussion through the states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences
of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery
services at the Wailuku Clinic.
County Clerk
From: Amy Stephens <rainbowcountrymaui@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21,2020 11:59 PM , ., . , , n
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk - ' • ' -
Subject: Thank you in advance for denying the Lihau'ula development
Aloha Councilman Molina,
I want to thank you for your votes against the Lihau'ula development in Olowalu and voting to settle the injection well case.
Because of your votes on these issues I have once again voted for you on the 11/3 ballot. I have also recommended to many,
many others to support you on 11/3 precisely because of your votes on these controversial issues.
I have been diving and snorkeling in Olowalu for most of my life. It is a place that is unique and should be protected. Olowalu is
an environmentally sensitive area, home to some of the most pristine and diverse reefs in the state and also lacks Infrastructure
that Is Imperative to any affordable housing projects.
Please make us proud of your decisions once again and prove that voting for you on 11/3 is the right choice. Please stand by
your decision in the Full Council Vote on Friday.
Mahalo for your time and doing the right thing, Amy Stephens Naplli
r^ ■ • " ; \ ' ^"' ~r
From: Maggie Sutrov <nnaggietsutrov(a)gmail.com> , .* '• '- -J
Sent: Wednesday, October 21, 2020 8:14 PM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk 2320 C /i .! C- C4
Subject: Protect the Oluwalu Reef
Dear Council Member Molina, v .. . . „ .. ..
Thank you for denying the Lihau'ula development in Committee.
Please continue to deny the Lihau'ula development at Oluwalu and protect Maui's reef.
I agree that Maul needs more affordable housing, and I actually like the idea of Oluwalu being developed as a
community where kama'aina can live. However, I believe that real research needs to be done to keep waste from
seeping into the ocean and killing this coral reef. Maui has killed too much of its coral from runoff from septic
systems. Maui County needs to change its own track record in protecting our coral reefs. Reefs protect against erosion, allow
people to fish, and are one of the favorite attractions to tourists. I was born and raised on Maui, and I am also a scuba
diver. The protection of ocean diversity is a beautiful asset to protect for the good of all of Maui.
If the developers were to spearhead solutions to keep waste from affecting the reef, and to employ ocean research to monitor,
protect, and mitigate so that the reef would be protected and even preserved for the residents of their community and Maui as
a whole, I would be excited for this example of responsible development. I think it could even become an example for
other islands and coastal areas. Until then, please vote no.
Here are some facts about how unique Oluwalu's coral reef is:
1) The only reef on Maui that is 50 - 90% coral cover and accessible to everyone, directly from the shoreline
2) Oldest living corals ever dated in the Main Hawaiian Islands
3) Best developed micro-atolls in the Hawaiian Islands, some 60-70 years old surviving in just inches of water
4) Home to some extremely rare corals (P. duerdeni, P. solida-pictured, P. cf. annae)
5) Incredibly diverse invertebrate fauna at wading depths (31 species of hard corals, 169 species of opisthobranchs, 19
species of sea cucumbers, 14 species of hermit crabs, 15 species of brittle stars, etc.)
6) blacktip reef shark nursery
7) The #1 priority reef in the Maui Nui Reef Recovery Plan
8) Mother reef that seeds coral larvae to West Maui, South Molokai and the North coast of Lanai
9) Critical habitat to the largest known manta ray population in the United States with over 550 unique individuals
identified, a population isolated to the Maui Nui region
10) Designated a Sylvia Earl Mission Blue Hope Spot in 2017
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha County Clerk,
nicole suzuki <nsuzuki96734(a)gmail.com>
Thursday, October 22, 2020 10:03 PM
County Clerk
Testimony of Support -10.23 Council Agenda - CC No. 20-528
RECGiVED
m Q.T i!\ 7: 45
^ r t Or *fTi2
COUNTY CL.GRK
As a Maui resident, employee and patient of Kaiser Permanente, I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of
Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states certificate of need review process. We need to explore the ,.,
consequences of their proposed plans to close their only Gastroenterology and Ambulatory Services here on Maui. There is a
need for timely completion, please pass this resolution on the floor 10/23/2020.
Mahalo Piha,
Nicole Napuaonalani Suzuki
Kihei, Maul
Sent from my iPhone
County Clerk
From: shirley.teano <shirley.teano@yahoo.conn> R I:::: C C i V E D
Sent: Friday, October 23, 2020 1:15 AM
To: County Clerk 2020 OCT 23 AM 7= 47
OFFiC-c 0-r "i H'E:
■J' F.s
"I support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the states
certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close the
gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence please pass this resolution on
the floor 10/23/2020."
Sent from my T-Mobile 4G LIE Device
Coun^Clerk
From: Deena Toma <deena.toma@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 10:57 AM
To: County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Riki Hokama; Kelly King; Yukllei
Sugimura; Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin
Subject: County communication 20-528 regarding Kaiser Clinic closures
Aloha,
1 support county communication 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the
states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close
the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20,
please pass this resolution on the floor.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Aloha, g ODeena Souza Toma czy
Registered Nurse
iCD
CD
73
ro
Kaiser Wailuku Ambulatory Surgery Center "< mI
o 5rj ! p:
-i.
W
'w-
Countj^Clerk
From: Anna Vinuya <acvinuya1@gmail.com>
Sent: Sunday, October 18, 2020 8:00 PM
To: Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Rlki Hokama; Kelly King; Yukilei Sugimura; Mike J.
Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin; County Clerk; jap206@yahoo.com
Subject: A'OLE Olowalu West Maui community plan Lihau'ula
Attachments: Screenshot_20201018-225911_Gmail.jpg; Screenshot_20201018-2258S4_Gmail.jpg; Screenshot.
20201018-225915_GmaiLJpg
My name is Anna Nalaniewalu Vinuya-Palakiko
I am the 3rd great grand daughter of James Palakiko and Julia Piko of Olowalu and 3rd great cousin of Lily, James Jr and Maui Palakiko
who are buried on top of Pu'u KIlea and in unmarked burials in Olowalu.
Our ohana of this area are; Palakiko,Piko, Puupaa.Kaawili, Kaumaka, Kahoopii, and Cason.
It has been brought to my attention that our aina and iwi in Olowalu are in harms way.
I have attempted multiple times to have my ohana burials marked and chained off to help prevent future vandalism because it has
happened in past, example: petroglyphs with non prehistoric markings, names carved in the rocks and ceremonial items taken from the
burials.
My request is for them to be on the burial protection lists and marked so that they are known as historical burials. I have death
certificates proving this as true. See attachment.
I say NO to this Olowalu West Maui community plan Lihau'ula because it has little to no care of the land of which my family lived and is
buried upon and lack of respect to our people Kanaka maoli.
With this plan there is no acknowledgment of the ancient burials, heiau, reef, trees, water ways and uses, taro fields, and animals
example: the endangered spieces ; Nene bird.
In order for me to ever be in agreement. There would have to be many steps taken to ensure all of which I addressed are acknowledged
and cared for to the upmost respect as if it was your own families burials or heirlooms.
Protections in place for areas that have already been acknowledged to have ancient burials and Ka'iwaloa heiau.
Research and surveyance of the land and water in and around Olowalu before construction using archiologist, historians, and burial
council.
Reviewing land patents, LCA land commission awards, survey records, and acknowledging water and land right given to our people from
our Ali'i.
Allow for the people of the aina to determine the clarity of the research and surveyance.
Starting with taking care of the people of the land..
Most kanaka have been displaced because of the high cost of living $4-600,000 is not affordable for the everyday person living a regular
job. This market is for the wealthy. Most Kanaka currently live with multiple families in one home just to make mortgage.
How are kanaka supposed to afford this if they have no means of a down payment?
There should be a relief fund or way that kanaka can have assistance with down payment and fees.
If this is not doable I'd suggest building affordable apartments or condos for residents of hawaii in the $1-400,000 at the most.
My question is have you actually surveyed the people of the aina that you are targeting? Have you actually analyzed what their income
is?
Also these homes should not be able to be purchased by people that are not residents of the aina. They must be purchased by people
living amongst the aina not just vacation homes.
In conclusion I am for the people of Maui having affordable living but I am not for displacing our people or destroying our history.
I say NO for this current plan in place.
I look forward to our future conversations to talk about my ohana and Olowalu.
Thank you for your time and understanding of my concerns,
Sincerely,
Anna Nalaniewalu Vinuya-Palakiko 0-3C
r- ^
R
NO
A
7)
m
tC'
m
o

T s''>
.' :4*"'t''r.C -rt-
V;: ^.-I'
:V'
*■.
' •■/'"■,Sp.'-•?:■ !;•: .to'?'
-■f ••
wt ■*« t* 'ey'*ir'r^wyo^iS¥ff9y ffVfKXr
IDPLAM OP OCATH
TERRITORY OP UAWAU
KSCOEO OP DEATH
A«9M*r«d Ma
ia> PUU. NAMC
itt 4««t> Wiru%^
u, A v«iA-
M^TV f* t»»■Avni Tkiiavl t4MnstcM 111*~" ■
mtMWAl. *M» aTAXUtnUl fASnOVLAM
M'::xrd -■>(«) Mara or
B'liBicifcii CBftrinoATC «c na«TM
***'* Ajf (IT> I HfcMtOV CCtf irv. Ttu( t ■riBnaid dK«ai*d •*<■•
. k^^X.itCAr. .. \^^.. JiA^f . itty , to . in »'.
ma «A»1 aMt* mrmt**. *n t1<>« BMt tMieP M//''^m,
.  .-VU. W^, . irv.»IMmO.! ifiArl iVnfi |
~~^ *" ttr tan ifew |
tm- ' ■ ^ —A . jm.
l.4i OOMM'Atroa
ItM at *M«. ..... .
lAI a—ra aarcm cT «»ts«aT-
XWiMt. •* »<>>iU>a«irt m
mux w oa>»«]ry]..
i«i ■n'nEri.Laa .*/■
■ »««» »r «i«tT4r)|M»-OP'3^^
I <»•>»*«#»' A"
laxMu /f/■
TZylOCAtK * aM* M r»llM«:
J yVy' * '
S' " " (ZA/:/:ya
iti-.^i^..-, >»X-
.t*^tL- crnvmnrnY
ifmm
-  C''-^-'^-^_ _, •Suu e» Dh«w AudirM»> aqgwiAaa,^"* > 'or acoma >/ ,f  C</je. '^ z^ \ ,ui, Ujiota or naiwra
"■ ' I ■ ■■i—— —■naiii—i»i«i »■ ip* nil ■ I I I-— ' . ■( Bar«M BwUirtil
it4j tsa AMWi i> tisB M m sen ar irr JOKOwusoA
✓  • u <MI1A yn OM-.-
rtifiiMiil y '' * < I »A«e« «u <Umi otcMMMA**"■■■" _^" / ■■• • V , - U !*♦ W tlw* 4< **•» -.
40mH
tl>««M
*SUU C« tWtiMi nuil>V
M» Ft.
U« ./ ..jm.
Dwf% V <* umi' tr*« «••*•» Oww^
MU i>> V-M«t ^ Iccarfi 1-t II.; vMltw Aw.f4»l bOa^ak t
lU! at oMiwrai (IV iMri*. iw«wwa rrmtmrn,
m Bare* >nUn»il
A« t<«^ lb ^
a loMA FB- -OM <•- Mb . ... rn. mtx. . -Ox
ft-<-»■ r  P T*rw40 f*
{H> riM* of aawAi. m
m.2iSI9
J
I
II 11! ■ ■ym'3'Uf^^!t*S,
PUCS OP DCATH
Cwaty of
Tu0tM of
VJIUr? of
TKHRITOIIV OF HAWAII
KFmillll <IF UKAT1I
]f rintii Mnif* awy trm t'sUAU
|ri^« Imu miW ttr rtI.tt<AMC,
unimr -aPK«At IJkPOHXATU»N •
1( (Tvurrc^ i« « iawttkl «r to -
||r» lu VAMK ii«|«^ St
>7 y ■unAtr
PPR^ONAL AN1> KTATfBIIC; nciiuiKB MEf>TCAL CEJJTinCATf: OP PHATK
= iii
1  -C! 13 — •
-
- 8--
m
tff RSnfi A
.  tor*
CMit* of
<Y-ft) I HCtlMlY CWlTJFT.
•  \A\S^«%!(> (Ywrj
<auu> •» t^vryw - ^ ^
Uf?.''oi€€^LA^ ^NfaiAi- Mf F(<U
RUU-BiAuXf
rscou rt- r-.t-y^y)
»>l . to J»i . .iVajI'i ertijirH oi Ur a<t« blon rut^,
I'f ftueti j /
MuAcA Nan« of /Sullx
;r
^ «55
b ktA#U«c VLXkLA^
49tol« tr (.^t^yi * ^ *-2-^^
...y
UKt>y«lij0« •/ Oft
^iCNKO) U* ^•
aPbciAL iNroJutA-mx o^i fi« »c«pit^ tMtif^
licM, TroitfiMli «r tUoru. Hfct*«to.
romtt '•• Ufssl IU^«H»r»(« .. . , ... ...
Ttx* fttoTr <cstod a^3jx»i paTtirilnrijm t3W to U* to»l oC > Uow lute ul of ^tfttli doyt.my kwvlrae* mttlMlni.
x43lQt€.i. 1^^ _ \i\S^. .
Wb«t« MU aiMOto Mef»t.>HCiL if M( *1 ftMe of dtolk
'KC u is
OntcrtA.
r<vn'^*CiA) fU-0 ol B«>ta
V«bBe^i>*T
u
^  V V
UNITE HERE! (V " r^. li
^V^-J • ' - ! • ■ . ■ ■ i
LOCAL 5 HAWAII
Eric W. GSI, Financial Secrataiy-Tmasurer Gemma G. Weinstein, PresdeiA Godfrey Maesi^. &^kjr \fice-President
Wednesday October 21, 2020
County Council, County of Maul
Kalana 0 Maul Building
200 South High Street
Walluku, Hawaii 96793
Re: County Communication No. 20-528 (Pg. 5 of Council Agenda 10.23.20)
Aloha Chair Lee and Members of the Maul County Council,
On behalf of UNITE HERE Local 5, a local labor organization representing nearly 12,000
hotel, health care and food service workers employed throughout our State I would like
to offer comments In strong support of County Communication No. 20-528. On Maul,
and In addition to hundreds of hotel and airport food service workers, we represent
approximately 220 Kaiser workers.
County Communication No. 20-528 and the attached resolution would urge the State of
Hawaii to conduct a full public discussion through the State's Certificate of Need Review
process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close
the Gastroenterology and Ambulatory Surgery Services at Walluku Clinic.
This resolution Is pertinent and timely, and we ask for your full support. As we continue
to manage our lives In the middle of a pandemic and given the current "reopening" of
tourism In our County - we want to make sure that our health care services In our
County remain as robust as possible. Any major change In services or closures could
have profound Impacts throughout our community.
Kaiser's plan to close services at Its Walluku clinic will remove several operating rooms
from Maul's health care system and put new load on the operating rooms at Maul
Memorial Medical Center. Furthermore, Kaiser's proposed plan raises obvious
questions about how this move will affect wait times for patient procedures and
treatment. And making patients move to a different facility and receive treatment from
different care provider teams raises questions about the continuity of care for Maul's
people. All of Maul's population and possibly even visitors will be affected by this move,
as Kaiser patients will now have to join the patients already seeking care at the limited
options remaining on the Island.
1
1516 South King Street, Honolulu Hawaii 96826-1912 • 808-941-2141 • www.unitehere5.org
When Kaiser took over Maul Memorial Medical Center In 2016, Kaiser promised to
Improve continuity of care and reduce wait times for Maul residents' health care.
Unfortunately, despite concerns raised by health care workers and community leaders.
Kaiser has not yet committed to halting the closure of the Gastroenterolgy and
Ambulatory Surgery services at Its Walluku Clinic.
We thank you for allowing us to share and ask for your support In adopting the attached
resolution found In County Communication No. 20-528 at Friday's Council hearing.
Sincerely,
Cade M. Watanabe
Political Director, UNITE HERE! Local 5
1516 South King Street, Honolulu Hawaii 96826-1912 • 808-941-2141 • www.unitehere5.org
>99# 7V-»
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
STATE OF HAWAII
STATE CAPITOL
HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813
October 21, 2020
RECEIVED
2020 0CI2i
Orf^GE Or Th£
COUNTY CLE.RK
Council Chair Alice L. Lee
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama
Councilmember Riki Hokama
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
Councilmember Mike Molina
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Councilmember Shane Sinenci
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura
Re: Supporting Agenda Item CC 20-528 COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN, transmitting a proposed
resolution entitled "URGING THE STATE OF HAVYAII TO CONDUCT A FULL PUBLIC DISCUSSION
THROUGH THE STATE'S CERTIFICATE OF NEED REVIEW PROCESS TO EXPLORE THE
CONSEQUENCES OF KAISER PERMANENTE'S PROPOSED PLANS TO CLOSE THE
GASTROINTESTINAL AND AMBULATORY SURGERY SERVICES AT WAILUKU CLINIC".
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, & Honorable Council Members
Please accept this correspondence as testimony in support of Councilmember Paltin's
resolution. We have extremely limited medical resources on Maul, so any reduction in services
is paid for with a high human cost. I hope you can pass this resolution as quickly as possible to
convey a sense of urgency to those in a position to initiate the review process.
Mahalo,
Representative Tina Wildberger
House District 11-South Maui
Kihei • Wailea • Makena
Office of Representative Tina Wildberger
Proudly serving the 11"' House District
415 S. Beretania St. Honolulu. HI 96813, Room 327
Phone: 808.586.8525 | Fax: 808.586.8529 | email: repwlldberger@capitol.hawaii.gov
Vr \«s» RECEiVhD
20a OCl 2 i 10: L\f
i
i't r
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
STATE OF HAWAII - " v: t M'.'Y - ^ - 2 •
STATE CAPITOL U - - ■ • ' ' '
HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813
October 20, 2020
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
Council Chair Alice L Lee Councilmember Mike Molina
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama Councilmember Shane Sinenci
Councilmember Riki Hokama Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura
Re: Supporting Agenda Item CR 20-129 Recommending the following:
1. ADOPTION of resolution disapproving the Lihau'ula Workforce Housing Project on 27.79
acres in Olowalu, Maui, Hawaii, in accordance with Section 201H-38, Hawaii Revised
Statutes, identified for real property tax purposes as tax map key (2) 4-8-003:103;
2. FILING of resolution approving the Lihau'ula Workforce Housing Project pursuant to
Section 201H-38, Hawaii Revised Statutes; and
3. FILING of resolution approving with modifications the Lihau'ula Workforce Housing
Project pursuant to Section 201H-38, Hawaii Revised Statutes.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, & Honorable Council Members
Please accept this correspondence as testimony in support of your decision to disaoorove the
Lihau'ula Workforce Housing Project. Mahalo for heeding the Lahaina Community Plan and
recognizing that we don't need to sacrifice our environment in the name of affordable housing.
Olowalu Reef spawns all of the coral in our county. We must do everything we can to protect it
in this time of climate crisis and sea level rise. With no wastewater infrastructure in this
location, with no services in the area, with fire risk, this area should not be considered for
development. Yes, we need housing. But we don't need housing there, in that place. We must
start planning infrastructure where we want to develop.
While about 12 percent of the land around the world is now under some form of protection (as
national parks etc.), less than six percent of the ocean is protected in any way.
Mission Blue Hope Spots include these attributes:
•  A special abundance or diversity of species, unusual or representative species, habitats
or ecosystems
•  Particular populations of rare, threatened or endemic species
•  A site with potential to reverse damage from negative human impacts
Office of Representative Tina Wildberger
Proudly serving the 11"' House District
415 S. Beretania St. Honolulu, HI 96813, Room 327
Phone: 808.586.8525 | Fax: 808.586.8529 j email: repwildberger|S)capitol.hawaii.gov
•  The presence of natural processes such as major migration corridors or spawning
grounds
•  Significant historical, cultural or spiritual values
•  Particular economic importance to the community
Olowalu Reef is a designated Mission Blue Hope Spot. Let's help preserve this mother reef. We
should not build Mauka of Olowalu.
Mahalo,
v/i
Representative Tina Wildberger
House District 11 - South Maui
KThei • Wailea • Makena
Office of Representative Tina Wildberger
Proudly serving the IV' House District
415 S. Beretania St. Honolulu, HI 96813, Room 327
Phone: 808.586.8525 | Fax: 808.586.8529 j email: repwildberger@capitol.hawali.gov
County Clerk
r- r r ! \ / rr nFrom: Martina Wing <aloha@mantarayshawaii.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 22, 2020 9:21 PM
To: Mike J. Molina; County Clerk flpT 73 7" ''5
Subject: Please deny the Lihau'ula Development
Dear Ccuncilmember Molina,
OF THr:
■■■ fY ^
I am writing to you in regard to the Lihau'ula Development and appreciate you denying the Lihau'ula Development in
Committee. Additionally, 1 want to encourage you to continue supporting affordable housing that addresses all the
community needs through regenerative and smart growth principles.
Olowalu Reef is home to some of Hawaii's oldest corals and adding development to this area would result in the
runoff of pesticides, chemicals, and synthetic fertilizers. The environment, the ocean, the reefs, and the marine life
have suffered for far too long and cannot take a backseat anymore. We must preserve what we have and cannot
compromise any longer.
Please deny Lihau'ula Development.
Thank you for listening.
Sincerely
Martina Wing
Kona, Hawaii
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Dear Mike Molina,
Wirth Kalman <kalman.wirth(a)outlook.com>
Thursday, October 22, 2020 7:28 PM
Mike J. Molina; County Clerk
Olowalu coral reefs
I \ L-
320 OCT 23 /.:i 7: 111
Fi OF 71 F--.
7, : i'Y
I am an admirer of the work of Paul Nicklen, Christina Mittermeler and their efforts to save our oceans and nature, hence I got
Information about your intention to stand up against the high density housing project that would destroy the Olowalu coral
reefs.
Please don't let the greed for money destroy what what is more important.
Although I live far from that beautiful place, I support you to keep up the prosperous work
Mahalofrom Hungary, Europe,
Kalman Wirth
County Clerk
From: gail wood <gwoodrn@yahoo.com> R hCE.i V ED
Sent: Tuesday, October 20, 2020 6:00 AM
To: County Clerk 2020 OCT 20 AH 7' 50
Subject: County Communication No. 20-528
support County Communication No. 20-528 urging the state of Hawaii to conduct a fQl-pWbfid cfis^tik^b'^rithrough the
states certificate of need review process to explore the consequences of Kaiser Permanente's proposed plans to close
the gastroenterology and ambulatory surgery services at the Wailuku Clinic. Time is of the essence, so on 10/23/20,
please pass this resolution on the floor.
These two departments of the Kaiser Wailuku Clinic provide much needed services to our county. Now is not the
time to close them without public input or state scrutiny.
Sincerely,
Gail Wood
f."
m i:] 22 n: -a
V. .
County Clerk
From: Harold Wood <haroldblake@hotmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 21,2020 10:31 PM
To: Mike J.Molina
Cc: County Clerk
Subject: Please protect Olowalu Reef
Dear Council Member Molina,
I have just heard that the precious Olowalu Reef is threatened by a high-density housing project with a planned 40 or more
septic systems.
My wife and I are Australian divers, who have twice visited Hawaii, especially for its beautiful mantas, and reefs, which this
project threatens.
We hope to visit again, but like other divers around the world we would have no reason to come if such projects destroy the
underwater environment which we hold so dear. Please protect our shared and fragile world by voting against any project
where septic runoff is a threat.
Sincerely, and with thanks,
Harold Wood
Sent from Mail for Windows 10