MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2020-12-04
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1470,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUTES 
of the 
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI  
December 4, 2020 
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF 
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2020, 
BEGINNING AT 9:04 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L. LEE PRESIDING. 
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of 
December 4, please come to order. 
Mr. Clerk, before you do roll call, I just want to greet our Members with Mwauka bwanji. 
That's good morning, in Zambia, East Africa. 
Mr. Clerk. 
ROLL CALL 
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS NATALIE A. KAMA, KELLY T. KING, 
MICHAEL J. MOLINA, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, SHANE M. 
SINENCI, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER G. RIKI HOKAMA. 
(Councilmember Hokama was not present when roll was called; however, he 
arrived at 9:14 a.m.) 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, there are eight Members 
present, one Member excused. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the 
Council. 
Also present for today's meeting is County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; as well as myself, 
James Krueger, Deputy County Clerk. And assisting from the Legislative Division of 
the Office of the County Clerk is Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 2 
Also, joining us today from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Moana Lutey, 
who is the Corporation Counsel. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. So, the opening remarks today will be a little bit unusual. 
It's more like a preview, preview of what's to come in a couple of weeks, hopefully 
December 18. 
OPENING REMARKS 
The opening remarks were offered by Council Chair Alice Lee. 
CHAIR LEE: So, with that, I would like to ask you to join me in reciting the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Please stand. Ready? 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
The Members of the Council, rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda 
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting 
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda. 
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is 
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their 
video and microphones muted and should unmute them when it is their time to testify. 
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three 
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any 
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please 
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist. 
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the 
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource 
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected. 
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Channel 53 or on 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 3 
mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at 
any time for breaking decorum. 
Chair, the first person signed up to testify is Mike Morris. To be followed by Jo Gascon. 
PRESENTATION OF WRITTEN TESTIMONY 
MR. MIKE MORRIS, YMCA (testifying on Committee Report 20-155): 
Aloha, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. 
MR. MORRIS: And aloha, Councilmembers. It's a beautiful day at the YMCA. By the way, 
Mr. Rogers was a big "Y" supporter. I got to hear him at a "Y" conference some years 
ago, and he was absolutely brilliant. He's really good. 
So, I'm here to testify on 20-155, the lease for the YMCA, and I'll keep this brief. I'm in 
full support of it and hope that you guys will be too. So, I appreciate your time. We're 
going to do some really good work with this new lease and the property. So, we hope 
that it'll pass through Council today. And I appreciate your time. Have a good meeting. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Morris. Are there any questions, Members, for clarification? If 
not, thank you. 
MR. MORRIS: Thank.you. 
CHAIR LEE: Good luck. 
Mr. Clerk, next testifier. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Jo Gascon. To be 
followed by Mike Warsinske. 
MS. JO GASCON (testifying on Committee Report 20-153): 
Hi. Aloha. Can everybody hear me? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes. Good morning. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 4 
MS. GASCON: Okay. Good morning, Council. It's me again, Jo Gascon, regarding the 
removal of Don Guzman as Prosecutor. Since my testimony, Mr. Guzman has publicly 
called my testimony "a blatant lie", and "she was not at the November 20 meeting". 
Hawaii News Now, November 15, 2020, Rick Daysog reporting, essentially calling me 
a blatant liar. 
I emailed each of the Councilmembers a report dated May 8, 2015 of my complaint 
investigated by Linden Joesting. I'm not sure if you guys all got that. Deputy 
Corporation Counsel and Frank Krau, Investigator, Corporation Counsel. The 
conclusion was, "that this was an act of violence that meets the definition in the 
violence in the workplace . . . The other witnesses were not afraid for their physical or 
mental safety but perceived the situation as threatening". 
How dare you, Mr. Guzman, call my testimony a blatant lie when I have this report, and 
defaming my name that way. Obviously, you are so out of touch and have mistreated 
so many people that you don't even know to who and when your violent outbursts 
occurred. You, as an attorney, should know that this kind of inaccurate statements 
would make you lose a case. So, am I a blatant liar? I don't think so. You are still 
denying everything. And the pattern of violence we have established dates back to 
2016. Clearly, you need help. I hope you have recognized your problem with anger 
and seek help, not only for you, but more importantly for your family. 
I would like to mahalo the Committee on your time and consideration on this very 
important matter regarding the removal of Mr. Guzman as Prosecutor for the County 
of Maui, voting to remove him. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much for your testimony. Members, do you have any questions? 
If not, thank you again. 
MS. GASCON: Thank you. Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Mike 
Warsinske. To be followed by Charlie Keller. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 5 
MR. MIKE WARSINSKE [testifying on Bill No. 114 (2020), Draft 11: 
I'd like to thank the Maui County Council for allowing my testimony today. My name is 
Michael Warsinske and I'm specifically here to address the ordinance and second and 
final reading section, Bill 114 of this year, 2020, Draft 1, regarding the 6.943 acres 
located on South Kihei Road near Kilohana. 
While you are locating this section, specifically page 9, which is Exhibit "B", Conditions 
of Zoning, and paragraph number 9, concerning the Wela-Kilohana access extension, 
of the agenda. I'll give you a little brief history of 3035 South Kihei Road, and what we 
call Kula Estate, located on the corner of South Kihei Road and Kilohana, directly 
across the street from the Keawekapu Beach walkway and across the street from the 
Keawekapu Beach parking lot; home of dozens of noisy roosters which were not part 
of the deal back in the late 1960's. I'll save that for another Council meeting. 
Back in 1969, the property was acquired as a mango grove by four Seattle families led 
by Dr. Bob Coe, whose cousin owned one of the coveted houses on Keawekapu, 
Keawekapu Beach dating back to the 1940's, and made Dr. Coe aware of the 
availability of the acre lot across the street. Construction commenced later that year, 
and four nearly identical three-bedroom, two bath houses were built on the property 
surrounding a tennis court to create what is called Kula Estate; a small tennis 
compound. This was back at a time when there were cattle guards running across 
South Kihei Road leading to Wailea. Traffic and noise were not an issue. Cows, on 
the other hand, were occasionally an issue. 
In the years following, we have progressively built substantial traffic sound mitigation, 
including a massive rock wall on South Kihei Road to account for the increased traffic 
noise on both South Kihei Road and Kilohana. Our homes border the new proposed 
extension of Wela Road to Kilohana. So, now, I can only anticipate the 100-plus cars 
a day traveling within several feet of our front door, racing to Kilohana to make it to the 
Piilani Highway for work, school, and shopping. 
As you can imagine, I'm not pleased by this late addition requirement to this 
development. We are specifically concerned about the new development as a 
significant traffic and noise nuisance to our quiet enjoyment of our homes. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, could you please conclude your testimony. 
MR. WARSINSKE: I will. I've got just our recommendations. It, do I have time for that, or 
should I submit that in writing? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 6 
CHAIR LEE: Well, you, you have a minute to conclude. But you can also sub—
MR. WARSINSKE: Great. 
CHAIR LEE: --submit your information in writing. 
MR. WARSINSKE: Great. So, here are our specific request on paragraph 9; and allow for 
the peaceful co-existence of this intrusive development. The construction fencing on 
the north and east borders from the inception to reduce the dust, dirt, and disruption. 
No construction traffic on the Wela-Kilohana extension, none. No earthmovers, no 
dump trucks, no construction trucks, and so on. The developer to provide a rock wall 
utilizing the same construction or better construction values as our existing rock wall 
along South Kihei Road, and professional landscaping. So, I'll submit the rest of these 
recommendations in writing to the Council. And I'm happy to answer any questions. 
Yes? 
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any clarifying questions? 
Yes, Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here, Mr. Warsinske. So, 
I just wanted to, you, you gave us three recommendations and you said, we 
recommend. So, can you just explain who, who's doing the recom, who you're 
representing as the recommend? 
MR. WARSINSKE: Yes. There, yes, there are four homeowners of Kula Estate. There are 
four homes that surround a tennis court on the property. So, I represent actually all 
four of the, the homeowners. It would be the, both the Walsh Family, the Kitchell 
Family, and the Coe Family, along with my family. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And then were, were you able to meet with the developer 
before this point? 
MR. WARSINSKE: Yes. Actually, I had a phone call with the developer's representative, and 
they informed me that there was no access road that was going to be punched through 
to Kilohana. And that was approximately two months ago. So, to my surprise, when I 
saw that the access road was now a requirement, it must have been added by the 
Planning Department rather than the developer, unless of course the developer didn't 
tell me the truth. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 7 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I think it was added by other testifiers in that area who, who 
wanted that additional access road. So, there were other homeowners in that area 
who came out and testified in subsequent meetings. 
MR. WARSINSKE: Well, the, there are two owners directly, that are bordering the road; the 
Valley's is their last name. They are in support of, of the road only if it comes with the, 
the noise mitigation. And we're in support of it also if there's noise mitigation. One of 
the other problems too is the potential of cut-through traffic, which we're really 
concerned about. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. 
MR. WARSINSKE: From Kilohana over to the Mana Kai and to Kamaole III, so. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thanks for the clarification; appreciate it. 
Chair, you're muted. We didn't hear that. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you, Mike. 
Mr. Clerk, next testifier. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Charlie 
Keller. To be followed by Jason Economou. 
MR. CHARLIE KELLER: I haven't prepared any testimony. I'm sorry. I was just observing 
the meeting. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. 
Let's go to the next testifier. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Then the next testifier is Jason Economou. To be 
followed by Susan Clements. 
MR. JASON ECONOMOU, REALTORS ASSOCIATION OF MAUI (testifying on Bill 
Nos. 129 (2020) and 130 (2020): 
Good morning, Chair Lee, and Members of the County Council. Thank you for the 
opportunity to testify. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 8 
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. 
MR. ECONOMOU: My name is Jason Economou. I am the Government Affairs Director for 
the Realtors Association of Maui and I am testifying on their behalf. I am testifying 
regarding Bills 129 and 130, the real property tax bills. 
Let me start with the positive. I love the long-term renter tax classification. I think it's 
long overdue. I love the exemption. I think that's long overdue as well. 
My, my big concerns as I've shared with you before; the unintended consequences of 
repealing the condo declarations. I, I do worry that that, that will cause a rush for 
properties in condominiums that are not short-term rentable, which are the most 
affordable housing options for our local residents. And I'm afraid that they'll be boxed 
out of the market by offshore investors that don't want to pay the short-term rental 
classification when the condo declarations are repealed or when the Finance Director's 
bill goes into effect. 
I will be honest, of the two bills, I think Bill 130 is far worse; far, far worse than Bill 129. 
I, I'm a little bit disappointed that you guys are passing two bills; one of which would 
sunset the other automatically within a year. That indicates that, that really Bill 130 its 
sole purpose is a short-term money grab to basically take money from the folks that 
don't vote here. I could respect that. I vote here, so I prefer that you don't take my 
money; take it from somebody else that makes more money than me, that's okay. 
However, it sort of goes against the general principles of what legislation is supposed 
to do as far as being equitable. 
Those are my main concerns. However, I am no fool. You passed this bill on first 
reading nine to zero, and I doubt that you will change your votes now based on my 
numerous times coming before you and whining about these two bills. So, thank you 
for your consideration. I trust that you've all read my testimony and heard my concerns. 
I'm happy to answer any questions. 
CHAIR LEE: Are there any questions for Mr. Economou? 
Yes, Ms. Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering, your, did you send in new testimony this, 
for this item today? 
MR. ECONOMOU: No, no. This is the, the previous testimony that I'm relying upon. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Never mind then. Thank you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 9 
CHAIR LEE: Alright, seeing no more questions, thank you, Jason. Appreciate you coming. 
MR. ECONOMOU: Thank you very much. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Susan 
Clements. To be followed by Leslee Matthews. 
MS. SUSAN CLEMENTS (testifvinq on Committee Report 20-153): 
Good morning, Council Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of 
the Council. 
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. 
MS. CLEMENTS: My name is Susan Clements and I am the Administrative Officer for the 
Department of the Prosecuting Attorney. I am speaking on behalf of myself. I am in 
support of the removal of the Prosecuting Attorney. I want to thank you for voting 
unanimously at the Committee level in support of the resolution to remove the 
Prosecuting Attorney and for hearing the item today. 
At the Committee meeting, several of us came forward out of fear, but we spoke our 
truths and were heard. A lot has happened in the last month. There have been mixed 
emotions, tears, therapy, but a lot of support. And this situation has taught me a lot 
about my strength, the strength of others, and what behavior we cannot tolerate. I 
have been surrounded by strong women and men who stand together. 
During this time, people have been supportive and have been thankful that we 
collectively spoke up about this situation. Others have approached me and told me 
they had similar experiences that got so bad that they had to leave their workplace. 
Others remain neutral, made excuses, or chose to look past the minimized abusive 
behavior; and this will allow the behavior to continue. 
We have a choice to do our part to stop any type of abuse from happening. The issue 
is prevalent in our workplaces and in our community. And I think most of us can relate, 
because the story is the same. When we hear about, see, or experience unacceptable 
behavior, it is easy to tell someone to speak up or to stand up for others and ourselves, 
but in reality, people are afraid. No one wants to make that formal complaint because 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 10 
they fear retaliation. They fear losing their jobs, or worse, if no action is taken for the 
person who filed the complaint, going back to work will be a nightmare. 
The Mayor has begun to create a task force to address this issue and it is a start. I 
hope this will allow anyone who's being bullied, harassed, threatened, that they can 
feel that they're able to report this behavior without living in fear, and that something is 
done to stop the behavior from continuing. 
Your decision on November 6, confirmed the zero-tolerance policy against violence in 
the workplace. And your decision and message today will resonate with all County 
departments, employees, and the community, and this can be a catalyst for positive 
change. So, I want to thank you for your time. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, Ms. Clements. Are there any questions for the testifier? 
If not, thank you again for coming. 
MS. CLEMENTS: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Leslee Matthews. To be 
followed by the individual connected to the meeting under the name Christopher. 
MS. LESLEE MATTHEWS (testifying on Committee Report 20-153): 
Aloha. Can you all hear me? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. 
MS. MATTHEWS: Okay, good. Okay, aloha, good morning, and happy Friday. 
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. 
MS. MATTHEWS: I come to you with a lot more joy than what I came to you all this last time. 
December 1, 1955, Rosa Parks was arrested for taking her seat in the front of the bus, 
which was against the norm. When I filed my complaint for violence in the workplace, 
it was against the norm. But as Rosa Parks said, "I have learned that over the years 
that one's mind, when one's mind is made up, this diminishes fear. Knowing what must 
be done does away with fear". So, as we celebrate her 65 years later, we honor her 
legacy. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 11 
And I just want to say thank you to Mayor Michael Victorino for standing with us and 
making the hard decision to conducting an investigation for someone on his 
Administration. I want to thank him for conducting a fair investigation. And I want to 
thank him for already taking the necessary steps to form a working group to address 
violence and harassment in the workplace, and for giving me the honor of helping serve 
on that task force. 
I want to thank you, the Maui County Council, for doing what many of you said was a 
gut-wrenching, hard, hard decision that you made. That by voting unanimously, you've 
made a clear message to this community, to our employees, that violence in the 
workplace has no place in our workplace. 
So, with those thank you's out of the way, I want to talk directly to the women that are 
watching, and those that are survivors of violence, whether it be in your home, your 
workplace, or where you go to school. Your life matters. You will get through this. 
You are loved and you are cared for. And you are here for a purpose. God designed 
you, and when he did, he said that you are fearfully and wonderfully made. There will 
be those who will question your integrity. 
I had to leave work early after I got the report and read the words that Don Guzman 
said about me; questioning my race, talking about my work ethic, talking about the, my 
hiring. The attorney in me wanted to get the evidence to show you all. I wanted to 
show you and prove to you that I am a good employee, that my life does matter, and I 
am valuable. But, nothing that I say can change his mind about me. 
So, to my women, dear sister-girl; you're loved. Dear sister-girl, there will be those 
who take out full pages in the Maui News to talk about what you did to provoke this 
type of behavior, even though you stood with them at events that celebrated who they 
were. Stand anyways. There will be those who think that what happened to you is not 
enough. You don't deserve that type of treatment. Stand anyways. There will be 
those that stand with you, pray for you, love you, and support you. Remember those 
people. They're the ones that you want to have in your corner. They're the ones that 
will help you get through this time. And so, I say, stand anyway. And to remind you 
that you are loved, you will get through this, and brighter days have to come. They're 
coming for me; they will come for you. Thank you again for your time. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Matthews. Are there any questions? If not, thank you once 
again for coming, Ms. Matthews. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is the individual 
connected to the meeting under the name Christopher. To be followed by Clint 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 12 
Hansen. Chair, that person who was connected under the name Christopher, I do not 
see them in the meeting anymore. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Move onto the next. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Clint Hansen. To be 
followed by Elle Cochran. Clint Hansen, it is your time to testify. You are muted on 
your end. I cannot unmute you. 
MR. CLINT HANSEN [testifying on Bill Nos. 129 (2020) and 130 (2020)1: 
Thank you. I found the unmute button. I apologize. So, I'm here today, thank you, 
Members of the County Council. I appreciate the opportunity to testify. I am here to 
testify on Bills 129 and 130. 
Yea, I'd like to mirror similar to what Jason Economou said. I, I really feel that you 
should listen to the testifying and use, should be based on use. I would think that it is 
a bit of a money grab and I don't like how the bills are laid out. I think that we should 
be more clear with our intentions and shouldn't try to muddy the waters with this kind 
of tactic. 
I appreciate the opportunity to testify, but I think this goes to hurt the representation 
that we have all longed and loved on Maui. And I think you guys do a wonderful job to 
listen to us, but I feel that often you smash things through. I would appreciate a 
reconsideration and not such a heavy-handed approach. Thank you so much. Aloha. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Hansen. Are there any questions, Members? 
If not, may we have the next testifier, Mr. Clerk? 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Elle Cochran. To be 
followed by Leslie Smith. 
MS. ELLE COCHRAN (testifying on Committee Report 20-153): 
Aloha, Members. Can you hear me? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes. 
MS. COCHRAN: Can you hear me? Am I on? Okay. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 13 
CHAIR LEE: Welcome. Yes, you are. 
MS. COCHRAN: Aloha. 
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. 
MS. COCHRAN: Sorry. I just have to have a moment. I was hearing all the other testimonies 
and it got me very emotional. But, so, one second please. Okay. Aloha, my name is 
Elle Cochran. I'm testifying on my own behalf on agenda item GET CR 20-153. 
Members, I really debated hard on whether to testify or not. But after seeing how 
courageous previous testifiers have been by coming forward to share their 
experiences, I knew then that I had to show my support and testify. 
It has to be said that these recent incidences with Mr. Guzman, rage and anger are not 
new or isolated events. I was shocked when I heard his response to, I believe it was 
Member Keani Rawlins' question who asked him, when did he realize he had anger 
issues? His response was, "only this year, when a violence in the workplace complaint 
was filed against him". He then went on to say he had never been disciplined in the 
past as a Councilmember, which my story will show otherwise. 
My incident happened during Mr. Guzman's Parks, Recreation, Energy, and Legal 
Affairs, PRL Committee, on December 12, 2017. PRL-20(6), agenda item, during a 
presentation on energy cogeneration. The Council chambers had a full house. 
Present were nine Committee Members, three Council Services staff, five from 
Administration, two resource people, seven presenters, and numerous testifiers and 
spectators in the gallery, and Akaku was on. So, the incident didn't happen in a private 
setting in an office. He was aggressive towards me on the chamber floor in front of all 
these witnesses. 
The gist is, I was speaking to the presenter, Mr. Brogan, when Don interjected with a 
snide remark. And I responded with an equally snide remark, which apparently set 
him off. Don's outburst took everybody by surprise. He slammed the gavel extremely 
hard with aggression, force, and anger. The Akaku video at 2:44 p.m. shows this and 
shows Don forcibly shoving his chair back, standing up, while waving his hands around. 
And I heard him say we're going to settle this right now. 
He angrily stormed down from the podium, passed the panelists, all the while staring 
me down, coming towards me at my desk. I was terrified not knowing what he was 
going to do with such a temper. He approached my desk with raised arms, saying 
"what, what". I pushed myself in my chair as far back as I could away from him. I 
turned to Chair White on my left and said, "Chair White, please calm him down". Chair 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 14 
White stood up and got between Guzman and myself, holding him back and said "Don", 
in a deep commanding voice. I saw Don shake his head, wave his hands around and 
went back to the Chair's podium and carried on with the meeting. 
I finished my discussion with the presenter, and feeling unsettled, returned to my office 
where my executive assistant Sarah Pajimola was shaking from head to toe, as was I. 
She informed me that when Don slammed the gavel, it was so loud that it was a, that 
she thought it was a gunshot. She ran and panicked to the chamber side door thinking 
there was an active shooter situation going on in the chambers and had to open the 
door to let us out. We hugged and we were both crying. We went to Chair White's 
office to file a violence in the workplace complaint. Chair White told me later he spoke 
to Don about the complaint that I filed, and that Don admitted— 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Cochran. Ms. Cochran, can, can you take a minute to conclude please? 
Could you? 
MS. COCHRAN: Yes, I will. Yea. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. 
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you. At the time, and Mike, and Don said at the time, then Mike 
sternly said, "Don", it reminded him of his father, and it made him snap out of it. I also 
filed a police report with Officer Dagulo, who concluded that Mr. Guzman didn't break 
any criminal laws at the time, but his actions were clearly in violation of County's 
Violence in the Workplace Policy. So, take note, that I filed violence in the workplace 
complaint and a police report. Until today, nothing has been done. 
Today, I am very saddened by what has transpired, not just for myself, but to all the 
others who have experienced this kind of abuse in the workplace or anyplace. I know 
the constant feeling of walking on eggshells, fear of retaliation. Being threatened and 
scared at work is very taxing. It spills into your personal homelife. It's traumatic 
mentally and physically. 
What I'm praying for is that Don will take this to heart, learn what, what his triggers are 
and get the tools needed to help him deal with things in a positive, productive way. 
Like the others, I once . . . Don while on the Council. We were best buds. I wish him 
and his family well. Mahalo, Members for this opportunity. Please stay safe. Be 
healthy. And aloha for, thank you for this time. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for your testimony. Members, do you have any questions? If not, 
appreciate your testimony. It took a lot of courage. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 15 
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you, Chair Lee. 
CHAIR LEE: You take care also. 
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you very much. Ms., comment. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Member Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, mahalo, Chair. I just, I just wanted to thank 
Ms. Cochran for her testimony. 
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's obvious that it took a lot of courage. And I 
appreciate you coming forward. 
MS. COCHRAN: Yea, you're welcome. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Donna 
Hansen. To be followed by Adam Radford. 
MS. DONNA HANSEN ftestitting on Bill Nos. 129 (2020) and 130 (2020)1: 
Hi. I'm Donna Hansen. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak with you 
regarding Bills 129 and 130. I am a real estate agent. I have been for over four 
decades. I'm very dedicated to the island, and to my career, and to those people I 
serve. 
Many of those people are homeowners that are people that come over and live in 
communities that are vacation rental, but do not rent them out. They approve, love the 
culture, and they take good care of the island and the beauty of the island. By your 
doubling their, their taxes, you'll be forcing many of those people to sell. What will 
happen when they sell is, they will, the person who buys will be someone who is going 
to rent it out, to make up for the taxes that you've imposed. Those people will rent it 
out to tourists who are going to come over, they're going to come over for a week or 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 16 
two. They're going to have a great time. They're going to use and abuse. And they 
will not respect and love the culture like the people who have been here for many 
years. And it saddens me to think that our, our town, our, our island will be hurt by 
your decisions. 
It's also important for me to tell you that I feel very strongly with some of the actions 
that you've taken, that you need to consult with someone who is non-political, who is 
a professional economist to guide you so that you can no longer make some of the 
mistakes that you're making that are hurting the people of this island. For instance, 
right now, there are 900 cars that have been lined up at Hope Chapel to get food once 
a week. That's horrible. Christmas will be ruined by many, for many of the children 
whose parents are unable to buy them presents and food, having food on their table, 
all the things that are important. 
By your taking away the vacation rental status for only those that are renting and by 
forcing people who live and love this island part-time, but, and don't use it all the time 
so they don't, you know, drive the streets and do things that will be detrimental, 
because they love it and they respect it. 
So, I really am hoping that you will vote against this. I know it's been nine to zero, and 
the chances are, and the rumors are you're going to push it through because of money 
and that you want money from these people. But it will cost you in the long run. So, 
I'm asking you to really consider that. And also, hiring someone like Paul Brewbaker, 
who is non-political and . . . the information that you need to guide you to make more 
appropriate decisions on some of the rules that you've been passing. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions, Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Hansen. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Adam 
Radford. To be followed by Deren Ash. 
MR. ADAM RADFORD, MAUI INVASIVE SPECIES COMMITTEE (testifying on County 
Communication No. 20-592): 
Good morning, Chair and Members. 
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. 
MR. RADFORD: 'Good to see you all again. 
CHAIR LEE: Hi. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 17 
MR. RADFORD: I'm testifying on behalf of CC 20-592. And I really feel like it's a pretty manini 
request based on the previous testimony and other things you're considering. But 
essentially, I just support the amendment to the budget that now says it's Miconia for 
$500,000. We would like to change that to say, "Miconia and other invasive species 
for the Maui Invasive Species Committee", or MISC if that's more appropriate. That's 
really what I believe the funding was intended for. 
One of the reasons for that, though, is that, just a little background quickly, is that, you 
know, we've been doing this work for two decades. And a lot of new things come up, 
right? Like, we have snake, we have lizards, we have all kind of things that happen. 
And when we're sort of pigeonholed into very specific species in, with that funding, I 
mean, the focus is Miconia, but it does allow us flexibility to respond to new 
introductions. And so, I just ask for your support in that. 
And then, also, because of the way that language was put into the budget, it's, it's 
actually held up our grants. So, as you know, we have several grants with the County 
and none of them have moved forward. They've all been sort of lumped together. And 
so, if, if we can't get the language changed, we'll have to redo the budgets, redo the 
request, and also lose that flexibility. So, I just ask that you support that amendment. 
And also, in the future, if, if you want the money to go to MISC, because not a lot of 
other people want to or do, do this work, just put for Maui Invasive Species Committee 
or MISC, or, in, into the language that goes into the budget. 
And yea, anyway, just the timing of it is troublesome for us. Like, we're, we're running 
up against a budget shortfall here pretty soon. And we actually had a meeting with the 
Mayor yesterday where he was supportive of, of trying to move things forward. But I 
know you had this on your agenda for today, so wanted to get your support as well. 
So, thank you for your time and I'm happy to entertain any questions. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Radford. Yes, we have a, several questions. 
Member Paltin, and then Member Sinenci. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Radford, for your testimony 
and being here for today. I just was wondering when you were saying about the timing, 
is this something that you wanted us to pass today? 
MR. RADFORD: If you can. I don't know. I honestly don't know how your process works. 
But, I mean, we put these proposals in in June. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 18 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And Mahalo, Mr. Radford, for your testimony 
today. So, just for clarification, can you go ahead and clarify the other invasive species 
that you want added to and as, and just I know the intention was for Miconia 
eradication. So, we just wanted to make sure that Miconia had proper funding for, for 
Miconia eradication. 
MR. RADFORD: Yes, it would. So, the proposal that's in with the County now includes 
15 different invasive plant species, but Miconia is the focus. And so, yes, it would. 
Combined with State funding support, our program in East Maui, so in Hana, which we 
have staff there, and our baseyard, and all the infrastructure to conduct this work. But 
also, it supports work on Molokai. And they do annual surveys for Miconia and other 
invasive species as well. So, it allows for them to continue to do that work. But, so in, 
in short, yes, it would support the continuation of the program in Hana, if not, 
expansion. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay, great. Thank you, Mr. Radford. Thank you, Chair. 
MR. RADFORD: Thank you for the question. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Now we have Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Radford. Mahalo for your 
testimony. So, your testimony is supporting the amendments that we have before us, 
or are, were you adding more amendments. 
MR. RADFORD: I'm supportive of what you have in front of you. The only question there is 
if other people would want to tap into that funding source. So, meaning, like if it just 
says, Miconia and other invasive species, like, so, I guess if somebody came to the 
table and said, I can do Miconia and I want to do axis deer, then they would be eligible, 
I assume, for that funding. And so, my suggestion is adding into that language, "Maui 
Invasive Species Committee", which I believe was particularly Member Sinenci's 
intention, was for that funding to go to MISC. 
And also, for perspective, that dollar amount is significantly lower that what we've 
gotten in years past. So, I think last year, we, for that grant, we got like 400,000. But 
years past, for many years, we actually got 895,000. And so, we had a big cut that 
we've had to adapt to. And so, anyway, I'd love to see it, if you wanted to add more 
money next year, that would be great, because it, again, allows for the flexibility to 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 19 
respond to new species, to do all the different things that we do that you're all very 
familiar with, so. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Radford. Did you get any portion of the 
little fire ants funding for 700,000? 
MR. RADFORD: We got the whole 700 for fire ants. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright. Mahalo, Mr. Radford. 
MR. RADFORD: And then we- 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
MR. RADFORD: Just one quick comment. Also, just so you guys are aware. We did get a 
million for Coqui frog control which has been very helpful. But keep in mind, that that's 
down from 2.5 million the year before. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Radford, those other items are not on the agenda. So, we thank you 
for your— 
MR. RADFORD: I know. I'm just providing background. Sorry. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thanks. 
Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thanks for being here, Adam. Good to see 
you. So, I just wanted to follow up on, you know, you're talking about the funding being 
reduced, but have you been able to spend all the funding that's in this current budget, 
including this one that we're talking about? Will you be, will you have, because I think 
one of the issues last time was that not all the money was expended and that might be 
one of the reasons why the budget was reduced. 
MR. RADFORD: Right. So, this year we'll basically be done spending by the end of this 
month. We have one extension request for the Coqui frog account that's current. And 
that's not because we're not spending the money. It's because we can't get certain 
things here by the end of the month. So, that's our vendors. For example, like trucks 
that we're buying. They can't ship them. And we initiated these requests in like June. 
And we just recently learned that they can't, they haven't been able to get them here 
in time. And so, yea, we're on track to spend. And that's, what I was saying is that like 
we will basically be out of money by the end of the month. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 20 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright. Thank you. Thanks for the, for being here for the 
testimony. 
MR. RADFORD: Thank you for the question. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. I see no more questions. Thank you, Mr. Radford. 
MR. RADFORD: Thank you all for your consideration and time. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, where are you? Oh. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Deren 
Ash. To be followed by Kim Willenbrink. 
MR. DEREN ASH (testifying on Committee Report 20-153): 
Hi. Good morning, Chair. Good morning, Members. 
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. 
MR. ASH: So, I'm here to testify on the removal of Mr. Guzman as Prosecutor. I think it 
became pretty clear during the Committee meeting over the days and evenings that 
there's no choice but to remove him. He can't stay in that position, and I hope he gets 
the help he needs to take onto his next career. 
But that also leaves a big hole in that the victims of crimes on Maui, past, present, and 
future are terrified about what's going to happen next. Without Mr. Guzman, they're 
terrified that Mr. Rivera will be in the position. And without Mr. Guzman, they're also 
terrified that JD Kim might end up back in the Prosecutors Office. And so, you know, 
despite your vote to remove Mr. Guzman, I have an ask from you, which is to assure 
the victims of Maui that Mr. Rivera will not be confirmed as Prosecutor. 
And I know it's the Mayor's role to fill that position because Mr. Rivera will be Acting 
Prosecutor until it's filled. And so, doing whatever you can to fill the position as quickly 
as you can. And that whoever does get appointed, that you have a litmus test that 
they'll say they won't hire JD Kim back into the office in any role, because I know there's 
concern that he'll end up back in the office as a deputy, even if he's not appointed as 
head again. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 21 
And so, obviously, you're going to vote to remove Mr. Guzman. And so, I hope that 
you'll help assure the victims of Maui that things will still get better in the future. Thank 
you. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Ash. Are there any questions, Members? 
Yes, Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Mahalo for being here, Mr. Ash. Are you, do 
you actually, I can't remember cause we've had so many testifiers today, but do you 
actually work in the Prosecuting Attorney's Office as well? 
MR. ASH: No. No, I don't. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. 
MR. ASH: But my, I, I know some of the victims like Kim Scott. And I know you heard 
testimony from her. And so, that's kind of my network and links to the issue. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. So, you've been involved with some of the victims. 
And I don't know, the, can you give us, without going into any personnel issues, the, 
why the fear of, about Mr. Rivera? I did, I did ask the Mayor, when he was before us, 
if he had any intention putting JD Kim back into the Prosecutor's Office in any 
leadership position, and he said no. But I'm not really fully understanding what the 
concern is about Mr. Rivera. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. King, I think that may be another discussion. We're only focused on the 
resolution from the Mayor regarding Mr. Guzman, and not a replacement at this point. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. I just was trying to verify. But you can, you can maybe 
send in written testimony to clarify that part of your testimony. 
CHAIR LEE: Yea. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. 
MR. ASH: Sure. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you, Mr. Ash. 
Mr. Clerk. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 22 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Kim 
Willenbrink. To be followed by Robert Hansen. 
MS. KIM WILLENBRINK (testifying on Committee Report 20-153): 
Good morning. Good morning, Chair Lee, Members of the Council. Thank you for 
allowing me this opportunity to testify again before the full Council. I'm here to testify 
on Committee Report 20-153, recommending adoption of resolution to approve the 
removal of Prosecuting Attorney Donald S. Guzman. 
I previously gave my testimony at the Committee level. I won't repeat that here at the 
Council. I think you were all present at that. And Chair Lee, I know that I'm supposed 
to address the Council, but may I just publicly thank the other women that have come 
forward? 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, I think that's appropriate. 
MS. WILLENBRINK: I could not have done it without them. This is hard. I didn't realize how 
hard this was going to be. You don't realize until you start to speak. Thank you for 
allowing me this public opportunity to speak. Thank you so much, Councilmember Elle 
Cochran. I appreciate your testimony and you, as a person. 
I won't take up much more time. I also thank the Mayor for bringing this forward. I just 
heard that he may be starting a task force. If any, anything wonderful and good can 
come from this, let's make that happen, as the government here and the community. 
And if, if my testimony can help give strength to one other woman, then it's been worth 
it. Thank you so much. Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Kim. Are there any questions, Members? If not, thank you again 
for coming. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Robert Hansen. To be 
followed by Jackie Reimers. 
MR. ROBERT HANSEN [testifying on Bill Nos. 129 (2020) and 130 (2020)1: 
Hi. I'm using my wife's computer, because I don't know what's wrong with mine; too 
slow. Anyway, hello, Councilmembers. I know most of you. I know Alice and Mike 
have been on the Council for a long time. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 23 
Having said that, we, you know, appreciate the Council, you know, needs money. But 
I am so opposed to the Bills 129 and 130. I mean, I thought years ago that we had 
really figured out that it's really great to have $5 million properties in Makena, in Wailea, 
and have people come and spend two or three months there and they pay taxes all 
year. And it would, that's not the kind of properties that you rent out to people. 
I mean, I know that, you know, Mike and Alice were very aware we started, John 
Andersen and myself, started Na Hale 0 Maui. But John has been the mouthpiece. I 
was the first person to, you know, put the seed money in there for $20,000 to get that 
thing going. That's how you get, you know, affordable housing for people. Not by 
raising taxes. 
And I think that, I mean, as my wife, Donna said earlier, have, you know, some really 
good nonpartisan economist get in there and talk about it. I think you're achieving the 
absolute wrong thing by using the highest and best use idea. It's just, it's not right. 
And then, you know, last year you did the tiered taxes. I mean, to me, that was horrible. 
I worked my whole life and I purchased a lot of property. And now it's, it's just, it's 
killing me. People, you're killing me. And this, 129 and 130 is not going to hurt me, 
personally. But I just think it will hurt everybody else. The tiered taxes killed me. 
Anyway, I appreciate you thinking about this. And I know, as Jason Economou said, 
you know, it's nine to zero and I probably won't get anything. But at least I got it off my 
chest. So, thank you very much. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Hansen. Are there any questions, Members? If not, good to 
see you again. 
MR. HANSEN: Okay. Thanks. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Jackie 
Reimers. To be followed by Lori Buchanan. Lori Buchanan is the last person we have 
signed up to testify. If there's anyone else in the meeting who wishes to testify, please 
notify us in the meeting chat now. It would seem Jackie Reimers might have 
disconnected. 
Then, the last person signed up to testify is Lori Buchanan. Lori Buchanan, I see that 
you are connected to the meeting. It is your time to testify. You are muted on your 
end. We cannot unmute you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 24 
MS. LORI BUCHANAN (testifying on County Communication No. 20-592): 
Aloha, Council. Can you guy, everybody can hear me. 
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Yes, we can see you. 
MS. BUCHANAN: Thank you, Chair Lee. I want to take my precious one minute of three 
minutes to just thank all my County Council. I'm so happy that all of you are still here. 
I'm so happy. I rest better at night knowing that you guys are all here. And in this 
season, I wish all of you a very Mele Kalikimaka and a Happy New Year. And I love 
you all. And I want to thank you guys for your hard work, because I think my County 
Council is the hardest working people in government hands down. And I know that. 
So, I'm here today to support earlier testimony by Adam Radford on CC 20-529 (sic]. 
We definitely, on Molokai, have four full-time and a half worker that is affected by this 
fundings through Maui County. I'd like to think that we do awesome work. My staff is 
awesome. They work really hard. And overall, MISC and MoMISC is really working to 
do more to expand the work we do, even given the budget that we have. And what I 
mean by that is by hiring more people. You know, you just cannot find enough people 
to do all of this great work that we do, because it's really hard work. It's really hard 
work that we do. And so, I wanted to just mahalo all you folks and tell you guys again 
that I love you all. And I really respect what you guys do, and the time you guys spend 
on Zoom and out of Zoom. And again, in support of 20-529 [sic]. Thank you so much. 
Mahalo to all. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you so much, Lori. Are there any questions, Members? 
Yes, Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you very much, Madam Chair. You know, this is 
one of the rare times; I don't think I've ever asked Ms. Buchanan a question. But it's 
more a compliment. Kudos to you too, because you've been a very strong voice and 
advocate for the needs of Molokai. And you've participated in our County boards and 
commissions and volunteering a lot of your time. So, I wanted to express to you our 
mahalo to you for your service. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Well said. Well said. Are there any other comments or questions? Okay, 
apparently not, so thank you again for joining our meeting. And hope to see you soon. 
MS. BUCHANAN: Mahalo, Chair Lee. Love all community. Thank you. Love you guys. 
Aloha. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 25 
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, one additional person signed up to testify. The next 
person to testify is Roman Amaguin. 
MR. ROMAN AMAGUIN (testifying on Committee Report 20-153): 
Council Chair Lee and Members of the Council, my name is Roman Amaguin. I'm 
testifying regarding CR 20-153. I'm an attorney that focuses on employment labor law, 
and I've been retained to represent Don Guzman. 
We are asking that the Mayor immediately withdraw his resolution, or that this Council 
votes no on the resolution to remove Mr. Guzman as Prosecuting Attorney. Voting no 
will allow this matter to be sent back to the Mayor so that the parties can then enter 
into proper mediation to resolve a single complaint, and whether . . . should remain as 
per my written correspondence to the Corporation Counsel, dated November 17, 2020. 
In the letter to Corporation Counsel, I've set forth Mr. Guzman's legal claims under 
United States Constitution and Federal Statutory Law, which I assume Corporation 
Counsel will discuss in executive session under HRS 92-5(a)(4). Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, thank 
you again. 
Ms. Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Amaguin, for your testimony. I just was unclear. 
Appointed officials can be removed at any time for any reason. And there was no 
reason stated on the resolution, so I'm not sure what your lawsuit is about. 
MR. AMAGUIN: Well, we haven't filed anything, Councilmember. I have to decline speaking 
to that issue. I believe that the letter that we sent to Corporation Counsel on 
November 17, speaks comprehensively to all the legal and factual issues which 
potentially support Mr. Guzman's claims. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you for your clarification. Thank you, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Amaguin. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 26 
MR. AMAGUIN: Yes. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no one else signed up to testify. We, if there is 
anyone else in the meeting who has not testified, but would like to do so now, please 
make yourself known. You can notify us in the meeting chat, or you can unmute 
yourself and, and state your name and your desire to testify. This is the last call for 
testifiers. If you have not testified, but wish to do so, please make yourself known now. 
Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have received written 
testimony. 
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony and, into the 
record, and to closing public testimony? Any objections? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY 
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF 
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING: 
1. Marion Haller; 
2. David Mumma; 
3. "Blue" Robinson; and 
4. Julie Strong. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So ordered. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, can staff request a brief one-minute recess. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. One-minute recess. 
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:12 A.M., AND WAS 
RECONVENED AT 10:15 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER 
HOKAMA, EXCUSED.) 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 27 
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of December 4, please reconvene. Okay. Public 
testimony is now closed. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications. 
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS  
NO. 	 20-577 	- TIVOLI S. FAAUMU, CHIEF OF POLICE, 
(dated November 16, 2020) 
Transmitting a grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of 
Transportation, for the MPD Traffic Services grant in the amount of $288,568. 
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, may I 
request the Clerk also call up County Communications 20-578 through 20-583? 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. 
NO. 	 20-578 	- TIVOLI S. FAAUMU, CHIEF OF POLICE, 
(dated November 16, 2020) 
Transmitting a grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of 
Transportation, for the MPD Seat Belt Enforcement grant in the amount of 
$102,510.02. 
NO. 	 20-579 	- TIVOLI S. FAAUMU, CHIEF OF POLICE, 
(dated November 16, 2020) 
Transmitting a grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of 
Transportation, for the MPD Child Restraint grant in the amount of $55,416.17. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 28 
NO.  20-580 	- ROBERT D. RIVERA, ACTING PROSECUTING ATTORNEY, 
(dated November 19, 2020) 
Transmitting a grant agreement from the State of Hawaii, Department of the Attorney 
General, Crime Prevention and Justice Assistance Division for the Special Needs 
Advocacy Project totaling $809,160, which includes $1,000 in administrative costs and 
$161,632 in matching funds. 
NO.  20-581 	- ROBERT D. RIVERA, ACTING PROSECUTING ATTORNEY, 
(dated November 20, 2020) 
Transmitting a grant agreement from the State of Hawaii , Department of the Attorney 
General, Crime Prevention and Justice Assistance Division for the STOP Violence 
Against Women Formula Grant totaling $110,452, which includes $27,613 in matching 
funds. 
NO. 	 20-582 	- DAVID C. THYNE, FIRE CHIEF, 
(dated November 24, 2020) 
Informing of a donation of $3,000, to be used to purchase equipment for the 
Department's Fitness and Wellness Program. 
NO.  20-583 	- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, 
(dated November 24, 2020) 
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of 
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the 2021 Proposed General Obligation Bond Fund as 
of October 31, 2020. 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 20-577 
THROUGH 20-583. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 29 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember 
Kelly King, to file County Communications 20-577 through 583. 
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. These communications are 
informational, and no further action is required by the Council. Mahalo. 
CHAIR LEE: Any further questions or comments? If not, all those in favor of the motion, 
please raise your hand and say "aye". 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIRLEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Clerk. 
NO.  20-584 	- JEFFREY T. PEARSON, DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY, 
(dated November 23, 2020) 
Transmitting the State of Hawaii's Commission on Water Resource Management water 
use reports for September 2020 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui. 
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Madam Chair. If there are no objections, I 
would also ask the Clerk to call up County Communications 20-585 through 20-588? 
CHAIR LEE: Any objections? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: If not, Mr. Clerk, call up the others as requested. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 30 
NO.  20-585 	- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, 
(dated November 24, 2020) 
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easement A, Kehalani Modules 12 & 13, 
TMK: (2) 3-5-001:108 POR & 109 POR. 
NO.  20-586 	- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, 
(dated November 24, 2020) 
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easement B, Kehalani Modules 12 & 13, 
TMK: (2) 3-5-001:108 & 109 POR. 
NO.  20-587 	- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, 
(dated November 24, 2020) 
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easement M, Kehalani Modules 12 & 13, 
Lot 167, TMK: (2) 3-5-001:108 POR & 109 POR. 
NO.  20-588 	- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, 
(dated November 24, 2020) 
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easement W-1 through W-6, Kehalani 
Modules 12 & 13, Lots 168 —173, TMK: (2) 3-5-001:108 POR & 109 POR. 
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. 
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 20-584 
THROUGH 20-588. 
I need a second. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 31 
CHAIR LEE: Been moved by Councilmember Sugimura, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to file County Communications 20-584 through 20-588. 
Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. These communications are informational, and 
no further action is required by the Council. Thank you, Keani, for the second. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions or comments, discussion? If not, all those in favor of filing 
these communications as stated by Ms. Sugimura, please raise your hand, say "aye". 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Look, eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Mr. Clerk. 
NO.  20-589 	- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, CHAIR, ECONOMIC 
DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE, 
(dated November 24, 2020) 
Transmitting County Communication 20-556, transmitting a proposed resolution 
entitled "AUTHORIZING THE PURCHASE OF LOT 2-A-1-A, CENTRAL MAUI 
SANITARY LANDFILL SUBDIVISION, ISLAND AND COUNTY OF MAUI, PURSUANT 
TO CHAPTER 3.44, MAUI COUNTY CODE". 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
AND BUDGET COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER 
CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION 
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-589. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 32 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member 
Sugimura, to discharge County Communication 20-589. 
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, as we discussed in our 
Economic Development and Budget Committee meeting of December 2, 2020, this is 
a time sensitive matter. Discharge is needed to enable the Council to consider action 
today on the proposed resolution. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, signify by saying "aye", 
and raising your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Motion carries with eight "ayes", one "excused", no "noes". 
Okay, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 33 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez moved, and Member Sugimura seconded 
to waive the Rules of the Council. 
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Same reason; it's a time sensitive 
matter that we. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your 
hand, say "aye". 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION 
INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS, AND 
TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-556 AND 20-589. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember 
Kelly King, to adopt the resolution in County Communication 20-589. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, as discussed in the 
Economic Development and Budget Committee meeting of December 2, 2020, the 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 34 
proposed resolution would authorize the County to acquire 59.307 acres identified for 
real property tax purposes, as tax map key (2) 3-8-003:025, located at Puunene, Maui, 
Hawaii, from Alexander & Baldwin, LLC for $1,695,000. 
The property will be used for the expansion of the Central Maui Landfill and ancillary 
uses such as waste diversion and recycling. I ask for the Members continued support. 
Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand 
and say "aye". 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 20-167. 
NO.  20-590 	- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, CHAIR, ECONOMIC 
DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE, 
(dated November 25, 2020) 
Transmitting County Communication 20-576, transmitting a proposed resolution 
entitled "AUTHORIZING THE PURCHASE OF LAND LOCATED AT HONOKOWAI 
RESERVOIR, ISLAND AND COUNTY OF MAUI, PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.44, 
MAUI COUNTY CODE". 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE ECONOMIC, FROM THE 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND BUDGET COMMITTEE 
FROM FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSED 

Regular Meeting of the Council. of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 35 
RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 
20-590. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by 
Councilmember Sugimura, to discharge this item. 
Any further discussion? Ms. Rawlins-Femandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, as we discussed in the 
Economic Development and Budget Committee meeting on December 2, 2020, this is 
a time sensitive matter. Discharge is needed to enable the Council to consider action 
today on the proposed resolution. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Otherwise, all those in favor of the motion say "aye", 
raise your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 36 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember 
Sugimura, to waive, waive the, for the Rule 7, Rule 7 waiver. 
Okay, discussion? Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. For the same reason, this item is 
time sensitive. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Sensitive. Okay. Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, say 
"aye", raise your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Item's waived. Motion carries; eight "ayes", one "excused", zero. Motion 
carries. 
Oh, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION, 
INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS, AND 
TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 20-576 AND 20-590. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to adopt 
the resolution in County Communication 20-590. 
And we have discussion by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. As discussed in your Economic 
Development and Budget Committee meeting of December 2, 2020, the proposed 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 37 
resolution would authorize the County to acquire approximately 5.1 acres, identified for 
real property tax purposes as tax map key (2) 4-4-002:019, located at Honokowai, 
Lahaina, Maui, from Maui Land & Pineapple Company, Inc., for $599,999, plus 
customary expenses. 
The department of, Department of Environmental Management intends to use the 
property for elevated storage of recycled water necessary for the expansion and 
pressurization of the recycled water system in West Maui. 
Your Committee discussed concerns regarding the history of the ownership of the land. 
They also discussed the importance of the work of the Department in maintaining the 
land and environment in the County. 
Members, the Clerk's Office sent out the revised resolution received from the 
Department of the Corporation Counsel. This resolution incorporates the correct map, 
as discussed in the Committee meeting on December 2. This is nonsubstantive 
revision, as it is correcting a clerical error. But I am mentioning here for the record. 
And I ask for the Members continued support. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? 
Yes, Ms. Paltin. Cannot hear you. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Can't hear you. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I was wondering, I, I had a chance to review 
the documents with the free time Member Rawlins-Fernandez gave us. And I was 
wondering if Corp. Counsel could address in the preliminary title report Schedule B, 
number 8 and 10, how we're not going to be on the hook for the $48,481 with the IRS 
and the ADA lawsuit? I looked back over the minute, or the video, and I think Richelle 
Thomson mentioned that those were like some outstanding issues and exclusions of 
Schedule B. I just was wondering the process, like, we're not going to be on the hook 
for that, like the lawsuit and the IRS stuff? 
CHAIR LEE: Corporation Counsel. 
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Thank you, Chair. 
And thank you, Member Paltin. And so, those two issues, we will make sure that that's 
incorporated into the purchase and sale agreement and that those items, those 
encumbrances are removed prior to closing. So, that's already been discussed, and I 
believe is well on its way to being resolved. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 38 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. So, we pass this today, but nothing gets done until those 
two items are taken off the Schedule B? 
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes, that's correct. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. 
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: As well . . . prior to closing. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please 
say "aye", and raise your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: So, I see eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 20-168. 
NO. 	 20-591 	- DAVID C. THYNE, FIRE CHIEF, 
(dated November 24, 2020) 
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING THE COUNTY TO 
ENTER INTO AN AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF THE AGREEMENT 
REGARDING THE PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF RESCUE TUBES AT 
MAUI COUNTY BEACH PARKS". 
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina. Oh. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 39 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. 
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL, RELATED TO COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION 20-591. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Rawlins-Fernandez, to, on 
the waiver motion. 
Any discussion, Mr. Molina? 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Approval of this motion by a 
two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council will enable the Council to 
consider the proposed resolution today. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the waiver of, raise your hand, 
say "aye". 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. 
MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND TO 
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-591. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 40 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Councilmember Molina, seconded by Councilmember King, to adopt 
the resolution in the communication. 
Discussion, Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The proposed resolution 
would amend the agreement with the Rotary Club of Wailea, which is set to expire on 
December 31 of this year, regarding the placement and maintenance of rescue tubes 
at Maui County beach parks. 
This agreement affects 11 County beach parks in the Kihei, Wailea, Maalaea, and 
Hana area. The Rotary Club of Wailea is responsible for all cost and expenses, which 
includes the construction, placement and maintenance of the rescue tube stations. 
And the locations of the rescue tube stations will be determined after consultation with 
the Department of Parks and Recreation and the Department of Fire and Public Safety, 
providing safe and reasonable access for beachgoers. 
And if approved, the agreement will expire on December 31, 2025. 
And I've been informed Assistant Fire Chief, Mr. Michael Werner is on call should the 
Members have any questions. And I ask for the Members full support of this motion. 
Thank you, Madam Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? 
Ms., Ms. Paltin, and then Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you, Chair. I'm, I'm speaking in support of the 
motion. And I just wanted to clarify for anyone on the west side that thought that our 
beaches that had rescue tubes weren't included in this reso, the Battalion Chief had 
clarified for me that those beaches aren't up till next year. So, don't worry about 
Fleming's and Hanakao'o being left off this reso. So, thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to thank the Rotary Club again. 
This was passed originally last term, and we were so thrilled to be able to get this 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 41 
assistance from the Rotary Club and with their ongoing support for maintenance of 
these rescue tubes. So, in full support. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, signify by 
saying "aye", and raising your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we have eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 20-169. 
NO.  20-592 	- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA, BUDGET DIRECTOR, 
(dated November 27, 2020) 
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 
FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO 
THE OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM (ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROTECTION) ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (EAST MAUI ECONOMIC 
DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS)". 
CHAIR LEE: So, we have Vice-Chair Rawlins-Femandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 42 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to 
invoke the Rules of the Council, for the waiver. 
Any discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Action on this item today would allow 
for the use of this funds more expeditiously. Mahalo, Chair. So, it's-- 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, is it one of those time-sensitive matters? 
Okay. Any more discussion? All those in favor of the waiver, signify by saying "aye", 
and raise your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, unanimous. So, eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING, 
INCORPORATING ANY SUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS, AND TO 
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-592. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember 
King, to, to pass this item on first reading and filing of the communication. 
Any further discussion, Vice-Chair? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 43 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the proposed bill would 
amend the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget by adding, "and other invasive species" to the 
Eradicate Miconia provi, proviso, under the Office of the Mayor, Administration 
Program, Environmental Protection. 
It would also amend the Office of the Mayor, Economic Develop Program, Grants and 
disbursements for business development and technology, East Maui Economic 
Development, Environmental, and Cultural Programs, by correcting "Holani Hale" to 
"Holani Hana". Budget Director Yoshimura, oh shucks, sorry, provided that information 
to me. 
And if we have any questions, we have Director JoAnn Inamasu on the line. But also, 
this amendment was initiated by East, East Maui Councilmember Sinenci. So, if he 
would like to add anything further. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any further discussion? 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. And mahalo, Member Rawlins-
Fernandez. Yes, and also mahalo to Ms. Inamasu and Budget Director for transmitting 
the bill. We did, we did hear from Mr. Adam Radford. 
AND I WAS WONDERING IF WE COULD MAYBE AMEND TO, 
TO INCLUDE MAUI INVASIVE SPECIES AND MOLOKAI INVA, 
AND MOMISC, IF THAT IS A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT THAT, 
THAT I COULD PROBABLY PROPOSE, SO THAT IT'S 
SPECIFIC TO THOSE AGENCIES. 
CHAIR LEE: Is there a second? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: May, may we get the Corporation Counsel to weigh 
in on the appropriateness of the motion? 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Is Corporation Counsel there? 
CORPORATION COUNSEL MOANA LUTEY: Chair, thank you. I'm sorry, but at this point, I 
think that with that amendment, Member Sinenci, that you would, you could make the 
amendment today, but I think you would need to bring it back for another reading, just 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 44 
to give enough notice to anyone else who may be interested in testifying or being 
considered for what you are suggesting here. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you, Ms. Lutey. Yea, okay, just for the 
expediency, I'll go ahead and retract my, my motion, so that we can get this through 
and then I can go ahead and send a letter. Thank you, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Since this will be going for first 
reading and it requires a second reading, for Corporation Counsel, would the 
Administration be able to send that amendment, so that this could pass second reading 
at the next Council? 
CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes, Chair. Thank you, Member Rawlins. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Lutey. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, what are you suggesting, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Passing first reading today and getting Budget 
Director to send that amendment for second reading at the next Council. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, what if other people come and testify and want to be included on 
that list, then it wouldn't pass second reading. It would go back to first reading. You 
know that? Okay. Alright. 
Any more discussion? Okay, all those in favor of the motion to pass this matter on first 
reading, signify by saying "aye", and raise your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: So, looks like we have eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
And then, Mr., Mr. Sinenci, did you have a question? You had your hand up kind of 
long. No? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 45 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I'm sorry, I've got internet lag. No. Mahalo. Mahalo, 
Members. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Oh, okay. Alright. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just a question for, for second reading on this item. If it comes 
to second reading with that amendment, then that's not considered substantive, a 
substantive change? Maybe Ms. Lutey. Wanted to get clarification on that. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Lutey. Corporation Counsel. Oh, okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, Ms. Thomson. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson. 
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Hi. I understand the conundrum. So, it's up 
for, if I'm understanding correctly, up for first reading today. So, the choices are either 
amend it on the floor and then bring it back for second reading, or we have the Budget 
Office transmit a revised reso [sic/. I think either way is correct. But Chair Lee, you're, 
you're right, that if others came out and testified that they would like to be considered 
for this proviso funds, and if the Council wanted to consider that, it would have to come 
back for a second, a second-second reading. It's, it's a little awkward. But, you know, 
I think either way is, is an okay path. Either amend, amend it verbally today and then 
bring it back, or have Budget transmit a revised. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, we could, we could amend it today, and then thus the 
amended version would be heard in second reading, and that would give enough time 
for people to come out and say they do or don't like it? I was just worried because I 
know that when things get to second reading, if we make changes, a lot of times they're 
considered substantive and then they have, it has to go back to Committee, so. 
CHAIR LEE: You're, you realize we passed this already, right? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. But I'm just, I'm, that's why I'm asking about this process, 
because I thought I heard that it was going to come to second reading and then we 
were going to make that amendment then. But I guess you have to post the 
amendment, so that we can let people know in case they want to come and testify. So, 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 46 
the, the intention is, cause I just wanted to make sure that if we were posting that 
amendment that that doesn't constitute a substantive change that causes it to go back 
to Committee. That's what I was asking Corp. Counsel. 
CHAIR LEE: Ms., Ms. Thomson. You want any, add anything? 
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: No. I think that you could do what you did 
today, as well as, you know, for the record, waive the re-referral and adopt the 
amendment at that time. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. That takes care of that item. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 131 (2020). 
NO. 	 20-593 	- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA, BUDGET DIRECTOR, 
(dated November 27, 2020) 
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 
FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO 
APPENDIX A, PART I, GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES — SCHEDULE 
OF GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND 
PROGRAMS, OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, (WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND 
OPPORTUNITY ACT (WIOA) RAPID RESPONSE PROGRAM)". 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 47 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez moved, and seconded by Member King, to waive 
the Rules of the Council. 
So, we go back to Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This item is just recognizing a grant 
that we received. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Any more questions or comments? All those in favor of the 
waiver, signify by saying "aye", and raise your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING, 
AND INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS, 
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 20-593. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember King, 
to pass this item on first reading. 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, discussion? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 48 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the proposed bill would 
amend Appendix A, Part I, of the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget by adding a new 
appropriation for the Office of the Mayor, entitled "Workforce Innovation and 
Opportunity Act Rapid Response, Rapid Response Program", in the amount of 
$64,172. 
These funds will be used for rapid response activities, including layoff aversions and 
business services activities to assist dislocated workers and employers in Maui 
County. 
OED Director JoAnn Inamasu is available to answer any questions Members may 
have. I ask for the Members support of this motion. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your 
hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Ms., Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, since the CARES Act is expiring, are we going to have 
a rash of time sensitive items for our last meeting? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm not sure. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, we can ask OED Director if she knows. But I think, 
yea, everyone's-- 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No, I was just curious if they informed you that it was, this would be 
coming down. 
Alright. Mr. Clerk. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 49 
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 132 (2020). 
Chair, proceeding with County Communications for referral. The following County 
Communications are recommended for referral to the Council Chair for the term 
beginning January 2, 2021: 
NO.  20-594 	- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, 
(dated November 13, 2020) 
Transmitting the Director of Finance's Quarterly Report for Fiscal Year July 1, 2020 to 
June 30, 2021, and the Capital Improvement Project report as of September 30, 2020. 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-594 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
NO.  20-595 	- TAMARA PALTIN, COUNCILMEMBER, 
(dated November 17, 2020) 
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING 
CHAPTER 3.17, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE REDUCTION OF 
ADMINISTRATIVE FINES". 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-595 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
NO.  20-596 	- MICHAEL WILLIAMS, CHAIR, COST OF GOVERNMENT 
COMMISSION, (dated November 17, 2020) 
Transmitting the Cost of Government Commission Report on Financing of the Wailuku 
Parking Structure. 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-596 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 50 
NO.  20-597 	- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA, BUDGET DIRECTOR, 
(dated November 27, 2020) 
Transmitting the following proposed bills entitled: 
1. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET 
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; 
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE, WAILUKU-KAHULUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, 
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND, WAILUKU POLICE STATION 
FUEL TANK REPLACEMENT; TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT 
APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND 
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)"; 
2. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET 
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C — CAPITAL 
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF POLICE, WAILUKU-
KAHULUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA (WAILUKU POLICE STATION FUEL 
TANK REPLACEMENT)"; and 
3. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5101, BILL 
NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL OBLIGATION 
BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF 
SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF POLICE — WAILUKU STATION FUEL TANK 
REPLACEMENT)". 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-597 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
THE PROPOSED BILLS ATTACHED TO COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-597 WAS PASSED ON FIRST 
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL 
NOS.  133  (2020),  134  (2020), AND  135  (2020). COUNTY 
COMMUNICATION NO. 20-597 WAS THEN FILED. See pages 51 
through 54 for discussion and action. 
NO. 	 20-598 	- MICHELE MCLEAN, PLANNING DIRECTOR, 
(dated November 4, 2020) 
Transmitting the following: 
1. 	 A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE 
COMMUNITY PLAN DESIGNATION FROM PARK AND MULTI-FAMILY TO 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 51 
PUBLIC/QUASI PUBLIC FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KAHULUI, MAUI, 
HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-8-007:097; 
2. A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING 
FROM R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO P-2 PUBLIC-QUASI PUBLIC 
DISTRICT FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KAHULUI, MAUI, HAWAII, TAX 
MAP KEY (2) 3-8-007:097"; and 
3. Related documents. 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-598 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
NO.  20-599 	- MICHELE MCLEAN, PLANNING DIRECTOR, 
(dated November 4, 2020) 
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE 
ZONING FROM R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT AND R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO 
A-2 APARTMENT DISTRICT FOR PROPERTIES SITUATED AT KAHULUI, MAUI, 
HAWAII, TAX MAP KEYS (2) 3-8-007:050, (2) 3-8-007:095 AND (2) 3-8-007:096"; and 
related documents. 
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 20-599 be referred to the 
Council Chair for the 2021 — 2023 term. 
CHAIR LEE: Members, did you have any questions on any of these items, which are 
scheduled to be referred to the Council Chair for the next term? 
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO 
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 20-597  
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 	 Mahalo, Chair. Consideration on County 
Communication 20-5, 57, 597. 
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE 
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. 
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 52 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez moved, and Councilmember Yuki 
Sugimura seconded, to waive the Rules of the Council for this item. 
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, this item has gone out to bid. 
And the bid went higher. If we don't take action today, then the Department will have 
to go back to bid. And there's no certainty what will happen at the next bid, if it could 
go up again. So, that's, that's the consideration for today. If Members want to-- 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --have that discussion. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion or comments? Okay, all those in favor of waiver, signify 
by saying "aye", and raise your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
	
NOES: 	 NONE. 
	
EXCUSED: 	 COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries. 
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON FIRST 
READING, INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE 
REVISIONS AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 
20-597. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 53 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member 
Sugimura, to pass the item in County Communication 20-597 on first reading. 
Discussion? Member Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the proposed bills would 
amend: 1) the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, Estimated Revenues, Department of Police, 
Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan area; 2) Government Facilities, Bond Fund, 
"Wailuku Police Station Fuel Tank Replacement"; 3) total Capital Improvement 
Projects Appropriation; 4) Total Appropriations (Operating and Capital Improvement 
Projects); 5) Appendix C, Department of Police, Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan 
Area, "Wailuku Police Fuel Tank Replacement"; and 6) Ordinance No. 5101, 
Bill 66 (2020), relating to the issuance of the General Obligation Bonds of the County 
of Maui issuance by adding a new appropriation under Department of Police, entitled 
"Wailuku Police Station Fuel Tank Replacement" in the amount of $501,000. 
Funds for this project were included in the Fiscal Year 2020 Budget in the amount of 
$450,500. But the lowest bid received by the Department exceeded this amount, so 
they were not able to execute the contract at that time. 
We have Ms. Melissa Magonigle on the line, from the Department of Police, if Members 
have questions. 
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have questions about this? It appears not, so-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I have a question. 
CHAIR LEE: You have more, okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ms. Magonigle. 
MS. MELISSA MAGONIGLE: Hi. Yes. Good morning. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 54 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Mahalo for being with us this morning. Is 
there a reason that the Department didn't act in a timely manner to execute the 
contract? 
MS. MAGONIGLE: When the bid opening had originally come out, we didn't have enough 
funds. We submitted a budget amendment in January of 2020 and that was approved 
in May. So, by the time we went back out to bid, the lowest bidder did not bid again, 
and that's why we're back in front of Council asking for another increase. Thank you. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Magonigle. Okay, so if this amendment 
is passed today, will the Department act quickly to secure the contract? 
MS. MAGONIGLE: Yes. We have the bids in place. The lowest bidder is holding the price, 
so if this gets approved, we will be able to move forward right away with this project. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Magonigle. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Okay, proceeding with the vote, all those in favor of 
passing this item on first reading, please signify by saying "aye", and raise your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, looks like eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries; one "excused". 
Okay. Mr. Clerk, next. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, these are BILLS 133 (2020), 134 (2020), 
and 135 (2020), respectively. 
Staff would just like to confirm with the body that there are no other objections to the 
referrals as read by the Clerk. 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: No, objections. Okay. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 55 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, Chair, proceeding with committee reports. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS  
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-151 	 - CLIMATE ACTION AND RESILIENCE COMMITTEE: 
Recommending the following: 
1. That Resolution 	 20-170  , entitled "REFERRING TO THE PLANNING 
COMMISSIONS A PROPOSED BILL AMENDING SECTION 2.80B, MAUI 
COUNTY CODE, TO ADD 'MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE AND WORK 
TOWARD RESILIENCE' AS A GOAL OF THE COUNTYWIDE POLICY PLAN," 
be ADOPTED; and 
2. That the Miscellaneous Communication, relating to adding sustainable 
agriculture and climate change solutions to the Maui County General Plan 
objectives, be FILED. 
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN THE 
COMMITTEE REPORT. 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Councilmember King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve 
Committee, the recommendations in Committee Report 20-151. 
Councilmember King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. The proposed resolution refers to the Maui, 
Molokai, and Lanai Planning Commissions a, a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN 
ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.80B, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ADD 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 56 
'MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE AND WORK TOWARDS RESILIENCE' AS A GOAL 
OF THE COUNTYWIDE POLICY PLAN". 
The purpose of the proposed bill is to amend the Countywide Policy Plan to incorporate 
the amended Section IV by adding "Mitigate Climate Change and Work Towards 
Resilience" as a goal. 
In its deliberations, your Committee noted that there are climate change policies 
throughout the Countywide Policy Plan, but it is essential to focus on the importance 
of minimizing the cause and, causes and negative effects of climate change by 
grouping the policies under a single theme and goal. 
The Countywide Policy Plan hasn't been amended in this way, and this is a step 
forward in updating this living document. 
Over the course of three meetings, your Committee received presentations from 
climate change experts and feedback from the Office of the Mayor, Planning 
Department, MEMA, and University of Hawaii Sea Grant Program. Your Committee 
also worked with UH's Sea Grant Program to incorporate additional policy actions 
relating to sea level rise. 
The Department supported emphasizing climate change in the Countywide Policy 
Plan. The Planning Department expressed the Countywide Policy Plan should avoid 
duplication. And these changes are reflected in the most recent draft of the proposed 
legislation. 
To assist the public and members of the Planning Commissions in seeing differences 
between the existing and proposed versions of the Countywide Policy Plan, your 
Committee has prepared a Ramseyered version of the amended Section IV, a copy of 
which is attached to the end of this report as Exhibit "1". 
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend adoption of the proposed resolution and filing 
of the communication. I ask for the Members support of your Committee's 
recommendations. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? 
Yes, Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Kelly. I have an 
amendment from Mr. Hokama. And he asked me to present it in his absence, because 
he's with the NACo board meeting. May I proceed? 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 57 
CHAIR LEE: Please make your amendment proposal. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. 
SO, I MOVE TO AMEND EXHIBIT "1" OF THE ORDINANCE 
ATTACHED TO THE RESOLUTION, ON PAGE 80 AND 81 OF 
THE COUNTYWIDE POLICY PLAN, AS IT RELATES TO 
THEME L, OBJECTIVE 1, IMPLEMENTING ACTIONS E AND F, 
TO READ AS FOLLOW, FOLLOWS: 
E. INCORPORATE, AND THIS IS WHAT HE'S ADDING, 
"PLANTING OF NATIVE AND INDIGENOUS TREES" AS A 
MAJOR COMPONENT TO THE URBAN DESIGN OF BOTH 
COOL NEIGHBORHOODS AND REDUCE CARBON DIOXIDE. 
F. COORDINATE WITH STATE, COUNTY, AND PRIVATE 
LANDOWNERS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF FORESTRY AND, 
ADDING "PLANTING OF NATIVE AND INDIGENOUS TREES" 
TO REDUCE CARBON DIOXIDE. 
That is his motion. And-- 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. 
Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: . . . discussion. Oh. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I just want to, wondered if we could, in, in the second 
statement you made, change the word "planting" to "prioritizing", because it may be 
that we, you know, in looking at the available tree stock. But I think we've discussed 
this in Committee too, about prioritizing indigenous trees. 
CHAIR LEE: Are you amenable to that, Ms. Sugimura? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: It sounds, it sounds like it makes sense. It's from 
Mr. Hokama. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 58 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so we need a second. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, you're changing the word "planting"? 
CHAIR LEE: Yea, to "prioritizing". 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: To prioritize. Okay. 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, are you seconding the motion? Okay. 
Okay. Now, everybody understands by substituting the word "prioritizing" instead of 
"planting"? Okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: For the item under "f.", right? For the second one only. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Do you have anymore? Do you have any more discussion? 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's it. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: This is his, if, and if any, that's it. 
CHAIR LEE: Yea, I recall it coming up. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, he brought this up in Committee. And he, he had emailed 
back and forth. But we did discuss the idea of prioritizing. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And he said his reason is, if I could read his reason, is to 
ensure that native and indigenous trees are prioritized in any planting efforts. And I 
think he also said that this discussion was also supported by Dick Mayer from 
Upcountry in, in the community. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It was, yea, it was, yea, it was Dick Mayer was the one that 
brought the amendments about tree planting. So, Councilmember Hokama was, was 
pointing out the fact that we should prioritize indigenous plants and we're doing that. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 59 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Mr. Sinenci. Oh, are you, you voting? 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No. I just wanted to add, as the seconder, as we anticipate 
our Maui County community plans moving forward, it's important that we address 
important infrastructure and, and our thoroughfares along our coastlines. So, happy 
to support. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the amendment, please say 
"aye" and raise your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries; eight, zero, one "excused". 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you on behalf of Mr. Hokama. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now, the motion, the main motion as amended. Any more discussion? 
If not, raise your hand, say "aye". 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries. Very good. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. King. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 60 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just notice, I'm just looking at the time and I thought Members 
wanted to take a break at 11, so we could, we could check in on that NACo presentation 
by the President, the incoming President. I don't know if we're, something that, I 
remember Mr. Hokama saying, he sent us a link and he said this would, they would 
come on at 11. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's, let's just get through the next two items. We get two votes and 
then, and then we'll go to, cause the second and final reading is almost exclusively 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez with one for Ms. Paltin. So, can we just take care of 
the next two, which shouldn't take long? Okay. Alright. 
Mr. Clerk, next committee report. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 20-170. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-152 	 - GOVERNANCE, ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that Resolution 	 20-171 	, entitled "RELATING TO THE 
APPOINTMENT OF JOHANNA AMORIN TO THE BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY FOR 
THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED. 
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF 
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 20-152. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to 
adopt the resolution in Committee Report 20-152. 
Mr. Molina. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 61 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your GET Committee 
met on this matter on November 17, 2020. Your Committee interviewed Ms. Amorin, 
and Ms. Amorin said she would strive to maintain good communication and be willing 
to understand and listen to both sides of the issues before making decisions. 
Ms. Amorin is president of a staffing and payroll service company on Maui, and she's 
also involved in various community organizations, and was the previous Chair and 
board member of the Maui Planning Commission from 2003 to 2008. 
Your Committee voted 8-1 to recommend adoption of the resolution approving the 
nomination. I ask for the Members full support. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", raise 
your hand. 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: 	 COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN. 
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused; motion carries. 
Next committee report, Mr. Clerk. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order, Chair. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I think Ms. Paltin has a-- 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, Ms. Paltin. You're, you're muted. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I didn't vote affirmative. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. Let me correct the record; it was seven "ayes", one ex, one "no", and 
one "excused". The one "excused", of course, is Mr. Hokama. The "no" is Ms. Paltin. 
Motion carries. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 20-171. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 62 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-153 	- GOVERNANCE, ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE: 
Recommending the following: 
1. That Resolution 	 20-172  , entitled "APPROVING THE REMOVAL OF 
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY DONALD S. GUZMAN," be ADOPTED; and 
2. That the proposed resolution, entitled "DISAPPROVING THE REMOVAL OF 
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY DONALD S. GUZMAN," be FILED. 
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. 
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF 
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 20-153. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I see, I see. Okay. Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Ms. Sugimura, to 
adopt the recommendation in Committee Report 20-153. 
Mr. Molina. 
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your GET Committee 
met on this matter on both November 5 and November 6 of 2020. Your Committee 
received oral and written testimony both in support and in opposition to the removal. 
Your Committee also received oral testimony in support of the removal, specifically 
from five County employees, four of whom are employed in the Department of the 
Prosecuting Attorney's office and one of which was identified as the complainant. 
Your Committee met with the Prosecuting Attorney, the complainant, the Mayor, and 
an attorney from the law firm Marr Jones & Wang, who was hired by the Administration 
to investigate the complaint. The Committee learned the investigation resulted in a 
report that concluded the Prosecuting Attorney engaged in "threats of intimidation, to 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 63 
inflict mental harm or injury" in violation of the County's Violence in the Workplace 
Action Plan. 
Your Committee met with the Director of Personnel Services who explained that 
Mr. Guzman is an appointed employee, not subject to collective-bargaining agreement 
or civil-service laws. Further, at-will employees may be terminated for any or no 
reason, provided an individuals' protected classes are not violated. 
At the request of the Deputy Corporation Counsel, your Committee held an executive 
meeting to discuss confidential information related to the complaint. And following the 
executive session meeting, your Committee reconvened in regular session. 
Your Committee acknowledged the accomplishments of the Prosecuting Attorney 
while head of the department; but could not overlook a pattern of behavior involving 
angry outbursts and verbal threats in violation of the County's Violence in the 
Workplace Action Plan. 
Your Committee agreed that all forms of violence in the workplace are not acceptable 
and stressed the safety of all County employees as a priority. 
Your Committee voted 9-0 to unanimously recommend adoption of the revised 
proposed resolution approving the removal of Prosecuting Attorney Donald S. Guzman 
and filing of the proposed resolution to disapprove the removal. I ask the Members for 
the full support of this motion. Thank you. 
(Councilmember Hokama arrived at the meeting at 11:06 a.m.) 
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Molina. Any more discussion? If not, I believe Mr. Hokama is 
joining us for this vote. Mr. Hokama? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Yea, I'll be 
happy to participate before the President-Elect speaks to us shortly. So, yea, happy 
to participate. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 64 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Mr. Hokama, should we take a recess now, so we can all join and watch, following that 
link that you sent us? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: The, yeah, the executive director is finishing up his report to 
the board, and then we expect President-Elect Biden and Vice-President Harris elect 
in about 10 minutes, Chair. So, maybe if you still want to do some of the businesses, 
I'm happy to do the Healthy Families Committee's committee reports, if the Members 
would allow that. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to moving around? 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Clerk, do you want to call up the happy, the Healthy Families report, 
committee report? 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yea. Yes, Chair. For the record, that resolution that was just 
adopted, that's RESOLUTION 20-172. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-154 	 - HEALTHY FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE: 
Recommending the following: 
1. That Resolution  20-173  , entitled "AUTHORIZING A GRANT OF A LEASE OF 
COUNTY REAL PROPERTY TO KAUPAKALUA ROPING CLUB & YOUTH 
RODEO, INC.," be ADOPTED; and 
2. That County Communication 20-334, from the Director of Parks and Recreation, 
be FILED. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair, thank you. 
I MOVE THAT COMMITTEE REPORT 154, ALONG WITH ITS 
RECOMMENDATIONS, BE ADOPTED. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 65 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 
SECOND. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Hokama, seconded by Member Kama, that the 
recommendations in Committee Report 20-154 be approved. 
Any more discussion, Mr. Hokama? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair, the Council is being requested to approve a 20-year 
lease with the Kaupakalua Roping Club & Youth Rodeo program. There was questions 
about membership that was addressed by the officers of the club. It's open to anyone 
to become a member and utilize the facility. 
Part of the agreement has been that they do their own fundraising, so they haven't 
asked the County for any grants or supporting appropriations from the past, this very 
community-oriented activity for our Upcountry and those interested in equestrian and 
rodeo activities. And Committee is recommending approval of the lease proposal as 
presented to the Committee for approval. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise 
your hand and say "aye". 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: I see, Ms. Paltin, are you voting? Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion 
carries. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is-- 
CHAIR LEE: Chop, chop. Chop, chop. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 20-173. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 66 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-155 	 - HEALTHY FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE: 
Recommending the following: 
1. That Resolution  20-174  , entitled "AUTHORIZING A GRANT OF A LEASE OF 
COUNTY REAL PROPERTY TO MAUI FAMILY YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN 
ASSOCIATION," be ADOPTED; and 
2. That County Communication 20-558, from the Director of Parks and Recreation, 
be FILED. 
CHAIR LEE: Member Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you, Madam Chairman. 
I MOVE THAT COMMITTEE REPORT 20-155, ALONG WITH 
ITS RECOMMENDATIONS, BE ADOPTED. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Hokama, seconded by Member Kama, to adopt the 
recommendations in Committee Report 20-155. 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Your Committee's 
recommending adoption of this proposed grant lease document that is also expanding 
the area of service under the Maui Family Young Men's Christian Association. 
As presented to the Committee, your Committee this morning is recommending 
approval, as the lease was proposed to the Committee for its actual use and expansion 
areas. Your Committee questioned the executive director regarding various 
components of the expansion. And we are satisfied this morning to be able to 
recommend adoption of the proposed resolution. Thank you. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 67 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", 
raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: I see nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Last one, Ms. Sugimura. Councilmember Sugimura. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm getting ahead 
of the Clerk. 
Mr. Clerk. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 20-174. 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
NO. 	 20-156 	 - WATER, INFRASTRUCTURE, AND TRANSPORTATION 
COMMITTEE: 
Recommending that Resolution  20-175  , entitled "APPROVING A TIME EXTENSION 
FOR THE COUNCIL TO ADOPT THE MAUI ISLAND WATER USE AND 
DEVELOPMENT PLAN," be ADOPTED. 
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. 
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN 
COMMITTEE REPORT 20-156. 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to adopt the 
recommendations in Committee Report 20-156. 
Member Sugimura. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 68 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Your Water, Infrastructure, Transportation 
Committee met jointly with the Environmental, Agricultural, and Cultural Preservation 
Committee on November 16 to discuss the Maui Island Water Use Development Plan. 
At this meeting, the Committee discussed the need to engage in more public outreach 
and discussion before adopting the plan. 
The initial deadline to pass the adoption was September 18, 2019, which was extended 
by Resolution 19-153 to December 31, 2020. The purpose of this proposed resolution 
is to extend the deadline from December 31, 2020 to June 30, 2021 to provide 
additional time for the Council to review and adopt the plan. 
Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend adoption of the proposed resolution. I 
respectfully ask the Members support of my motion. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? All those in-- 
Yes, Mr. Sinenci. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Really quickly. Happy to support. The 
extension would help to address additional community concerns, as Member Sugimura 
had mentioned, and also, a chance to meet with kalo farmers and Aha Moku 
representatives, as well as update any new information that we already have. So, 
mahalo, Chair, for the opportunity. 
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor, say "aye" and raise 
your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Oh, we're at second and final. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 69 
CHAIR LEE: Second and final reading. We have only one for Ms. Paltin, and the rest for 
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, we're going for it, huh? 
CHAIR LEE: Oh yea. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that resolution was RESOLUTION 20-175. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with ordinances, second and final reading. 
ORDINANCES  
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 114 	(2020) 
Draft 1 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE THE ZONING FROM OPEN ZONE 
TO R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (CONDITIONAL ZONING) FOR 6.943 ACRES 
IN KIHEI, MAUI, HAWAII, IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-9-004:141 
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I only have one, but it's a long time coming. 
Mr. Clerk, may I request that you confirm if the unilateral agreement has been 
recorded? 
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Member Paltin, the unilateral agreement for this item has 
been recorded. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Clerk. 
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 114 (2020) ON SECOND AND FINAL 
READING. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 
SECOND. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 70 
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second. 
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sugimura to pass 
Bill 114 on second and final reading. 
Ms. Paltin. 
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Bill 114 would approve a conditional change 
in zoning from Open Zone to R-1 Residential District for approximately seven acres of 
land located near Kilohana Drive and South Kihei Road, mauka of Keawekapu Beach. 
The R-1 Residential District Zoning would allow construction of 28 single-family 
dwellings that must be sold as workforce housing. 
If the bill is enacted, development will require a Special Management Area permit, so 
there will be further opportunity for public review. 
This project will contribute to alleviating the need for workforce housing in the Kihei-
Makena Community Plan area near job centers. 
I respectfully ask the Council's support for my motion. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? 
Yes, Ms. King, and then Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank, thank you, Chair. I didn't know if Ms. Sugimura wanted 
to go first as the seconder as the motion. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No, that's fine. I'll go second. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, I just wanted to thank Member Paltin for being very 
thoughtful as we went through the conditions. There still seems to be a little bit of 
conflicts among neighbor, the neighboring areas. And I just want to encourage the 
developer to continue to meet with the neighborhood associations around there to 
address some of their issues, ongoing issues with traffic and with, I think we heard 
today that they wanted assurance that there would be, you know, those, those 
construction dust guards or whatever, be, before it even gets to the SMA permit area. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 71 
So, that, you know, that, those, those kinds of issues can be alleviated, I think, by 
having good communication among the neighbors. 
And so, I'd like to see that ongoing. It, this has been a difficult one, because it didn't 
come from our district. It came from outside our district and it, and it, and it was sort 
of out of the blue. So, I want to thank the, those neighbors who, who worked to make 
this an acceptable project in the interest of bringing affordable housing to this area. 
And, and I think it's a good area. I just, I do have, I think we do have ongoing traffic 
concerns. And so, this is another indication of needing to prioritize the North-South 
Collector Road, so that we can, we can take some of that traffic off of South Kihei 
Road. But, other than that, you know, I support going forward. And I also will be 
attending, if like, if it works out, the SMA hearings on this, just to follow it through. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Sugimura. 
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, thank you. Thank you very much, Ms. Paltin, 
Ms. King. And I just wanted to thank the Kihune Family, who put this project together 
and supported, you know, our affordable housing shortages that we have in our 
community. I also want to give special thanks to Joyce Murashige, Clerk's Office, for 
making sure that this unilateral agreement went through. Mr. Hopper, Moana, and 
David Raatz is always extra helpful. So, thank you very much for making this happen. 
I look forward to seeing this built. Thank you. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore-- 
Yes, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just wanted to correct the record. 
It's not affordable housing. It's workforce. So, it's not affordable. I just wanted to 
reiterate that it's not affordable. It's pretty pricey. But it's workforce. So, mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? 
Yes, Ms. King. 
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just wanted to say, I stand corrected. Thank you, Keani, for 
reminding us that this is workforce housing. It doesn't qualify for the under 100 percent 
AMI or under 80 percent. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 72 
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion to pass this bill on 
second and final reading, say "aye", and raise your hand. 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. 
Mr. Clerk. 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 122 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I, 
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES — SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND 
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS, 
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK, 
(CENTER FOR TECH AND CIVIC LIFE GRANT) 
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, may I 
request the Clerk also call up Bills 123 through 130. 
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION. 
CHAIR LEE: Wow. The whole ball of wax. Okay, yes, no objections. 
Mr. Clerk, bring them all up. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 73 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 123 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; 
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, 
BOND FUND, ACQUISITION OF 60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET BUILDING AND PROPERTY; 
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS; 
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS) 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 124 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C — CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, 
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, 
ACQUISITION OF 60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET BUILDING AND PROPERTY 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 125 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5101, 
BILL NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL 
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS 
(DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE — ACQUISITION OF 60 SOUTH 
CHURCH STREET BUILDING AND PROPERTY) 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 126 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48, 
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO REAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS 
FOR VERY LOW INCOME, LOW INCOME, BELOW MODERATE INCOME 
AND MODERATE INCOME RENTAL UNIT PROJECTS 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 74 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 127 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY 
OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT 
WITH THE OFFICE OF THE AUDITOR, STATE OF HAWAII, TO AUDIT THE 
HAWAII EMPLOYER-UNION HEALTH BENEFITS TRUST FUND TO MEET THE 
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS UNDER GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING 
STANDARDS BOARD STATEMENT NUMBER 75 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 128 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI 
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I, 
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES — SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND 
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS, 
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE 
(HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS (HIDTA)) 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 129 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO REAL PROPERTY TAX 
ORDINANCE NO. 	  
BILL NO. 	 130 	(2020) 
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48.305, 
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO CLASSIFICATION OF REAL PROPERTY 
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 122 THROUGH BILL 130 ON SECOND 
AND FINAL READING. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 75 
CHAIR LEE: Second? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: 
SECOND. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez moved, and Member Hokama seconded, 
to pass the Bills 122 through 130 on second and final reading. 
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'm doing my part in getting us 
through this meeting as quickly as possible, since these bills were supported 
unanimously by the Council on first reading. 
Bill 122 amend, amends Appendix A, Part I, of Fiscal Year 2021 Budget by adding a 
new appropriation of the Office of the County Clerk, entitled "Center for Tech and Civic 
Life Grant" in the amount of $130,456. 
Bill 123 through Bill 125 amends Fiscal Year 2021 Budget by allocating Bond Funds 
for the purchase of 60 Church Street for the use of Maui Emergency Management 
Agency and other departments. 
Bill 126 amends Chapters 3.48, Maui County Code, to allow previously eligible projects 
that are operating under a regulatory agreement with the State and Federal 
governments continue to qualify for the real property tax exemption. 
Bill 127 authorizes the Mayor to enter into a, an agreement to fund the audit of the 
Hawaii Employer-Union Health Benefit Trust Fund for Fiscal Years 2020, 2021, and 
2022. The cost for these services would be $3,500; $3,700; and $3,800 for the 
respective fiscal years. 
Bill 128 amends Appendix A, Part I, of the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget to add an additional 
$65,450 to appropriation for the Department of Police, High Intensity Drug Trafficking 
Areas for use on overtime costs. 
Bill 129 establishes a long-term rental real property tax classification in Chapter 3.48 
of the Maui County Code. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 76 
Bill 130 amends Chapter 3.48.305, Maui County Code, to provide parity in real property 
tax classification. Under this bill, if a property is allowed to be used as short-term rental, 
the unit will be taxed as short-term rental unless it qualifies for an exemption. 
I ask for the Members continued support of this motion. Mahalo, Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Very good. 
Mr. Hokama. 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Chair, I am happy to support my Budget Chair, Ms. Rawlins-
Fernandez. I'd just like to ask that I be able to be cast a "no" vote on one bill only and 
that's Bill 126, as I did on first reading. All others, I support and vote "aye". Thank you, 
Chair. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other comments or questions, because the President is, elect, is 
coming on any, momentarily. I think he came on already. So, any other comments? 
So, the, I'm going to take Bills 114, 1, sorry, 122 through 130, except Bill 126. All those 
in favor to pass these bills on second and final reading, please raise your hand and 
say "aye". 
AYES: 	 COUNCILMEMBERS HOKAMA, KAMA, KING, 
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, 
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND 
CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: NONE. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries 9-0. 
And then, Bill 126, all those in favor say "aye". 
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA, 
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR 
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE. 
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA. 

Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui 
December 4, 2020 
Page 77 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We have eight "ayes", and one "no"; motion carries on Bill 126. 
That brings us to the end of the calendar, everybody. Have a wonderful weekend. And 
now, let's go watch Mr. Hokama on national TV. Okay, we're going to follow the link 
that you sent to us, okay, Mr. Hokama? 
COUNCILMEMBER HOKAMA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Members. 
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Take care everybody. Good job today. Very good job. Thank you. 
Great job. Meeting is adjourned. 
ADJOURNMENT 
The regular meeting of December 4, 2020 was adjourned by the Chair at 11:28 am. 
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK 
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII 
201204/Iks:jm 

r.”., 	 , • 	 . 
	
. 	 D  
2 DEC -3 P 07  
County Clerk 
From: 	 Marion Haller <marion.haller@gmail.com > 
Sent: 	 Thursday, December 03, 2020 2:45 PM 
To: 	 County Clerk; county.clerk@mauicounty.gov  
Subject: 	 Ref. Bill 130 Testimony 
Dear Council members. 
I am writing as a private citizen who is also a landlord and provides affordable housing in the up-country area, so your bill does 
not impact me personally. 
However, I am strongly in favor of the County's support of affordable rental housing and this Bill does not seem to support that. 
My understanding is that 
many condominium owners that are currently classified in the "Non-owner-occupied" class will suddenly be 
recategorized as "Short-term rental" for property taxes. 
Wouldn't you want to know which condo owners are renting long term and encourage them to do that? If so, why 
would you put all condo owners in one category? Highest and best use for our community is Long Term Rental. 
Please reconsider this bill so we support those offering long term rental housing on Maui with a lower tax rate. 
Aloha, 
Marion 
Marion Haller, R(B) 
Broker In Charge & Productivity Coach 
Keller Williams Realty Maui 
285 W. Kaahumanu Ave., 
Kahului, HI 96732 
Cell: 808-250-8553 
marionhaller.kw.com   
To Schedule a Coaching appointment with me  Click Here 
1 

R CAT: 
From: 	 David Mumma <dmumma1683@gmail.com > 	 NV DEC -41 MI 7: 3$ 
Sent: 	 Thursday, December 3, 2020 4:30 PM 
To: 	 County Clerk 
Subject: 	 NO NO NO to property tax increase!!! We and all our clients. are op-ass /e14:.tpriariy.: 
property tax increase at this time. Your constituents are hurtinO! 	 tot -Stiitstead. 
David J Mumma, Realtor RB-14788 
Sunburst Properties Sales & Property Management 
P 0 Box 367 
Kihei HI 96753-0367 
808-879-0922 
808-879-6280 

County Clerk 
From: 	 alohablu@maui.net  
Sent: 	 Thursday, December 03, 2020 2:42 PM 
To: 	 County Clerk 	
2620 DEC -3 PR 3. 07 Subject: 	 Bill 129 & 130 
I oppose this bill due to the fact that I bought a second condo for rental income to use in my:retkehijeflas itallrikerm rental 
and I do NOT want to pay short term rental taxes. Thank you for your consideration. 
"Blue" Robinson 1-800-822-7368 (808) 669-8208 
Vacation Rental Manager, nohonanicondos.com  
Equity One Real Estate Inc. 
License RS #43058 
1 

From: 	 Tamara Tamara A. Paltin 	
2620 DEC -4 MI  7: 38 
Sent: 	 Thursday, December 3, 2020 5:31 PM 
To: 	 County Clerk 
Subject: 	 Fwd: Testimony for Bill 130 for 12/4/2020 	
' T Y C.T.L 
Sent from my iPad 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Julie Strong <juliestrong@hawaiilife.com > 
Date: December 3, 2020 at 3:29:08 PM HST 
To: "Planning@mauicounty.gov " <Planning@mauicounty.gov > 
Cc: "Shane M. Sinenci" <Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us >, "Tamara A. Paltin" 
<Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us >, "Alice L. Lee" <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us > 
Subject: Testimony for Bill 130 for 12/4/2020 
Aloha Kakou, 
I would like to present written testimony for tomorrow on Bill 130. 
Highest and best use is the best way to preserve the rights of the homeowners, and motivate a 
reduction (vs an increase) in short term vacation rentals amongst those classified as such, yet not used 
in this way. 
Classifications for 1.a.ii and 1.a.vii are unreasonably punitive to homeowners who purchased them 
under a classification that carried lower tax responsibilities. How can highest and best use be a germane 
factor, or even warrant being included as a factor at all, if zoning supersedes it regardless? if the county 
wants more long term rentals how will this help motivate that given home owners who are not renting 
their units in this way, would need extra income to cover the tax increase; especially during a tourist 
restricted time of a pandemic. How is penalizing 2nd home owners with with short term tax rates 
reasonable or appropriate? 
I would very much like to see the research and studies done to QUANITIFY how much income this would 
generate for the county. Other county planning efforts towards vacation rentals have been put into 
motion w/o due investigation into the actual outcomes should they succeed, to validate the efforts and 
investment in the 1st place (e.g. removing legalized STRH rights, as a means to significantly reduce 
residential vacation rentals. this while 90% of the illegal vacation rentals were actually being reduced 
effectively.) 
Mahalo nui loa no ko okou kokua apau. 
Please feel free to reach out for any reason. 
Me ke 
Julie 
1 

Julie Strong 
808-829-8289 
REALTOR® (RS) 80186 
ACC, RENE, Certified Luxury Specialist 
Hawaii Life - Kapalua 
EXCLUSIVE AFFILIATE OF 
CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE 
2 
