MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-12-03
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1467,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MiNUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
December 3, 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY. DECEMBER 3, 2021,
BEGINNING AT 9:01 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Council meeting of December 3, 2021, please come
to order.
Madam Clerk, roll call.
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Chair, proceeding with roll call. In accordance with the
Governor's most recent emergency proclamation related to the COVID-19 response,
Members should state who, if anyone, is present with them as part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: . . . Chair. Aloha kakahiaka my Maui hikina. Haole la
Po'alima. We're broadcasting today from the Hana Cultural Center, with my EA Dawn
Lono. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: And aloha to you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and good morning. Madam Chair, my colleagues, and
everyone else joining us for our Council meeting today. For the record. I'm transmitting
from my residence up here in rainy Makawao. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha to you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 2
COUNCILMEMBER KING:Aloha kakahiaka and I just forgot what the morning greeting was.
CHAIR LEE; . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: . . . Alright to all of you, all my colleagues, everybody out there
in Akaku TV land . . . and I'm out of my house again today, just to hopefully get better
connection. But it was raining pretty hard this morning in Kihei, so I don't know if that's
going to affect. If I drop off it'll be because of connectivity problems, not because I
don't want to be in the meeting. And there's nobody else in my, near my room where
I'm meeting from.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: . . . Chair. . . . Councilmembers. That just rolls off the
tongue, doesn't it? I'm home alone on, in Lanai and I'm ready for this beautiful meeting
and boy if, if the rain makes the chickens louder for some reason, they're really.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . . and aloha kakahiaka, my Malu'ulu o Lele. Broadcasting
live and direct from the West Maui District Office with my EA Angela, more than six feet
away.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: ... is the greeting I guess and good morning, everybody.
I'm in the County Building, 8th floor, I'm the only one here on the floor. Gabe, I wish
you were here, at least I would have company. And it's a beautiful day. It rained last
night in Kula, and it looks like cloudy skies and will rain in Wailuku too, so this is all for
our drought condition, we welcome it. Looking forward to a good meeting, Chair.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Tern Tasha Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 3
And . . . to all of my fellowCOUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair.
Councilmembers. I am here in my home, at my work space and I am by myself.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair, my Molokai nui ahina. I am
here at the Moloka'i District Office alone on my side of the office. . .. kakou.
Members, . . . we're going to have a long meeting today. However, we
could make it a little shorter if we keep our questions concise. Okay?
CHAIR LEE:
So Madam Clerk, could you give us the totals?
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, KELLY T. KING, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA,
VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
EXCUSED NONE.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine Members present, no Members absent, and no
Members excused. There is a quorum to present, a quorum is present to conduct the
business of the Council.
For the record, I am Kathy Kaohu, County Clerk. And also present from the Office of
the County Clerk are Deputy County Clerk James Krueger; and Legislative Division
staff Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: And opening remarks will be provided by our Councilmember from Lanai. Gabe
Johnson.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 4
CHAIR LEE: Very well said, Member Johnson. Now Members, please join me in reciting the
Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Okay, before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please
request that everyone keep their microphones muted, unless it is your turn, time to
speak. Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
Now we're ready for the presentation of testimony on ceremonial resolutions. I think
you're going to enjoy this.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Chair, our first testifier is Lin McEwan.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. LIN MCEWAN:
Good morning. Thank you so much for having me. I am just here to speak on behalf
of Pono Akiona. My name is Lin McEwan, I'm the Executive Director at ProArts
Playhouse in Kihei. And when we first reopened after 20 very long months of being
closed, one of our very first events was Pono's First Annual Hawaii Beatboxing
Championship. And it was absolutely incredible. Pono worked not only as a performer,
but he also organized the event as a producer. And I can say that even for as, as
young as he is, he's probably one of the most professional people I have overworked
with. He was conscientious, he was on top of every possible detail. He did a
tremendous job.
Marketing, I think he does an absolutely fantastic job of representing the community all
around the world as he travels as a beatboxer. And he realty does a fantastic job of
representing this artform as well, which ! think  alot of folks aren't necessarily familiar
with. And he does an absolutely fantastic job of doing this. People were surprised that
we were having this unusual event, and we were completely packed with a waiting list.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 5
sold-out. It was wonderful. It was all ages. Families there, and I can honestly say it's
one of the most fun shows that we have ever done, and we are so looking forward to
hosting it once again, and I fully and wholly support this resolution to honor him
because he deserves every bit of it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. McEwan. Any questions?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Lin. Good to see you and you're doing
a fantastic job at ProArts too. Just wanted to clarify that even though you had a packed
event, that you guys are very conscious about COVID protocol. So having been there.
MS. MCEWAN: We are indeed and when I say packed,  Imean packed at the allowed capacity
that we were allowed to do. We are actually, we are very, very intense about our
protocols.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right, no I've been there recently as you know so, yeah, I have
experienced that. The other thing I wanted to ask you is, is this young man on your
board? Because if not, maybe you should get him on your board of directors?
MS. MCEWAN: I've actually, I have been speaking to him about working with us in more
capacities, because I would love to have Pono onboard in more in-depth capacity. And
actually I would love to say since you asked the question about the COVID protocols,
I would like to say it was a new thing for us, we were working on it, and we were
extremely stringent and Pono was so conscientious about making sure that every
protocol was followed to the letter. He was really, really incredible in, to work with in
every regard, including safety.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Awesome. Thank you.
MS. MCEWAN: Which is necessary, when you've got microphones with that kind of
beatboxing, yes, has a lot to it so.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any other questions? If not, thank you very much, Ms. McEwan.
Kathy, Clerk, may we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: One more, we have one other testifier signed up under Trish and Chino.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3. 2021
Page 6
MS. IRISH SMITH :
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. SMITH; My name is Irish Smith. Chino was here, he had to leave for work. We are
very close with Pono. We are very proud to be here. I want to say mahalo to Lin, who
is a dear friend of ours and was very happy that she was able to do that show for the
Hawaii Beatboxing Championship. And I want to give mad love to his parents David
and Cheryl. We've been friends with Pono and also booking him to do events since he
was 15 years old and to see the extraordinary feats he's taken is just absolutely
phenomenal. So we're so proud, I get kind of emotional, you know, to see how far he's
come.
He was in Europe recently, and placed 6th, and then also is a two-time American
champion. And it's just really beautiful that he's cultivating the scene on Maui. And
we're so proud to be a part of it and I just wanted to give him a lot of love. And thank
you Council for all the work you do for our community and thank you for honoring the
arts and being so supportive, especially such interesting times to do events. I know
we're all having fun.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you so much.
MS. SMITH: Thank you so much. Mahalo from Chino and I, and we're so proud of Pono and
we're so, just respect and love him, and I know his future is so bright. And we're lucky
to be on the journey with him. So thank you so much and have a beautiful Aloha Friday.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no other person signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to closing public testimony on ceremonial
resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 7
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the ceremonial resolution.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 21-196
HONORING PONO AKIONA FOR WINNING 6TH
PLACE IN THE INTERNATIONAL 2021 GRAND
BEATBOX BATTLE. TAG TEAM DIVISION
CHAIR LEE; Presiding Officer Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair, may I please request that the Clerk read the resolution in
its entirety.
CHAIR LEE: Certainly.
Madam Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern Kama. I can't hear you, you're muted, you're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. And now it is my honor to recognize one of
Maui's outstanding young adults Pono Akiona.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern, Pro Tern Kama, we need to vote on the resolution.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: You want to make a motion to adopt the resolution?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, thank you.
CHAIR, I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION BEFORE US
TODAY HONORING PONO AKIONA.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 8
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Second.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Pro Tern Kama, seconded by Member Paltin to adopt the resolution.
Any discussion?
Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Now it is definitely my honor, I'm very proud to
recognize one of Maui's outstanding young adults, Pono Akiona for his international
success in the art of beatboxing. You know, as a mother myself, I know that many kids
like to mess around and make funny noises. But Pono has taken what is often known
as a hobby to another level as an artform. Thanks to many who have mentored and
supported him in his journey to becoming a professional beatboxer. First time I've ever
heard of that.
Pono has won awards on the level, on local, national, and international levels for his
unique style of vocal mastery, which we'll get to hear in brief, a brief sample of,
hopefully, shortly, before we're finished today. Pono just returned from Poland where
he won 6th place in what's called the Tag Team Division with his team partner Alex
Sanchez.
So it is with great pride that we celebrate Pono's accomplishments and recognize all
who have helped and supported him thus far, especially his parents David and Cheryl
Akiona, and his mom does works in Parks and Rec. So congratulations Pono and best
wishes for your continued success in beatboxing as you pursue your continued
education in Business Administration. And now Chair and Members I ask for your full
support of this motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Are there any more yes, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I can hardly wait to hear a sampling of his talents.
But what an accomplishment. I will tell you that when I read your reso. Member Kama,
I said oh, if I was still doing First Friday, which I did it for ten years, the street festivals,
I would hire him to perform. I mean it sounds like so interesting, right we did break
dancing, we had all this music, and I think this is the next thing that we need to promote.
So I support this and thank you very much for bringing it forward.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 9
CHAIR LEE: Anymore
and say "aye".
discussion. All those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Very good.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, shall we introduce our honoree, Mr. Pono Akiona. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: He's on the call; right?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Pono, you can unmute yourself on your end.
CHAIR LEE: Pono, are you.
MR. PONO AKIONA: Alright, I think I got it set-up. Yeah, hello.
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you.
MR. AKIONA: Hi. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: We can't see you though.
MR. AKIONA: Okay, let me. There we go. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
MR. AKIONA: Hi, thank you. I'm so honored to be here. So thankful to everybody who helped
make this happen. Thank you to, to Auntie Lois for reaching out, and setting this up,
putting it all together. I would also like to thank of course my parents and my family for
always being here, in full support of me. Since the beginning they have been very
helpful, very supportive of this, you know, this part that's really not novel, known, or
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 10
anything, it’s a really niche thing. So it was very, I'm very grateful to be able to be in a
situation that, you know, that I am with their full support.
And I'd also like to thank Lin McEwan, who was just here recently for helping me set
up the first-ever State Championship for Beatboxing. I hope to hold it annually, and
continue to do that, continue to work with her. I'm also thankful for, to Irish Smith and
Chino LaForge, who came on and did testimonial earlier. They helped me a lot in the
beginning when I was starting out, getting my first shows. And like, like she said. I've
known them for many years, and it's been a fruitful relationship. Thank you to
everybody who made this possible. And should I do  asample now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please.
MR. AKIONA: Alright. Okay.
(Pono Akiona performed a beatboxing solo.)
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Wow, you must teach us how to do that one day.
MR. AKIONA: Of course.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very, very much. That was wonderful.
MR. AKIONA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any comments.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Impressive.
COUNCiLMEMBER JOHNSON: The judges got it wrong, you should have been 1st place
Pono.
CHAIR LEE: That's right. We want a recall. Thank you so much, Pono. Congratulations to
you. We thank Councilmember Tasha Kama for bringing you to our, our meeting and
to honoring you today. And we wish you great luck in the future. And come back again
and provide us more, more entertainment, okay? Thank you.
MR. AKIONA: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Good job.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 11
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair that is RESOLUTION NO. 21-196.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY CLERK: And our next item on the agenda is to set the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, at this time we will set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder,
the calendar can still be adjusted even after it is set. Are there any requested changes
to the Consent Calendar at this time?
Member King. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just to remove item 21-536, the grants and contracts. Oh, I’m
sorry, that's not, that's not the right one. I guess it's not on here. It looks like they
already took it out and put it on as, under county communication. Sorry about that. I
read the wrong number.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Member Sugimura
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Keani's already ahead of me.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 21-535, please remove.
CHAIR LEE: It would be helpful if you mention what it is too.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, sorry. Director of Water Supply transmitting State of
Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water use reports for September
2021 for all registered well reporters. 21-535.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any others. Members? Alright. Are there any objections to setting this
Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 12
CHAIR LEE: The Consent Calendar is set.
Ms. Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK; Thank you, Chair. Proceeding with the presentation of testimony on
agenda items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online
meeting by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's
agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for
up to three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name
of any organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying.
Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected
and can view the remainder of the meeting on Akaku Maui Community Media television
or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting
at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, our first person to testify is Dr. Genesis Young. To be followed by the testifier
calling in on the phone number 3157.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning. Dr. Young.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
[testifying on County Communication No. 21-550 and BillDR. GENESIS YOUNG
Nos. 141 (2021) & 148 (2021)1:
Good morning, aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
DR. YOUNG: Aloha, Council and thank you. And I wanted to testify on Bill 148, moratorium
on new transient accommodation as I strongly support that. Because we have too
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 13
many visitors, and there's very few ways we have of actually getting a handle on that
problem of having too many visitors, which are stressing and damaging our
environment, stressing and damaging the resident quality of life, and Hawaiian culture.
And so we must do something, and one way to do that, and seemingly one of the few
ways to do that is to control accommodations.
And so we have a moratorium to do that, and while that's happening, we have a
Temporary Investigative Group that's going to look into how to manage that better,
which is necessary. And I, I support this bill strongly, and we, and we definitely need
to do more, and that's what the TIG will do, hopefully. And I expect it will do it well.
And I believe that we should consider the County actually buying up short-term rentals
as they come on the market as a way to manage tourism. Because then the County
would own them and they could keep half of them in short-term rental and take the
income, which would balance the tax loss for turning the other half into long-term
rentals. And I think that that would be a really win-win solution buying them up, and
keeping half for income, and half as long-term rentals to decrease our tourist and you
can actually titrate the number that you have based on housing requirements and the,
and the tourism numbers. So I think that that would be a really elegant solution
potentially, that I put to the TIG.
And I also wanted to testify on CC 21-550, Youth Council. I really think that this is a
great idea, long overdue. I, our organization Teran James Young Foundation knows
all about youth engagement. And having youth engagement in the political sphere, I
think is important, because that's how we will build and grow our next leaders. So I'm
really in favor of that and will support that any way 1 can.
And then Bill 141, exempting Hawaiian Home Lands from water availability. There
should be nothing in the way of, of Hawaiians getting their own land, using their own
land. And so I support this, I believe that's what this, this bill is, it's, as far as 1 can tell
to allow more Hawaiian land to be used by Hawaiians. That would be my desire as
well. Enough already. Okay. Thank you very much. I'm complete.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? If not, thank you. Dr. Young.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is calling on the last four digits of telephone number
3157. And 3157 will be followed by Lance Collins.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 14
MS. MICHELE LINCOLN (testifying on County Communication No. 21-542 and the West
Maui Community Plan):
Aloha, this is Michele Lincoln. I'm number 3157, I'm representing Protect and Preserve
Kahoma Ahupua'a Association. Can you guys hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, we can.
MS. LINCOLN: Awesome. I just love the ladies who did talk story before the meeting started,
they were talking about oppressive regimes around the world, and a lot of those
oppressive regimes call themselves democracies or republic and I think what sets ours
apart from that is that we try to do what is right, and that actually ties in with my
testimony. So thank you for this opportunity to testify on agenda item 21-542, regarding
the West Maui Community Plan.
The main reason for my testimony is for the County Council to seek guidance from the
Corp. Counsel so that the wording in the revised community plan upholds the ruling of
the Supreme Court regarding Kahoma Village. The ultimate goal is to hold the
developer accountable for following proper protocols regarding community plan
amendments. Not only will this ensure that justice is served, but it will help with the
enforcement of new community plans in the future. Think about it, if developers can
circumvent laws and disregard rulings of the highest court and avoid any
consequences for violations, then it sets a dangerous precedent.
The County Council's decisions on this particular matter are critical to how community
plans will be adhered to in future. If this issue isn't addressed properly, all the time and
effort put toward community plans and the cultural ,historical, environmental, and
projected growth desires of the community are put at-risk. The life of the land is
perpetuated in righteousness, isn't just our State motto, it's a law.
And it's been six months since the Hawaii Supreme Court ruled in favor on all counts
with Protect and Preserve Kahoma Ahupua'a Association against the Maui Planning
Commission and Stanford Carr Development. Ignoring the high court ruling, nothing
has been done to make right the wrongs committed. How is that perpetuating
righteousness? Instead, it seems like they're trying to circumvent the law by means of
this revised community plan. Is that a precedent you want to encourage?
All I’m asking is if you'd take the time and effort to word the community plan in such a
way that requires the Maui Planning Commission and Stanford Carr to follow the law
and right the wrongs committed in amicable way that will benefit the public for
generations to come.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 15
I attended the majority of the community plan meetings when we could meet in person,
and developing parks and preserving historical sites was a priority expressed through
this entire process of updating the community plan. And Lahaina was especially
singled out as needing a gathering place for the community. And as it stands, the
violation of the community plan by the developer has taken away a designated park on
a very historical piece of property. So please, I'm begging you, do whatever it takes to
do what is right. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Lincoln. Any questions. Members.
We have one from Member Paltin and Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Ms. Lincoln. I just wanted to clarify that you're
referring to the Supreme Court saying that the County Council through the 201H
process does not have authority over the SMA area, is that what you're saying?
MS. LINCOLN: You know what, Lance Collins is my attorney, and he is going to be testifying
next... on the lineup. So he can answer where, more concisely and understandably
than I can on such matters. So 1 appreciate-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MS. LINCOLN: —fordoing that.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Ms. Lincoln, thank you for your
testimony and for I guess we'll hear more from Lance. But I just wanted to find out if
you had sent in written testimony yourself with the wording that you are talking about?
With your preferred wording?
MS. LINCOLN: You know what, here is the problem is I don't know exactly how to put the
wording in the plan and that is why Lance changed his schedule today around to be
able to testify and maybe answer those questions. Because I, I'm not even computer
challenged. I'm computer challenged, and 1 couldn't even figure out how to get my
computer to do this. I'm on my phone. So I, I'm not an educated person to help exactly
on the wording.
I just know that we won, there was a violation and that there's a way that they are trying
to get around of actually dealing with us, and, and not even taking our calls or willing
to do any kind of mediation on it, just saying oh, the project's done so it's, you know,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 16
too bad, too late, whatever. And, and yes, we're not going to make anybody tear down
a house. But it's, I think Lance will be able to help Corp. Counsel come up with wording
that will ensure that we can make sure the community and the public welfare is served
in the areas that we're concerned about.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Alright, thank you.
MS. LINCOLN; Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Lincoln.
MS. LINCOLN: Thank you. aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Lance Collins. To be followed by Kathleen Giambalvo.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Lance.
MR. LANCE COLLINS (testifying on County Communication No. 21-542 and the West Maui
Community Plan):
Aloha, good morning, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. COLLINS: Great. Aloha kakahiaka kakou. ... My name is Lance Collins, I'm actually
testifying on my own behalf. I do represent Michele Lincoln in the Protect and Preserve
Kahoma Ahupua'a Association, but I represent them in a pro se manner and I am
testifying on my own behalf today.
The first item I want to testify on is item M.1. the unnumbered bill related to the West
Maui Community Plan. The West Maui Community Plan was a great effort by the West
Maui community to update the 1996 West Maui Community Plan. I think by and large
what your Committee is presenting is, is excellent. There should be some adjustments,
and I would like to speak to the adjustment relating to the land between Kahoma
Stream, Honoapiilani Highway, Kenui Street, and Front Street, which is known by some
as Kahoma Villages.
Protect and Preserve Kahoma Ahupua'a Association sought to address a number of
concerns that were in the 1996 Community Plan, which was that that area was
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 17
designated to have six acres of park, to have greenspace buffer, walkways, and to
protect historic properties. Those issues were not addressed when Kahoma Villages
was brought up.
This Council attempted to exempt the project from community plan amendment. It then
went to the Maui Planning Commission for an SMA permit. Protect and Preserve
Kahoma Ahupua‘a Association and various community members sought to intervene.
That was denied by the Maui Planning Commission. They appealed to the Circuit Court
and then to the Appellate Courts, and in the end of the Intermediate Court of Appeals
ruled against Maui Planning Commission as it has consistently done in denying
community members their right to intervene in SMA proceedings and it also ruled that
the Council did not exempt the project from community plan consistency in the SMA.
The developer then appealed it to the Hawaii Supreme Court, who agreed with the
Intermediate Court of Appeals and further said that the Council lacks the authority,
even if it wanted to, to exempt a project under 201H from the community plan
consistency. And so the problem with respect to this area in the West Maui Community
Plan as its proposed is that it lacks all of the language from the 1996 Community Plan
that this area was subject to. And there was no discussion about it during any stage
of the proceedings from the citizen advisory process up through the Committee
process.
This was done by the Administration and Corporation Counsel to basically try to undo
all of, all of what occurred at the Supreme Court. So that's my testimony for item M.1.
unnumbered bill.
If I can go on to County Communication 21-542?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. COLLINS; Thank you. So County Communication 21-542 does in a limited way address
the concerns that Michele Lincoln and the Protect and Preserve Kahoma Ahupua'a
Association listed in her letter of October 8, which is attached to a, my letter that I sent
you folks yesterday evening. I apologize for the delay, where she lists in that letter
every single piece of language in the 1996 Community Plan that applies to that area
between Front Street and Honoapiilani Highway, between Kahoma Stream and Kenui
Street. That language would be excellent if it were retained in the new community plan.
Obviously, it's not possible to have the six-acre park in that area any more, but that's
actually not the point. The point is, is that the developer needs to do a community plan
amendment as is the, is the consequence of the Supreme Court's decision. It needs
to do a community plan amendment, so that the community has a sufficient opportunity
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 18
in a transparent and meaningful way to work with the developer to basically come to a
resolution of this problem. The answer is not to simply erase all of this and allow the
developer to get a get out of free jail card because the Administration and Corporation
Counsel gave wrong advice about the limits of the County Council's authority with
respect to this issue.
In the first instance, it is not a regulatory talking to retain the 1996 language, because
it's already the law. Michele Lincoln and Protect and Preserve Kahoma Ahupua'a
Association is simply asking you folks to retain that language and have the developer
or the Administration go through the community, community plan amendment process
to allow the community to fully vet the changes and the trade-offs with respect to this.
Second of all there are no vested rights. The developer built the project without the
necessary approvals. They don't have an SMA permit for example, and they don't
have a community plan amendment. And by, by erasing all of that language in the
current draft, that would create a vested right and it basically would exclude the
community from the conversation.
And finally, the fact that the Council attempted to exempt this area from the community
plan language in 2014 does not bind this Council in any way. And even if they, even if
you folks did have some limited authority to do that, it, a previous Council never has
the authority to bind a future Council. Otherwise, there would be no point in having
majority rule.
So I ask that you at the minimum, adopt the language that's being proposed in the
county communication or alternatively all of the language that is identified by Michele
Lincoln and her letter of October 8. And basically include all of that language in the
plan, either on the page that she suggested or as an appendix, specific to that and tell
the Administration and the developer that they need to work with the community to
resolve this in a fair and open and transparent manner. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, questions. Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Lance. Thanks for all your information
and background. So, because we heard from Michele that they're not asking for any
houses to be torn down. So you feel like there is a, a mitigation, a, you know, a solution
to the problem that would be satisfactory to the community, and to the, the Kahoma
Village folks and the people who are, who are fighting to save Kahoma Ahupua'a? Do
you feel like there is a solution there that they come up with?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 19
MR. COLLINS: Absolutely, there's, there's many solutions. So you can't build a six-acre park
because there's homes there now. But the developer, you know, could assist in finding
park space somewhere else, in terms of historic property mitigation. Yeah, well, if you
built houses on top of the ‘Alamihi Fishpond or, or the . . . or the other issues that are
there, you know, there are ways to mitigate that. So, yeah, unfortunately the range of
options that, that can occur are limited because there's houses there now.
But you know the developer took the risk of building this without having final un
appealed, non-appealed approval, and one of the risks was that what he was doing
was illegal. And well, he built it and it turned out to be illegal. And so there needs to
be some remedy, and this thing where the Administration and Corp. Counsel just get
the Council to basically pass something to erase all of that and leave the local folks
high and dry like what happened in Palama Drive is not a solution. I mean we're still
dealing with the Palama Drive thing fifteen years later. So, you know, the, it's kicking
it down or trying to sweep it under the rug isn't going to solve anything and the, the, the
most structured way of resolving it would be to go through the community plan
amendment process on this parcel separately from, from.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; And, and you're asking we go through that before we pass the
the revised community plan?
MR. COLLINS; No. We are asking simply that you include, you retain the language from the
1996 Plan in the current plan, with respect to this area. Because then that would
require the developer, the Administration to propose a community plan amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. Alright, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions, Members? If not, thank you. Oh, we have one more.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So this a point of information. So I'm just curious, this
sounds very serious. So I'm wondering if at the appropriate time we can hear from
Corp. Counsel. And I know that Lance Collins-
CHAIR LEE: When the matters comes up. When the matter comes up.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Thank you, Mr. Collins.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 20
MR. COLLINS: Thank you very much. Have a good day and good weekend. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Kathleen Giambalvo. To be followed by Brett
Gobar.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. KATHLEEN GIAMBALVO (testifying on the West Maui Community Plan):
Aloha. My name is Kathleen Giambalvo and I'm providing testimony today in support
of the Ka'anapali 2020 West Maui Plan. I've been  aresident in Kaanapali since 1999
and beginning in 2002 I started attending the community meetings of the
Ka'anapali 2020 group. I found them to be composed of a cross-section of interested
local residents who were committed to providing thoughtful development of this portion
of the Kaanapali lands, and their meetings continued for over 18 years.
The Ka'anapali 2020 community plan provides for use areas of small-town centers,
parks and open space, along with residential noted as low and medium housing. The
adopted Maui Island Plan incorporated the Ka'anapali 2020 Plan and the Maui Island
Plan. Many individuals spent long hours creating it for the benefit of planning Maui's
growth in a smart way.
I have seen the proposed CPAC community plan, and I'd like to ask the Council when
considering that plan, how the County of Maui could maintain a 100-acre park,
especially in that terrain? The section would be susceptible to fire, run-off, homeless
encampments, if left to lie fallow. Would not residential and a small park be a better
use for this parcel? And I do support the Ka'anapali 2020 proposed plan and thanks
for listening to me today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions?
Member Paltin, then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Giambalvo for your testify.
1 just wanted to clarify; do you still work for Ka'anapali 2020?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 21
MS. GIAMBALVO: No, I work for Kaanapali Land Management, and I manage the
homeowner's association for the coffee farms.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Giambalvo. I, you know, I met with
the folks who are advising on the Ka'anapali 2020, and I looked at the maps and they
didn't, there wasn't any designation on what kind of housing that would be. So that
was my, my concern. You're saying it was low to medium. Is that written in stone
somewhere? Is that in the records? Or I didn't see it on the map.
MS. GIAMBALVO: I saw it in the yellow legend in the map presented in the testimony
previously. And I think it’s still in the planning stages. So I don't think it's been drilled
down to that extent, but the intent is for local residents, not for high-income visitors, call
it as you will. But that's the intent.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members?
MS. GIAMBALVO: Make the traffic better.
CHAIR LEE: If not, thank you. Thank you very much, Kathleen.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Brett Gobar. To be followed by Christopher Delaunay.
MR. BRETT GOBAR [testifying on Bill No. 148 (2021)1:
Aloha Friday, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Good morning.
MR. GOBAR: This is Brett Gobar, I have a BS degree in water resource management, very
concerned about our development in Maui. I'm here to talk about 148. I testified earlier
in the process, I support all efforts to limit swarms of tourists that are degrading our
quality of life and our environmental quality. All tourist-related facilities including
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 22
accommodations must be suspended immediately until things drastically improve. I
ask the Council to find more methods of reducing the current number of visitors,
perhaps just like the national parks have done, like Yosemite. They've realized there's
a limit how many cars and people can be jammed into a finite space or a small island
at one time.
Beaches, roads, and other services cannot handle unlimited numbers of cars and
people without a systematic collapse. We may be approaching a collapse. It may not
come gradually, it might be sudden, like the COVID virus. Perhaps we can even look
at removing hotel beach chairs off of beaches where they block locals from sitting, and
our kids from playing beach games? I really appreciate the Council for all the complex
issues that you must learn about and grapple with. Thank you and Happy Holidays.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Gobar.
MR. GOBAR; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Christopher Delaunay, followed by Kimo Falconer.
MR. CHRISTOPHER DELAUNAY. PACIFIC RESOURCE PARTNERSHIP [testifying on the
West Maui Community Plan and Bill No. 148 (2021)1:
Aloha, Councilmembers. Chris Delaunay with Pacific Resource Partnership. I am a
lobbyist, a registered lobbyist. So I'm here to testify in opposition of Bill 148, the visitor
accommodations moratorium; and comments related to the West Maui Community
Plan.
So we're opposed to Bill 148, imposing a moratorium on the construction of visitor
accommodations will only hurt Maui’s economic recovery. Maui's economy both relies
on and benefits tremendously from the visitor industry. Historically Maui has benefited
from the property tax revenue generated by the visitor used properties including hotels.
Undercutting it poses a long-term threat to the County's revenue and tax bases.
Prior to the pandemic, accommodations related employment was the largest provider
of jobs on Maui County employing about 12,900 residents. Industry employment has
subsequently declined by 60 percent and has yet to rebound. Limiting visitor
accommodations through a moratorium will also limit the growth of other industries like
construction, retail, restaurants, and many of our small businesses. These industries
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 23
provide important employment opportunities for local residents who depend on these
jobs to survive and raise a family on Maui.
Maui is also confronting a major shift in the composition of its population. The period
between 2010 and 2019 saw a decline in Hawaii born residents and an increase in
mainland U.S. and foreign-born residents. During the same period, many Native
Hawaiian residents have left Maui, and Pacific Islanders, to live in a different state. I
have attached graphs in my testimony, my written testimony, showing this exodus. Not
only Maui residents that were born in Maui, or born in Hawaii, Hawaii-born residents,
but also with Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders exiting Maui to other states, as
well as counties.
So by reducing the potential for employment growth, a moratorium will likely accelerate
this trend, causing local residents and their families to leave Maui for more job
opportunities and a better life elsewhere. Maui's popularity as a travel destination is
unlikely to change. Pausing visitor accommodations development will not stop tourists
from flying to Maui. It will only limit places where they can stay. Tourists will continue
to visit Maui, particularly once the pandemic passes, and pent-up demand for travel is
unleashed.
Limiting construction of facilities where they can stay will shift their presence to
residential neighborhoods that were never intended for visitors. So we're in opposition
of Bill 148.
And we have comments related to the West Maui Community Plan. One of them being
the Policy 2.2.8, this requires new development, redevelopment, and Chapter 201H
HRS, and Chapters 2.96 and .97 Maui County Code, housing projects to include
facilities and programs that support connectivity, biking, walking, and public transit. So
we're concerned that this policy may add cost to the development of affordable housing
units which are passed down to the buyer. The County should be responsible for
building infrastructure or working with private entities to build infrastructure that would
support connectivity and biking, walking and public transit in order for developers to
keep the cost of housing at affordable levels.
Another one had to do with the one for one, I guess, for the, its Policy 2.4.2, no
additional visitor units, except Bed & Breakfast homes. I understand there was an
amendment, so the amendment sounds better, so it's not a one for one, I guess it’s a
one for three. It sounds better, but again, I would have to leave it up to the people in
that industry to decide if that would work or not?
Another one we had concerns about is Action Item No. 5.12, and this identify and
propose amendments to remove existing barriers in laws, rules, and processes that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 24
prohibit the construction of safe, sanitary, and affordable on-farm employee housing
for farmworkers. We're okay with that language, that language is perfect. The part
where we're not okay is this part, it goes on to say with special consideration, special
consideration given to non-permanent, modular housing solutions.
Now we support the construction of more affordable housing and believe that
government can make it more feasible for all home builders to accomplish this by
removing existing barriers, and laws, and rules, and processes that frustrate the County
of Maui’s efforts to build more housing for its workforce. However, we do not support
policies that give special, special preference to modular housing over other types of
home.
As a matter of principle, it is inequitable for the County of Maui to create a special
pathway for modular housing, allowing modular housing to bypass regulatory
requirements while other types of home builders must comply with these requirements
when they construct any building or structure. The laws, rules, and processes should
not be changed to provide special policies for companies seeking to gain an advantage
over their competitors. All home builders should be treated equally under the law.
Lastly, we request that the sites of two concrete batching plants in West Maui being
leased by HC&D and Hawaiian Cement from Kaanapali Land Management Corp. be
designated as industrial. These are two concrete batching plants that to our
understanding have been there for over 50 years. And having these batching plants
at the current locations ensures timely delivery of concrete. Yeah, so we need these
to build affordable housing so let's keep it as industrial.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, thank you.
MR. DELAUNAY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you for your testimony. Do we have any questions, Members? If not,
thank you very much, Mr. Delaunay.
MR. DELAUNAY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Kimo Falconer. To be followed by Stephen
West.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 25
MR. KIMO FALCONER , KA‘ANAPALI 2020 (testifying on County Communication No. 21-542
and the West Maui Community Plan):
Good morning, Chair Lee, Members of the County Council. Can you hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Good morning.
MR. FALCONER: Good morning. I’m going to be testifying today regarding item County
Communication 21-542, amending County Code to adopt the Updated West Maui
Community Plan. My name Is Kimo Falconer, I'm a West Maui resident and speaking
on behalf of the community-based planning group Ka'anapali 2020. This is a group
consisting of multiple West Maui stakeholder groups that began deliberating on the
land use plan for the Kaanapali area back in the late 90s. I participated as one of the
original members in that effort.
Several items I wish for you to consider before sending this to final reading. Two are
general, one is specific in nature. None of which  Ifeel will jeopardize or delay action
in this measure. 1 wish to say that I do support the draft with comments and commend
the work that went into it.
Beginning with the specific item first in the draft on page 94, it points out to change in
designation for a park area at Hanakao'o Mauka, it mentions the change of 97 acres
mauka of the park and Honoapiilani Highway to a park designation. And please note
Ka'anapali 2020 spent a great deal of time discussing this area, and we arrived at an
area of ten acres versus the 97 to be designated for park here, for the park area. We
feel that that beach area, and the Wahikuli Wayside could only, could not support
adding more than this amount of acreage, especially the crossing dangers, the
potential traffic concerns of the transition area entering the Kaanapali Resort.
In addition, I just can't think of a single park in Maui County that has 97 acres, except
for maybe baseball complexes. That’s big, and with the new County law prohibiting
non-organic based fertilizers and herbicides. I'm just not sure how the County Parks
and Rec. will be able to manage this size. And I just ask you to reconsider the size of
that particular park area.
As to the general items, 1 just want to call attention in the draft, where you speak to fire
control and agriculture. It is pretty vague. Anyone residing in West Maui knows the
issues we have with our wildfires. Not everyone knows that we have no means of
supplying our helicopter support with freshwater to control those fires. Much of the
time seawater is taken from the ocean and flown as far as the upper watershed to
douse those fires. This is . . . efficient, it's too time-consuming and it destroys the soil
it's dumped on, not to mention disallowing any plant life to regrow and revive the area.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 26
In 2019, 1 helped draft the bill at the State Leg. to help restore key strategic plantation
reservoirs to hold water for this purpose. It died due to session being canceled due to
COVID. And this does not, you should note that this does not redirect water out of the
stream, nor does it stop continuous streamflow. Please consider adding language to
help keep important reservoirs functional and help protect our community before the
State decommissions those. Once these important assets are lost, they are lost
forever. And I'm going to be resubmitting in the upcoming session and just ask for your
support on that. This is too simple to not do and it's extremely important.
And lastly in terms of agriculture. I'll quick. I'll quickly finish up here in 30 seconds. I
am one of the last farmers on the west side. There is little hope for new ag here without
assistance and understanding our water resource for this to happen. We can use
R-3 water, we have much of the infrastructure to move this forward, it needs
leadership, it needs cooperation across community groups, and I fully understand the
system as it is. The next 20-year community plan period . .. see the end of this, of our
possible ag or its permanent demise. Please find  away to point clear pass for the
planning to accomplish this. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. And mahalo for
your time. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Falconer. Questions, Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. Mr. Falconer, thank you for testifying. So can you
explain what you just said about R-3 water, R-1 water.
MR. FALCONER: Weil R-3 is the, it's a level of, you know, cleaning effluent water from the
Lahaina treat water, in particular the Lahaina Wastewater Treatment plant. There is
infrastructure that was, as you know, that was installed back in the '80s actually to bring
water up to the Honokohau Ditch. And recently, I think the County spent quite a bit of
money restoring the Mahinahina Reservoir to pump some of that effluent water up to
that reservoir.
Unfortunately that reservoir is a little bit too low in elevation to use for a lot of ag, ag,
you know, area. So if you bring that land, that water up to the next level, we can dilute
it and use it quite a bit. It will go a long ways in helping. And we have reservoirs that
will hold it. And that's the interesting part. If we can just, you know, put our heads
together, like I said. I'm going to be resubmitting this bill, hopefully it goes through.
Super important for ag. And it's a resource for us and it should, everybody should know
that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 27
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, thank you. I will contact you. Thank you very much.
That's important. That's my Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Just a real quick one. Aloha, Kimo, good to
see you.
MR. FALCONER; Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; So the, the R-3 can be used on coffee? You know, I know.
MR. FALCONER; Well you know, the problem with, I'm sorry, so the problem, one of the
problems we had back at Pioneer Mill days we used to use this effluent water, but it
was, it was R-1 water at the time. And there's a significant change between R-1 and
the quality of the water to R-3.
The problem at the time was that the water coming, the system in Lahaina comes all
the way from Puamana, Puamana on the south of Lahaina and moves all the way to
Kaanapali to the treatment plant, as well as coming all the way from Napili. And the
underground infrastructure was getting a lot of saltwater that came in and infused into
the water. So you have all the chlorides, so there's so much salt in the water and it's
impossible to remove those.
And I think they've done enough changes and improvements to that to actually be able
to use that water. So long answer, if the water can be diluted with mountain water,
certainly it can be used on coffee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; R-3, with, with diluted with mountain.
MR. FALCONER; it can, if you have certain amounts of dilution and we can talk, certainly
education more on that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MR. FALCONER; You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Falconer.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 28
MR. FALCONER: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next, our next testifier is Stephen West. And Mr. West will be followed
by Chad Fukunaga.
MR. STEPHEN WEST [testifying on Bill No. 148 (2021)1:
Aloha, Members. Stephen West, I'm testifying on Bill 148. You know. I'm opposed to
the bill, but if the bill needs to move forward,  Iwould support Yuki Lei's amendment
that she's proposing. You know, for many years we've seen the illegal transient
vacation rentals popup. And in 2006 I ran for State House, I've walked the Kihei district
many times and seen the number of illegal transient vacation rentals popup. And that
is part of the problem that we're facing right now there's that illegal transient vacation
rentals are rampant through the island. This needs to be addressed hopefully in your
budget. You'll need to give the Administration more tools to enforce the law and go
after these, these illegal transient vacation rentals. They're all over the island.
We need to support hotels, because they provide living wages, not living wages, but
good, decent wages for our community. They provide retirement, not all of them, but
the union properties do a good job. They can do most certainly better. But you know,
that's my testimony, and I would appreciate if you're going to move this bill forward,
please support the amendment. Thank you. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? If not, thank you.
Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just wanted to clarify, is it your understanding that the
amendment would allow houses built with credits that are already in the pipe?
MR. WEST: I'm not sure of all of the particulars.  Ihaven't had to read all of the--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. Mahalo. ...
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 29
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Steve. So I, you were talking about
2006, you know, the issues with the, since then, the Council has funded more
inspectors and consultants to work on illegals. And the Planning Department claims
that the, they've gotten the numbers down to under 200. So are you following any of
the actions at the Council level in the last ten years?
MR. WEST: Yeah I have, and you know, I'm on the Board of Variances and Appeals, we have
those people that come in front of us and are seeking a variance. And, you know, I,
I've been, you know. I'm no longer working for the ILWU. I have worked with them in
the past and I've walked the communities from Waihee, Upcountry to Kihei and I can
tell you with most certainty, especially Upcountry, there are much more then what you
believe there is. There is incredible amounts of illegal transient vac--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: How recent was that that you've been walking these areas?
MR. WEST: I walked it, was two years ago.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, you know, I think there's been a lot of activity since then,
but I just wanted to find out if you were following what the Council's already been doing
because that's what you've asked on your testimony. . . .
MR. WEST: ... do more.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. West. Mahalo for your
testimony.
MR. WEST: Good morning.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: My question for you to clarify, how do you know that
these are illegal vacation rentals?
MR. WEST: They're in-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: What about, what about like going to the home if
you're going door-to-door for campaigning, like what about it tells you that it's an illegal
vacation rental?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 30
MR. WEST; Well, you can, through, you know, if you look at a neighborhood, and you see,
you see these homes that you go to, and you know who lived there in the past, and,
you know, have a new owner that came in. Suddenly you see rent-a-cars parked on
the street, overflowing onto the road and, you know, it just doesn't happen overnight.
You can't just turn your house into a, you know, TVR. It doesn't happen overnight.
There's a process that has to go through. And, you know, in our communities there's,
there's a vast amount. There's a vast amount. And I'll just leave it at that.
And I, you know, I think if you brought some of the Planning people in front of you, they
would, they would probably tel! you the very same. And the hard part is, is that, you
know, you have to file a complaint, and there's a process that goes through. It, it's
lengthy. I wish what would happen would be that these fines that get levied against
these illegal TVR's get tied to their property tax. And then if they don't pay the fine,
then the house is taken by the County. That would be ideal, because, you know, we
have people that come from.
CHAIR LEE; Steve, I think, I think you've answered Vice-Chair's question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. You did answer.
CHAIR LEE; We have tons of testifiers in line. Yes, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Yeah, Mr. West, you did answer my
question. And, you know, we hear this talking point frequently, but it’s just not
substantiated by the Planning Department when they come before us. So that's why I
asked, and I hope that when you do see unpermitted vacation rentals, you are filing
RFS, request for services to submit it, because its complaint driven. Mahalo, Mr. West.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you. Thank you.
MR. WEST; Mahalo. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Chad Fukunaga. To be followed by Lucienne de Naie.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 31
MR. CHAD FUKUNAGA, KAANAPALI LAND MANAGEMENT (testifying on the West Maui
Community Plan):
Good morning, Council Chair Alice Lee and County Councilmembers.  My name is
Chad Fukunaga and I'm testifying on the West Maui Community Plan Update on behalf
of Kaanapali Land Management and the Ka'anapali 2020 community planning group.
West Maui faces many challenges, including a lack of housing and limited
infrastructure. We all want better, but how can we come together as a community to
effect positive change?
The basis of the Ka'anapali 2020 community planning effort was to bring together
community members to share concerns and ideas, to educate, and to collectively
create a vision for Kaanapali to meet the needs of future generations.
This effort started over 20 years ago, and was revolutionary at its time, and remains
so. I'm not aware of any equal community-based planning effort.
I grew up visiting my grandparents in Honokowai in the 70s and know well the changes
to West Maui over the years. Change is inevitable, it's impossible to stop, but with
proper planning can be implemented in a manner that best serves the community.
However, without proper planning, change is likely to produce inadequate results.
Proper planning would not place three schools in an area accessed by a single road.
Proper planning would allow for redundant roadways to mitigate blockage from
accidents or roadway work. Proper planning would facilitate much needed
infrastructure, encourage the creation of housing.
Whereas the proposed West Maui Community Plan is being created now with the intent
of providing guidance over the next 20 years, the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan can
evolve with consideration of regional factors and community input. Current proposed
West Maui Community Plan faces a serious, places in serious jeopardy the Ka'anapali
2020 Master Plan and viability of community planning. Please reconsider the proposed
plan, most significantly the 97 acres of parks and open space designation in Kaanapali
Town South.
West Maui is challenged with a lack of housing and limited infrastructure. Creating a
well thought out master plan is a valuable step towards positive change.
Also, I'd like to mention that I received a, a text from Elle Cochran and she was hoping
to testify today but was unable to because of work. But she asked, she said she
submitted written testimony, and asked that you review it. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 32
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thanks for being here, Mr. Fukunaga. So we
heard from Ms. Giambalvo earlier that the commitment for the housing in 20, in
Ka'anapali 2020 was for middle to, low to middle income housing. Would you be able
to commit to that in writing as part of that plan, if that plan were initiated?
MR. FUKUNAGA: The Ka'anapali 2020 planning effort includes, you know, it's really a master
planning effort at this time. You know, we're, don't have entitlements and we, we still
need to seek entitlements. And I believe it's at that point where we would, you know,
be nailing down the affordable requirements. There will definitely be an affordable
component to it. We would, we would comply with all such requirements.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We already . . . It’s easy to, to say that, but without seeing
something in writing, it's a little difficult. We were also supposed to get an elementary
school when the Wailea community was planned, and that has never happened. So I
think that's one of the concerns is not seeing, you know, hearing that they, the desires
for affordable housing, but then not seeing it, the commitment to it. ... concerns.
MR. FUKUNAGA: Well right now, we have entitlements for Pu'ukoli'i Mauka with a, with a
commitment to provide 51 percent affordable housing there, and that's for over
940 units. We, we are looking to provide affordable housing, you know, most recent,
most currently, I guess at Pu'ukoli'i Mauka. When we do go in for any entitlements in
the lower Ka'anapali 2020 area, we'll have to go through State Land Use and County
rezoning, at that time, we will commit to affordable requirements.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I was just trying to follow-up on what I was told earlier was
a commitment. But thank you. Thank you for your statements.
MR. FUKUNAGA: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Question from Member Sugimura, then Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chad, for being here. So you're saying this
97 acres, what, what did you say about it? That its-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 33
MR. FUKUNAGA; It really puts in jeopardy the, the entirety of the Ka'anapali 2020 Master
Plan. It's really a key area that, that connects the community and the infrastructure to
the highway, which is, which is a, you know, a major connection for travel purposes
and utilities. So everything, you know, mauka of it will have to come through that area.
So, you know, it's a, it's a strategically it's an important area. So if that holds, if that
continues, if it's parks and open space, it would be very difficult to, to continue the, you
know, build-out the roadways and, and extend the utilities as needed to support the
Ka'anapali 2020 planning.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Cause it's a strategic location for Ka'anapali 2020 Master
Plan.
MR. FUKUNAGA; Very much so, yes.
And so you're, you're saying that the designation ofCOUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
97 acres in open space is a problem, and parks?
MR. FUKUNAGA; It, yes, it's, it takes out a large effort of the Ka'anapali 2020 Plan and kind
of puts in jeopardy the entirety, really of the entire south half of Ka'anapali 2020. And
which, you know, could put the entire plan into jeopardy. And so that would be, be very
sad if, if all these years of community planning, you know, is, can no longer continue.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Chair. So my question is similar to Member
Sugimura's. So what would it take to un-jeopardize the Ka'anapali 2020 plan?
MR. FUKUNAGA; Well, if, so, if that area is, is put into really anything other than parks and
open space. Small town center would be, would be, you know, suitable, residential.
Even if it's left in ag, that would allow the planning to continue.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay, thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 34
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Fukunaga. I was just
wondering if you can clarify what highway that you were talking about in your response
to Member Sugimura? Is it Highway 30, or would it be the bypass highway that they
are going to build?
MR. FUKUNAGA: Honoapiilani Highway, however to, to add to that, the bypass EIS identified
certain connector roads that would connect the bypass to Honoapiilani Highway. And
one such connector roadway travels right down through that corridor, through the area
desig, currently designated for 97 acres of parks and open space.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just wanted to clarify, so you said Honoapiilani Highway, but
Honoapiilani Highway, you don't have access to that 97 acres from Honoapiilani
Highway currently.
MR. FUKUNAGA: They are, currently, there's no existing connection right now. But again,
it's identified in the, the bypass EIS to, to build a connector road coming down through
that corridor. It's also plan, part of the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan to build a series of
connector roads that would connect back to Honoapiilani Highway and also extend
south to Villages of Leiali'i to provide connectivity north and south.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So I just, I just wanted to clarify that you're saying the only way
to access Pu'ukoli'i Mauka is through unbuilt roads. But all of the roads are not built
yet and so I guess, I don't, I mean, you are, you are going to access it through a road
that hasn't been built yet, and I guess that's, you clarified my question. Thank you.
Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anyone else, Members?
If not, yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Real quick. Aloha, Mr. Fukunaga,
mahalo for your testimony. I was researching the master plan, and I went into the
website to, to find it, and it, it, I went into the website and when I click on master plan,
it doesn't open. So I'm not sure if that's a problem with the website. I was curious,
what i was looking for to, was to see if there's an update? You know, for the past 22,
almost 22 years, since the plan was established in '99, 1999, you know, is there an
update on all of the action items, and promises made to the community that's been,
you know, ticked off to, to show what's been accomplished, completed, ongoing, not
started? You know, like that? Is that included?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 35
MR. FUKUNAGA: No, I, I. you know, we don't have a specific list. I can provide to your office
the, some plans that have, I guess, morphed over the years and I can also provide you
with minutes from our meetings if, if that would be helpful.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Fukunaga. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Fukunaga.
Madam Clerk.
MR. FUKUNAGA; Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Lucienne de Naie. To be followed by Mandy
Saito.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-541.21-542. 21-543.
21-551 & 21-554; and Bill Nos. 141 (2021). 142 (2021), 143 (2021). 144 (2021), &
148 (2021)1:
Aloha. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. DE NAIE: My name is Lucienne de Naie, I'm testifying on the, most of these items, just
as an individual. You know, I didn't add 21-542 to my list, but I would like to speak to
this. I sat in meetings of the Ka'anapali 2020 for shoots, a number of years, three, four
years at the beginning because of the cultural protection element. And everybody was
real gung-ho about Pu'ukoli'i being built and so forth, and people testified. You know,
that was fully approved in 2005. So I don't know, 15 years, you can't build a road?
You can't decide how you are going to get there?
It's, it's kind of, you know, and I have to speak to the parks part of this as well. There
are 100-acre, ninety some acre areas that the County has as parks. Baldwin Beach
Park that we're acquiring bit by bit is about 93 acres and very beloved by our community
and very useful. I would think that you would want to keep your options open. If the
citizens who reviewed this plan who live in West Maui and who's families, you know,
use West Maui think that a park belong there, I would think twice about overturning
that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 36
I also want to speak to what Lance Collins spoke to the area around Mala Wharf, the
‘Alamihi Fishpond. That area you definitely should do exactly what he said and keep
the old language in the plan. It is a travesty that people just forge ahead, because they
have the money to do so, run all over the public process. Our agencies feel their hands
are tied and just rubber-stamp everything. And then the courts say no, you didn't do it
right and now it's built. The citizens should have some recourse to get that six-acre
park someplace. And having language in the community plan that says that's a
requirement means that they should get a community plan amendment that allows a
process for justice to be served. So please take that under consideration.
And also, really support the idea of having more fire flow, and using R-1 water. This
was proposed by the citizens, you know, as Sierra Club rep. for that lawsuit. This was
one of the uses that we proposed long ago. It seemed that West Maui was always
short of water for fire flow and yet we're dumping five million gallons in the ocean every
day. All we need is a place to store it, so we have it when we need it. So Mr. Falconer
made a really good point there and we do need to hook those, you know, something
that's seen as a waste product into someplace where it can be useful.
I'm going move on, cause I signed up to testify on a number of different things. Item
21-451, just want to thank the Council for proposing an extension of the Water Use and
Development Plan so we can actually get a summary for the citizens to review and
finish it off with the intention where it started that the plan has more updated
information, more specific information that would be useful, and is a little bit more
understandable to the general public. Although, frankly, probably to do that you really
should have brought in a consultant to do it, which had to be last time. The County did
a plan in 1990, it was rejected by the Water Commission, they hired a consultant, a
new plan was done by '92 and that's, you know, what we have now. But it's pretty old.
But our County staff is wonderful. I think everyone wants to save money, but they
already have plenty to do, and it's a big process to come up with a plan like this.
I'll move on to item 21-543, the proposed amendment to Bill 148. I think this is really
like a slippery slope, starting to say which waivers go where. The, the fact is the waiver
system while useful and helpful to many nonprofit builders is also abused, and we have
many, many high-end developments that simply buy waivers, buy their way out of any
new affordable housing, and then proudly tell the Planning Commission that oh, our
affordable housing is already built. Well, it's already built, but the idea is we need more.
And you're not contributing to more, you're just getting the credit for something that's
already built. So please don't pass that amendment, just leave the bill as it is.
Moving onto items 21-551 and 554. I'm just really happy to see that this managed
retreat concept for our infrastructure is being introduced by Councilmember Paltin and
look forward to testifying on it when it gets to the Committee level. It's a tough
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 37
conversation that we need to have. We're going to have some Federal infrastructure
funding coming along in the next couple of years anyway, we should see if any of it can
help us solve some of these long-range problems.
And then Bill 141. Very important, I testified last time around on this. This is the
exemption for Hawaiian Home Lands for water availability bill. These are affordable
homes, and it's a segment of our community that really deserves to have a step-up in
order to have a home, because there's been such injustice done on land issues with
so many Hawaiian families. So it just seems like this is the time to do what we can to
set things on a path of a more equitable support for housing for the host culture, for the
people that, that lived on this land before many others came.
Last, but not least, Bills 142, 143 and 144, I assume these are to purchase a building
so our poor overworked Department of Water Supply actually has a place where they
are not crammed in their little cubicles in the County Building, and whatever can be
done to give this department some room to breathe, and store their files, and have
adequate staff, really should be done.
And then please pass Bill 148 as is. It's had a lot of back and forth. A moratorium will
give us a chance to take a breather and look at solutions that might help manage
tourism better. We're always going to have tourist, but our current facilities are
probably quite sufficient for the tourists that are going to be coming in the next couple
of years. We all know that they go through ups and downs, but in general, anyone who
wants to come to Maui can find a place that meets their needs.
So thank you for your consideration of all these matters and thank you for all your hard
work this whole year where we're winding down. And just appreciate you guys always
being here with your thoughtful considerations.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Lucienne and thank you for all
your hard work. You almost are like the 10th Councilmember, we, we see you very
regularly. So thank you for your hard work.
MS. DE NAIE: I think that's Mike Moran.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: He is a regular also. There's a bunch of you. But thank
you very much and Happy Holidays to you and, and Daniel. I just wanted to mention
that County Communication 21-543 regarding the moratorium, I think it speaks to, that
was my, I'm going to be making that amendment. I think that's what you looked at and
I'm saying exactly what you're saying, is that credits are not to be used in place of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 38
actual constructed homes. So the amendment is housing units must be physically
constructed for the purposes of this section and you cannot use credits in replacement.
And your, what you said and explained it is exactly why. Thank you.
MS. DE NAIE: I didn't get quite that reading from this amendment, but I'm sure you guys will,
will clarify it and thank you for explaining. But  Ikind of got that if it was in the pipeline
already, that, that resorts could use these kinds of credits. And if they can. they will.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yes.
MS. DE NAIE: Cause there are some things in the pipeline, you know, Maui Lu, all these
things are in the pipeline. So yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yeah, we'll discuss it, but I think you explained why this
amendment is important. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. DE NAIE: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you, Lucienne.
MS. DE NAIE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk let's take one more before we head to a break.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mandy Saito. And after the break she'll be followed
by Mike Moran.
CHAIR LEE: And how many altogether, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Eighteen more signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Saito.
MS. MANDY SAITO, KAANAPALI LAND MANAGEMENT (testifying on the West Maui
Community Plan):
Thank you. Chair. Good morning. Councilmembers. Thank you for being here today
and for the opportunity to provide testimony for the West Maui Community Plan. My
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 39
name is Mandy Saito and I work for Kaanapaii Land Management and I'm here to testify
in support of the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan. I am not a paid lobbyist.
So for today I'm asking for reconsideration of the land use designation for the Kaanapaii
Town South noted in the current draft West Maui Community Plan. An amendment
should be considered to align the land use designations with the Ka'anapali 2020
Master Plan. The current draft designates 200 acres of Kaanapaii Town South noted
in the draft plan as agricultural land, 97 acres of that land was designated as park/open
space and the remaining in agriculture, which is not consistent with the Maui Island
Plan. This can be seen on subarea map 2 on page 89 and language regarding the
designation of the 97 acres to parks and open space for Hanakao'o Mauka is on
page 94.
The Maui Island Plan identifies the entire Kaanapaii Town area as within the urban
growth boundaries indicating the area as an appropriate location for development. It
specifically recognizes the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan area and identifies it as part
of Maui's direct gro\wth strategy. The K 2020 Master Plan is a well-planned community
that is suitable, that is a suitable area to accommodate for also sea-level rise and the
support, manage retreat strategies that have been brought up numerous times which
involve moving various land use inland.
The Maui Island Plan serves as a foundation for the community plans. The Maui
County Code 2.806.070 states that the community plan shall implement the General
Plan's vision, principles, goals, and policies. This designation is not consistent with the
characteristics of urban growth boundaries and not compliant with the Maui Island Plan
and Maui County Code. Eliminating the opportunity to provide, you know, planned
communities, and expand communities in areas closest to infrastructure, you know,
creates a real problem for Maui's future.
Please reconsider the land use designations for the Kaanapaii Town South and select
more appropriate land use designations that align with the Ka'anapali 2020 Master
Plan and the intended characteristics of the urban growth boundaries defined by the
Maui Island Plan. If you are not able to change the land use designations for productive
use, please at the very least keep the designation of agriculture for future
consideration. Thank you again for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you very much.
It's time for our break. Members, so let's say 10:50 we'll return. Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Meeting in recess till 10:50.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 40
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:36 A.M. ,AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:52 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of December 3, 2021, please reconvene. Madam
Clerk, let's continue with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mr. Mike Moran. To be followed by Cheryl
Hendrickson.
ftestifvinq on CountyMR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION
Communication Nos. 21-546 & 21-547, and Bill No. 148 (2021)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers.
Association. The first of 20 before lunch, I don't know ... I will try and do my part and
be brief. We just on three items this morning and the first two are just referrals and
those are 21-546, relating to seabird and biodiversity protection and 547, relating to
environmental grants, both from our South Maui Councilmember King and we're
certainly appreciative for that.
Mike Moran for the Kihei Community
And when we heard freshman Member Johnson this morning start giving a list of how
much you have accomplished this year, and much of those accomplishments were
along these lines of environmental issues. So you have made outstanding progress,
and now we see that there's always more in this venue of helping our environment. So
we look forward to seeing where those go as they go to committee.
And then the final one, and hopefully the final action today is on Bill 148. We continue
to support this. We look forward to have it, take progresses on it and we commend the
Council to your patience and reasonableness with some of the comments from our
community that are so far off base. We're still hearing, you think this is going to stop
the tourists from coming tomorrow. It seems like they haven't even paid attention. But
nobody is rude to them and they kind of explain it or just move on. So we hope you
guys can move on today, and, and get this finalized, and done, and then move on to
many others.
So 1 said 1 would be brief, so I will stop chattering here. But thank you for your, your
good service, and we hope you have a quicker day and a nice weekend. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you so much, Mike. Mike, is it cold in Kihei? You have a jacket on, no?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 41
MR. MORAN: It's cold for us, us Kihei guys. This is, we've had rain all week, Chair. Rain all
week in Kihei. I think we got up to a quarter of an inch total now, but hey, it's raining in
Kihei.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, and you needed it, too. So great. Are there any questions for Mike? If
not, thank you so much, and you have a nice weekend, too.
MR. MORAN: Thank you. Chair. A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Cheryl Hendrickson. To be followed by Lanny
Tihada.
MS. CHERYL HENDRICKSON [testifying on Bill No. 148 (2021)1:
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. HENDRICKSON: I'm here to testify for Bill 148. Basically, I just want to give you my
history here. I moved here in mid-1980's, it was  aquality destination then. I worked
as a waitress in Kaanapali, I made great money. I was able to rent a one-bedroom
apartment. I saved money for vacations. 1 was able to save for a home. And then,
and when it was crowded, you know, during Christmas, summers, and winter, it was
tolerable, I mean you expected it, you wanted tourist here. But you could still go to our
sites with the tourists and, you know, enjoy them and, you know, as part of doing
business here and living here. We realize tourism is needed.
But then the HTA was created, and we had unrestrained development and it, you could
just see it just growing by leaps and bounds. Still living in West Maui at this point, I
noticed all the new development. There was no infrastructure that was being
developed to go along with it. So for me, it made West Maui unbearable. So and also,
the daily traffic at that time was getting unreasonable. The subprime thing brought all
of these new residents who didn't know how to mind their own business, and just the
whole thing became intolerable.
So I moved over to Haiku, just so grateful there was a place that was local, you know,
that had the same sort of vibe as West Maui did back then. And then all of a sudden
here we got a growth, while the internet brings on Airbnb's, the bike companies start
migrating into our backroads. The Maui Visitor Bureau promotions started bringing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 42
tourists to our neighborhoods here. Ho'okipa was like the last local beach, I enjoyed
going there to end my day. I mean it, granted there's not much sand, but you were just
grateful to have a place to go to.
In the last six and seven years that has gotten intolerable. The tourists are, I don't
know if they read it, anyway, they're coming, they're just too many coming there. And
it's impossible to relax and ignore, because, you know, they turn their back on the
ocean. There's nowhere to park. The littering has gotten bad. So we retreat to our
homes now, you know? At least grateful for that.
Then the airplanes start flying over us. And I understand we need to accommodate
more traffic, but it's just, it's, I can't believe the progression, it's become a Disneyland
and it's not sustainable. Needs, Maui needs to be respected. It shouldn't be exploited,
or it will not provide. The Hawaii Tourism Authority or the Maui Visitors Bureau isn't
going to help us.
So basically, we need this bill, it's a start. It'll help start to bring the tourism under
control. I mean, we had this good chance after the stopping of the pandemic and, to
really refocus and it's looking like it's going back to normal, just bringing, having tourism
as our main income and it's unsustainable and we need to diversify. So please support
this Bill 148, it's a start. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is Lanny Tihada. To be followed by Marjorie Bonar.
MR. LANNY TIHADA (testifying on the West Maui Community Plan):
Madam Chair Alice Lee and Councilmembers. Lanny Tihada, I work for Kaanapali
Land Management and I'm here to testify on Ka'anapali 2020. The reason I liked
Ka'anapali 2020 Plan is because community members put it together. And I,
throughout the years I've been here. I've watched them come to the meetings, I sat in
couple meetings. I’m very impressed, a lot of arguments, but they come together as
one and we came up with this plan. The reason 1 like this, because it puts up a lot of
homes in the area.
And give you an example, you know, I went to Lahainaluna High School. I've been
involved with the school since, when I came back to Maui, when I was 21, and I'm still
involved in the school with the school through athletics. And I watch teachers come
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 43
and go. And I think back about when I went to high school there back in the '60s, we
had old time teachers, the .. . , Ms.... the science teacher, and you know they stayed
there. I understand Ms. . . . came, came there as, after she graduated from college
and taught science, and she stayed there until she retired.
And the feeling of having teachers like that, that were concerned about, about the
students. And you know, I see a, I see where teachers come now, they want to stay,
but they can't find, you know, there's not enough homes on the west side. And then
they leave, and some good teachers have come and gone. And I feel for, for the
students, you know. There's, the continuity is not there, and we talk about pride in the
school, and it's hard to watch teachers come and go, good teachers.
And I think this, this development is not, they not, I say we, but not me, but I see this
development helping out our, our local community. I’m in support of this, I like, I like
what I see, and I wouldn't be here speaking to you if I didn't believe in it, even if I do
work for this company. I ask that you take a good look at this and approve it. Thank
you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you, Lanny. Good to hear from you. Any questions
Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Just real quickly, Lanny, thank you for being
here, appreciate your testimony and being part of that Ka'anapali 2020. Can you speak
to the commitment that the, the community members made to affordable housing in
this area as part of the Ka'anapali 2020 plan?
MR. TIHADA: I can't, you know, I can't speak for them because I don't sit in meetings, you
know, often enough. But I know there's, I know it's in compliance for the affordable
housing, what is that 51 percent.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well, no just I thought you were in the meeting. So if you
can't speak to it, that's fine. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you, Lanny. We have one more question.
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 44
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Tihada for your testimony.
I just wanted to clarify when this plan came before the Community Plan Advisory
Committee, this particular area was slated for resorts and hotels. Can you clarify that?
MR. TIHADA: I don't know what it was classified as, but I don't see any hotels or development
of that sort in this 2020 plan.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: This new version that's coming before us today?
MR. TIHADA: What was that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, never mind. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you, Lanny.
Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Marjorie Bonar. To be followed by Jonathan Likeke
Scheuer.
MS. MARJORIE BONAR. JEWISH CONGREGATION OF MAUI (testifying on County
Communication No. 21-553):
Interesting, I don't know whether I'm on or not?
CHAIR LEE: You're on.
MS. BONAR: I am, okay. Thank you, Council. Boy, there's so many things I wish I were
testifying on. But this is of primary importance to me right now, which is the rezone for
the property that the Jewish Congregation of Maui has been sitting on for a very long
time. And I was not aware of the non-conforming problem in the years that I was on
the board before, as we turned to the board and found that things lapsed in between,
that the CUP was not reinstituted and also, we have a change in perceived ownership
of the, the remnant road, of Kenolio Road, that we've been using for parking for years.
There are three of us that have called in to testify, but the real gist on all of this is to
thank the Planning Department for getting this through, and getting this communication
to you, and hoping that it can be acted on expeditiously. Because we can't make
upgrades to the building without knowing what we're dealing with. And we do have
some just aging infrastructural problems and we need that parking strip, which means
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 45
the County coming to a resolution of what can be done with the remnant of Kenolio
Road?
So I'm just thanking you for and County in general for paying attention to a problem
that the current board have no idea even existed until it was brought to our attention.
So we thank you for that, and hope that this can be handled as quickly as possible
before we have roof leaks and such. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Yes, Member King, and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha Marge, good to see you. Those, are
those, I'm not sure what's in your background but it's interesting.
MS. BONAR: Oh, those are menorahs, actually it's Hanukkah right now.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay, looks like-
MS. BONAR: And those are some of my ceramic menorahs.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, nice. So I think you're talking about number, item. County
Communication 21-553.
MS. BONAR: 52.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, 552 is a. a bill for an ordinance.
MS. BONAR: Oh, that was the naming, 553, correct.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, okay, cause it was on the, on the list of testifiers it says
552, so I just wanted to clarify what you were talking about this morning .. . This issue
has been, you know, this is one of the things that I urged them to do a couple of years
ago is to push for this rezoning. So I'm glad to see it's finally coming forward. Thank
you. Thank you, 1 just wanted to clarify what issue you were talking about.
MS. BONAR; Yeah, that, that was 553. My old arthritic fingers are having too many problems.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No problem.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, that was my question. Happy Hanukkah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 46
MS. BONAR: Happy Hanukkah to you all. And light a candle for hope.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Thank you very much, Ms. Bonar
And Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jonathan Likeke Scheuer. To be followed by William
Aila.
MR. JONATHAN LIKEKE SCHEUER. DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS
[testifying on Bill No. 141 (2021)1:
I'mAloha mai kakou. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members.
Jonathan Likeke Scheuer for the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands and I am
testifying in behalf of Chair Aila so he will not separately be testifying. We are testifying
on strong support of Bill 141 which adds to the, the Department of Hawaiian Home
Lands to the exemptions from the water availability ordinance, and I'll be very brief.
I just want to convey that for the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands and its
continuing efforts to issue as many homestead leases as possible around the islands,
the availability of water is one of the very largest barriers that we have. One of the
reasons why on Oahu, where we have the greatest demand and actually the smallest
amount of land available, we have issued more homestead leases than all the other
islands is that we've never had to develop water sources that the Honolulu Board of
Water Supply has stepped up and provided the water that we need.
This amendment is a really critical amendment in stepping forward really in partnership
with the County to make these housing units available, and to help us fulfill what is
really a shared kuleana. When Hawaii became a state, all of the voters of Hawaii
accepted a compact with the United States to fulfill the Hawaiian Homes Commission
Act, and this is a really meaningful and positive way that the County is working with
DHHL. So we’re in strong support and very happy to answer any questions on behalf
the Department. Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Scheuer.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, your next testifier is Sheri Levin McNerthney. To be followed by
Howard Kihune Jr.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 47
CHAIR LEE: Ms. McNerthney.
MS. BONAR: If I could speak, Sheri was having a power problem up in Olinda, evidently she
may not have power.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
MS. SHERI LEVIN MCNERTHNEY. JEWISH CONGREGATION OF MAUI (testifying on
County Communication No. 21-553):
No, I'm here, I'm here. 1 just didn't know how to unmute. Sorry. Am I unmuted now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, you're on.
MS. MCNERTHNEY: Okay. Thank you. So thank you, apologize for the delay. I'm Sheri
Levin McNerthney, I'm President of the Jewish Congregation of Maui. Happy
Hanukkah. I'm calling, I just want to urge the Council to support resolving 21-553. I
put 21-552, it's 21-553. We're anxious as an organization to be in compliance with
Maui rules and so we urge you to promptly resolve this rezoning issue and to resolve
the remnant road issue so we can have off-street parking in compliance with the
recommendation of the Planning Commission. So that's all I have to say. Thanks and
thanks for helping us be in compliance. Happy Hanukkah and aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Same to you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Howard Kihune Jr. To be followed by the caller calling
on 5281.
MR. HOWARD KIHUNE JR. (testifying on County Communication No. 21-542 and the West
Maui Community Plan):
Good morning and aloha Council, Council Chair Lee and fellow Councilmembers. Can
you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Good morning, Howie.
MR. KIHUNE: Happy Holidays to all of you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 48
CHAIR LEE: You too.
MR. KIHUNE: I'm here today to request that this body amend the proposed West Maui
Community Plan that is before you, before this body, to include the Ka'anapali 2020
plan designations. I think there is much more planning that needs to be done. Without
those designations some of the workforce housing efforts that we've been working
towards with KLM will probably go by the wayside. We're working with them specifically
on that workforce housing portion of Ka'anapali 2020, and if we lose those
designations, we're going to probably lose housing in the future for that area to some
degree.
And, you know, I think what we need to do is think about the future of our housing
issues. It's constantly being, being talked about, constantly being pushed forward, if
you, if I may say? But we need to look and plan right now for the future of our West
Maui residents, our local residents. I also feel that if we change these designations
mentioned, we'll lose the opportunity, and I think our West Maui, our West Maui families
will lose that opportunity for future housing for themselves and for their, for their, for
their, the next generation.
It's really important that we, that we continue to work in that direction. We can take the
bite of the apple later on as we go through an entitlement process, but to take that
away now is really kind of putting us, putting, setting us back a couple of steps, maybe
three or four. The need for housing right now is crazy, you all know that. I don't need
to tell that to you. The demand is overwhelming and it's about building more homes.
It's about getting more homes on the market for our local residents in the workforce
area to help bring that demand down and help bring pricing down.
We take away areas that we're looking at building workforce housing, you're just
creating, you're creating a bigger demand and that's not what we're here for. We're
here, this body is here to help this community. Our biggest issue is workforce
affordable housing, we all know that. The west side for rentals right now is through the
roof. Trying to find a home to buy on that side is over a million dollars. It's crazy.
So, you know, I, I beg you to really take to heart that if we, if we don't amend and
include 2020 as it's been designated on that particular plan, we're going to lose the
opportunity. Let us go back and take, and plan more. Let's get, let's get more people
involved, if that need be. And let's create more housing that way. I don't want to lose
this opportunity now cause if we slam the door on it now, we will probably have to move
and step aside, because there's no opportunity for us to go and build, develop more
workforce housing. So I appreciate the time. Happy Holidays. And again, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 49
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Howie. Any questions, Members?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Are you still there, Howie?
MR. KIHUNE: I am, sorry. Yeah, I'm trying not to reverb. Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well we can't, I don't know if you know, we can't see you
the screen is just black.
MR. KIHUNE: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So if you have your little camera thing covered, it will make that
black.
MR. KIHUNE: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So you might want to .. . There you go.
MR. KIHUNE: It's a new camera in my office, sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, yeah, I just wanted to ask about, so I've been asking
everybody that's connected with the Ka'anapali 2020 if, you know, there were
commitments made. It sounds like everybody wants hundred, all the housing in that
area to be workforce and affordable housing is that correct?
MR. KIHUNE: No, I think there was going to be, there's got to be a combination of market
and workforce. You got to remember now; the market side pays for the workforce.
That's the only way this, this formula work. You got to have some market to offset the
costs.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So what percentage were you committing to when you. when you
made that plan, when . . . that made the plan. Was it 51 percent?
MR. KIHUNE: I believe right now, currently at, with regards to the Pu‘ukoli‘i Project it's at
50 percent, correct. That’s an entitled project on the upper side.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well. 1, yeah-
MR. KIHUNE: Right now addition.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 50
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -you're advocating for the whole Ka'anapali 2020 plan, so of that
whole plan, how much of that was intended to be for affordable housing.
MR. KIHUNE: That I don't know, because we haven’t been able to plan it out correctly. We
need way more time. The cost of construction is through the roof. Material costs have
gone up almost 80 percent with piping, plumbing, and other materials that are out there.
Lumber has come down, thank goodness, so that helps. But everything else is going
up. And again, I don't, I cannot give you a number right now, Ms. King, but love to sit
down with everybody and try to plan this out. But you got to give the opportunity to
plan this out.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I know, I understand that, but there's, there's also, you
know, these agreements that get made sometimes don't get fulfilled, and so I think
that’s the hesitancy, you know, and I've seen that happen in Wailea big time. So, that's
kind of why I keep asking everybody, you know, are you willing to put these
commitments in writing to working towards a certain percentage of affordable housing,
if we, if we agree to do this? So, but everybody keeps saying well we don't know, and
not knowing is the scary part for the community,  Ithink.
MR. KIHUNE: Well I can tell you that I believe KLM's mission is to develop workforce housing.
I can tell you firsthand. How much of that? Nobody knows yet because the
infrastructure costs for these areas is enormous. The, the rock that you encounter in
that area is absolutely the most costly part of developing and putting in infrastructure.
It's crazy. And that cost has to be paid by somebody. So if you have market homes,
whether it’s 25 percent workforce, 75 percent market, 50/50, whatever that number is
has to pay for that infrastructure for our local families. You know, civil work can cost
you 200,000 a lot in that area. It's so expensive. It's crazy. Crazy.
I mean, we're, we're working it every day. We do this for a living, and we know what it
takes to develop in that area. It's not cheap. It is not cheap. We were very lucky with
our project in Kaanapali. If we had to develop that today, Ms. King, we wouldn't be
able to do 100 percent.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -dialog here.
MR. KIHUNE: And that was all rock, just to let you know. So.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We may have some questions.
Member King, are you finished with your questions?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 51
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I am, thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, anybody else with questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; 1 just need to say it's not clear what the plans are because the
first iteration shown to the CPAC was for resorts in that area. And they rejected it and
put open space instead. So now because they didn't like that, they are trying to sell
the story that there's going to be affordable housing there. The connection to Pu'ukoli'i
Village Mauka is that road that hasn't been existing. Just point of clarification. Thank
you.
MR. KIHUNE; I'm sorry, Ms. Paltin, can you repeat the last sentence? I, I lost you for a
second, sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: There is no road to Pu'ukoli'i Village Mauka currently.
MR. KIHUNE: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MR. KIHUNE: Yeah, and that's all part of the bypass improvement and all the infrastructure
that has to be put in.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yeah, thank you, you answered my question.
CHAIR LEE: Any further questions, Members? If not, thank you, Howie.
MR. KIHUNE: Thank you. Happy Holidays.
CHAIR LEE: Happy Holidays. Let's see. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, your next testifier is calling in on the last four digits of 5281. 5281
will be followed by Stephen Castro
MS. VALERIE DETTLOFF [testifying on Bill No. 148 (2021)1:
Hi. Hello. Am I muted?
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you. We can't see you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 52
MS. DETTLOFF; I am calling on the phone in support of Bill 148. My name is Valerie Dettloff.
Our infrastructure cannot handle the amount of people currently on the island. Our
dump is growing at an exponential rate and the hotels are one of the biggest
contributors. Our water sources are being stretched to the point that East Maui kalo
farmers and native wildlife are being left without. Especially during that times of
drought season where the hotels are watering their grass, and residents are being
threatened to be cut off if water exceeds a certain amount. Our roadways are being
overcrowded and accidents are increasing because of tourists uneducated driving,
including parking in dangerous areas on the side of Flana Highway, causing hazardous
situations.
The water, the water pollution from the hotel injection wells affect our vital reef, which
is contributing to our food insecurity and climate change. The destruction of coastlines,
including historical and cultural sites, and native habitat, endangering plant and wild,
native wildlife, including the ‘ua‘u which is also affected from the hotel light pollution,
which confuses them and is the second most damaging effect to their population.
Visitors does not equal more money; tourist are spending less per person than ever.
Noise pollution from the airplanes alone is already currently overwhelming. All those
arguments that was, sorry, was ... of wells being an empty promise being merely a
shortcut to the access, access of the same limited natural aquifers. That's the end of
my . . .
CHAIR LEE; Alright, Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Stephen Castro. To be followed by Pamela
Tumpap.
MR. STEPHEN CASTRO Ftestifyinq on Bill No. 148 (2021)1:
Ready.
CHAIR LEE: Ready.
MR. CASTRO: Can you, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, and we can see you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 53
MR. CASTRO: Good. Alrighty. Okay, aloha, Madam Chair and Members of the Maui County
Council. My name is Stephen Castro, and I am a resident of Maui, here in Wailuku.
I'm here this morning to provide testimony on Bill 148 relating to the Maui island
moratorium. As a background, 1 was a member of the Maui Planning Commission from
2016 to March of 2021.
During my time on the Commission, I participated in the SMA public hearing for the
proposed Grand Wailea improvements project. Among the improvements proposed
by the project are those related to the resort’s pools, spa, and related amenities, as
well as an addition of 137 new guest rooms. Actually this is a reduction from what it
first started, I believe it was two hundred and maybe twenty-four, around there. And
they have since made reductions. The public hearing for the Grand Wailea application
was held on May 28, 2019, after the Planning Department determined their application
was complete and ready for scheduling before the Maui Planning Commission.
Although the public hearing was completed, there was a petition to intervene filed on
the application, and I understand that it's, it's still going through the contested case
process.
Although I was not on the Commission when the moratorium bill came before them, 1
understand that Section 2 of the proposed bill for an ordinance was amended by the
Commission to exempt any application for the approval of new transient
accommodation that is properly filed with the County prior to the effective date of the
ordinance.
Commission, given their extensive experience on SMA and related planning and
permitting matters. I was therefore pleased to see that the Planning and Sustainable
Land Use Committee agreed with this amendment.
As a former commissioner, I respect the recommendation of the
At the Council's first reading meeting however, Section 2 was further amended to only
exempt new visitor accommodations that has, that has received its final discretionary
approval prior to the effective date of the ordinance. While the exemption provision of
the Section 2 has shifted over the course of the legislative process, ! also understand
that the Grand Wailea is asking that Section 2 be amended to also exempt applications
which have been deemed complete by the Maui Planning Department.
I am here today to ask that you favorably consider Grand Wailea's request, which would
also exempt them from the ordinance, given that their SMA application was filed more
than three years ago, and that the Maui Planning Commission held its public hearing
on the application. I believe this would be an appropriate way of managing this unique
circumstance. Mahalo for your time and consideration and wishing you all Happy
Holidays.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 54
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And back to you.
We have a question. Member Paltin.
MR. CASTRO: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Castro for your service on
the Planning Commission. My question was to clarify, you had mentioned the, the
Grand Wailea project is currently in court on an appeal right now.
MR. CASTRO: It's a contested case. I don't know exactly where they, where they're at. It
should be hopefully concluding soon, but at this point in time, I don't know where they're
at.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. I just wanted to clarify that.
CHAIR LEE: Members?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SiNENCI: Thank you, Chair. Mahalo, Mr. Castro. Just clarification, your,
you're currently sitting on the Planning Commission.
MR. CASTRO: No. I, my term was up in March.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, okay. Thank you.
MR. CASTRO: Of this year.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Nice to see you, Mr. Castro. Hope you're
enjoying your retirement.
MR. CASTRO: Yeah. I broke.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So I just wanted to confirm basically you're saying that
applications, you're, you're supporting applications that have gone through the process
and, before this bill passes should be recognized.
MR. CASTRO: Correct.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 55
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay. And that over three years ago, this process had
was approved, I guess, is what you're saying. Right?
MR. CASTRO: Yes. A lot of time and effort, and monies, you know, has over the three years
has amounted to quite a bit of time and monies.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I think we heard from other companies or
testifiers about this, too. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Castro. Thank you for being here
and for.
MR. CASTRO: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And for, I guess you were on the Planning Commission when this
passed. And I just wanted to ask you about the amount of, I know there was opposition
from Kihei community on this particular issue. And there have been on other hotel
development projects, but they always seem to pass anyway. So part of, you know,
what we're doing is trying to address community concerns that weren't heard at the
Planning Commission. So I just wanted to ask you about that. What is the attitude of
the Planning Commission, when the community comes out on these issues, on these,
you know, these projects? You know, it was about 90 percent opposed, I think when
they did the Maui Coast Hotel and it that passed anyway.
MR. CASTRO: You know, when they come before us, while I was on the Commission, there's
a lot of pros and cons, whether it's in, via written testimony or oral testimony. And we
have to weigh everything. And community input is really important, and we have to
see both sides. We look at the projects, whatever the subject is, and we have to put a
lot of thought into it, you know? For instance, with the hotel, it will create more jobs,
and more contributions will be made taxwise to Maui County. We, we look at it, if
someone has. I'll give an example of let's say a--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I don't want to create  awhole dialogue about this. Can I
just ask you how many people were on the Planning Commission, who actually lived
in South Maui at the time that you passed this particular item?
MR. CASTRO: Maybe, maybe one or two. Maybe one or two.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 56
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay and then the other question I have is on the issue of
completion of discretionary permits. If it's still in court, this issue is still in court, and
the interveners win, then won’t we have done a disservice to the community if we allow
this to go forward, you know, through an exemption? And then, you know, there's a
court decision against it?
MR. CASTRO: Well, you know, Ms. King, I guess we don't know until we, we try and, you
know, explore all the options that are out there. And whatever the outcome is, is, is
what we're going to have to accept.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Alright.
CHAIR LEE; Any more comments or questions? If not, thank you, thank you, Mr. Castro.
Member, I mean no.
MR. CASTRO: And aloha to all of you. Safe holidays.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Madam Clerk.
MR. CASTRO: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Okay, Kathy, are you there? If not, can James take over. If
you're having trouble with your computer?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The next testifier is Pamela Tumpap.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP, MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE [testifying on the West Maui
Community Plan and Bill No. 148 ('2021)1:
Aloha. I'm, I'm here. I can't seem to lately have my video unblocked, but I'm still here
and trying. So I guess I'll be blocked. Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
and Members of the County Council. Happy Aloha Friday and Happy Holidays. I'm
Pamela Tumpap, President of the Maui Chamber of Commerce here to testify on the
West Maui Community Plan first and then Bill 148 on the proposed moratorium.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 57
Regarding the West Maui Community Plan, first of all we want to say that we
appreciated that a public meeting was held, and see that many proposed amendments
came, you know, out of that plan, from, came out of that hearing and are now being
proposed. However, since the bill is already up for first reading today and many
amendments have been made, we want to give community members more of a chance
to ring in and testify on this before this bill actually passes, given the amendments
today, and the issues that occurred in the early part of the process, we feel it's valuable
to send it back to Committee for further vetting.
The updated plan is extremely important to the West Maui community. This is a major
center that we're looking at for our economy, as well as housing, and we believe it
would be better to have further discussion on the amendments where the community
and resource people can be included in the discussion, versus three minutes of
testimony where we don't get to have the same level of dialogue and understanding.
And we think it's important that people get to really see what the final proposal looks
like before it moves forward to first reading.
And I think given the issues that Howie brought up, it's a good example. And there is
more understanding that needs to be done. And it's hard to ask developers right now
to make commitments on things when so much is changing within the industry on
pricing, and to say hey can you give us a number today without having that vetting is
really challenging. So we appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on this and
just don't feel that it's ready to go forward for second and final reading without more
community discussion on the amendments.
With respect to Bill 148, on the moratorium. You know, we've always said that we feel
there are better ways to manage challenges without moratoriums. And that's why the
Chamber does not support them in general. And we're particularly concerned about
rushed moratoriums, because they can lead to unintended consequences, which is
why we're very concerned today about the two amendments made during first reading
of this bill. Again, feeling like we didn't have that chance for thorough vetting.
While we have been supportive of the TIG throughout the process, we were extremely
disappointed to see the change where recommendations from the TIG are not tied to
the moratorium ending, which is inconsistent with the intent previously stated.
Additionally, creating legislation to count transient accommodation units by type and
community plan area is problematic and redundant. We feel the community has many
opportunities to ring in for or against new transient accommodation units being built
through the Planning Commission meetings and public hearings where people can
share if they feel a project is right for their community or not?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 58
Further zoning and community plans also ensure accommodations are built in
appropriate areas. So given this legislation to cap transient accommodation units, we
feel it's unnecessary, inflexible, and should not be tied to the moratorium.
Additionally we were very surprised by the new change to Section 2, on exemptions
for projects that have not received final discretionary approval. We were dismayed that
the Planning Commission's incredibly important recommendation to protect properties
who were already in the process is now being thrown out. For a project to get to the
point where it has properly filed with the County requires significant time, effort, and
money. To then put a two-year hold preventing that project from moving forward is
inappropriate, unfair, and devastating to the project. Other projects have had months
to get to this point with the understanding that  amoratorium was moving through the
process. So we don't believe there's going to be  arush of new applicants and urge
you to ask the Planning Department before passing this measure if they believe that's
true?
One specific project that would be cut out is the Grand Wailea, and we understand that
that project alone would result in 215 construction jobs created each year for four years;
245 permanent tourism jobs added on Maui; an additional 650,000 per year in property
taxes paid to the County; and an increase in their annual TAT contributions to more
than 20 million. At a time when our community has so many priority issues to address,
and we will need considerable funding to address them, it doesn't appear that the
economic impacts of this moratorium have been adequately reviewed and weighed in
connection with, excuse me, our overall County needs, priorities, and budget.
Therefore, we completely oppose the moratorium for these, these and other reasons
previously stated and strongly urge the Council to amend Section 2, if you are inclined
to pass the moratorium at this reading to allow those who are in the process to remain
in the process. Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Pam. Any questions. Members? If not, the next testifier is Ellyn
Mortimer. Ellyn Mortimer
MS. ELLYN MORTIMER. JEWISH CONGREGATION OF MAUI (testifying on County
Communication No. 21-553):
Good morning. I'm Ellyn Mortimer, Executive Director of the Jewish Congregation of
Maui. Thank you for taking the time to help us have a permanent zoning. We
appreciate you starting this process for us that we have been trying to be in compliance
with, and it's important to our organization that we are operating in correctly, in a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 59
correctly zoned building, on correctly zoned land, and I ask that you take swift action
to approve this rezoning.
The issue of off-street parking that came up, I respectfully ask that you consider simply
adding the remnant road to our property so that we have a place to build adequate
parking. We have, the congregation has been maintaining and cleaning that road,
we've been removing dead animals, mattresses, any other rubbish that people have
left there. And the synagogue would like to use this remnant road for our parking. Our
synagogue is the only synagogue on the island. We always expect to be good
neighbors and good members of our community. We never want to be a burden or
create hardship for our neighbors.
During the pandemic we closed for in-person events, never using the house of worship
exemption, demonstrating our concern for not only our Jewish community, but for our
community at-large. Thank you for taking the time to help us get compliant with the
zoning. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Let's see, oh there you are. Ms. Mortimer, just
to clarify the remnant road you are talking about is County, is it County property right
now?
MS. MORTIMER: We believe that it's, it's County. Over the past few years we've been
hearing back and forth that it was State and County, but I believe that it was determined
that it was County-owned. I think when we were at the Planning Council meeting, they
mentioned that it was County.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, cause that was one, one of the things I had talked to
whoever was the head of your church a few years ago about, you know, first
ascertaining the ownership of that remnant road. So if you have paperwork, that would
be helpful, you know, whatever you have that shows what that, what the response was
that you were given as far as ownership of that road.
MS. MORTIMER: Okay, who do I, where would I send that to?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, when it gets scheduled at Committee, you would send it to
the appropriate committee, which is probably land use, since it's a zoning issue.
MS. MORTIMER: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 60
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I see my colleague has a question for you, who’s the Chair of that
Committee. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you very, oh, Member Paltin. Can't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Mortimer for your testimony.
Happy Hanukkah.
MS. MORTIMER: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I, I just wanted to clarify you weren't expecting this to pass
today. That’s not what you meant by expedited, right.
MS. MORTIMER; No, and I didn’t, I don’t think I used expedited, I just said swift action.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, that wasn't what you meant by swift, like pass it today;
right?
MS. MORTIMER: No. I mean, you can. I mean, that would be fantastic. But no, that was
certainly not an expectation of, or even, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, okay, I'll-
MS. MORTIMER; But we've been, like we just already been waiting for so long, you know,
like our commission meeting was right in the beginning of COVID, I think like in the
beginning of April even. So we just have been, you know, feeling like we're on hold
and we're, you know, we know that there may be things we have to do to the building
in order to be compliant. And with the remnant and parking and we can't start any of
that until we actually have zoning, so.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, I believe I'm supposed to have a 120-day deadline from
when we get it. So I’ll, I'll try to be swift.
MS. MORTIMER: Okay. Appreciate it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk, next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is Ke'eaumoku Kapu. To be followed by Dick Mayer
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 61
MR. KE‘EAUMOKU KAPU [testifying on the West Maui Community Plan and Bill
Nos. 141 (2021) and 148 (2021)1:
Aloha ka kou. Can everybody hearing me.
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Good morning.
MR. KAPU; Thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Ke'eaumoku Kapu, I'm from
Lahaina and I want to testify on two items, Bill 148 and Bill 141. I want to start with
Bill 148 first. I'm the CEO for our Island Council, which makes up twelve moku
representatives throughout Maui of the aha moku system that passed in Hawaii State
Legislature 2007 signed by Linda Lingle, Act 212, the creation of the People's Advisory
Council.
The reason why I bring this up is because the aha moku needs to weigh in on ail affairs,
water, shoreline, land, ocean, air, and bones. We have representatives in each moku
that are waiting to be consulted. This body should seek kupuna with generational
knowledge or people that live in the community for advice if this is a good idea or not?
That is why aha moku passed in the legislation in 2007 and again in 2012, during
Abercrombie's time.
And there are high levels of concentration of historic properties, sites, and possible
burials. That’s the reason why I bring up these two issues. And the first one is we are
really in support of the hotel moratorium.
I think the highest benefit we've experienced during COVID was when tourist, tourism
stopped coming. Gave us an opportunity to see our environment, our land resources
reflourish . . . now that it's an open game again, we see a different type of tourism.
Tourism that is adamant, that have no respect for anything that has to do with our
resources. We don't even have the safety capacity if anything was to happen on these
islands with the influx and the amount of tourism coming, providing safety precautions
And I give you a perfect example. I'm going home into the mountains where I live and
I see tourists coming through my gate, saying that they don't have any place to go.
That the safest place that they are required to go is Lahaina High School, even above
the bypass. So having tourism, seeing them on my road is, is unbelievable. That's the
reason why I support this moratorium. I think enough is enough.
And at the same time, the moku of Lahaina stops at Sheraton Hotel, which means from
Sheraton all the way north that's all hotels that are built in the Lahaina moku and they
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 62
call it Kaanapali Resorts. So a lot of things basically need to be corrected. I support
the bill on the moratorium.
Simple, Bill 141 it's a condition created by the Constitution, Section 121, to make sure
there are provisions set in there for the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. 1 really
encourage and make sure that the exemption really does apply for the Department of
Hawaiian Home Lands.
I mahalo this opportunity to testify. I wanted to also testify on the other one, the 542.
But I think that time is going to come when they go around and they start coming to the
Lahaina District, that's when I'm going to start to weigh in heavily. So mahalo for this
opportunity, Councilmembers, you guys are doing a wonderful job. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you so much, Ke'eaumoku. Anybody have a question? If not, thank you.
Mahalo. Oh, sorry. I see Member Paltin has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, 1 just wanted to clarify on what you said for 542. Today is
first reading of the West Maui Community Plan. So if you wanted to testify on that, it
would be now. That was just an amendment that I was going to file, 542.
MR. KAPU: Okay, I, I do support the West Maui Community Plan with some reservation to
certain things and I think that as this thing gets deliberated, I need more clarity
pertaining to what's going on with the issue pertaining to what's her name with Lance
Collins. So I'm just going to wait on it. But I do support the West Maui Community
Plan. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you for that clarification.
MR. KAPU: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. May we have the next testifier, please?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mr. Dick Mayer. To be followed by Blossom Feiteira.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, hello Dick.
MR. DICK MAYER [testifying on County Communication No. 21-543, the West Maui
Community Plan, and Bill No. 148 (2021)]:
Good morning. Thank you. And this is regarding the West Maui Community Plan. I'm
concerned that the maps in the community plan do not indicate which properties are
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 63
within each of the colored polygons. The Maui Island Plan provided a detailed map
book, which indicated which properties were within all of the growth boundary areas.
Nothing like that is being done here, and in future, landowners, real estate agents,
neighbors, the Property Tax Division, and even the County Planning Department itself
may have considerable difficulty knowing which side of a line a particular property is
within the polygon. It's not clear, it's just broad yellow/green, other colors.
A second problem with this plan regards the land use designations themselves. The
Planning Department has indicated that they plan to use these same designations for
all of Maui island's community plans. Doing so would override the wishes of other
communities on Maui island. And it should be made clear that these land use
designations apply only to West Maui. And the other community plans districts may
decide to utilize a different set of land use designations. These are not, these land use
designations have not been established in law like zoning has been. This is important,
because many of the land use designations in the West Maui Community Plan overlap
with other designations of zoning and could potentially cause a problem.
Just look at the paragraph on the top of page 173 where Appendix G is. It leaves it
wide open as to what can be built on almost all properties, for example a business or
a big apartment building could be put in the middle of single-family residential area.
And in fact, even elevates what you put there as well.
Let me just read the wording it says there: The following table shows the relationship
between the existing community plan designations and the proposed updated
designations, and the community, and the compatible zoning district. This does not
constitute an exhaustive list of all possible zoning districts for each of the updated
community plan designations. And it goes on to say the designations below show
example alignments between the existing and updated designations, but not all
potential.
It leaves it all very vague so in other words, if  aperson buys a property thinking well
this area that I'm living in is single-family or residential or whatever it might be, he has
no, or she has no ability to know what else will go next door to that property. It leaves
it very vague and that goes contrary to what I think we would like to see residents have
the assurance of what their neighborhood and their community is going to be. That's
the end of my comments on the community plan.
With regard to the moratorium Bill 148, there are two issues that I wish to point out with
regard to this excellent and much-needed legislation. CC 21-543 which was just
introduced at today's meeting creates a problem with regard to affordable housing
credits. Please do not accept the change being proposed, and instead include the
following wording which combines both the original sentence, and this new sentence
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 64
that is now being proposed, contained in the County Communication. And it would
read then "Housing credits may not be issued to or used by the developer to satisfy the
requirements of this subsection for any type of unit constructed. The new affordable-
housing units must be physically constructed for the purposes of this section." By doing
this, the housing, the housing credits can still be used for other areas of the island, for
example, when housing is put up, market housing, the credits can be used, but not for,
it should not be used for transient accommodations.
I also would like to point out that at the very end. Section 2 of the moratorium there's a
provision there that you changed at the last meeting. And I would urge you to modify
that because it's not quite as clear as it should be. And a suggestion I'm making is,
this is the rewording: "This ordinance takes effect upon, on approval and applies to
any new transient accommodation that has not received its final discretionary approval
prior to the effective date of the ordinance." I think that makes it very clear, there was
some other language in there about approvals and processing and granting and all
kinds of things that made it very difficult. So please add this sentence at the end and
applies to any new transient accommodation that has not received its final discretionary
approval prior to the effective date of this ordinance. I've sent many of you the wording
of this and I'm hoping that you will make that modification at the very end of Bill 148.
Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Aloha, Mr. Mayer. With regards to
the West Maui Community Plan land use designations, that's quite a revelation. So
basically, you're saying if we leave it as is, it could have some unintended
consequences later on down the road. That's what I'm interpreting. So what would be
your remedy for this? Send back to Committee to fix this or, or what? Any
suggestions?
MR. MAYER: Right, I would, I would send it back to the Committee with a recommendation
that the, the allowed designations in each of the land use designations be much more
narrowly defined and get rid of the sentences which says anything else could happen
in that area. The vague language that's, that's inserted in there. You're setting a very
dangerous precedent so that when it comes to South Maui or Paia-Haiku or Upcountry,
it would, if this is allowed to go through and if the Planning Department has its way, it
could greatly affect every single community on the island. So although you're setting
this up for the West Maui, let's make sure we get it right from the beginning and don't
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 65
allow apartments and businesses and everything else to all be put into what's generally
being called residential. That's just one example.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay.
MR. MAYER: I could give you other examples, but that, let's use that as the example.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay, thank for your insight cause I know you've been in the
community a long time, you've been with the Maui Island Plan and served on the
Planning Commission, so you certainly have some extensive history.
MR. MAYER; Even though the other part where we just heard testimony about the, being on
the Planning Commission. I was on the Planning Commission previously, and I feel
that this moratorium should apply to anything that has not yet received discretionary
approval.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Mr. Mayer. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Kelly King, Member King, question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You can call me Kelly. So yeah, Dick, thank you for your, your
testimony. I just, I wanted to ask you about, because we, this, this issue of the land
use designations came up when we did the Molokai Community Plan and there was a
big push-back from the community against what was being put in, which was similar to
the one that went into the Lanai Community Plan. But we couldn't, we didn't have the
votes to override it, so it went in. But it was a different format. So we're looking at a
new format now that's, that's gone into the West Maui Community Plan. But do you
see the, basically the content of it as being similar to what went into the Molokai and
Lanai Community Plan land use designation?
MR. MAYER: And even, and even worse. Because it, not only are the designations so vague,
please look at page 173 of the plan, the very top there where you'll see all of the uses
that can be put into residential, or into apartment, into industrial, etc. It leaves it wide
open so that it's not a plan. It's, it's like an open door to anything could almost go in
the area. And I, I fault the Planning Department, they I don't think discussed each of
these things. These are not legally adopted land use designations, until you adopt it
in the West Maui Community Plan and yet they're saying that this is going to be the
precedent and the basis for South Maui and Upcountry and Central Maui, etc. It could
create a lot of havoc.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 66
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. And well, you know, they did do a, to give them
their due, they did do a public hearing or some public hearing on, on the designations
that I think I was at one of them, and I think you were as well. But that was the issue
that we were raising as a public that they weren't specific enough because they just
said for example and then they left it wide open, they said it could include these, but
then it left it open to include other things, too. So that was my .... as well, but that's,
that's what's different, that, that kind of took that whole land use designation a step
further than what we were proposing for the community for Molokai.
MR. MAYER: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I just wanted to clarify that because we had this
MR. MAYER: And, and the vagueness. If you look at all the, I was involved with the
community plan Upcountry as a Vice-Chair of that advisory committee and we desig,
every single property Upcountry knew whether it was in single-family or residential, or
industrial or whatever it might be. There's no way of knowing if you have a piece of
property in West Maui, it’s not clear on which side of the polygon, it's just a colored
area on a, on a map that has a very low resolution. So it's, its, there's some real
problems to, to clarify all that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Mayer.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any, any more questions. Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Nice to see you, Mr. Mayer. So you said you sent an email
to some of us. So I'm, I'm not sure if I received this so could you send that to me?
MR. MAYER: I will do that. Very good.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 67
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? If not, thank you very much, Dick.
MR. MAYER; And Happy Holidays.
CHAIR LEE: And thank you, you too.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Blossom Feiteira. To be followed by Todd Apo.
[testifying on Countv Communication No. 21-542 and BillMS. BLOSSOM FEITEIRA
No. 141 (2021)]:
Almost good afternoon, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. FEITEIRA: Sorry, can't open my video here. But first of all to you and to our County
Councilmembers, Happy Holidays. 1 want to thank you for the opportunity to testify in
support of two items on your agenda. That is Bill 141 and County Communication
No. 542.
Bill 141, which will exempt the department from the water availability policy of the
County opens the door for beneficiaries for the island of Maui and Maui County in
general. And just to give you an idea of what this bill can do for the beneficiaries living
in Maui County is that it would provide close to 1200 housing and agricultural units for
our beneficiaries over the next five years.
As you heard previous from Dr. Scheuer, the water issue is a very significant barrier to
the develop of Hawaiian Home Lands for this County, and to have the County Council
adopt this measure would be a great benefit to not only to the County and to State, but
particularly to those beneficiaries who have been waiting an average of 22 years to get
on that.
Regarding Bill 141 [sic], and that is an amendment to the West Maui plan to include
the Honokowai DHHL projects. Thank to Councilmember Paltin for having the foresight
to include this in the plan. Oftentimes we will run into a little bit of conflict with the
County, when we're looking at doing developments, and having this ability to be
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 68
included in the West Maui plan will remove the potential for conflict and help us move
forward even faster, which means that we get to serve, the department gets to serve
beneficiaries a lot faster. And so I'd conclude by once again thanking the Council and
you. Madam Chair, for this opportunity to speak on behalf of these two issues. And to
once again wish you guys a happy and blessed holidays.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Blossom. Same to you and your family. But we have a question
before you go.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Blossom. And Happy Holidays to you and your
family. Thank you for your good work.
MS. FEITEIRA: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, right now, I, I just want clarity on your testimony,
because right now, Hawaiian Home Lands if you were to build houses, you have
availability of not having to do the show me water bill; right? So water availability is
currently available to you.
MS. FEITEIRA: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So what, what, you’re thinking that this bill will give you
more water for the beneficiaries for housing? I might have misunderstood your
testimony.
MS. FEITEIRA: Well, okay, so the water availability bill essentially says that if your project is
not 100 percent affordable, you would have to be able to show the County where the
water source is going to come from, right. Okay, so if your project is 100 percent
affordable, you don't have to do that. County will provide for the water. Having the
projects under Hawaiian Home Lands included or exempt from this bill means that we
can move forward and work directly with the County to ensure that our projects get
sufficient water for the, for the developments.
Now the department does do their work with CWRM in ensuring that we have our
reservations for the sufficient quantities of water for our developments. But what this
bill does for us in terms of residential developments is that of the 1100 units that are
coming forward, that can benefit from this water availability bill, 900 of them are
proposed residential units. Okay?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 69
The others are agricultural lots, and as you know, for those of you who are not aware,
that beneficiaries can build a residential lot on your ag lot, a residential home on their
ag lot. So the potential for housing units for Hawaiian Home Lands increases
significantly with every new development that happens, whether it's ag, or home, or
residential. So this bill plays a very crucial role in helping the Department to move
these projects forward much faster, and therefore, it helps to expedite the removal of
people on our current waitlist for Maui County.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Yeah, I think we always supported residential
so I concur with you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay, so to clarify, the DHHL waitlist
aloha, Ms. Feiteira, mahalo for your testimony.
MS. FEITEIRA: Aloha.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Does it require or have any income requirements to
being on that list?
MS. FEITEIRA: No, it does not. And the reason why is State law requires that they follow the
waitlist, yeah, so we can't do income qualifications.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo. Mahalo, Ms. Feiteira. And so in
Committee, Managing Director Baz, when I described it as a hiccup, but that's part of
the problem that DHHL doesn't current. . .
CHAIR LEE: You're breaking up.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: . . . because residents don't have an . . . Alright.
MS. FEITEIRA: If I may, if I may speak to that issue. Madam Chair? So, I can, what I can
share with you, Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez, is that while the Department is
not allowed to award based on income, the Department also does a five-year survey.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ms. Feiteira.
MS. FEITEIRA: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 70
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, you answered my question.
MS. FEITEIRA; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I was just, what I was trying to do and I was breaking
up, can you still hear me everyone?
MS. FEITEIRA: I can, yes.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright, so it was explained in Committee already that
part of the County's side problem is that in the exemption, while one of the exemptions
is for affordable housing, the, to qualify for affordable housing you need the income
requirement side. And because the DHHL projects don't have an income requirement,
that was part of the problem in providing DHHL the exemption. And that's why this bill
is necessary. Mahalo, Ms. Feiteira. Mahalo, Chair.
MS. FEITEIRA: Thank you, Councilmember.
CHAIR LEE: Now we can see you.
MS. FEITEIRA: Yeah, I know I was trying to hit the wrong button that's why.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I guess we don't have any more questions, but good to see you, Blossom
and Happy Holidays.
MS. FEITEIRA: Same to you. Good to see all of you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, we'll take one more, one more testifier and then break
for lunch until 1:30.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair our next testifier is Todd Apo.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Apo. Mr. Apo? I don't see his name.
COUNTY CLERK: He might be disconnected.
CHAIR LEE: Okay then, okay then.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 71
COUNTY CLERK: How about the-
CHAIR LEE; That's all. that's ail. Okay, then we will return. Member Kama, did you have a
question?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I just wanted to know how many more testifiers we have left?
That is all. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we have about six, possibly seven.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Six or seven. And as you know, as it normally goes, people add on, you know,
sign up after, continually sign up so it probably might be ten. I don't know. Alright
Members, we'll take a break until, a lunch break until 1:30 and I will see you then.
Meanwhile, meeting is in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:15 P.M. ,AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:32 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE; Will the Council meeting of December 3, 2021, please reconvene. Welcome
back Members.
Madam Clerk, please call the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Todd Apo. To be followed by the testifier calling
in on the last four digits 7950.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Apo. Okay, let's call the next one.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is calling in on the last four digits 7950. To be followed
by Bill Kamai.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Looks like 7950 says dropped.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Bill Kamai.
COUNTY CLERK: Bill Kamai.
CHAIR LEE; Shall we go to the next one?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 72
COUNTY CLERK: The next one is Bill Meheula.
CHAIR LEE: The next one?
COUNTY CLERK: Next one would be Bianca Isaki.
CHAIR LEE: How do the spell last name?
COUNTY CLERK: l-S-A-K-l.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Next.
MR. BILL MEHEULA. GRAND WAILEA [testifying on Bill No. 148 (2021)1:
Excuse me. Oh, this is Bill Meheula.
CHAIR LEE: Bill Meheula. Okay. ..
MR. MEHEULA: I'm trying to get my camera. I'm sorry, I just couldn't get my audio to work
and now I can't get my video to work.
CHAIR LEE: Well, the main thing is the audio.
MR. MEHEULA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; And we can hear you.
MR. MEHEULA: Okay, I'll just try one more time here.
CHAIR LEE: Say, say who you are and what you're testifying on, okay?
MR. MEHEULA: Thank you. Okay. My name is Bill Meheula and I'm representing the Grand
Wailea today, testifying on behalf of the Grand Wailea. I represent the Grand Wailea
in the SMA contested case hearing before the Maui Planning Commission, the one that
Mr. Castro referred to earlier.
And I'm here to advocate for an amendment to Bill 148, and the specific amendment
we'd like to have added is at the current time, in Section 2, there is an exemption for
any applicant that has received a final discretionary approval prior to the effective date.
And we'd like to add to that, an additional exemption which would be the applicant has
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 73
received from the Department of Planning a written notice of application of
completeness. And the reason for that is any applicant that has gone that far has
expended a lot of time and resources to get to that point.
Earlier the Maui Planning Commission had proposed an amendment that's similar to
that, only broader. And theirs was an additional exemption if an application has been
submitted, that is properly filed with the County. So the difference is application
properly filed, versus application filed and the Planning Department has issued a
written notice of application completeness, which is further down the road. And it kind
of prevents any risk that people are going to like just submit an application to try and
get under, get in under the wire. So it eliminates that risk.
But the reason for the Grand Wailea's request for this amendment is the same reason
that the Maui Planning Commission proposed its amendment that was in recognition
that applicants in the County spent a lot of time and resources to get to the point where
they submit an application, and of course, spend  alot more time and resources to get
to the point where the application has been completed, as acknowledged by the
Department of Planning. And so that's why we're doing that.
And here, this particular applications is an SMA application to the Maui Planning
Commission that was submitted back in 2019, beginning of 2019. The notice of
application completeness was submitted, was, by the Department of Planning the end
of March of 2019. May 28, 2019, the Planning Department actually came out with its
report and recommendation in favor of the application. So that's two and a half, two
and a half years ago.
Since then, we've been in a contested case hearing, and the contested, the status of
the contested case hearing is that the hearing is closed. All evidence is closed. The
parties, the interveners, the applicant, the Planning Department, have submitted their
proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law to the hearings officer and we're all just
waiting forthe hearings officers to issue her recommended findings of fact, conclusions
of law. And then it will go to the Maui Planning Commission for determination.
This particular application initially requested 224 additional rooms. And through the
process of the contested case hearing, in recognition of areas that there were some
risks to resources such as iwi kupuna. Grand Wailea reduced it to 137 new rooms. The
application also is to renovate most of the swimming pools. So we're kind of in a
situation where without this additional exemption, without this requested amendment,
what could happen is that the planning, I mean the Planning Commission could issue
an SMA that grants additional rooms, whether it's 137 or less?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 74
And if the Bill 148 comes in, then parts of the application that were granted, like for
example, if the swimming pools are granted, they could move fonward with the
swimming pools, but they couldn't move fonvard with the rooms during the period of
the moratorium, whether it's two years or more. And, but when you put together a
project like this, which is about $100 million, you can't just add after, it's all bid with it
all being built together and it's also bid based on existing law. And of course the
moratorium wasn't existing law.
So the reason why the Maui Planning Commission recommended its amendment is
because they realized it was unfair to have to get that far along in the road, and then
have the project pulled cause it kind of goes against the concept of predictability of
laws, disclosure, fair notice, things like that. And the main thing is that it's curable. So
by issuing this amendment you cure the unfairness of the timing of this for projects like
this one, where they went two, three years down the road in reliance on existing law,
and then a new law comes about, that it kind of, you know, throws it all in array.
So that's the purpose of it and we hope you see the merit, and the justness in granting
this amendment for the same reason why the Maui Planning Commission did. And it's
important that the Maui Planning Commission did, because they are the Commission
that is closest to this issue, all Planning Department applications go there if they require
a discretionary permit. So they're familiar with the amount of work that the applicant
and the County agencies go through to get to this point.
I did want to mention one thing, and that is this, this application, there's been some,
some news on it, and I'll say this, I think whether you like the application or not, I think
it's really not relevant to your decision on the amendment. Because the decision as to
whether or not the application should be granted or not is really number one for the
Planning Commission. If that's not liked by either party, then it can go to the Second
Circuit Court on appeal. And if either party doesn't like that they can go to the
Intermediate Court of Appeals or the Hawaii Supreme Court. It's relevant to them as
to what, whether or not it's a good application or not. But as to whether or not this
amendment should be granted, I don't think the merit of it is relevant to this body. 1, at
least that's my opinion and of course, the merit of the application has not been
submitted to you for determination.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. I think you've reached your time limit, but the bell. Oh, there
it is.
MR. MEHEULA: I'm finished. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 75
CHAIR LEE; Alright, thank you. Questions, Members?
Member Johnson, Member Paltin, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. I just have a quick question. So
clarification. No ground has been broken as of yet, correct?
MR. MEHEULA: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; So how much of that, you mentioned this is a $100 million
project. How much of that has been spent in preparation.
MR. MEHEULA: You know. I'd be guessing, but I would, I would say it's, it's around 10 million.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Okay, alright. Thanks. Thank you. Chair. I have no further
question.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; 1 just was, that was over three minutes. That was at least four
minutes from when I started clocking. So I don't know if we have to give everybody
else that amount of time? Or what the procedure is? But that was--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, okay, I, I believe everybody else has been going by the three-minute
clock. If, whomever is the time keeper missed a minute. I'm sure they won't going
forward.
Madam Clerk, can you make sure that the timer is set for three minutes?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So the next person is Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair. Aloha. Mr. Meheula.
MR. MEHEULA: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; !, 1 wanted to ask you, cause your, your statement that it doesn't
matter whether we like this project or not? And we just heard from former members of
the Planning Commission that the community input is very important. So there was
community input against this project when the original, I don't know if you were part of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 76
the original group that started doing its due diligence and came to see me first back in
2019. Were you part of that group?
MR. MEHEULA: You know I was retained when the interveners made their first appearance
which I believe was mid-2019.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so, I don't know, maybe they were, okay, it was before that
I think that I had that conversation. So part of, you know, I just wanted to find out, do
you agree that part of development projects is doing due diligence? I mean you, you
can't just assume that because the law allows you to do something that you're going to
be allowed to do it. And usually due diligence means you find out if it's an appropriate
project for that, that area and if it’s a, if it fits into the community plans, which, you know,
this extended growth it goes beyond what our Maui Island Plan says we should be at
with our tourism population.
MR. MEHEULA; Yes, no, no, I, I agree with you that for purposes of granting or not granting
. . . that, that, that community input is definitely important. And it's obviously important
to you guys. All I'm saying is whether or not this amendment should be granted, I don't
believe it should ... the merits of the application should come in, because there's a lot
that went into the merits of this application. And that's why you give it to a particular
board to make that decision. But that particular commission, and whoever else is
involved in it, like the applicant, of course, that's been taken into consideration-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right, but those people are not elected by the general populous
and that's why we have a County Council to make the final decision because we are
beholden to the, you know to the people want. So, you know, I just wanted to find out
if you were involved in, from the beginning of this project? Because the project was,
you know, was already at the proposal stage when it put us over and above what our
Maui Island Plan describes as a comfortable tourist population. So I think that's what
a lot of us are looking at that part of the law.
CHAIR LEE: I think he answered your question already: right?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
MR. MEHEULA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So the next person is Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 77
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: ! think Mr. Sinenci had his hand up first.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, I’m sorry, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Member Sugimura. Mahalo, Chair. Just for
clarification for Mr. Meheula. So the Bill 148 would affect the expansion of the rooms,
but with, you’re saying with the amendment, you could be working on the . . . section
of. . . elaborate on that.
MR. MEHEULA: You know, 1, I, I didn't hear all of that. Can you repeat that?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, sorry, the rain is just hitting us now. So the amendment
would allow Grand Wailea to continue with other sections of the project, because you’re
saying it's combined with, construction is combined with the, the room construction?
MR. MEHEULA: No, I, 1, I think what I meant to say was that this, that the amendment I'm,
we're seeking would allow, the, the Bill 148 wouldn't apply to this application, because,
because the notice of application completeness had been satisfied before the effective
date of this bill. And, but if the amendment is not accepted by the Council, and if the
Maui Planning Commission grants the project, then any part of the project that included
additional rooms could not go forward during the moratorium period.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So Mr. Meheula, I think what I’m hearing you
say that the Grand Wailea to put in layman's terms, the Grand Wailea proceeded on
with getting their approvals based upon the law as it existed at that time. And what this
moratorium would do then, would be change, changing the rules and therefore, that
the County then has some, I'm going to say the word liability, but for the, for this change,
if we change the moratorium. I'm concerned about that, but I'm not sure if I'm reading
it wrong.
MR. MEHEULA: You know, I think we're coming from the standpoint of fairness that's curable
by the Council in this, in this particular circumstance without risk of opening it up for
others to submit applications quickly so they could add additional rooms. We're not
talking about liability here, I mean 1 have not been retained for that purpose. And I
don't know anything about that kind of effort. It's more just an appeal to fairness, for
the same reason that the Maui Planning Commission made its amended
recommendation.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 78
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So thank you, you're right, the Maui Planning Commission
did put that recommendation in as part of what they transmitted from the Planning
Commission to the Planning Department to us. So it was taken into consideration from
that body. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Meheula.
MR. MEHEULA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair. Mr. Kamai has come back onto the call. So we can call up
Mr. Kamai. To be followed by Bianca Isaki.
CHAIR LEE: Bill Kamai.
MR. BILL KAMAI . HAWAII REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS ftestifvinq on Bill
No. 148 (2021)1:
You can hear me? Okay, alright.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. KAMAI: Aloha and good afternoon, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Happy Aloha
Friday, first of all. My name is Bill Kamai. I am testifying on behalf of the Hawaii
Regional Council of Carpenters. I'll be testifying on Bill 148.
I just wanted to make a comment on the recent change to Section 2 on the exemptions
that reads to cover any project that has not received its final discretionary approval
before the measure becomes law. The issue is that for an applicant to be close to
being approved or has been going through the process of securing its approvals, and
now they are put on hold and, and have to wait another two years is very costly.
Any applicant currently going through the process of securing an SMA or even filing for
a building permit has gone through a thorough costly design and engineering phase
already. As an example, the hiring of an architect, engineer, landscape architect, and
contractors for cost analysis. They take into account setbacks, both County and State
shoreline setbacks, flood zones, drainage issues, burials, the metes and bounds of the
property lines, view planes, sewer, water, Maui Electric powerlines to and from the
property, height restrictions, building codes, how the building or project is situated on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 79
their property, material costs. All of this taken into consideration prior to filing an
application.
Not to mention the design of the building itself, it has to be engineered to withstand
hurricanes, and look aesthetically pleasing and oh, yeah, not block your neighbors'
view of the ocean. The whole point I'm trying to make is that there's a lot of thought,
energy, and effort that goes into an application before it even reaches you folks for
approval, not to mention the huge amount of money already spent in its design. The
carrying cost is an issue. It's money already spent by the applicant before he even
sees any kind of return on their investment.
That's the main reason why affordable homebuilders would rather go through the 201H
process than through the County process. At the very least they would know if they
have a project in 45 days or not? They don't have to pay a monthly note for something
they not even sure if they going to get approval on.
Some applications, some applicants are in the process for over two years already and
counting. What is troubling is that an applicant who spent all this money to get near
the finish line, so to speak, only for the finish line to be moved, ideally, should this or
when this ordinance take effect, it shouldn't stop or affect applications close or near to
getting its final approval. As the Maui Planning Commission suggested the--
CHAIR LEE: Bill, can you, can you conclude, can you conclude in 30 minutes, 30 seconds?
MR. KAMAI: Sure. That the application that had properly filed with the County prior to the
effective date. I don't think that's fair for someone who has spent all the time, money,
and effort in following the roadmap, which is a County process and then to have the
finish line moved. That's all I have to say. Happy Holidays. Happy Aloha Friday. And
mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Happy Holidays to you and your family. Members, do you have any questions
for Bill? If not, thank you again. Aloha.
MR. KAMAI: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Bianca Isaki. To be followed by Faith Chase.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 80
MS. BIANCA ISAKI [testifying on Bill No. 148 (2021^1:
Good afternoon, Councilmembers. I hope you can hear me. I'm Bianca Isaki and I'm
testifying in my personal capacity on Bill 148. I also represent three kanaka maoli
intervenor groups in a contested case before the Planning Commission, that's
Hooponono o Makena, Malama Kakanilua, and Pele Defense Fund. They have been
raising serious concerns about Grand Wailea's resort through pending contested case
procedures.
I support Bill 148 including Section 2 which specifies that, applies to projects that have
not received final discretionary approvals. That this application, that the Grand
Wailea's application has not been approved is due to many community concerns that
these groups are raising in that contested case. And those concerns are much of the
same overtourism impacts that this bill addresses. Traffic congestion, . . . water use,
nearshore ecosystem impacts, crowding out Hawaiian traditional practitioners, the
beach, sunscreen contaminating nearby salt pans, and sadly in light of Maui's particular
history of hotel construction, the desecration of Hawaiian burials.
Grand Wailea is a prime example of overtourism. Dealing with these issues in the
contested case is not ideal though, it's expensive, time consuming and out of reach for
many people. What Bill 148 does is give space for better planning around tourism,
growth and relieve some of the burden on the communities who otherwise have to
intercede project-by-project. It's good law, and it's good planning.
Councilmember raised liability. I'm quoting the Supreme Court here, mere good faith
expectancy that a permit will issue does not create a property right to continue that
proposed construction. That's Life of the Land, 1979 case. So it's been on the books
for a while. Quoting them again, it's a general rule that a newly enacted, for instance
zoning regulation which makes a proposed construction unlawful applies to projects
which are in the planning stage, even though the planned project is lawful under
preexisting law.
Also I think several people have raised fairness, especially Grand Wailea's
representative. I’ll just note that though the resort is complaining that it's completed
application was two and a half years ago. They do not note that they are the ones that
have been continually adding new evidence, causing reopening of the hearing, and it's
because their application was not complete. It did not address significant impacts that
they have to address.
And, I mean, they knew this moratorium was going on through this process, but the
process has been pulled out and lengthened because there are many, many flaws in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 81
that application. So for the resort to say that it should get a special exemption because
they completed application two years ago, that's wholly disputed. It's, we don't think
it’s complete, we don't think it's, it's proper.
To the extent that Grand Wailea is proposing to craft a special exemption that's just
going to apply for them, that's just not lawful. So please do not amend the bill with any
questionable loopholes at this point and thank you for your work on Bill 148.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? I see two hands.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Ms. Isaki. Really
appreciate your testimony and your legal background on this. So three parties that you
mentioned were the interveners that you represent. Were they there also at the
Planning Commission meeting or meetings where this item was being discussed for
the SMA permit and other permits?
MS. ISAKI: 1 believe so and I believe that's when they asked for it. You know what, Clare
Apana will be coming on later I believe, and she can speak more for the interveners.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so 1 just want-
MS. ISAKI: I wasn't retained till later.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I just wanted to clarify that they were there and that, you
know, because we keep hearing that, how important community input is and somehow
we keep getting these approvals despite community input with, you know ... concerns.
So, that's, that's one of my biggest concerns that what's happened with that, these
approvals. But thank you for being here, I really appreciate the . . .
MS. ISAKI: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. isaki. I just was wondering
is this the last appeal that could happen or would it like go up to the Supreme Court
again like the other one that we had heard about earlier this morning. Or is this the
last?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 82
MS. ISAKI: Well we're, we, the Planning Commission hasn't even had a chance to look at
this yet. Right now we're at the hearing officer, so yeah, it could go up quite a few more
levels, if there's an appeal from the Planning Commission. Assuming the Planning
Commission grants the permit, I, I, I think that there's a lot of flaws in the application
that like prohibit the Commission from granting it. So I think lawfully they couldn't, but
yes, you're right, after that if they made the wrong decision, we could keep appealing.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. That was my question.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair our next testifier is Faith Chase. To be followed by Walter Kanamu.
and Bill[testifying on County Communication No. 21-541MS. FAITH CHASE
Nos. 141 (2021) & 148 (2021)1:
Aloha, Chair. Aloha, Council. I just want to speak in favor of County Communication
21-541, the extending of the water use and development plan. I just want to quickly
say thank you for, I know a lot of times this Council has the responsibility, feels the
responsibility of where the State and the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands has
lacked. And I am definitely your witness to that, and I just want to say I appreciate you
being that intermediary government supporting body when we have to face where other
people have failed. Thank you. And especially to my Councilmember Shane Sinenci
for reaching out to all the East Maui aquifer stakeholders. I really appreciate that
thoroughness.
I'm also in support of Bill 141, DHHL I think that nobody can be actually prepared for
the kind of reservations that are coming down the line. I did hear the testimonies earlier
from DHHL, I'm disappointed that Chair Aila wasn't here to testify, I was actually looking
forward to what he might have to contribute, but nonetheless I appreciate Jonathan.
You know, they are asking for 11 million gallons for Upcountry, Keokea, Waiohuli,
there's more, they need more. The DHHL has never been completely part of this
conversation. I know I've said this before, when Councilmember Alika Atay was in
office we were setback four water commission, water committee meetings. And so
we're catching up, we're behind the ball, so please be aware that reservations are going
to increase and be requested on behalf of the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 83
Kahikinui is completely water barren. That, that homestead carries their own water.
So good work on that bill, I really appreciate it.
Of course I'm in support of the moratorium, 148. And I just want to say, you know the
message to the visitor industry testifiers, I, you, I just, if anybody is still listening, I would
just make a serious, 1 know my testimony is supposed to be directed to you, Chair, but
I would just make serious suggestion to these visitor industry stakeholders that, to
consider a transition, a career transition, and really adopt what our Hawaii agricultural
needs are. You know, look beyond, look beyond the visitor industry, please. Thank
you so much, you guys.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? No questions. So thank you very much
Ms. Chase.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Walter Kanamu. To be followed by Thomas Croly.
MR. WALTER KANAMU Ftestifyina on Bill Nos. 148 (2021)1:
I believe 1 have my audio is on.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, it’s on.
MR. KANAMU: Okay. Aloha kakou. My name is Walter Kahoiwai Kanamu. My dad was
from Wailua, and my mom is from in Ulupalakua.
In October, 1 did the Huaka'i Ku Hele Po and we walked around the whole island of
Maui. It consisted of almost 200 miles in ten days. And I want to share with you a little
bit of what I saw as I walked around the island.
When you walk around the island, something seems to say I am with you always ,every
single day. It may come from the wind that leaves goosebumps on your skin or even
shadows of shadows that come from deep within. Even hear the voices, whisper in
your ear, or feel the house that bring you oh, so near. You stop a while and know the
presence is so real. Your eyes begin to swell, because of what you feel. At times you
want to stop, cause the presence is so deep, you want to spread your hali'i and fall off
to sleep.
But the walk continues, and you must go along with others that you've come to know.
Did we not see what you've touched, or heard what you feel? But the experience for
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 84
them is still very real. You feel ups and do\wns like the roads that are up ahead, but
you know for yourself that you are far from dead. The mana that moves you forward
is the same that keeps you back. There are times of breathing heavy and times for
holding back. As we share our mana'o all across the land, we begin to hear the voices
of each and every hand. Every time you're greeted at each and every moku, you bring
with you the gifts of mahina and hoku. The fish is still alive and carried gracefully to
the tops of the mountains from the bottoms of the sea. You walk for each other, not
just for me. We walk for our kupuna, we walk to make them free.
I have written several of these different parts of the land Kahikinui, Kaupo, Hana,
Kipahulu, Honokohau, but you know when I walked through from, from the Bay Kanaio
and we reach Makena, from when I reach Makena and walk through Kihei, there was
no feeling. It was dead. When I walk from Olowalu through Lahaina, same thing it was
dead.
In 1983 my grandma died. After her funeral, we had a pa'ina up in Ulupalakua at her
old house. And my cousins and I walked out into the field, the pasture and we looked
down at Makena, and we all started crying. We were crying because my grandma
died. We heard crying because Maui died. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions?
Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Point of personal privilege. I just
wanted to mahalo Mr. Kanamu for that treat. Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
MR. KANAMU: . . .
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else. Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Kanamu.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Thomas Croly. To be followed by Junya Nakoa, I'm
sorry, Clare Apana.
CHAIR LEE: And then how many?
COUNTY CLERK: And then one more after that so far.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, okay. Hello Tom.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 85
MR. THOMAS CROLY [testifying on Bill Nos. 148 (2021)1:
Aloha, Council Chair. Aloha, Councilmembers. Those were beautiful words and quite
moving. Thomas Croly speaking on my own behalf. There is four points I want to
make. And you got my written testimony so you should be able to know what they are.
No. 1 is that when the Planning Commission reviewed the moratorium bill, it did contain
Section 2 that said this is not going to apply to the permits that are in, in process. And
Corporation Counsel made that crystal clear to everyone who was at the Planning
Commission that this bill does not apply to you, if you have a permit that's in application.
So to change it at first reading just doesn't seem reasonable or fair.
The second point that I want to make is the, this Council created caps for the short
term rental permits, and reduced those caps in, in July. And I looked up to see how
many pending short-term rental permits there were, and there were 16 as of the time I
wrote my testimony. One of them, the one that the Council made a special carve-out
for when they, when they created the caps was granted today. So you guys should
feel good that the one that you wanted to be granted, did get granted today.
But there are 15 other applicants, some of whom have had their applications in review
for as much as four years that are trying to meet the. the requirements. I don't know
that they all will, but we shouldn't pull the rug out from under those people at this point
and say, well now, forget it. You know you've put four years' worth of effort and so
forth, and so forget your application.
The third is just a basic fairness idea. How can we treat one applicant differently than
other applicant in this regard? Certainly you can say from this point forward, you can't
put in any new short-term rental permit applications. And of course you've made
changes to the short-term rental law to insure that very, very few people will ever be
able to get a permit in the future. But again, to pull the plug on, on the people who are
currently in the process just from the basic fairness point doesn't seem right.
And finally, Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez made an amendment at the, at first
reading, where she said what the purpose of this ordinance is, is to put a cap on the
number of visitor accommodations just like we already have done for the short-term
rentals and the bed & breakfasts. So I would submit that you've already done your
work in that regard. We have a cap. In most community plan districts we are at that
cap or above that cap, which means in most cases permits other than the ones that
were submitted prior to the change in the cap numbers aren't going to be able to get
granted at least until other ones go away.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 86
And do understand that about 15 permits have gone away in the last six months; that
is people have sold their homes or they haven't renewed or whatever. So we're not
adding more permits, we're not adding to, to the current quantity. So respectfully, I am
asking that you put a, an exclusion in for any short-term rental home permit that was
submitted prior to today's date, or even if you want to go back to the date that you, that
you codified with the caps, which was July 1 for everyone, other than the one that, that
did get granted today. That, that, you know, they pushed that one through quickly and
got it done for an individual and I'm sure you folks . . . about that. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members. Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Mr. Croly. Thanks for being here again
and looking out for your constituency. I, I, I agree with you, we already do have caps
on the short-term rental permits. And you said you identified 16 outstanding permits,
and those are all within the caps in their respective areas? Is that?
MR. CROLY: Right. So 1 just looked up the, the applications that were in process on the
KIWA system. These aren't applications I have anything to do with in-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right, no I understand that.  Ijust wanted to make sure that when
you looked at them that you ascertained that those were still within the caps for their
respective area.
MR. CROLY: Two of them were applications that came in after you guys set the caps. Okay,
the one that was just granted, as well as one more. So out of those 16, 14 were, they
did leave space in the cap. Well, not in the caps, but they said, the cap bill said it's not
going to apply to these applications that were submitted prior to July 1.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so the, okay so the other question I have is how does it
take four years for one of these applications to go through? What issues are?
MR. CROLY; Yeah, I can't say specifically, because I have nothing to do with, with that
application and so forth. But I can tell you that what happens sometimes is there may
be some aspect of the property that is not in compliance with all State, Federal, local
laws, which is the case just so you know on about 80 percent of the properties in, on
the island. Most people's homes are not in full compliance with all State, Federal and
local laws. So then the, the applicant has to put the property in compliance, and
sometimes that takes getting SMA permits, and, and, and so forth.
So I can't tell you exactly what's the hold up on individual ones. 1 do know one other,
which is out in Hana, and he's been waiting over  ayear to have a hearing before the
Hana Advisory Committee and they haven't scheduled it yet.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 87
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well that's, that's unfortunate. But, so, in your experience,
there's never, there's never been a deadline put on these, you know, when you apply,
that there's never been a deadline put on it like you have to come into compliance by
this date, otherwise your application is removed, and you have to submit later.
Because I can't, I mean, these, these applications just stay open ended until these,
these compliance issues are solved. Is that, is that how .. . your experience?
MR. CROLY; You know, I, I, I believe that every application is handled by a different planner
and the planners put their own spin on it, if you will and they are working under the
Director. So you have to direct that question to Director of Planning. But I can tell you
that it usually takes a year to get through the process. That's, that's a normal process.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm just asking you for, in your experience, there's never been a
time cap put on the, the--
MR. CROLY: Yes, yes, there are times, there are times when the planner will say you must
fix this within 60 days or address this issue within 60 days or whatever. But oftentimes
what holds them up is the person will be showing that they are trying to make
compliance, but they are waiting for agencies to respond to their permit applications
for maybe back permitting something and that kind of thing.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I, I just think four years seems like an extensive amount of
time.
MR. CROLY: I agree.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, that really helps because I, yeah, I think that, I think
that's a different issue because the original, the previous moratorium was just on new
construction. So this new one has the permit issue in it too.
MR. CROLY: . . . may not ever get grant, keep in mind. That guy with a four-year-old permit
there may be something he's never able to overcome.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, but they need to . . . just move on. Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions?
if. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Croly. I just wanted it clarify
you said you don't represent any of those remaining 15 or 14?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3. 2021
Page 88
MR. CROLY: No, I didn't say any. I, I, I have not assisted most of them. So I don't know
about most of them. There are two of the folks that are in that list, that, that I have
assisted in putting together their applications. But I, to be honest, I'm not just here
speaking on their behalf. I'm speaking on a basic fairness for everyone, anyone who's
put in an application.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So there's no financial interest involved for you for those two
applications, you get paid whether they go through or not?
MR. CROLY: I get paid by people for work that I do. I do not get paid to be here and I do a,
I do a lot of my work pro bono. I do a lot of my work just to make sure that people are
complying with the law. Now when someone hires me to put together an application,
they pay me to put together the application. They don't give me a bonus if the
application gets granted or anything like that. So there is no, my, my reason for being
here has nothing to do with any financial gain that I may make. You're making a lot
more money sitting there than I am on this issue.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you, Tom.
MR. CROLY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is Clare Apana. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
MS. CLARE APANA ftestifyina on Bill No. 148 (2021)1:
Thank you, good afternoon. Council.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. APANA: I would like to speak in support of Bill 148. And I'd like to say that it seems that
this bill gives a chance for some more fairness to come in. Speaking just for myself,
and, and the organization that I represent at times, we have to put in so much effort to
try to save our aina, and the, just the ocean, the water, we have to put in so much
effort, it doesn't seem fair, and I would like to see that this could have some remedy in,
in this respect.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 89
Let's take for instance the Grand Wailea, a perfect example of why we should not
continue indiscriminately to be building so much rooms and taking up all the resources.
1. 2009, they have had a grease trap violation since that year. Yet they still came
to the Planning Department to bring in their application.
2. When they brought their application, they didn't have a shoreline setback
determination. How can you possibly have an application when you don't know
where the shoreline is? They still don't have a shoreline application that is, that
is verified.
The water usage, in 2008 they promised the, some Councilmembers that they
were going to put in a water saving plan, it never happened. They are the
largest water user of everyone on this island.
3.
What have they really done that has shown that they were ready for this permit? 'A'ole,
they were given that because of their influence and power. Where do you get to break
laws, and get your permit, get your application approved? Well, there comes the
contested case, in this case, there was a contested case, which we had to do because
of all the things that were wrong, but mostly because they plan to dig into a known
burial ground once again.
To this date, there is no AIS that shows completely where all of the burials have been,
where they’ve been taken to, where they are still on this property. This developer
refuses to do that. We asked him very simply, very plainly in pre-negotiations, please
show us what's happened to our ancestors? Stop digging into them. Our records, or
your records are showing that you have many more iwi on this property. Why are our
ancestral burials the sacrifice because they want to build a bigger hotel and more
pools? ‘A'ole, we need better laws. We need the moratorium.
I can add, I can go through, we have 303 pages of findings of facts, that show all the
violations that this permit application has, and that is what the contested case is for.
And you should, what's going to happen to us if you don't acknowledge that, yes, this
application really was not complete? Thank you very, very much, and I'm happy to
answer any questions. There's so much more information, but I won't give that to you
at this time. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 90
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, my times up, no just kidding. Clare, thank you once again
for being here. I'm going to ask a question that  Iasked Ms. isaki, she said to ask you
folks, for the intervenors. Were you folks there with all this information at the Planning
Commission when this project came up before the Planning Commission for approval?
MS.APANA: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so this, so this information was presented to the Planning
Commission.
MS. APANA: Oh, excuse me, excuse me. We were there. You asked me two questions.
We were there, we did not have all of this information. We had some of it. And, but
during the process of the contested case, we have found more information that we
really would be, would have been much happier not to find about violations and how
things just haven't been done, that needed to be done by law.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, but you were, but you and the other two intervenor groups
were there, were in protest of this project from, at the Planning Commission?
MS. APANA: Yes, we were.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you so much. Thank you for bringing that information, if
you, if you can send us, I don't know if Ms. Isaki already did, if you can send us the,
you know . . . application that would be helpful.
MS. APANA: Can you say that one more time and excuse me.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It would be helpful if you or Ms. Isaki could send the Council a
summary of all of the violations that you just, you know, some, you named some of
them, but you said there was more. But, you know, the things that made the complete
application--
MS. APANA: Thank you. Yes, we will be very happy to do that. I hope you enjoy reading.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Take a weekend. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Clare.
MS.APANA: Thank you very much. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 91
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Junya Nakoa. To be followed by Liz McGain.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA ftestifying on the West Maui Community Plan and Bill Nos. 141 (2021)
and 148 (2021)1:
Howzit guys? Junya Nakoa from Napili, but frick I still stay Honolulu. Howzit. Well
I'm, I not one paid lobbyist. I not working for no developer. I am pretty much talking
about the people of Maui and how we feel and what not. Well, so, okay, I get three
bills I going talk about. I going start, I going go slow, so I no screw up.
Bill 141, yeah, the, the Hawaiian Homes exemption for the water policy. Yeah, like the
brother said from the DHHL in Honolulu, they, they get, they only get little stuff, but
they still get their, the water, you know, they get, they get, get the water for their
projects. So they get to, you know, move faster. You know? And in Lahaina, we get
the one that's by Honokowai, we get the one, the Leiali'i, so you know what I mean, if
the, we can get this thing, only going help the Hawaiian Homes to get the Hawaiian
people like us in houses. Yeah, and so, yeah, go,  Isupport that buggah.
And then okay, now going, go for the next one. I just go right to the next one or you
guys going ask me questions?
CHAIR LEE: No, you can go to the next one.
MR. NAKOA: Okay, just like make sure, I like make sure. Okay, now, 148, the, okay guys
yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Moratorium.
MR. NAKOA: You know, I when, yeah. I've been, I've been listening to the testimonies, and
you know, again, a lot of the talk about the Planning Commission come up. And, yeah,
I love those buggahs, they give, give up the time, they working for free, you know all
that kind stuff, but they take the recommendation from the Planning Department, and
you know with all of this SMA's and exemption of SMA's you guys know that I, we get
one project I've been working on that, you know, the Planning Department when screw
up on, okay. And so this is, this is sounds like another thing, one other one for the
Grand Wailea buggahs, you know, they, they think they all powerful and money and
what not.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 92
So, you know, like Uncle Kanamu was saying, no, no, no more the feeling, brah. Even
when I was staying at the . . , stuff just no more the feelings and that's because of that,
because of this, all this haole million dollar homes and the hotels going up and going
up and going up. You know what I mean? So and anyway, the, I heard they got
permission this week that the Planning Department is being audited. Thank you, guys,
for, you know, putting them in, the money for have it audited by one Honolulu company
and not one Maui one. Mahalo for that.
So again I support the moratorium. Yes, make . .  .and then, make um so us guys no
get kick out, you know, of our own island. Like no let Maui die, guys, like Uncle said.
No let Maui die. You know what I mean? Just, you know what I mean? Pass this
moratorium and protect us kanakas and, you know, Auntie Clare, she working hard on
this thing so stop already. Nuff these buggahs, enough is enough. Okay, I'm pau that
one.
Okay, now you guys going start on this buggah, oh. boy. Okay, I going start now. I
am in support of the West Maui Community Plan. Okay, and the four testifiers that
when talk in behalf of the Ka'anapali 2020, they was the only one that talk about today,
I going. I'm going to talk about Ka'anapali 2020.
Before I went on my vacation, I told you guys, you know, I had three meetings with the
guy, Clayton whatever. And I . . . you know, I, we when bring up to them about that
97 acres that, you know. Sugimura and Kama when question about, you know, is this
going be crucial to the, you know, to that project? Brah, okay, you can put in the
infrastructure even though the buggah is in open space and parks. . . . what not.
But anyway, when I did question Clayton and all the ladies inside that office about that,
if we could have a 100 percent affordable, okay, you know, and you know what, they
cannot commit. Like you know, Kelly King, mahalo for trying to get them to commit in
writing. These guys no can commit, the developers cannot commit and keep screwing
us over. Okay, guys, so if they cannot commit, why should you guys commit to them.
Okay, and anyway, the thing not going even, going even happen in the next ten years.
So in the, in the ten years from now, they can come out again, and, and try, try, try . .
. do this whole West Maui Community, you know, plan, we going redo um again in ten
years and then, then we can try again in ten years.
You know, I talk about the, I tell you, I tried to get one developer that we working on
Koa Realty was going go over there try cover all the 51 percent of the affordable at no
cost to Ka'anapali 2020. And they said, oh no they been talking to some other guys.
But I going tell you, if we get them, this, this realty guy is not going to take one penny,
you know, other than the money that they when invest into this project. Because this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 93
is one, one group that just like help out people. And what they going do with the money
they get back and they spend, hopefully get some more places they can go and build
some more houses.
And gang, this is for real stuff. That's why I'm in Honolulu, working on that planning
and so, you know, and the affordable housing got to stay affordable. You know what I
mean, true affordable, not $700,000, not five, not $600,000. It's not . . . it's not
affordable for the workforce that live across the street at Kaanapali that work in all the
hotels. Those buggahs going have to work three different jobs just for make the
payments, guys. Yeah, and so I am full support of this West Maui Community Plan.
And . . . tell you guys mahalo, shoots, and stay dry gunfunnit, cause the buggah wet.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any questions for Junya? if not, Junya, you have a great weekend.
MR. NAKOA: Coming back Maui tomorrow. Yes, sir. See you guys later. Chee hoo.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Liz McGain. And Ms. McGain will be followed
by the testifier calling in on number 5606.
MS. LIZ MCGAIN [testifying on Bill No. 148 (202111:
Can you all hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. MCGAIN: Okay. Thank you so much. Chair and Council for letting me speak. And I'm
calling in support of Bill 148. Personally speaking to the illegal transient
accommodation, yes, this needs to be addressed; however, creating more transient
accommodation with hotels is not a healthy alternative when the visitor numbers we
have are unsustainable. And at what point is enough going to be enough? And are
we following the visitor number cap that we already have?
Some of us today are speaking out to our quality of life and rich culture here on Maui,
which we have held near and dear and hope to bring forth for our children. Some are
speaking to perpetuating an industry oriented around profit and revenue, with goals
that serve the business, not the goals for the greater community.
Overdevelopment and transient accommodations and the overtourism is passing a
point of sustainability by our existing island residents and lands. It is creating a need
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 94
to bring in more workforce people from off-island, intensifying the housing problems. It
is not sustainable, and it will continue on and on until we chose to diversify into areas
other than tourism and stop disregarding the island's capacity for visitors.
Our island has finite resources. We are individuals, we are families, kupunas,
communities with a rich culture not found anywhere else in the world, who want to
continue our quality of life, enjoying the beaches, camping, hiking, water resources for
our own homes, and culture the island currently holds. We have enough visitors
coming already. Allow time for our community to create small business and diversify
in other ways. Sharing the island with visitors is not hard to do when the numbers are
sensible and resources shared. We are surpassing that point. Bill 148 allows time to
address this.
Last thoughts, what about revitalizing Kahului? Creating parks and small business
shops, even housing with the existing structures which are already abandoned, as
opposed to continuing to develop transient accommodation related buildings on some
of our most cherished coastal areas. We need time to have a rethink for the greater
good of the island community forthe culture that is Maui. Bill 148 supports that. Thank
you, County Council, for all of the hard work you have been doing in this regard. Thank
you for allowing me to speak.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? If not, thank you Ms. McGain.
Clerk. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is calling in on number 5606. To be followed by Mr. Albert
Perez
MS. ISAKI: Apologies this is Bianca, I think I accidentally raised my hand. Please bypass
this.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Perez. Mr. Perez.
[testifying on CountyMR. ALBERT PEREZ, MAUI TOMORROW FOUNDATION
Communication Nos. 21-542 & 21-543. the West Maui Community Plan, and
Bill No. 148 (2021)]:
Aloha, sorry, I thought I had another minute. I'm Albert Perez. Aloha Chair Lee,
Members of the Council. I'm with the Maui Tomorrow Foundation, and I’ll be testifying
on several items today. Some of them are related. But I would like to have up to three
minutes on each one.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 95
First one is County Communication 21-542. These are amendments to the West Maui
Community Plan. So we support the high-resolution maps, but the current draft does
not show labels for the individual land use polygons, as was discussed in Committee.
I think it was brought up by Member Johnson. The purpose of this is to eliminate the
difficulty in interpreting the legend of a map that uses only color. Especially for people
who have color vision issues. So as a trained cartographer, I can say that best practice
is to never use more than three to five colors in  amap. unless you provide labels within
or pointing to each polygon. So please revise the maps to add the land use district
labels and make them usable for all.
We support the addition of the requirement that developments accommodate the West
Maui Greenway. As far as replacing Policy 2.4.2, we support part and don't support
part. So we don't support the part that says to allow only one house for every three
transient vacation units. We're already over the visitor resident ratio specified in the
Maui Island Plan, especially in West Maui. So the CPAC settled on a one-to-one ratio
of transient units to housing units. That would already allow more transient units than,
than we really need. But this amendment would make it even worse. The part that we
do support is the part of the amendment that specifies income ranges and the 30-year
affordability requirement. So I hope, I hope that's clear.
And we do support incorporating the language of the 1996 West Maui Community Plan
that requires six acres of park, including a linear park greenway adjacent to Kahoma
Stream. We're not calling for the removal of any existing homes, but we also do not
support rewarding the developer for ignoring the clear requirements of the 1996 Plan
and skirting the impact of the court decision.
So I will move onto the actual bill. West Maui Community Plan. So as we said before
the people of West Maui have made their voices heard, and this Council has been
exemplary in listening to that voice. The process was very thorough. And I mean, 36,
39 community plan meetings, advisory committee meetings, the Planning Commission
review, and the Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee, it was very thorough
and fair.
I do remain concerned that people are being told with certain exceptions like
conditional use permits, they're being told that the community plan is not enforceable
throughout the community plan area. And this is made worse by the vague land use
descriptions that Mr. Mayer mentioned. As I have testified before, this language gives
the Planning Department wide discretion as to what is acceptable within a particular
land use designation. And landowners, even the landowners don't really know what
they'll be able to do until staff makes a decision.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 96
This requires staff who are well-trained at administering this type of land use regulation
and it requires staff who are not subject to political pressure to allow projects proposed
by developers who have good political connections. Unless we have a way to insulate
planners from political pressure, I'm concerned that the current language is not specific
enough to prevent abuse.
I  did propose additional language during the Committee that would make the
designations more specific as to what is allowed. While that was rejected in
Committee, I remain very concerned, especially since the Planning Department is
moving ahead with the South Maui plan and telling people that the same approach will
be used. And they're using that same approach with vague land use descriptions in
the zoning code rewrite. So we ask the Council to do everything they can to make
sure that the people's voice will have the force and effect of law in all areas of the
community plan from mauka to makai so that their faith in government won't be eroded,
which would undermine our society.
And Chair, I'd like to move to Bill 148, the moratorium. So we strongly support this
visitor accommodations moratorium. I also support Dick Mayer's proposed
amendment to Section 2 to clarify that only projects that have obtained final approval
are exempt from the moratorium. I'm going to kind of divert a little bit into
Communication 21-543 that would allow the use of housing credits to gain an exception
to the moratorium. From listening earlier, it didn't sound like that was the intent, but I
got to say even the Maui Planning Commission members have been trying to get
developers to actually build homes instead of use housing credits.
We do like the part of the amendment that says that the houses have to be physically
constructed. So maybe you could keep both sentences. Please don't delete the other
one that prohibits use of housing credits.
And as far as Section 2 going back to the actual Bill 148. As far as Section 2, we do
support the proposed language as proposed by Mr. Mayer to just say that this
ordinance takes effect on approval and applies to any new transient accommodation
that has not received its final discretionary approval. Even with a completed, accepted
application there is no guarantee at any point in the process that your project will be
approved. So without a requirement from final approval to gain an exception to this
moratorium, proposals like the Grand Wailea could continue to be approved during the
period of the moratorium.
This moratorium is temporary, and the community is crying out for a halt. The
developers can wait. So please adopt the simplified language for Section 2 as
suggested by Mr. Mayer. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 97
CHAIR LEE: Members? I have a question. Albert, are you suggesting that we recommit the
West Maui Community Plan?
MR. PEREZ: No, I'm not. As much as I don't like all of the outcome, I do like a lot of outcome.
I feel like it was a fair process. And I feel like there's more to do than just revise this
language. There's more to do to make the community plans, as well as all the other
parts of the general plan enforceable.
CHAIR LEE: So you're suggesting that we pass, pass the plan.
MR. PEREZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Regardless of the questions and issues that you and Mr. Mayer raised; right?
MR. PEREZ: Yeah, that's essentially correct, Chair. I think the Council can come back and
correct whatever issues there are with the community plan. But we need to move
forward and there's a lot of good stuff in this plan that needs to go into effect.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, alright any more questions? If not. thank you, Mr. Perez. And you made
Member Paltin very happy.
MR. PEREZ: Alright, aloha.
It kind of contradicts your testimony, but hey, it's getting late.CHAIR LEE:
MR. PEREZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member, I mean not Member but.
MR. PEREZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. PEREZ: Sorry, Chair, I don't think that my testimony was contradictory. I can clarify, if
you'd like. Or I can just, I see a question.
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no. The main issue is that you brought up some concerns that I asked
if those concerns should be incorporated or, to be changed as far as the West Maui
Community Plan was concerned. We should make the proper changes and you said
no. Right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 98
MR. PEREZ: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Paltin.
MR. PEREZ: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess I just had a clarifying question. I mean it's not that
we're going to take this item up for discussion, including the ASF, which I posted, which
I intend to fife. And just to clarify, it's not that we can't make more amendments today
at first reading. So that's why we still have the opportunity to fix the thing, some, all,
or none, that what you said, depending on how the votes go, correct?
MR. PEREZ: That's a question for me?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes.
MR. PEREZ: Yes, that is correct.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. Thank you, Chair.
MR. PEREZ: Okay, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I know, but they had quite a list. Member Paltin. You know--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's why I said, some, all, or none.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, who is the next testifier. Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Fay McFarlane. To be followed by Mr. Sam Small.
MS. FAY MCFARLANE [testifying on County Communication No. 21-542. the West Maui
Community Plan, and Bill Nos. 141 (20211 & 148 (2021)1:
Aloha, ‘auinala, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. O Fay McFarlane, kou inoa and I'm
testifying on behalf of Aha Moku o Maui in regards to County Communication 21-542.
Aha Moku supports the inclusion of high res maps found at weareMaui.org and the
addition of labels corresponding to the legend. Aha Moku supports adding the
Honokowai chart and figures requested by DHHL. Aha Moku also supports the
preservation of the pre-existing 1996 language requiring Kahoma park land. We agree
with the Preserve Kahoma Ahupua'a plaintiffs who won the Hawaii Supreme Court
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 99
ruling upholding the Court of Appeals decision. Stanford Carr can and should go
through the process of a plan amendment to rectify their illegal development of Kahoma
Village.
The rest of Aha Moku comments on CC 21-542 relate to the West Maui Community
Plan compliance \with Bill 148, for which the Council has already heard support for in
earlier testimony, Po'o Ke'eaumoku Kapu. As Mr. Kapu stated Aha Moku o Maui joins
the broader community in supporting the cessation albeit too brief of building new
hotels and visitor units.
Furthermore, Aha Moku o Maui opposes any amendment to allow the Grand Wailea
and others to proceed building more hotel units or similar, and I believe you guys
already heard that language about Section 2. The Planning Commission with their
developers, realtors, mortgage brokers, and construction owners, they absolutely
prioritize the testimony of paid lobbyists over the overwhelming testimony of the public.
Aha Moku o Maui asks you the County Council to consider the testimony of the
community who does not support a loophole for the Grand Wailea. Their owners
Blackstone are worth more than 26 billion and the 10 million mentioned by their lawyer
means nothing to them.
Aha Moku reminds the Council that Bill 148 is already a compromise which allows
plenty of exceptions to developers that the community actually oppose. Just look at
the affordable housing ratio, moving from one to one, to one to three, Now developers
can build triple the hotel units than affordable housing. Also many in the community
wanted affordability in perpetuity, not just 30 years. Another example is that people
wanted affordables first, but developers are now allowed to do concurrent builds.
Regarding the mauka redevelopment of Slorexa Hotels, rather than completing
demolition, they're allowed to occupy their newly built units before they are even done
with the demolition on the old units. We're not expecting anyone to remove the
exceptions in 19.98.040, we're just saying that developers got a lot of concessions to
allow them to build despite the moratorium.
Moving on to testifying as an individual, I support Bill 141, because I agree the DHHL
does need this bill to facilitate the awarding of homesteads. I also support Bill 148, but
wish it was longer with fewer exceptions. And 1 support the West Maui Community
Plan with the provisions mentioned by Aha Moku and I'm saying that as an individual
that participated in all of the CPAC process, the testimony to the commissions,
testimony to the committees, and I always attended all of those meetings with no less
than a huge flock of kupuna. So, thank you so much for your time today.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 100
CHAIR LEE: I don't see any hands anyway. Oh, now  Isee one.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Like I should apologize, sorry. There is one question. Aloha,
Ms. McFarlane, thank you for being here. I wanted to ask you because you talked
about several of the exceptions that were in the moratorium bill. In your opinion, what
are the two most egregious exceptions?
MS. MCFARLANE: Because that testimony was from a prepared statement from Aha Moku,
I don't know whether or not I can answer that decisively? I would be happy to consult
with Aha Moku Council and submit that response in writing.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, because you're representing the Aha Moku Council?
MS. MCFARLANE: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I understand. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -to the area-
CHAIRLEE: What's that. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't know I was unmuted. All the restaurants
around us got the red cards. So just was-
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for sharing.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I hope there's not an infestation at
your office, Member Paltin. Okay, aloha, Ms. McFarlane. Mahalo for your testimony.
I wanted to follow-up on Member King's question.  Iunderstand that the testimony you
provided was on behalf Aha Moku o Maui, and but I was curious if you had a personal
take on the egregious exceptions?
MS. MCFARLANE: We're, because you're asking. Okay, as an individual, as an individual, I
do understand that we want to incentivize the, we want to incentivize these properties
to engage in managed retreat from shoreline. However, you know, I would be remiss
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 101
if 1 represented that Aha Moku is okay with the shoreline hotels building mauka. It's,
it's not, I don't see that that type of consensus happening from all of the different moku.
Let alone, you know, the mokus most affected by tourism resort areas. So I don't really
see that. But I understand where the bill is coming from. You guys want to incentivize
managed retreats. So, you know, as an individual  1understand, but I don't believe that
that is, that the cultural practitioners are going to ever agree that mauka redevelopment
of the Slorexa Hotels is something that they want.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for that response. Ms. McFarlane. Mahalo
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
if not, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our final individual signed up to testify is Mr. Sam Small.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Small? Okay, I see you, we see you. No, but we can't hear you.
MR. SAM SMALL (testifying on County Communication No. 21-553 and the West Maui
Community Plan):
This one? Is that better?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, yes.
MR. SMALL: Okay, okay. Thank you. Sorry for that. Thank you as always, it's an honor to
be participating in this process, i, you know, appreciate so much the time and energy
that you're putting into details on these community plans, and you know, unfortunately,
you are suffering from the responsibilities that were ignored from past County Councils.
You know, the demand from the public has been clear for years that the administration
of land development in Maui County is a mess. Title 19 is a mess. Title 18 is a mess.
Participants and employees of the different departments have testified in the past that
oh, no, no, don't change it. Well, you know, there's a reason for that, and unfortunately
some of that reason was that they were in position, plan examiners were in a position
to receive financial compensation directly from developers. And the loopholes that
exist, that caused the complexities of, of what you're dealing with today are, are, we're
living with those loopholes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 102
You know, Greg Brown, of course circumvented this whole community plan process by
I believe committing fraud. You know, in his plans and the plan examiner who approved
his plans specifically long time person has resigned. That person ... absolutely offered
this Council direct testimony of his experience of . . . committed by that particular
individual, who was responsible for Greg Brown. So, you know, this falls on the County
Council. This is your responsibility. And you know, we need you, we beg you, Albert
Perez mentioned, you know, there are additional things that need to be done. Yeah,
there are additional things that need to be done. Title 19 needs to be restructured.
Title 18 needs to be restructured.
Maui County's development program is unique, it does not follow be best practices.
Public Works, in most communities deals with roads, they don't deal with construction
plans for individual houses. All of that stuff needs to be shifted over to the Planning
Department that is effective, that is populated by individuals that have a direct
professional experience.
Finally at Public Works, there's a gentleman there, the lead inspector Derek Hyland,
he's has, you know, mainland experience, and was promoted into a position of
leadership because all of the other inspectors recognized, long-standing inspectors
recognized that he had the experience to be able to be the leadership in that
organization. Individuals like that are priceless to us here on Maui, and they need to
be fostered and advanced.
And you, this Council has the responsibility to restructure these specific ways that
development happens here on Maui. And if you do that, 1 tell you, I promise you that
all of the, the problems that you're dealing with now will go away.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. And I assume you're talking about the West Maui Community Plan, right.
MR. SMALL: Yes, well it's, the community plan, so the, that, pardon me for, for diverting into
the global perspective on the community plans. The difficulty with any of the
community plans is that the implementation is subverted by loopholes in Planning and
Public Works, Title 19, Title 18.
So as Mr. Perez said, you know. West Maui is great, go ahead and do it. And there's
bedrock changes that need to be made, and they will only be made by this Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Now Members do you have any questions for Mr. Small? If
not, thank you very much, Mr. Small.
MR. SMALL: Thank you all.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 103
CHAIR LEE: Bye.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. And if an individual
connected to the meeting at this time has not testified, but would like to do so, please
unmute and identify yourself now. This is the last call for testifiers. Please indicate if
you would like to testify.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, we have Kai Nishiki.
MS. KAI NISHIKI ftestifvinq on County Communication Nos. 21-551 & 21-554. the West Maui
Community Plan and Bill Nos. 141 (2021) & 148 (2021)1:
Good morning, Chair, Councilmembers. I'd like to testify, please.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Madam Clerk, you may call up the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kai Nishiki.
MS. NISHIKI: Good morning, Chair, Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. NISHIKI: Oh, wonderful, thank you. Okay, I'd like to start on Bill 148. I am so excited
about this bill. Thank you very, very much to the leadership of Vice-Chair Keani
Rawlins-Fernandez, and this amazing Council for really listening to the needs of our
residents over the greed of consumerism and capitalism. Thank you.
But I, what I'm really excited about is that there is this huge financial incentive regarding
moving resorts mauka out of the Slorexa. And, you know, there should be so much
excitement around this because this gives a great opportunity for the construction
industry, planners, demolition, real estate, hoteliers, everybody. And, you know,
everyone's always like, hey, we want more development. Well, this is some
development that some of our residents could get behind in moving these aging resorts
off of the shoreline.
So I think that, you know, instead of everybody crying about like how horrible it is, like
hey, let's look at what a great opportunity this is for us. And also, to really validate that
our leadership is really listening to our community and our residents because for so
long, it just really seemed like the vision and direction for Maui County was just on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 104
growth, luxury development, big hotels, tourism accommodations. And our residents'
needs, and the supporting infrastructure have been neglected. So this just really gives
us a great opportunity to put the focus back where it should be, on the residents' need,
not developers'greed. Mahalo.
Moving on to the West Maui Community Plan. First off, 1 don't think we were, we
weren't really aware of the whole situation that Mr. Lance Collins brought up about the
area surrounding Mala. So I hope that we can give  alittle attention to that.
But I'm testifying on my own behalf, although I am the Chair of the, the CPAC. We
really focused the plan on the quality of life for residents and the needs of the
community and let that guide our actions. We provided areas of growth close to jobs
and services such as Wainee and around the Kapalua Airport.
And it seems some developers who didn't get their way are now trying make like it's
either, you know, parks or housing? There is no need to pit parks versus housing.
Both can be accomplished. Both are accomplished in this plan. The estimated housing
units needed in West Maui projected by 2040 were 6,923 and the housing units
possible with the scenario presented to you is 7,950 which is an excess of 1,000.
Large parks should not be considered a burden or out of the question, but actually
incredible assets and can actually be self-funding with income generators such as
entrance and parking fees. If funding or care is an issue, let's address that as a priority.
Parks and open space are as vital to a community's quality of life as roads, water, and
sewer.
In addition we incorporated sea level rise and erosion into our planning, leaving room
for relocation of the cemeteries, support for the canoe paddling clubs and hale.
Perhaps even that the roadway, I mean I know that Ka'anapali 2020 keeps talking
about like connections and infrastructure on the low road, but if you look at the maps,
the low road in that area is super close to the ocean and it is completely covered by
water.
So not only does the road need to be moved, but all of the parks, all you know, all of
the things that are makai of that. So that's why we, that's one of the reasons why we
chose such a large area in addition to, if you look at the entire plan, not just that. You
want to see that there are, that there's a need for a break between, you know,
Ka'anapali 2020 has like a thousand acres that they want full development of, and it's
nice to have that little break between Lahaina and Kaanapali.
In addition, the map that was provided by Chad of KLMC to the CPAC showed a hotel
and resort and UCC which is the highest density area in Kaanapali South. So they are
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 105
not being completely transparent on what they originally presented to us. But, you
know, now they are saying, oh we are going to put housing over there. No. Look at
the map I sent you folks, they want, wanted a hotel and very high-density development
in that area.
Let's see, another thing 1 wanted to bring up is that look at the current conditions,
designation versus what the CPAC put forward. Ka'anapali 2020 and KMLC should
actually be at the Council saying thank you so much because we actually, not just, I
mean, up zoned but actually like up-designated it if you want to get technical. All of
the, all of their lands were all ag, and some project district and we, you know, look at
the map now, it's almost three-quarters pink, whereas, before it was like three-quarters
green. So you're welcome, Chad and Kaanapali Land Management Company.
How about . . . I'll wrap up. You've been talking for how many years on, you know,
building some stuff and Ka'anapali 2020 was supposed to happen 2020. How about
start work on the remaining 800 acres of entitlements that we gave you guys.
Entitlement, like, you guys, you're welcome. Get started on that and in ten years, if
you guys still need more land to develop, then we can look at that. Or, you know, not
me, be the next people.
Let's see, and then of course, I was really happy, because I am a big advocate of
managed retreat to see County Communication 21-551 and 554, relating to managed
retreat in the context of planning and land use, and infrastructure and transportation. I
think it's kind of the theme for today. And I am just so thankful that you folks are being
so proactive and showing incredible leadership on this issue as a County. Because I
think that's the only way that we're going to get to where we need to go is that the
people who are in positions of power put policies and budget considerations towards
managed retreat and sea-level rise. And just how important our shorelines are to our,
not just our quality of life for our people who live here, but even for our economy. Like,
if we don't have the beaches, and the shoreline areas, tourists, that's why they come
here. So we really need our budget to reflect how important our shorelines are for
quality of life, cultural reasons, and our economy.
And I think, oh and then of course. Bill 141, getting our, there is no other better way to
get like local people, and unfortunately, like, you know, people who are financially
struggling on the land than through Hawaiian Home Lands. So I'm really happy to see
that hopefully at least maybe water won't be the biggest issue in getting homes actually
built for Maui County. Mahalo. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Do we have any questions. Members? If not, thank you, Kai and have
a nice weekend.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 106
MS. NISHIKl; Thank you, you as well. Bye.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, that was our last testifier noted and nobody else expressed an
interest to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Alright Members, do you have any objects to receiving written testimony into
the record and to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING;
Christopher Delaunay, Pacific Resource Partnership:
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp.;
William J. Aila, Jr., Hawaiian Homes Commission;
Dick Mayer;
William Meheula, Grand Wailea Resort;
Thomas Croly;
Kai Nishiki;
Jeff Anderson;
Elle Cochran:
Amber Coontz;
Kai Duponte;
Suzette Felicilda;
Gordon Firestein;
Tom Fox;
Jerry Gibson, Hawaii Hotel Association;
Sarah Hofstadter;
International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers Local #1 of
Hawaii;
Joy and Rob Kaaz;
John Kevan and Angela Leone;
Stephen Leis, Dorvin D. Leis Co., Inc.;
Ryan Nobriga, ARDA Hawaii;
Jen Russo, Maui Vacation Rental Association;
Charlene Schulenburg and Gary Passon;
Paul Subrata, Maui Land & Pineapple Company, Inc.;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 107
25. Joyce Naruse, ILWU Local 142;
Charles Andrion, ILWU Local 142;
Eliza Baltazar, ILWU Local 142;
Emmanuel Baltazar, ILWU Local 142;
Marissa Busto, ILWU Local 142;
Edna Cabanting, ILWU Local 142;
D. Castillo, ILWU Local 142;
Mariano Castillo, ILWU Local 142;
Dustin Doronio, ILWU Local 142;
Ben Garcia, ILWU Local 142;
Dionicio Guzman Jr, ILWU Local 142;
Lucia Guzman, ILWU Local 142;
Almie Madriaga, ILWU Local 142;
Henry Oandasan, ILWU Local 142;
Myla Onellion, ILWU Local 142;
Ligaya Parilla, ILWU Local 142;
Nick Sado, ILWU Local 142;
Warren Ulep, ILWU Local 142;
Benedicto, Valdez, ILWU Local 142;
Evelyn Valdez, ILWU Local 142; and
Remedies Valdez, ILWU Local 142.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered.
Madam Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Vice-Chair
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, can we get a recess before we dive into the
agenda?
CHAIR LEE: Well I thought we'd do the minutes first.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh. okay. No objections.
CHAIR LEE: And then we go into the rest. Okay, just the minutes.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 108
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of September 17, 2021
was presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the minutes of September 17, 2021.
If not, all those in favor say "aye" and raise your hand.Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
So Members, why don't we take a ten-minute break and be back at 3:20? Meeting is
in recess till 3:20
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 3:07 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 3:23 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of December 3, 2021, please return to order.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 109
COUNTY CLERK: Chair proceeding with the Consent Calendar, action on the Consent
Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated November 15, 2021)
NO. 21-536
Requesting a one-month time extension to submit the Finance Director's Quarterly
Report and the Capital Improvement Project Report as of September 30. 2021 (Fiscal
Year 2022 First Quarter).
- DEAN M. RICKARD, ACTING CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated November 22, 2021)
NO. 21-537
Informing of the Department's intent to expend $5,364.98 in Federal Forfeiture Funds
to cover travel costs related to K9 selection and trainer recertification.
- DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated November 22, 2021)
NO. 21-538
Informing of the receipt of $2,794 in Forfeiture Funds from the Department of the
Attorney General, State of Hawaii.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR
(dated November 18, 2021)
NO. 21-539
Informing of a vacancy on the Public Works Commission due to the resignation of John
Blanchard, effective November 17, 2021.
CHAIR LEE; Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 110
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to file all the items on the Consent Calendar.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No discussion. Chair. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments or questions, discussion? If not, all those in favor, say
"aye”, to file.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with item J. Communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON, DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY,
(dated November 23, 2021)
NO. 21-535
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for September 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 111
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNTY CLERK; And County-
CHAIR LEE; Oh, sorry. You weren't done?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I move to,  Iwould like this to go to my
Committee, so to the Infrastructure, Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Madam Clerk.
NO. 21-540 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated November 17, 2021)
Transmitting 64 contracts/grants for the month of October 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-540, EXCEPT
FOR THOSE GRANTS AND CONTRACTS THAT
COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 112
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci to file
County Communication 21-540, except those items requested by the Members.
Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST THREE GRANTS. G5442, THE MAUI
FAMILY FARMER TRAINING NETWORK ON THEIR
BIOBAMBOO; GRANT G5453, KEEP, KEEP MAUI BEAUTIFUL;
AND G5522, WAIPUILANI BEACH RESERVE PROJECT,
WHICH IS OED, I THINK THAT'S COMING OUT OF THE
SOUTH MAUI DISTRICT FUND.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, any other contracts?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh, sorry, to the CARE Committee.
CHAIR LEE; CARE Committee. Let's act on that one now. Members, any objections to
referring these three grants to the CARE Committee?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Okay, anymore grants or contracts? Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair.
I WOULD LIKE TO PULL TWO GRANTS INTO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE. THAT IS G4, OR BEG
YOUR PARDON, G5467, NA HALE O MAUI FOR $2 MILLION;
AND THE OTHER GRANT IS G5525, HALE MAHAOLU FOR
$190,000.
Thank you.
Any objections to referring these two items to the Affordable HousingCHAIR LEE;
Committee?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 113
CHAIR LEE: No objections? So ordered.
Other grants or contracts, Members? Alright then, the rest will be filed. All those in
favor of filing the rest, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Motion carries. All "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry. I'm frozen.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. You're okay now. Your hand is no longer up. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry about that.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
- SHANE M. SINENCI. COUNCILMEMBER
{dated November 26, 2021)
NO. 21-541
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING A TIME EXTENSION FOR
THE COUNCIL TO ADOPT THE MAUI ISLAND WATER USE AND DEVELOPMENT
PLAN".
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration for County Communication
21-541, please.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF. MOVE TO WAIVE
THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 114
REPORT FOR COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-541 IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to waive the Rule of the Council on this matter.
Any discussion, Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote
of the entire membership of the Council to enable the Council to consider the proposed
bill today.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-541, FILE THE
COUNTY COMMUNICATION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 115
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Second.
CHAIR LEE; Second? Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Johnson, to adopt
the resolution and file the communication.
Discussion, Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Chair. The Agriculture and Public Trust Committee
received request from the public through written and oral testimonies that they would
like more time to review the revisions made to the Maui island Water Use and
Development Plan before we move it, to adopt and finalize the plan.
So, Chair, in order to accommodate this request, we posted a track changes version
of the plan on Granicus, discussed extending the deadline to adopt the plan. Our
current deadline is December 31, 2021, so this resolution is time-sensitive and will
extend the plan to February 4, 2022.
Members, we also had some Committee staff changes recently that required
reallocating some of the recording duties. And so, for these reasons I respectfully ask
for the Councilmembers continued support of my motion. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any questions, comments? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; All "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 116
- TAMARA PALTIN. CHAIR. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND
USE COMMITTEE, (dated November 24, 2021)
NO. 21-542
Transmitting proposed amendments to the proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.SOB.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ADOPT
THE UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, are you going to have a lot of changes?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm going to file this communication. You know, posting it
ahead of time allowed Corp. Counsel and Department of Planning to discuss with me
their feedback on it. So, I have a new Amendment Summary Form that I'll circulate
and can be taken up when we discuss later in the agenda, a bill relating to the, an
ordinance amending Section 2.SOB.070, Maui County Code, to adopt the updated West
Maui Community Plan. And at that time, 1 can explain further, if you'd like.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, you want to make a motion to file?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO FILE CC 21-542.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Been moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to file County
Communication 21-542.
Any discussion. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I, I think 1 discussed.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Just checking. Anybody else? If not, all those in favor of the motion
please say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 117
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
NO. 21-543 - YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 26, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill 148 (2021) entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON
MAUI".
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura, do you want to wait till we get to that item?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yes, please.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections. Members, to taking up this when we deal with 148?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; So, ordered. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
(See pages 142 through 159 for discussion.)
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with communications for referral. The following county
communications are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted;
NO. 21-544 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated November 17, 2021)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the General Obligation Bonds Series 2022 Fund as of
Octobers! 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-544 be referred to the
Budget. Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 118
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Wait, wait. Hold on, hold on. This is going to be referred. So, the next
one, we may take action on it. So, just forewarning you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay.
NO. 21-545 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, {dated November 19, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING CERTAIN FINANCING
STRUCTURE COMPONENTS RELATING TO THE USE OF FUNDS RECEIVED
THROUGH CHAPTER 3.35, MAUI COUNTY CODE, THE HALE PILINA FAMILY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-545 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Is it Member Kama, or Member Johnson, or which Member?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION
21-545 IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF
THE COUNCIL. APPROVAL OF MY MOTION-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 119
CHAIR LEE: I think it was Member Molina. No, no, wait. Member Johnson moved to waive
the Rule of the Council and seconded by Member Molina.
Now, we have discussion. Now you can explain.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Only about the Rule now, not the whole, not the whole matter.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Right. So, approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of the
entire membership of the Council will enable the Council to consider the proposed
resolution today and allow the Hale Pilina Project to move forward with the additional
financing and without further delay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all those in favor of the motion regarding Rule 7.G., raise your hand, say
"aye". We need nine, uh, seven.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND FILE
THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-545.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Members.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 120
CHAIR LEE; To, let's see, adopt the recommend, to approve the recommendations in County
Communication 21-545.
Discussion, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. Members, the proposed resolution has
become more or less a standard procedure for housing projects that have been
awarded grants for the Affordable Housing Fund.
Catholic Charities Development Corporation received a 660,000 grant from the
Affordable Housing Fund for Hale Pilina. In order to better leverage funding from non-
County sources, the project seems to receive the grant as a loan, in addition to other
financing structure components.
Hale Pilina was approved for development under Chapter 2.97, Maui County Code, at
the Council's Novembers, 2021 meeting. It will provide 178 rental units in Kahuluifor
households at 6, 60 percent AMI or below. This resolution will allow the continued
progress of the project in delivering much-needed affordable housing for our residents.
I ask for the Councilmembers support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor the motion, please say "aye",
raise your hand?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, motion carries. All "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Continuing to Committee referrals.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING, COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 12, 2021)
NO. 21-546
Relating to seabird and biodiversity protection.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-546 be referred to the
Climate Action, Resilience, and Environment Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 121
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 26, 2021)
NO. 21-547
Relating to Maui County environmental grants.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-547 be referred to the
Climate Action, Resilience, and Environment Committee.
- MICHAEL J. MOLINA, COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 22, 2021)
NO. 21-548
Relating to Recent and Potential Future Court Rulings Affecting Council Practices.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-548 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
- KARLA H. PETERS. DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATIONNO. 21-549
(dated November 16, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 13.04A.080, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE ALCOHOL
PROHIBITION FOR CERTAIN PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-549 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 22, 2021)
NO. 21-550
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "PROPOSING THE YOUTH COUNCIL".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-550 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
COUNTY CLERK; -To your infrastructure-
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 122
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I ask for consideration of County
Communication 21-550.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION, TO FILE
COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-550.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, are we taking two actions?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well. I, I wasn't given two action, it’s not, because it's a resolution
we don't need to. Do we still need to waive?
CHAIR LEE: Urn, I'm not sure. Corp. Counsel or Deputy Clerk. Deputy Clerk, I mean, Madam
Clerk. I'm sorry.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The waiver of Rule 7.G. isn't required
for resolutions that don't have the force and effect of law. Mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I know, but this is not congratulating somebody. It’s, you know, creating
a Youth Council. I just want to check with Madam Clerk. Do you, do you know the
answer to that?
COUNTY CLERK: It would be the same as Councilmember, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
that's the sentiment that the reso's don't carry force and effect of law.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, well, point. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That this reso doesn't have the force and effect of
law. So, because this reso doesn't have the force and effect of law, then it wouldn't
require the waiver of Rule 7.G.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. This one seems to be a little bit more weightier than--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we ask-
CHAIR LEE: -you know, the ceremonial.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 123
COUNCILMEMBER KING; -OCS? Because they're the ones that.. .
CHAIR LEE; Pardon me?
Can we ask OCS, our OCS attorneys, cause they're the onesCOUNCILMEMBER KING:
who--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, yeah, that's a good idea. Just, just want to double-check.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: To make sure cause they gave me the notes and there was no
waiver on them.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, they gave you the notes? Okay, then there shouldn't be a problem then.
There's no need to waive any Rules then. Right, David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ: That's correct, Chair Lee.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. So, can we have your motion again?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SO, I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND
TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-550.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member King. Moved by Member King, seconded by Member
Johnson to adopt the resolution in County Communication 21-550.
Discussion, Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 124
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Members, there's already broad support for
the Youth Council in the community and on the Council. But the creation of the program
has been delayed after discussions with the Commission on Children and Youth, the
Commission's assigned Corporation Counsel attorney, and the OCS legal team. It was
advised that an enabling resolution be passed before commencing with recruitment,
advertising, and group activities for the Youth Council.
This delay has altered the program timeline. Passage today would enable immediate
publication, virtual soft recruitment through fliers and communication with community
partners, and formal planning of the Youth Council's schedule and curriculum. It would
also enable live recruitment activities to small groups and classes at schools and
community youth centers to begin in January. This would allow the Youth Council to
follow a timeline where the group convenes in February for initial orientation and
training.
Meeting this initial training deadline would allow for flexibility and independent work
among the Youth Council during budget session, which will likely be necessary, given
staff workload. According to this new timeline, the culminating activity for the Youth
Council, where they would be seated and vote and deliberate on policy priorities would
be held in August. The next iteration of the Youth Council could then align more closely
with the next school year.
Results of the pilot program would inform future iterations and expand opportunities for
academic credits. I would also like to add that I recently gave a short presentation to
Maui Huliau students on my takeaways from COP26. And one of the issues we
discussed was the limited youth participation. Because my participation at the
conference largely focused on our greatest hope for climate action being at the local-
level of government, working together with other governments across all levels around
the world, 1 think the Youth Council is a perfect example of how, of how we at the
County-level can move ahead where the Federal and world stages have not. I ask the
Members for a full support of my motion.
If anybody would like. I didn't request the Clerk to read it in the interest of time, but if
anybody would like us to a, a ... we could request of the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE; I don't think so. We had this before.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Remember when Axel gave us the presentation?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 125
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes.
CHAIRLEE: Alright. Any more discussion? if not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand and say "aye"
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIRLEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Members.
CHAIRLEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Continuing with committee referrals.
NO. 21-551 - TAMARA PALTIN. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 22, 2021)
Relating to managed retreat in the context of infrastructure and transportation.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-551 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
NO. 21-552 - YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 26, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 2.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE, ALLOWING STREETS, PARKS, AND
FACILITIES TO BE NAMED AFTER FAMILIES".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-552 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 126
- MICHELE MCLEAN, PLANNING DIRECTOR
(dated November 12, 2021)
NO. 21-553
Transmitting the following;
A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE
COMMUNITY PLAN DESIGNATION FROM SF-SINGLE FAMILY TO
P-PUBLIC/QUASLPUBLIC FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KIHEI, MAUI,
HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-9-048:109";
1.
A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING
FROM R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO P-1 PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC
DISTRICT FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KIHEI, MAUI, HAWAII, TAX MAP
KEY (2) 3-9-048:109": and
2.
Related documents.3.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-553 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
- TAMARA PALTIN, COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 22, 2021)
NO. 21-554
Relating to managed retreat in the context of planning and land use.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-554 be referred to the
Planning and Land Use Committee.
- YUKi LEI K. SUGIMURA, COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 24, 2021)
NO. 21-555
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "REFERRING TO THE LANA‘1, MAUI, AND
MOLOKA‘1 PLANNING COMMISSIONS A PROPOSED BILL RELATING TO FARM
DWELLINGS".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-555 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 127
CHAIR LEE; Alright, are there any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I don't have any objections, but 1 want to know if the
Members would consider 21 -555? And it's a referral to the Planning Commissions.
I'D LIKE TO, WITH YOUR PERMISSION, MOVE TO ADOPT
THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION, AND FILE COUNTY
COMMUNICATIONS 21-555.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, let's, let's, okay, moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member
Kama, to adopt the resolution in County Communication 21-555.
And discussion. Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yeah. Member, this proposed resolution would refer to
the Lana'i, Maui, and Moloka'i Planning Commission a proposed bill to increase the
size allowance for second farm dwellings in the Agricultural District.
Sections 8-4.4, 8.4 [sic] and 8-8.6 of the Revised Charter of the County of Maui 1983,
as amended, require that the appropriate Planning Commissions review proposed land
use ordinances and amendments and provide findings and recommendations to the
Council. I ask for your support of this motion.
CHAIR LEE; Members?
Member Paltin, then Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Member Sugimura. For my
discussion, I don't support this bill, but I don't mind going through the process and
sending it to the Planning Commission. My only comment would be, you know, we've
done this in the past, and the feedback that I did receive from the Planning Department
is, even if it looks straightforward to us like this, they’re not able to provide a reason
why, if the Planning Commission asks if we don't discuss it in Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 128
So, the only caveat would be for Member Sugimura to either be in attendance to
explain why, so that it's not like wasting their time from what feedback I've gotten in the
past or submit written testimony. So that if they have those, it's actually better if her or
someone from the office is there in case they need to clarify the written testimony.
I have no problem with it going through the process. The reason I, I don't support it is
because it furthers, you know, those legacy estates and the fake farm mentality. But
you know, it's all about the process. So I don't have objection to going straight to the
Planning Commission.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I will commit to that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina, and then Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. I'm kind of used to things
doing, done in the usual way, if you know what I mean? Goto Committee, then through
Committee, we then pass it onto the Maui Planning Commission, because it gives the
public additional time to review, provide comment. And I know we want to get things
done expeditiously, but at the same time, I guess I'm just used to doing things a certain
way to give that, the public one additional opportunity early on before it even gets
referred to the Planning Commission. Cause sometimes the public doesn't have an
opportunity to go to the Planning Commission meetings and you know. So, and I
assume this matter, if it did go to the Planning Commission, it would go, first go to
PSLU, am I correct?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Can I ask Councilmember Sugimura why you, you are
taking a more expeditious route to get this to the Planning Commission and bypass
this going to the PSLU first?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this was actually asked from my community. And, and
so therefore, I wanted to, you know, just propose it and get the input from the public
through the different Planning Commissions. 1 mean. I'm open to sending it to Tamara
Paltin's Committee. That's not a problem. But I figured then, we’ll just get that input
and come back and then the Members can talk about it.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you. But 1 kind of have reservations about doing
it this way cause it takes out one step of the process for the public to give input from
the start. But anyway-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 129
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: -let's just... . Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think we-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I think we do this process so often that, you
know, I didn't look at it like it's taking away of transparency. That wasn't my intent.
But my intent was more because of our housing shortage to try to see if we could get,
you know, comments back, I mean comments from them, and then the different
Commissions and then come back to us. But I'm open to whatever. I just, I'm just
trying to answer a cal! from the community.
CHAIR LEE: Members. Were you done, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, no, just one last quick question. So, did you consult
with Planning, the Planning Department on this, Member Sugimura, about how they
feel this just going straight to the Planning Commission then?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, I didn't. I didn't consult with them. I didn't think that
we do that, but-
CHAIRLEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I certainly-
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: You're frozen.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I agree with Member  .. . Ah, okay, how about now?
Now, can you hear me? Yes?
CHAIR LEE: Well, you know, your, what do you call that, the strength of your-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You might want to try-
CHAIR LEE: Well, anyway.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 130
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -turning off your video.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, if you turn off your video. You'll probably be, have a stronger audio.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can you hear me? Okay. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright. Mahalo, everyone. Teamwork makes the
dream work. Alright. I agree with Member Molina, that if this is something more, you
know, controversial as Member Paltin alluded to, that it may serve everyone better if it
goes to Committee first. And that way, if there is a lot of push back from the community,
that perhaps, you know, we will save the Planning Commission time. Because we
know that the Planning Commissions often have a very full docket.
That said, I, I, if. if it does have the votes to, you know, pass out or be adopted today,
I was hoping that Member Sugimura would please explain the rationale behind her
amendment. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so I think I said, Tamara Paltin asked that question,
and it's a request that came from my community. As you know, I have breadbasket
right, I mean, I have a lot of ag in Upcountry, so does Member Molina.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
I  understand that it was a request from theVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
community.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But if you could explain what the purpose of the
amendment is-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. So-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 131
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; -and what it would-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the purpose of the amendment is to, is to do farm
dwelling for 1,000 and increase it to 1,500. And it is, as you heard from the Dragon
Fruit discussion that we had in PSLU, the need for farm workers and how to
accommodate that for the industry. So, that was the combination of that. That was
the request.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. If I may say something. Member Sugimura.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; I can understand why you made that suggestion, because we've had several
items go straight to the Planning Commission lately. But we've been getting, the
feedback we've been getting is, Council, vet your items first, you know, go through the
process first then send it to the, to the commissions. Because they have no idea what
we have in mind, you know? So, what they want is  afinished product rather than a
starting product.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
OKAY, SO I WITHDRAW MY MOTION, THEN.
I’m hearing you guys. That’s really fine with me.  Ijust thought we would move the
process along because of our housing shortage. But that was, you know, my thought
on that.
CHAIR LEE: If I, if 1 remember correctly, I think the moratorium bill went straight to the
Planning Commission.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: It did. Do we remember? Yeah, that’s exactly what I had
said.
CHAIR LEE: That one and several others. So, but I don't think that’s a good trend to follow.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Okay, we won’t do that.
CHAIR LEE: In the future, because, because we're, we’ve been getting feedback from, from
the Planning Department and the Planning Commission.
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 132
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If you're going to use the hotel
moratorium bill as an example, there were two. And the other one was discussed
before the second one went to the Planning Commission. Wanted to put that on the
record for clarification. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: No, I, I wasn’t trying to pick on your moratorium bill. I was just giving an example,
that was a recent example. And there were probably several other examples that don't
come to mind at the moment.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, 1 understand, Chair. I just wanted, you know, it's
fact specific and I just wanted to add those facts because it matters. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. There were two moratorium bills, right? But I was only talking about one.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But I just wanted to clarify, it wasn't the Dragon Fruit Farm that
requested this increase in square footage, was it? Oh, okay. That was just an
example? Oh, okay. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: They don't live in Kula. Or do they? I don't know, maybe they do.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That was the problem. They don’t live at Launiupoko.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, I think they live in Haiku, yeah? Haiku.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, so we got that straight.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Yeah, so this you're asking to be referred to the PSLU?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. . . . sent to my Committee if you want me to talk
about it, but PSLU.
CHAIR LEE: Well, she, she’s, she doesn’t have enough, I think. Her, her agenda is so slim
yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 133
Okay. So. then, we were, I was asking you if there were any objections to the referrals
as read by the Clerk. And there were no objections, except for CC 21-555. So, that
will be, without objections, sent, referred to the PSLU Committee. No objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moving right along. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, Chair. For the record, as far as the reso numbers assigned to the
resolutions passed so far:
County Communication 21-545, regarding Hale Pilina, is RESOLUTION 21-198.
County Communication 21-550, establishing the Youth Council, is RESOLUTION
21-199.
And, oh. County Communication 21-541, Water Use and Development Plan extension
is 21-197.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Ordinances.
COUNTY CLERK: Item M, Ordinances for first reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 149 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.80B.070, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PU\N
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, are you going to have multiple amendments? Like, long multiple
amendments or not? I was wondering if we should save this for last.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Because Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez can do like five or six in one fell
swoop.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's fine with me.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 134
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Save the best for last.
(See pages 160 through 202 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Madam Clerk. The second and final reading.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 140 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE,
(HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS (HIDTA))
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, you, you want to go one by one, or you want
her to read all of them?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We can do all of the Budget, Finance,
and Economic Development second reading items. Bill 141, well, ! mean, I, I guess if
Member Sinenci wants me to, to do the motion for that, I can do that one too.
Okay, I got the thumbs up. Go ahead. Madam Clerk, or Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Well, Madam Clerk, go ahead.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 141 (20211
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 14.12.030, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, EXEMPTING DEVELOPMENT BY THE DEPARTMENT OF
HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS UNDER THE HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION ACT
FROM THE WATER AVAILABILITY POLICY
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 135
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 142 f2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
WATER SUPPLY, BOND FUND,
ACQUISITION OF 1888 WILI PA LOOP BUILDING AND PROPERTY;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS {OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 143 {2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY, WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA
ACQUISITION OF 1888 WILI PA LOOP BUILDING AND PROPERTY
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 144 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY - ACQUISITION OF
1888 WILI PA LOOP BUILDING AND PROPERTY)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 136
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 145 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
SEWER, SEWER FUND,
KAHULUl AND WAIEHU BEACH ROAD SEWER LINE UPGRADE,
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS,
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 146 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,
KAHULUl AND WAIEHU BEACH ROAD SEWER LINE UPGRADE
COUNTY CLERK: Bill 147 (2021).
CHAIR LEE: Council, okay, stop. Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Madam Clerk wanted me to do all of
the second and final readings.
COUNTY CLERK: All the heavy lifting.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Just get it done one time.
OKAY, I MOVE TO PASS, PASS BILL 140 THROUGH BILL 146
ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3. 2021
Page 137
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Tern Kama
to move Bills 140 through 146 on second and final reading.
Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bill 140 amends Appendix A, Part I,
of the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget to increase the appropriations for the grant entitled
"High Intensity Trafficking Areas [sic] (HIDTA)" in the amount of $45,000.
On behalf of Member Sinenci, Bill 141 amends Section 14.12.030, Maui County Code,
to exempt development by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, under the
Hawaiian Homes Commission Act from the Water Availability Policy. While discussing
this proposal in our Agriculture and Public Trust Committee meetings, we revised the
original bill per the guidance of our Managing Director, Department of Water Supply,
Deputy Corporation Counsel, and representative of the Department of Hawaiian Home
Lands. They all provided their support of the bill.
At our last Council meeting, we further revised the bill to clarify the exemption applies
development by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, under the Hawaiian Homes
Commission Act, provided that exemptions for industrial, business, hotel and resort, or
other commercial use projects designed and intended to generate revenue as
authorized by the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, be approved by the Council. And
further, clarified during testimony today that Hawaiian Home Land residential projects
often don't get the exemption because of the income qualification requirement of those
that would be residing in the homes or purchasing the homes that is not part of DHHL's
waitlist process.
Bill 142 through 144 amend the Budget bill, the Appendix C, and the Bond
Authorization bill, to add funding and a project description under Department of Water
Supply, Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area for the acquisition of 1888 Wili Pa Loop
Building and Property, in the amount of $4,020,000.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 138
Bill, Bills 145 and 146 amend the Budget bill and Appendix C bill to add funding and a
project description under the Department of Environmental Management, Wailuku-
Kahului Community Plan Area, for Kahului and Waiehu Beach Road Sewer Line
Upgrade, in the amount of $250,000 in additional Sewer Fund Revenue.
I ask the Councilmembers continued motion of these items on second and final
reading. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, as you know in first reading, I had concerns about the
Maui County Federal Credit Union facility, to purchase it for that four million for
Department of Water Supply. And I, our staff wrote a  letter, and I got a really
comprehensive letter back from Michele Yoshimura, so appreciate that. And basically,
the questions that I had about parking, I'm going to share it with you just so that the
public knows what we're buying and the impact of this purchase. Cause I can, as you
can tell, it's going to go through.
So, there's 43 parking stalls, 30 for employees, 13 for the public. And that there are
nine employees moving from One Main Plaza. There's also fifth floor employees,
which is Department of Water Supply, to expand the current space occupied by the
Engineering Division. They plan to occupy the building if we purchase it by, move-in
2022.
Electric vehicles, as you know, there's a charger there and the charge is 1,500
annually. They expect minimum reservation. This was a good thing to hear. Minimum
furnishing, because the Maui County Federal Credit Union to include some furnishings
when we purchase the facility. There is Wi-Fi internet.
The conference room capacity is 22, which to me sounds small. But maybe with the
new COVID requirements of being able to testify online, it kind of changes the
dynamics. But the Kalana Pakui Building is also available.
The Director and Administration is not moving to the new building. That was one of
my questions. They do not pay rent on, cause there's, you know, they're their own
enterprise. They do not pay rent on the fifth floor. And that they may consider
acquisition of more properties.
And the good thing that Member Paltin will like is that they're actually coming up with
a consolidated list with the requested information, which was in my letter. And I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 139
basically asked for a list of all non-County owned facilities and the rent pay per year,
terms of lease, which departments are there, how many employees occupy that, other
related costs as it may be appropriate, and how does that impact the whole total County
facilities outlook?
So, I, 1 was, 1 was feeling, at the first reading, that we were getting things in piecemeal
and then Member Paltin said she would take it, is that right. Member Paltin, you're
going to take it up in your Committee? Is that what you said?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, 1-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I can take it up in my Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Got it. It is in plan, is it in Planning and Land Use, or would it
be Water or Budget or something?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, probably not. Well, I, 1 don't mean only this. I mean
overall, the overall plans for the County. 1 was more concerned about the big, big
picture, not only about this, cause this, this is going to go through, right, so?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, yeah. 1 have all the, not the, not, I have the item of all
County-owned inventory, County-owned property inventory in my Committee, correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, you're planning on taking it up eventually?
Anyway, 1 have this, I have this really good letter that I got back. Well done, Michele
Yoshimura, as usual, and the team, Administration team. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Just wanted to share.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. I was going to say something and then I got distracted.
It’ll come back. Okay. Any more discussion? Any more discussion? Oh, yeah, I
thought you said, Member Sugimura, something about Water going to Kalana Pakui?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, for conferences, for conference room. So, if they're
not, their conference room fits only, did I say 22 people? Conference room capacity is
22 and if there are more, you know. Board of Water Supply meetings where it's more
than 22 people, that they indicated that the Kalana Pakui Building has a larger, you
know, the conference room that we always use for Planning.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 140
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So-
CHAIR LEE: That is unsettled yet.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; That is unsettled?
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, because that is going to be our property.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, oh.
CHAIR LEE: So, that's up for negotiation, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You have to loan it to them. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: But we’ll see. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Anyway, that's the information I got. I was very pleased
with the responses, and I appreciate that. And I'll gladly share with you the letter that
I received, this, if the other Members are interested. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: You see. There is rhyme and reason for what we do.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Occasionally.
Alright. Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The vote.
CHAIR LEE: We have the balance left. Oh, we have to vote yet. Madam Clerk, okay. All
those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Opposed "no".
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 141
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Continuing on for second and final reading.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 147 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.06.020, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, ADOPTING DIGITAL ZONING MAP (3) AS THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
FOR THE ISLAND OF MAUI
COUNTY CLERK: And bill-
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Well, let's just take one at a time. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm not as multi-talented as Member Rawlins-Fernandez. I
gotta go . . . So-
CHAIRLEE: Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You calling on me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, for Bill 147.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, so funny story.
IF THERE IS NO OBJECTIONS, 1 WOULD LIKE TO PLACE
THIS ITEM ON THE CLERK’S TABLE UNTIL THE NEXT
MEETING, OR UNTIL THE FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE
UNILATERAL AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION FOR
CONDITIONAL ZONING DATED JULY 31, 2020, IS
RECORDED AND RECEIVED.
And I'm, I can explain more but I don't know if you really want to know. So, that's
CHAIR LEE: Probably not. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 142
NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE; Second? Okay, the, we have a motion to table this item, put it on the Clerk's
table until certain things are received, seconded by Member Molina. More discussion?
Member King, you wanted to hear the long story?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Did I raise my hand, or was I shuffling some papers? Sorry.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, anymore discussion, anybody? All those in favor of the motion, say "aye'
raise your hand.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Bill No. 147 is to lay on the Clerk's
table until the next Council meeting.
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 148 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98
MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON
NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI
CHAIR LEE; Second? Oh. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 148 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 143
COUNCiLMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson. So, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Johnson
to pass Bill 148 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee, having
met on November 3, 2021, makes reference to County Communication 21-280,
transmitting a proposed resolution referring to the Maui Planning Commission a bill to
establish Chapters 19.98 and 20.41, Maui County Code, declaring a moratorium on
new transient accommodations on Maui.
The purpose of the proposed bill is to establish Chapters 19, 19.98 and 20.41, Maui
County Code, for a moratorium to maintain the number of transient accommodation
units for a two-year period until the Council enacts legislation addressing the findings
and recommendations presented by a Budget, Finance, and Economic Development
Committee-established Tourism Management Temporary Investigative Group, or two
years from the enactment of the bill, whichever is sooner.
Your Committee notes, the, the Maui Planning Commission, at its meeting of
September 28, 2021, recommended approval of the proposed bill attached to
Resolution 21-98, with revisions.
Your Committee received numerous written and oral testimony in support and
opposition to the revised proposed bill.
Your Committee received a computer-generated presentation from the Department of
Planning
Accommodations," and discussed revisions as recommended to the Commission with
your Committee, which your Committee supported.
Proposed Moratorium on New Transient Vacationentitled
Your Committee further amended and revised the proposed bill to delete language
extending the moratorium an additional six months; delete Title 20 which was
confirmed to be redundant by the Department of the Corporation Counsel; and add an
exception to allow modifications to permits that existed prior to the effective date of the
moratorium but do not increase the number of units. I respectfully ask for the Members
support of my motion. Thank you.
Oh, we can't hear you, cause you're muted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 144
CHAIR LEE: More discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I turned off my video. Let me know if you
can't hear me, okay? I have the, a motion to amend. Okay, let's see. Alright, I have
three areas to amend. Chair, what would your preference be? Would you like me to
take them one at a time or should I-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait. So, you're talking about three separate amendments?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Just one a time then, yeah?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright. Okay, we'll take the first one up.
AND THIS IS IN SECTION 19.98.040, EXCEPTIONS. AND E.
OH, SORRY F. WHERE IT WOULD READ "ANY
DEVELOPMENT THAT INCLUDES NEW HOUSING
UNITS [SIC] BUT, AT A RATIO OF AT LEAST ONE HOUSING
FOR EVERY THREE TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION UNITS".
I MOVE TO AMEND THREE TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION
UNITS TO ONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: That’s a second, Members. King, is that a second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That was a second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 145
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I don’t think I need to elaborate too
much. We, we're in a housing crisis. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any, anybody else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. And you know, I, when this exception was put
in, I wasn't there. So, but if I had been, I would've opposed it just outright, because we
tried, you know, this was, this was tentatively put in the original moratorium bill and,
and voted down. But 1,1 think it's a, it's a loophole, it's a little bit of a dangerous loophole
because it, it could allow developers of hotels to just attached themselves to existing
housing projects. And, but I understand that it passed out of Committee. I think this is
a better version of it, one for one. rather than one housing unit for every three transient
units. So, 1 support the amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anyone else? All those in favor of the amendment, raise your hand and
say "aye". Okay, I see one, two, urn, Madam Clerk, roil call.
All those in favor of the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye". Oh, I’m sorry. Go
right down the line. Go right down the line.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 146
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
CHAIR LEE: Can't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No.
CHAIR LEE: What did you? No.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Next.
Council Pro Tern Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-FernandezCOUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK:
NO.CHAIR LEE:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.NOES:
CHAIR LEE: So, the motion carries; seven to two.
Okay, may we have the next amendment?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 147
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
OKAY, SAME SECTION F.4. ALRIGHT, I MOVE TO ADD,
AFTER THE EXISTING LANGUAGE, SO AFTER "HOUSING
CREDITS MAY NOT BE ISSUED TO OR USED BY THE
DEVELOPER TO SATISFY THE REQUIREMENT OF THIS
SUBSECTION FOR ANY TYPE OF UNIT CONSTRUCTED".
I MOVE TO ADD "THE NEW AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS
MUST BE PHYSICALLY CONSTRUCTED OR MAY BE
CONVERTED FROM HOUSING UNITS CURRENTLY USED AS
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TO BE USED AS LONG
TERM HOUSING FOR THE PURPOSES OF THIS SECTION".
And 1 can put it in the chat.
CHAIR LEE: I think most people got it. You need it in the chat. Members? Okay. Alright. A
second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to
approve the amendment by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Any more discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Alright. Okay. So, this is kind of a
compromise from what we received from Member Sugimura and Mr. Mayer.
Mr. Mayer's proposed language better reflects the intention of the previous amendment
made at first reading. This amendment makes Section 2 of the bill consistent with the
language in 19.98.040, Exceptions of this bill, which reads, "This Chapter does not
apply to: A. Any new transient accommodation that has not received its last
discretionary approval prior to the effective date." Oh, shoot. Yes, okay. "Prior to the
effective date of the ordinance established, establishing this Chapter." And, oh, okay,
no. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Are you, aren't you jumping ahead?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 1 sure am. You're right. Alright, so, i will go back to
what 1 was saying, this is a combination of Member Sugimura's and clarifies what was
intended. Okay, mahalo. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 148
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion? Member Sugimura. Okay, we can't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yeah. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Keani, for that. I'm
going to, I’m going to be speaking against the motion. As you know, what I filed with
County Communication 21-543, I’m sticking to it because I think that what we did was
keep to the intention of what the Planning Commission had said. And if all of you know
about credits, I listened to the Planning Commission's audio and they specifically did
not want, and they wanted to send the, you know, as part of the recommendations that
no credits could be used. And they actually wanted, which was, which is my motion,
for actual houses to be built. So, housing units must be physically constructed for the
purpose of this section. And that, that's what I proposed. But I'm going to be voting
against this because I think that I, well, that was my reason.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else want to chime in?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. I can support the amendment. It's
a fair concession. So, you know, we, we'll try, you know, like with Member Sugimura's
initial proposal to bracket out that language, I was concerned about that. But the
proposal that was made by Mr. Mayer earlier about including both, you know, keeping
existing language as well as Member Sugimura's language is fine by me. And then, of
course, with Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez now further adding or maybe slightly
modifying the language from Member Sugimura's amendment, I think works well in my
opinion. So, I'll support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anyone else? All those, oh okay, we’ll do a roll call again. Easier with
Madam Clerk, roll call.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 149
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
Council Pro Tern Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: AND I'M A NO.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.NOES:
CHAIR LEE: So, seven "ayes", two "noes"; motion carries.
Next. Vice-Chair, next. Your third one.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Your third, did you say you had three amendments?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 150
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
LAST ONE IS TO SECTION 2. AND IT WOULD READ. "THIS
ORDINANCE TAKES EFFECT ON APPROVAL". AND I MOVE
TO, OKAY, TO MAKE IT READ, "THIS ORDINANCE TAKES
EFFECT ON APPROVAL AND APPLIES TO ANY NEW
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION THAT HAS [SIC] RECEIVED
ITS FINAL DISCRETIONARY APPROVAL PRIOR TO THE
EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE".
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And I can put it in the chat.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin.
Discussion? ! think this is where everybody's waiting for your discussion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chair. Okay, so this is where
Mr. Mayer's proposed language better reflects the intention of the previous amendment
made at first reading. The amendment makes Section 2 of the proposed bill . . .
exceptions to this bill, which reads: "This chapter does not apply to: A. Any new
transient accommodations that has received its last discretionary approval prior to the
effective date of the ordinance establishing this chapter; and B. Any new transient
accommodation that's not, that does not require any additional discretionary approvals
prior to the operation as of the effective date of this ordinance establishing this
chapter." Mahalo, Chair. And I put it in the chat.
CHAIR LEE: Does everybody understand the amendment?
We have Deputy Corp. Counsel Richelle Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Thank you. Just a quick question
on the chat. Do you mean for it to say, "that has not received its final discretionary
approval"? I think it's just the "not" is missing from it. But 1 believe that's what, what
you were saying verbally.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 151
CHAIR LEE: We can't hear you. We can't hear you. You're muted.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. I, I was muted. I was reading it to myself again.
Section 2, this ordinance takes effect, oh sorry. This ordinance takes effect on
approval and applies to any new transient accommodation that has received its, and
applies to any that has received its-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Does not apply.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Does not apply to any new that hasn't.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Does not. Does not Received its final discretionary
approval prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Okay, I'll put it in the chat again.
Okay, it's in the chat. Mahalo, Ms. Thomson. Mahalo for that catch.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Yes, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Question. So, I'm kind of confused about what we're actually
saying here. So, in everyday language, we're saying the ordinance is going to take
effect, but, and it applies to any new transient accommodation that hasn't received its
final discretionary approval? That's what we're saying?
CHAIR LEE: You're muted.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Yes, Member Pro Tern Kama. It applies to any
new transient accommodations that has not received its final discretionary approval
prior to the effective date of this ordinance.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So then, my other question is, so how many other types of
approvals do you have to go through before you get to the final discretionary? I mean,
are there other approvals? And, and at what juncture of your approval are certain
applications in that would prohibit them from continuing the process or stopping in the
middle of the river. Just. . . question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Pro Tern Kama. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 152
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So there, there are discretionary approvals that come
from different bodies, like the Planning Commission. And then there's, I think it's called
municipal approvals or like administrative approvals and I . . .
CHAIR LEE; Ministerial. Ministerial.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Thank you. Thank you. I v^/as looking for that, that
word. Ministerial. So, those are the ministerial and discretionary. And the ministerial
happens administratively. And the discretionary happens through bodies like, like ours
and the Planning Commission. I-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I’d tike Ms. Thomson to explain it better than I just
did. You can also ask her.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, I think I got that. I was just thinking that between the
ministerial and the discretionary, if somebody is in between that, they don't get to
continue on to the process. They would have had to have gone through the entire, till
they got to the discretionary. So, what comes first, ministerial or discretionary? Or it
comes at whatever, to whatever entity gets to get to you last or first?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Right. And, and I will defer to Ms. Thomson cause
I'm sure she'll say it better than 1 would.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: So, in general, you would have
your discretionary permits coming first, such as SMA and, you know, your, your larger
approvals. And then, once those are done, then you move into ministerial permits. So,
they're more of just the, after the major approvals are done, then you move into
ministerial. And the reason that it's important is for a vested rights issue. So, once
you have your discretionary approvals completed, then certain rights have vested. And
that's the reason for that distinction.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 153
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just wanted to clarify this is not substantially
different than what was there before, right? it's just prettier in terms of how the words
are strung together.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, kind of. I mean, it's phrased clearer.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But it doesn't have any different effect than what was there
before? Same end result?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; The way it was worded didn't, I think it would have
I'll pull up the original language, if you want? But it kind of got a little mixed up. So
this makes it clearer.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess, maybe Corp. Counsel’s opinion, if this is a substantive
change or not?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Thank you, Chair. I believe that
this clarifying language follows the prior version, and there is an exception A. for any
new transient accommodation that has received its last discretionary approval prior to
the effective date of the ordinance establishing the chapter. So, I believe that
Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez amendment is in line with that language. So,
correct, not a change . . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I just wanted to understand that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I'm going to speak against the motion. By
listening to the communications, or testimony, as well as what the Planning
Commission had said, is that they very clearly. Planning Commission said that they
wanted to include, or not to include permits that were already in process. So, this
would be contrary to what the Planning Commission recommended, and the Planning
Department sent over to us initially. So, I'm going to, speaking against the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, all those in favor of the amendment, the motion, roll call.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 154
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Pattin.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Councilmember Tasha Kama. Council Pro
Tern Tasha Kama.
COUNTY CLERK;
NO.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK:
I AM A NO.CHAIR LEE:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 155
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA. SUGIMURA. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES;
CHAIR LEE: So, the vote is six to three; motion carries. That's three amendments. Anymore
amendments, Members?
We're going to vote on the main motion as amended. Ready? Deputy County Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Do you want a roll call for that?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Madam Clerk. Yeah, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Okay. Roll call for the main motion. Councilmember Shane
Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: As amended.
COUNTY CLERK: As amended.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 156
Council Pro Tern Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
CHAIR LEE: So, the motion carries. The "ayes" have it with six, and the "noes", three.
Now, the final item.
COUNTY CLERK: One, one unfinished matter is the disposition for Councilmember
Sugimura's County Communication 21-543.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, file County Communication, was it 543?
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 543.
Thank you. Thanks for the reminder.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: When you get to the . . .
CHAIR LEE: What's that? Somebody talking? Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by
Member Johnson, to file the communication.
Any discussion, Member Sugimura?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 157
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Oh, Vice-Chair, you didn't vote "aye"? This is to file the communication.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry, . . . Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, I, I vote "no". Just kidding, just kidding. I voted
"aye". I was just frozen. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Alright.
Now, we got the big one.
COUNTY CLERK: Our final item is M. Ordinances, First Reading, a proposed bill entitled
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.SOB.070, MAUI COUNTY
CODE. TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAU! COMMUNITY PLAN".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I can do this now, but aren't we supposed to waive some Rules
on the other one?
CHAIR LEE: Which other one?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That we just did.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 158
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I’ll move it. I'll make the motion.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
I think procedurally, we wereVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
suppose to waive the Rule before we take the vote on the main motion. But we already
took the vote. So, I don't know if waiving the Rule after the fact is how it works. Can
we ask Mr. Raatz?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, let's, let's ask him.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: The-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, I just want to check. Vice-Chair, did you have it in your script, and you
just overlooked it?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No.
CHAIR LEE: It wasn't there at all?
Okay, Mr. Raatz.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair. The Rules have no legal
effect. So, the bill has been passed on second and final reading in accordance with
the Charter. So, technically, alt that needs to happen has already occurred. But for
the sake of complying with the body's own Rules, if the motion were made to put on
the record that you're waiving Rule 19.C. that would be fine. And it has happened in
the past, where the motion and vote on the waiving the Rule actually happens after the
action on the bill. So, just a matter of the body's preference on adhering to its own
procedural Rules. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, I suggest that we take a vote on the Rule and make it retroactive.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 159
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE THAT WE PUT ON THE RECORD THAT WE, FOR THE
RECORD-
CHAIR LEE: Intended.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
-INTENDED TO WAIVE RULE 19.C. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL WHEN TAKING THE VOTE ON THE MAIN MOTION
ON BILL 148.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and seconded by Member Johnson,
to rule, to waive, I mean, to waive the Rule of the Council on action that we just took
on Bill 148. Okay. Because we intended to do it, but somehow it was inadvertently
overlooked. Alright, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we got nine "ayes" on that, zero "noes"; motion carries. Okay, very good.
So, we're on the West Maui. Okay, now what did, were you starting to say. Member
Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry, I would have brought it up earlier, but I thought it was
okay we waive it after cause I wasn't sure it was going to pass and then, you know.
But I'm ready for my part.
CHAIR LEE: Yours.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 160
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 149 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.SOB.070, MAUI COUNTY
CODE. TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
I MOVE TO PASS THE BILL ENTITLED "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.SOB.070, MAUI COUNTY
CODE. TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY
PLAN" ON FIRST READING.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Johnson, to move the West
Maui Community Plan bill on first reading. Bill, yeah, okay.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Chair, at this time. I would like to introduce my amendments
that will be distributed to the, by the Clerk in  anew ASF.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk, please email mine, please. Instead of putting it on
Granicus, can you email the ASF to me?
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Okay. Does everybody want them emailed to them?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; 1 thought that's how it always-
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, we'll do emails.
CHAIR LEE: How many do you have. Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 161
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: There are six on the new ASF. So, I guess, you know, the
same amount as the old ASF.
CHAIR LEE: But, no, but are the, are those six separate amendments?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Six amendments on one ASF.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Member Paltin, I got two emails.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: They weren't from me.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You said it's on one ASF?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. I thought that's what we were doing. Let's see, so
the, disregard the first one. We're working off the second one.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, so the one. Okay, the one that says "ASF Bill
for WMCP-CM Paltin (2)". That one?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Everybody working off the second ASF? Okay. Alright. I'll get
started then.
FOR THE FIRST ONE, I MOVE TO AMEND THE PROPOSED
BILL ENTITLED "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 2.SOB.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ADOPT THE
UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN" AS FOLLOWS:
RENUMBER "SECTION 4." AS "SECTION 5."; AND
INSERT THE FOLLOWING AFTER "SECTION 3.":
1.
"SECTION 4. THE OFFICIAL VERSION OF THE WEST MAUI
COMMUNITY PLAN MAPS ARE THE DIGITAL MAPS
MAINTAINED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 162
CONSISTENT WITH THIS ORDINANCE, WHICH ARE MADE
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC AT THE WEBSITE
HTTPS://WWW.MAUiCOUNTY.GOV/1523/COMMUNITY-PLAN
-MAPS.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Paltin? Chair? Sorry. Point of... .
CHAIR LEE: Okay, one second. One second. One second. Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Member Paltin, would you like me to
share screen, so that the, the public can follow along with the ASF?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's cool with me if it's cool with the Chair and the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: It, it's a great idea.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. And I have been given the ability to share
screen. Okay, I'll share screen. Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think I didn't get a second.
CHAIR LEE: Second by, oh, wasn't it Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: i seconded the main, didn’t I? 1, I'm, we're on the
amendment, right?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So.
CHAIR LEE: On the amendment, did you second the, the amendment as well?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. You want me to-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 163
CHAIR LEE: We're, no, we're waiting for the share, the, the screen.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. okay. And as you see, the reason would be this
amendment ensures official high-resolution maps are available for use by both the
public and government officials, high-resolution. The original ASF that was posted
listed a wrong website, where it is currently kept, but it won't be kept for future, like,
officialness.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more discussion. Members? So, on this amendment, just raise your
hand. Raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Not too controversial. It's just high-resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay, the only one I don't see is Member Sugimura. Did you say "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 1 did. I raised my hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Second amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
I MOVE TO AMEND EXHIBIT "1" AT PAGE 12 TO ADD THE
ATTACHED GRAPHIC TO FIGURE 1.1.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Oops, what happened?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Member Rawlins-Fernandez was seconding maybe.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I was, I was seconding.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 164
CHAIR LEE: --Member Paltin. Yeah, but she took it off the screen. Seconded by Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, the graphic is on the last page of the ASF if you want to
see the graphic. And this graphic was recommended for inclusion by the Committee,
but inadvertently omitted from the bill. So, you guys probably remember saying this
was good, and it just got inadvertently left off.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, anymore discussion? All those in favor of this amendment, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any "noes"? Please say "no".
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
The third amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND EXHIBIT "1" AT PAGE 39 BY INSERTING
THE FOLLOWING POLICY:
"2.2.13 REQUIRE NEW DEVELOPMENT, REDEVELOPMENT,
AND HRS CHAPTER 201H AND MCC CHAPTER 2.97
HOUSING PROJECTS TO INCORPORATE THE PLANNED
WEST MAUI GREENWAY INTO THE PROJECT AND PROVIDE
RIGHTS-OF-WAY FOR THE GREENWAY IF THE ALIGNMENT
CROSSES THE PROPERTY."
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 165
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Molina, to approve this
third amendment.
And your reason?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. This amendment is based on written testimony
dated November 17, 2021, from the Maui Bicycling League. And I believe they also
worked with the Planning Department on the exact wording, so. And you probably
remember they came to the public hearing and testified.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Question, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, just wanted to ask, are we able to put this
requirement as it pertains to HRS Chapter 201H, because it's a State Statute?
CHAIR LEE: Good point.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I will defer to Corporation Counsel.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Thank you. Chair. I'm going to
ask Michael Hopper. He's also on the call, since he was, followed the plan all the way
through . . .
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hopper?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL MICHAEL HOPPER; Sorry, it took me a minute to
unmute. The questions with respect to this policy, to the extent the requirement applies
to 201H, I mean, 1 think there's a, my understanding is there's a couple places in the
plan where that's referred. I think that could be  astatement of policy from the Council.
But remember, the County Council, when it does a 201H has the authority to exempt
a project from County ordinances, including the community plan. So, I don't think that
that would necessarily be binding on future Councils if they're doing a 201H project.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 166
because those Councils would have some broad authority to exempt the projects
potentially.
So, that's 1 think what I would point to for, you know, trying to establish requirements
for a 201H project. That's difficult to do through County ordinance because 201H lets
the Council exempt a project from any County ordinances. So, that's what I would, I
think, generally say.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So-
CHAIRLEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, is that a . . . and we're okay with this language?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: I, I think you could put in, well, Member
Paltin had something to add, ! guess, so I don't want to speak without hearing, having
that first.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Urn.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess I just wanted to clarify that it, the County can exempt
201H projects from County ordinances, including the community plan, except if it lies
within the SMA as the Supreme Court recently ruled.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Did that help you . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: All I'm asking you is, is it okay for us to make this requirement for
a 201H project in, in ordinance?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: This is, this is number 3; 2.2.13, correct?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Correct.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: Yes, yeah I think it's okay to put it in the
plan. It's just that 1 think in the future, the Council could decide potentially to, to waive
the requirement.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. No ... in the future.  Ijust want to make sure that we're
okay legally to put this in the plan. So, you answered the question. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 167
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more questions or discussion?
Member Paltin, anything else?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor, raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes".Any "noes"?
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay, let's have number 4.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
I MOVE TO AMEND EXHIBIT "1" AT PAGE 42 BY DELETING
THE PERIOD AT THE END OF POLICY 2.3.2 AND INSERTING
THE FOLLOWING:
". UNLESS LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES ARE
IMPLEMENTED TO PREVENT STORMWATER RUNOFF."
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to add this
fourth amendment.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
This amendment returns the policy to the versionCOUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
recommended by the Department of Planning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 168
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. And if you disagree, say "no".
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Frozen.
CHAIR LEE: Did you have a question, or your-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Amendment number 5, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND EXHIBIT "1" AT PAGE 52 TO REPLACE
POLICY 2.4.2 WITH THE FOLLOWING:
"DEVELOPERS OF TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION UNITS
MUST COMPLY WITH THE COUNTY'S AFFORDABLE
HOUSING REQUIREMENT AND PRIORITIZE FULFILLMENT
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING OBLIGATIONS WITHIN THE
BOUNDARIES OF THE WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN
AREA".
And if I get a second. I'll, I'll explain.
CHAIR LEE: Somebody raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 169
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Pal, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez to add the fifth amendment.
And discussion now. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, so in discussion with Corporation Counsel, we decided
that the policy in the posted bill would be more effectively incorporated with
amendments to the Residential Workforce Housing Plan, which 1 intend to propose.
And this would be strictly limited to the transient accommodations. And so, because
we just passed the moratorium and it's on for two years, I'm thinking within the two
years we can enact this into, into the Code, rather than just the community plan. If you
don't agree, then I guess . . .
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? I guess it's harmless. Any more discussion? All those
in favor of the motion to add this fifth amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: It looks like all "ayes". Member Sugimura?
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
And finally, the last one.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, bear with me gang.
CHAIR LEE: Uh oh. Uh oh.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 170
COUNCILMEMBER PALTiN;
I MOVE TO AMEND THE PROPOSED BILL ENTITLED "A BILL
FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.80B.070, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI
COMMUNITY PLAN" BY AMENDING EXHIBIT "1" TO ADD THE
FOLLOWING AT PAGE 96:
"FOR THE AREA BETWEEN FRONT STREET AND
HONOAPIILANI HIGHWAY FROM KAHOMA STREAM TO
KENUi STREET, THE FOLLOWING POLICIES AND
OBJECTIVES FROM THE 1996 WEST MAUI COMMUNITY
PLAN CONTINUE TO APPLY (WITH PAGE REFERENCES TO
THE EXISTING COMMUNITY PLAN IN PARENTHESIS):
(1) CONCENTRATE MULTIFAMILY DWELLING UNITS
AROUND THE CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
(2) A NEW COMMUNITY-ORIENTED PARK ALONG THE
SOUTH BANK OF KAHOMA STREET AND BETWEEN FRONT
STREET AND HONOAPIILANI HIGHWAY. (PAGE 18.)
(3) THE NEW PARK ALONG THE SOUTH EDGE OF KAHOMA
STREAM SHOULD BE RECOGNIZED AS MAJOR ENTRY
FEATURES TO LAHAINA TOWN WITH APPROPRIATE
LANDSCAPE PLANTING TREATMENT. (PAGE 33.)
(4) THE SOUTH-SIDE OF THE KAHOMA STREAM CHANNEL
SHOULD INCORPORATE A 20-FOOT-WIDE LANDSCAPE
LINEAR PARK OR GREENWAY, INCLUDING PEDESTRIAN
AND BIKE WAYS, TO PROVIDE VISUAL AND OPEN SPACE
CONTINUITY BETWEEN FRONT STREET AND THE
HONOAPIILANI HIGHWAY. (PAGE 33.)
(5) ESTABLISH MAJOR RECREATION WAYS FOR
PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES ALONG THE SOUTHERN
SIDE OF KAHOMA STREAM. (PAGE 37.)
(6) THERE SHALL ALSO BE 6 ACRES OF PARK LAND
WITHIN THE PROJECT DISTRICT, INCLUDING A LINEAR
PARK OR GREENWAY ADJACENT TO THE SOUTH BANK OF
KAHOMA STREAM, FROM HONOAPIILANI HIGHWAY TO
FRONT STREET, AT LEAST 60 FEET WIDE AND
APPROXIMATELY 1.5 ACRES IN SIZE. THE EXTENSION OF
WAINEE STREET FROM ITS PRESENT TERMINUS AT KENUI
STREET TO FRONT STREET, AS WELL AS THE
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 171
REALIGNMENT OF KENUI STREET SHALL ALSO BE
CONSIDERED. SAID ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS SHOULD
BE DEVELOPED AND FUNDED IN CONJUNCTION WITH
APPROPRIATE GOVERNMENT AGENCIES. THE REMAINING
ACRES IN THE PROJECT DISTRICT SHALL BE EVENLY
DIVIDED BETWEEN THE COMMERCIAL/BUSINESS USES,
AND MULTI-FAMILY AND SENIOR CITIZEN RESIDENTIAL
USES
(PAGE 50.)
TO THE GREATEST EXTENT PRACTICABLE.
CHAIR LEE; Is that it?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTiN; That's it. This was the amendment that-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
to amend the main motion for the six, number six amendment. Okay.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Approval of this motion would maintain the Community Plan's
status quo for the Kahoma Village project and avoid having the new West Maui
Community Plan inadvertently resolve the pending case of Protect and Preserve
Kahoma Ahupua'a Association, et al. v. Maui Planning Commission, et al.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Member Sugimura. No, this is, we're still in discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay.
CHAIR LEE: You just went over the reason. The, those hands, were they for discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 1 have a question. So, this, to me, relates to Lance Collins
testimony and that document that he transmitted to us. And 1 wonder, I asked at that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 172
time if Corp. Counsel could guide us through this, as it’s a lawsuit that's happening?
So, I'm not, I'm not sure if we have to go into executive session to talk about it, or what,
what, you know, what the impact is to this West Maui Community Plan. So, Corp.
Counsel, if they could?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: So, I can address briefly the, the
status of the lawsuit is that the ICA vacated the, the issuance of the SMA permit. So,
it’s been remanded to the Maui Planning Commission. And intervention by the
intervener group that is represented by Mr. Collins, I believe is not a current issue that
they will be admitted as a party. At any rate, so that inadvertently resolving the pending
case, that would not be something that this, that this community plan amendment
would affect one way or another.
I'm going to ask Mike Hopper, though, to come online and just give you our, our general
opinion on establishing uses. I realize this is in the existing community plan, but you're,
you're reestablishing and amending that in its entirety. You're establishing all of these
uses and designations on property that has been completely built out. And that would
not be our, our recommendation to do that. But I'd like Mike to elaborate a little bit
more if he has something to add to that. Mike?
CHAIR LEE: Mike?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: I, I think Ms. Thomson covered, covered
the basics there. I do think that this provision would prevent our approval as to form
and legality of, of the plan based on this policy. The concern that I would have, and I
think I'd have that with any, if this was done in any similar plan, is a, a requirement that
six acres of, of park land be, be placed on land where there are existing homes. That
in general, I think is, would, would raise a concern in any community plan. But I think
that’s, that's the, the basic issue I had when I reviewed this. This was a new
amendment that had came out that I had seen, I think, for the first time this Monday.
And so, I did research the background a bit.
I would say the Hawaii Supreme Court decision did overturn the SMA permit and
remitted back to the Planning Commission with instructions to allow the interveners to
intervene and to make a determination as how the Planning Commission made findings
with respect to consistency with the community plan.
I think significantly the court did not overturn the County's 201H approval for the project,
which allowed the project that's currently there to be constructed and, and which was
a different project from what the community plan had previously stated, which when 1
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 173
went back and read it, it appeared to be a commercial and residential project that was
not an affordable project.
So, the main concern that I think that we had was that this is requiring six acres of park
in an area where there's existing homes right now. And I think if that was something
proposed for any community plan area, we have concerns with it. We have additional
concerns. We could go to executive session and discuss that, but for now, I would be
unable to approve the plan as to form and legality because of this. And that would be,
that would be a concern that I would raise. I think Ms. Thomson covered the basics,
but those were some additional concerns that I had.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anybody else? Are you ready for, to, okay, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Two questions. First one for Mr. Hopper. This is
the only item that's holding up the signature from Corp. Counsel, correct?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: I didn't get the transmittal from Mr. Raatz,
but going over, yet, but going over the Amendment Summary Form, I think it addressed
the, the, several remaining legal concerns we had. But I think barring anything that I
haven't, that I didn't remember from Committee meetings or anything, 1 think that would
be one of, be the last item. But again, I haven't gotten the transmittal from Mr. Raatz
to request approval with these revisions. But I think the revisions do address the legal
issues that we raised.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Then my second question would be for Mr. Raatz.
CHAIR LEE: David? David, are you on the call? Okay, there he is.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Um-
CHAIRLEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: What would be the consequence of not having Corp. Counsel's
signature on the West Maui Community Plan due to this last amendment?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Thank you. Chair. Corporation Counsel’s
approval as to form and legality of legislation is a tradition that the Council has often
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 174
followed, but it's not a legal requirement. There's nothing in the Charter or the, or the
Code that requires Corporation Counsel's approval .Thank you. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. That addresses my questions.
CHAIR LEE: Just want to let you know, Member Paltin, I'll be voting "no" on this one because
it doesn't make sense to have a requirement, well, park where homes are currently
existing. And I certainly don't want to, I don't know why we're getting involved in, in a
court case that is, is really between separate parties. But anyway, I'm voting "no".
Anybody else? Ready for the vote?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I'm going to support this amendment, because
I think it speaks to the importance of the community plan, that the community plan was
not followed previously. And, you know, the statement is that these things still need to
be addressed. You heard from the interveners that their intent is not to try to tear down
any homes, but to try to have the situation mitigated and they did feel there was
solutions to find possibly other land that could, could serve as the parks space. And
so, I think, so I believe that there are solutions that could mitigate the, the concerns
and the issues.
But I don't think we can continue, we, we can't keep doing this. We can't keep allowing
developers to build, you know, in a way that's contrary to our community plans and
then just sweeping it under the rug. You know, and that's been going on for too long
because we haven't really taken the community plan seriously. But we're, we're voting
this into ordinance, so this is, this is basically law. So, I think it's going to, it's going,
the intent of this is to, is to have the developers mitigate the issue after the fact,
because we can't do it before the fact. But I think this is the only way we're going to
do that, so I'm going to support it.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else on discussion?
Member Sugimura, then Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I'm not going to support it. Tamara, I know
you worked hard on all the others, but the last item is a concern for me, also. And I
wonder if you have people whose houses are in this six-acre parcel, then what does
that mean for them in terms of negotiations, or you know, something that I'm not too
sure how you can even resolve that. But I don't want the County to be a party to it.
And unfortunately, it happened, but Corp. Counsel's not signing off on it. To me, it's a.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 175
it's a sign of something that I think is important of how I basically look at my job as a
policymaker. So, I'm not going to support it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I'm going to support this amendment. I,
I believe that our community's voice holds water, and it should hold water with this
body. And this is a, this discussion has been going on since the '90's about this thing.
Just like what Councilmember King said, you can't ignore our community's voice for
generations. So I'm, I’m going to stand in strong support. That's all I have. Thank
you. Chair
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'll turn off my video again so that my
audio is better. Okay. So, I, I'm going to vote to support the motion. It's not
reestablishing, it's carrying over the designation from before. And like my colleagues,
I. I believe in accountability, and this is one way to achieve that. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Well, I just want to add that the latest CAC and the most recent
community did not vote for this. They vote, they voted for something else in the
community plan. So, I think the community has spoken. Anybody else?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I'll yield to Member Kama. She had her hand up for a
while. But it like, it's transparent, I think, because of her background. But I'll go after
her.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama, I didn't see you. Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Member Paltin, for seeing my transparent fingers.
So, I will be voting against this also. In my heart, in my mind, I'm not sure how we can
displace people for a park. So, and I have to, i got to face my God every night and so
I have to think that. So, thank you. Chair. Thank you, Tamara.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. And just to reiterate the CPAC Chair's testimony
that they weren't made aware of the situation. And the Supreme Court didn't actually
make the decision until after it was out of the CPAC's hands. So, you know, it was still
going through the appeal process at that point.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 176
I think, you know, with the emphasis put on the need for parks, the 200 acres south of
Lahainaluna Road that we didn't get the vote to keep in park space is a testament to
their need for parks. There was that bottom portion that wasn't owned by
Kamehameha Schools that remained in parks, and could possibly be a good solution,
fit for future negotiations, because I did hear the multiple testifiers say that they're not
looking to tear down any houses, obviously. That would be . . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay, are you done?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, done.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so one last question to Corp. Counsel, Mike Hopper. Mike, are you still
on the call? Did you say that you would not sign off on this amendment, or did you say
you would not sign off on the community plan as well?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: I mean, if the amendment passes, it's part
of the plan, so that would be, that would be something that we couldn't approve as part
of-
CHAIR LEE: So, you would not sign off on the plan itself?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: I mean, this is, this is essentially part of an
ordinance that we would have a legal issue with and could not approve as to form and
legality. So, it's all in one, it's all in one ordinance. So, yes, that would, that would . . .
the issue.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody ready to vote.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just wanted to follow up on that as
far as form and legality, the legality part. So, this is not illegal, this amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Mike?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: If you want to get into whether it's illegal
and why it would be potentially, or not, I would want to go into executive session. I
mean, if this is going to pass without, without our signature, and there's potential
litigation in the future, I don't want to, in open session, talk, talk about specific legal
problems within open session. And I would want the, there to at least be potential
defenses to claim. So, I'm not comfortable saying that, going over all the details in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 177
open session. But designating land as park land in an area where you already have
existing homes in general, in a plan, we would have legal concerns with. That's, I think,
the most I can say in open session on that issue.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Mr. Hopper. So. I'll just, you know,
like reiterate again, like, we're, we're not changing it. We're just, we're carrying it over.
So, we're actually not going to change it. We'll just keep it the same, instead of
changing it from what it was to what the developer would want us to, to change it to.
So, you know, and the, the property owners, so like Member Paltin said, like, no one's
trying to tear down the already built houses. But there needs to be accountability in
this situation. You know, these property owners, they, they bought into it knowing that
the case was on appeal, but they also have a claim against the developer who
warranted that everything was legal and legit.
And again, to the point that Member Paltin made, and the CPAC Chair made in her
testimony, that even though the Hawaii Supreme Court didn't issue their decision until
after the community plan was adopted, or recommended for passage by the CPAC,
the, the department knew that this, you know, it went through the ICA. They knew
what the ruling from the ICA was and then, you know, it was on appeal at the Hawaii
Supreme Court.
So, it's not like no one knew that this was an issue. So, it should have been flagged
as other issues were flagged for the CPAC, but it wasn't. And so, I wanted to make
sure that that was also on the record. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And for the record, I just want to say that I am going to support the
opinion of Corp. Counsel. And from my experience with passing ordinances, we have
always been advised not to pass an ordinance that has an illogical conclusion. And in
my mind, in my opinion, this is one of them. Okay, so are you ready, everybody, to
vote? Okay, so what we're voting on is the main motion, well, we're voting on number
six. We're voting on number six amendment. All those in favor of the number six
amendment as we just discussed, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN
SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
AYES;
CHAIR LEE; And those who are against, raise your hand and say "no".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, SUGIMURA
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 178
CHAIR LEE: So, I see me. Okay, I see Member Molina, Member Kama, Member Sugimura
and myself; four. So, motion carries. Motion passes 5-4.
Now, the main motion as amended.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Wait.
CHAIR LEE: All those in, oh.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I have some amendments.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, you have?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Ido. Yeah, sorry about that. Before you go into the main
motion.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, wait.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Oh.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin, were you done with your amendments?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Oh sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I was going to do discussion on the main motion, but 1 can hold
off.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; So, anybody else have other amendments besides Ms., Ms. Sugimura? No?
Okay, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, I have two. So, this is regarding the Plantation Estates.
And my proposal is to change the Plantation Estates' land use designation from
Agriculture to Rural Residential.
SO, I MOVE TO AMEND PAGE 87 OF THE PROPOSED PLAN
BY CHANGING THE LAND USE DESIGNATIONS FOR
PLANTATIONS ESTATES FROM AGRICULTURE TO RURAL
RESIDENTIAL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 179
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion, Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so I think many of us heard, or we heard from
testifiers during Committee, first reading. And the Plantation Estates was developed
in 1990, prior to Rural zoning. The development was never meant to be an agricultural
neighborhood. Plantation Estates is part of the Kapalua Resort, maintains its own
roads, and is serviced by a private water company which also restricts water usage
periodically. The Plantation Estates neighborhood was designated as Rural
Residential by the Maui Planning Commission.
And I guess you heard, and I did a site visit, so those are homes in an Ag district that
they really are residential. I think there was one parcel, I think that was actually doing
agriculture. But the terrain and, you know, the use is really, really Rural Residential.
So, I want to make that motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's the reason for my motion.
CHAIR LEE: And then Member King. Member Paltin and then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I speak against this motion. As Member
Sugimura said that Plantation Estates was never meant to be an agricultural
neighborhood. And the theme that I'm kind of seeing here is the robbing of my
community of a chance to get a public hearing on these things. Agricultural
subdivisions do not require public hearings. A change in zoning from agriculture to
rural would have required a public hearing. So, this is more skirting of the process.
Maui Land and Pine is well known for bait and switch. They said it was going to be an
agricultural subdivision with no intention of it being an agricultural subdivision, knowing
full well that there's no public hearing process for an agricultural subdivision.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 180
In watching the Maui Planning Commission debate on this, Commissioner Hipolito
originally voted to keep it in ag, because as a worker of Maui Land and Pine, he
remembers actively farming it. And he, his, I really wasn't made up my mind on the
subject until I heard him speak about those upland areas where the mountain breeze
and the ocean breeze meet, and how ideal it was for farming.
If we're going to make a policy decision that black plastic and lack of water negates
the, the reason to keep land in ag, then all of Maui will be legacy lifestyle estates
formerly known as gentlemen estates. And this will change everybody's district into
something that I don't think we want to see.
The community spoke pretty loud and clear that, not only on this item, the Greg Brown
house, the SMA situation at Kahoma, that they're sick and tired of being left out of the
process in these types of work arounds for people to get, especially wealthy people, to
get what they want their way. And so, I cannot support this. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I have a question, then 1, I'll make some
comments. But so, this is just, this is a community plan designation. We're not doing
a zone, a zoning change. It would have to go through the original process for, or the
regular process for zoning change. But if, if they did go through a zoning change and
there were, cause there is one, all I know of is one farm there, one commercial farm,
and they're struggling. And what I heard from, and I've talked to a lot of those folks out
there, they don't really want to farm. So, but if there were some that wanted to farm,
they would be able to get an exemption to remain in ag zone, is that the intent?
CHAIR LEE: Who are you asking?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 1 guess I'm asking the maker of the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I gotta ask Corp. Counsel, i guess. I don't, 1 don't
under, you know. Richelle?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: If, because if we went through the, if we, you know, this is just a
community plan designation right now, but if it goes through the, the process to do the
change in zoning to Rural, and there were some who decided they wanted to farm, and
I haven't talked to anybody up there who really wants to farm, but would they be able
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 181
to get an exemption from that rural zoning? Does it have to be like the entire
subdivision has to go rural? Because there is one commercial farm up there that. . .
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Thank you. So, in the Rural zone,
this is Maui County Code, it's 19.29. And one of the principle uses in Rural is growing
and harvesting of any agriculture, agricultural or agricultural crop or product subject to
the restrictions in this chapter. So, it is, ag is still allowed in Rural as an outright use.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I know that, but, but Rural zoning is a higher tax, is a higher
property tax. So, if somebody wanted to keep their property in ag, you know, and keep
the lower tax base because they do want to farm, would they be allowed to do that?
Would they be able to get an exemption?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: You mean whether they could
appeal . . . ag exemption?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Or just to remain in ag? Because right now, it's ag.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Right.  Ibelieve that they can
dedicate their land to ag in a rural district. I can look that up as the discussion is going,
but my understanding is that they could do that. It's more difficult in residential for
obvious reasons, but in rural . . . dedicate.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Cause, thank you for that. Because, you know, I, I have had a
real concern about these, these gentlemen farming estates for a long time. And I don't
think we should, we should be subdividing ag land at all. But where we have, and
where we're forcing people to farm who don't want to farm, it's not working. And if
people are going to be there and they're willing to pay higher taxes to be rezoned rural,
I think that, and they’re coming out and asking for that, I'm inclined to support it.
And I've talked to people Upcountry. One of the very first meetings I had when I first
got on the Council was with the ag working group Upcountry and I heard this concern.
And I heard it, a concern from the Chair of that, of that group back then, that what
happens when you have people who don't want to farm, who are forced to have a farm
plan and farm, one of the, one of the things I, I didn't even realize was that they're,
they're inadvertently competing with people who want to farm or trying to make a living
at farming.
And that, that even the Chair was telling me that she used to make a thousand dollars,
I couldn’t remember if it was a week or month, on avocados. But all these other people
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 182
started growing avocados because it’s easy. It's easy to put in a grove of avocados.
You don't have to do anything. And then they're falling on the ground and they're giving
them away. And they were giving them to the market of the people that are trying to
farm. So, they're actually impeding the market of people who want to farm because all
of this produce is growing, they don't really care about the commercial activity, so
they're giving it away.
But what that, what that leads to is that there's  alot of these estates that were forcing
people into this idea of farming. And yeah, it is fake farming because they don't really
want to farm. But meanwhile, they're paying the lower taxes. They could be paying
higher taxes and they, some of them are willing to. And, and we're, we're trying to, I
guess, pretend that they're still farming, you know. I don't like it. 1,1,1 just, we just sold
a piece of property that was in one of those kind of farming communities, because, you
know, we didn't, saw people, that's what we saw up there were people trying to adhere
to the ag zoning, not really wanting to, but trying to figure out the easiest way to get
out of farming while still looking like they're farming.
So, you know, I, I, I would support if somebody wants to pay higher taxes and, and,
and stop fake farming. But, but, but the other side of it is, we have to stop approving
ag subdivisions when we know people aren't going to farm. And you know, we had
that big issue come up at a couple of years ago in Maalaea where someone was
approve, was proposing a bunch of these, ag, ag sub, an ag subdivision. And it was a
really close one. That one almost passed. So, you know, let's think about what we're
doing in the future with these, with trying to, with allowing these ag subdivisions. That's
what's got to stop, I think. So, anyway, that's my position on that. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
comments based off of the comments that I just heard. So, when we did the tax reform
TIG, we changed the classifications from owner occupied to, sorry, homeowner to
owner occupied, and residential to non-owner occupied. And wherever there was a
dwelling, they would go into one of those classifications, tax classifications. If there
isn't active ag going on, then they, then they wouldn't get an ag exemption for a
discount on their property taxes. So, only the portions that are in active ag get the ag
exemption. So, I guess. I'm, I'm just a little confused about gentlemen estates, fake
farms getting tax breaks, if it's not actively being used for agriculture.
I just wanted to share some
And I'm also not sure, I'm pretty sure and maybe Corp. Counsel can correct me, but I
think there also has to be a commercial component to it. Like it can't just be like
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 183
gardening, but they, they have to be, like selling the produce to get active ag
exemption. So, those are my comments. I will be voting against the motion. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. You know, in this time of climate change,
we should be doing everything we can to encourage our residents to plant trees, plant
fruit trees, even better. If they're going to give it to the homeless, or what not, all the
better. If, if wealthy folks aren't able to plant trees, then what, what hope do the rest of
us have?
This area is Honolua Ridge, Plantation Estates, above Honolua Bay, This is the whole
reason the community galvanized back in 2007, 2014, and it looks like they may need
to galvanize in 2021. It's like a seven-year cycle. The community never wanted houses
there, never got the opportunity to weigh-in on this ag subdivision, bait-and-switch by
Maui Land and Pine. People that don't want to live in the ag subdivision, there's
Mahana Estates right down the way that is all rural.
As Member Sinenci said before, rural is supposed to be the buffer between ag and
urban development. There's rural, there's ag, there's urban development. I strongly
disagree with this. I don't know if we need all of the folks to come out at second reading.
I hope not. I hope this does not pass.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Let me first say that I really
appreciate the residents of Plantation Estates, very nice people. And certainly, they
have the financial means of wanting to pay more taxes which they expressed in order
to get this change in land designation. But, by the same token, you know, the majority
of the community spoke as to leaving this area designated as agriculture. So, we have
to kind of respect that as well.
And, you know. Member Paltin kind of hit on something interesting about in this time
of climate change and doing more vegetation, living off the land. And yeah, some
people will certainly consider it fake farming, but at least it's something still constructive
in terms of living off the land, you know. And, and everybody knew going in when they
purchased these properties, these lands were agriculture or were meant for agriculture.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 184
And a lot of the folks that live there nov\/. maybe the, were not aware of the history.
And that's the key thing here. Historically, the community had a preference for having
this as agriculture. So, 1 have to respect the concerns of my colleague from West Maui
on this one. And so, I'll not be supporting Member Sugimura's amendment. And no
disrespect. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else who didn’t speak?
Member Sinenci. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I believe Member Sugimura had her hand up before me.
CHAIR LEE: I, 1 know, but you didn't speak yet, okay
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, okay. Thank you. Yeah, I'm going to, you know, that was
one of my questions during the, of the weeklong PSLU meetings that we had, was what
does the zoning change do to. as far as taxes and your land values? And so, I think
with these zone changes to rural, again, those residents would be able to allow for
smaller lots, accessory dwellings, and kind of move away from the agriculture intention
as it was originally zoned. So, I'll speak in support of the amendment. Chair. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Who didn't speak?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh that's right. Against, against it. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, who didn't speak?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I didn't speak yet. It's Gabe.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I, I appreciate the idea. I just don't
support the amendment. You know, I'm a, I was a farmer up until a year ago, I was a
farmer. And what we need is food, water, and a little bit capital. And those folks up on
the hill, they have it all. And for us that, who are thirsty to get, to start doing those kinds
of jobs, farming, to see them just have gentlemen estates popping up all across the,
the islands, as well as, you know, every island seems to have this issue.
So i, I don't, I, I, it's hard for me to kind of put myself in their shoes when there's so
many farmers who need more land, more water, and more capital. And that’s really
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 185
where it is for me. I don't, I don't want to take that out of farmland, no way. That's my
two cents. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Kama, did you want to say anything?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, I will. So, thank you, Chair. You know, I kind of like the
idea of what we do on this Council, that somebody can come up and have a motion,
we can have a great discussion, and in the end, we're going to call for the vote. But
the idea is that the discussion is so healthy. And so, that’s what I love about this, this
Council, is that we don't always have to agree, and we can disagree adamantly, but in
the end, when the vote taken, it is what it is.
So, I don't ask a whole lot of questions, because  Ilisten a lot. And I listen, and I read
a lot. And, but what I do have to say, I think has merit, at least to me. But what I want
to say about this is when those people bought their properties way back then, all the
land was all ag. There was no designations. From 1990 to 2021, all the time that goes
by, we have zoning changes, we have designation changes, we have tax changes, so
much changes over time. And the people that have been there since 1990 told us this
is what their preference is. So, I want to support that. That's their preference.
But if the greater community and the voters on this Council say otherwise, then so be
it. But our job is to represent our constituencies. And I think we're doing that in the
best way we can actually represent them, even if we don't agree and the vote doesn't
always come the way we want it to be. So. that's my two cents. I will support this.
Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. You're muted.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay, I'm turning off my video again, so that
my audio is stronger. Sorry. Mahalo, Chair. In my first comments, 1 kind of got thrown
off a little bit by the talk of taxes, that tax reform and all that stuff. It's just, I love it, can't
get enough of it.
Anyway, so I don't know what's, you know, going on Upcountry and all of that. And I
wanted to refocus my comments on the motion itself and reiterate what my colleague
from West Maui stated. And i thought it was really good points. One, is, you know,
community, the community's say, the greater community. Two, climate change and
food security are, are things that we keep saying are very important. And in so much
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 186
of our legislation and in our actions, we, we prove and demonstrate that it is a high
priority of ours and we're working toward it.
And so, as Member Paltin stated, and this happens on Molokai, too. you know, if, if the
farms, if they're not really interested in farming and selling the produce, what we do
here on Molokai can be done there and that's, you know, sharing the produce, so that
food security is increased in the community. And there's also, you know, Food Bank,
and Share Your Mana is always accepting produce to help those that, you know, are
food insecure.
So, there’s so many opportunities to do good with these farmlands to produce food,
and to sequester carbon. And every opportunity that we can sequester carbon from
the atmosphere and hold it in the trees and the plants and put it into the ground to
reduce our carbon footprint, I think we should take that opportunity. So, for those
reasons, I will be voting against the motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You know, I think I've said enough. I will say that in order
to be a farmer, is not just planting a tree, but you got to sell it, right? So, it's a business.
It's more than, you know, I guess it's more than feeding a neighbor if you're a serious
farmer. But I, anyway, I stand by my motion. And  Iwould like to again, you know,
designate the Plantation Estates from Agriculture to Rural. These things were
developed in 1990, prior to rural zoning, so they didn't really have a choice of what it
should be or not. And they're just trying to make it what it is. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, and then, I will be voting for the amendment, because I recall very vividly,
several times, the one and only farmer up there said that he is, he's like a anomaly,
because every place else, nobody, hardly anybody can farm because of the terrain
and the soil. It's, it's really not conducive to, especially commercial farming.
So, everybody ready for the vote? The vote that the motion made by Member
Sugimura, an amendment to designate the Kaanapali Estates and Honolua Estates
from Ag to Rural. All in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, SUGIMURA,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see Sugimura, King, Lee. And I don't know. Member Kama, which, I
cannot see your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 187
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: My transparent hand says "yes".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so four "ayes".
All those against, raise your hand and say "no".
MOLINA,
RAWLINS-
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR
FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: So, I see five "noes". Okay. Five "noes", motion failsAlright.
So, are we ready for final?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: One more, one more. So, this is on Ka'anapali 2020. I've
got one more amendment, Chair. And as you heard from Ka'anapali 2020, they had
through the community plan process their land designation change. And so, my
proposal is to have West Maui Community Plan reflect the Ka'anapali 2020 Community
Plan Group approved map, which was shown to us.
AND SO, I THEREFORE, MOVE TO AMEND PAGE 89 OF THE
PROPOSED PLAN BY CHANGING THE 100 ACRES
CURRENTLY DESIGNATED AS "AGRICULTURE" TO "SMALL
TOWN CENTER": AND
FURTHER, TO AMEND PAGE 89 TO CHANGE 87 OF THE
97 ACRES DESIGNATED AS OPEN, I'M SORRY. "PARK/OPEN
SPACE" TO "RESIDENTIAL", WITH 10 ACRES ABOVE
HONOAPIILANI HIGHWAY REMAINING AS "PARK/OPEN
SPACE". AND I THINK THAT WAS FOR THE CANOE CLUBS
IN CASE OF, IN CASE THEY NEEDED TO DO RETREAT. AND
SO, THAT IS THE MOTION.
I'll need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
I SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 188
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama. Does
everybody understand the motion?
Any discussion on the motion? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thanks. The proposed changes align w\th the
Ka'anapali 2020 Community Plan Group approved map for the area.
Ka‘anapali 2020 Community Plan Group has been meeting to help create a master
plan for these areas since the late 1990s. Many community members have put in
countless hours and years to collaboratively develop a master plan that is rooted in
community desires and needs. The community plan, the Ka'anapali 2020 Community
Planning Group approved map is consistent with the Maui Island Plan and includes a
10-acre park immediately mauka of Hanakao'o Beach Park, Canoe Beach, while also
providing much needed housing in a well-planned, complete community. So, this is
the amendment, and it supports the vision and direction that the Ka'anapali 2020
Master Plan had. Thank you.
The
CHAIR LEE: Anymore? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I'm opposed to this amendment because,
you know, as we try to seat new Community Plan Advisory Committees, the hardest
thing to actually get folks onto the CPAC, like, we had plenty of great folks, nobody
wanted to apply, because they felt that people changed the thing. And if they're going
to invest this one year, six months, what have you, they wanted to know that it would
have an impact.
This land was designated Park/Open Space through the Community Plan process. It
was retained through the Maui Planning Commission process, and I'm not about to
overturn the community's decision, or overturn the Maui Planning Commission's
decision for a bunch of folks that have financial interest in having it be different.
Like Lanny Tihada said, I, 1 also support Ka'anapali 2020’s full plan. The most
important part of that plan had people living in houses in 2020. Everything else doesn't
matter, because nobody's living in houses in 2020. I don't even know if they'll be living
in houses in 2030 or 2040, you know. They have entitled land. Pu'ukoli'i Village Mauka
was entitled since 2005. The State, the State's priority is not the bypass right now.
They got 22 million for realigning the highway, because if you can't get to the southern
terminus of the bypass, it doesn't matter where the northern terminus is.
So, you know, a lot can be done. There's so many people that don't have land in the
non-sprawl area, folks in Olowalu, folks in Launiupoko that are raring to build. They
don't have infrastructure nearby. If Kaanapali Land Management cannot do, it's not
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 189
because it's not possible. It's because they're a former sugarcane company. They're
not in the business of development, otherwise, something, anything would've been
developed by now.
There was a reason it was called Ka'anapali 2020.  1love that plan. The main
component was being in houses at 2020. Now that we're in 2020, there's a host of
other issues that needs to be taken into consideration.
As one of the testifiers said, it's called the Community Plan for a reason. It's not the
developer's plan. It's not the landowner's plan. It's the Community Plan. And
Ka'anapali 2020 needs to be taken in context of the greater community. We’re not just
looking at one landowner, one developer's plan. We're looking at the entire community
and how it fits in. So, 1 cannot support this amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? I'll just say that I will support the amendment, because I recall
various testifiers coming before us, Elle Cochran and so forth, reminding us that this,
this was in the Urban Growth Plan, and I think the Maui Island Plan. So, you know, it
depends on what plan you're quoting. Anybody else want to chime in?
Member Molina, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. I gotta say this one kind of
pulls at my heartstrings, cause this was one real, you know, I don't want to call it a
tragedy, but it's just from years before, you know, a lot of great intentions and a lot of
hope, and a lot of good people, a lot of kupuna who passed on that put their heart and
soul into this. And for whatever reason, as time evolved, I guess the goals and
objectives to getting the much-needed housing never transpired. And of course, now,
we're in a bit of a quagmire, especially for West Maui with the need for affordable
housing.
But it, it seems like this one component of this whole West Maui Community Plan is,
you know, it's pitting this, this portion of it, is really pitting the community against each
other and it's really difficult and sad. So, whatever the outcome of this, I just hope
people can come together, because this one really when I hear the compelling
testimony from both sides of the issue and the people who have been involved
presently and currently, it was real, real tough to hear. And I hate to see something
like this divide the community. So, I'll leave it at that. Madam Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Just similarly to Member Molina, this is a really
difficult one, because so many people were involved in bringing this plan. But, you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 190
know, like Member Paltin said, the plan didn't come to pass. The plan was a plan for
2020.
What really bothers me the most about it is, you know, that we don't know, you know,
we've been told that that they'd like to do affordable housing. But we haven't been
offered any assurances of what percentage will be affordable housing, where the
affordability will be, what, what AMI levels. And  Ijust, I've seen these kinds of promises
happen when they're given verbally and not, and not manifest themselves when, when
the action, when the actual development is happening.
So, I'm, I just. I'm having a really hard time supporting it without that, that caveat in
there. And exactly what those houses, you know, what affordability means to them,
and where they plan to put the affordable housing, and what the percentage will be?
So, that's where I, I'm really, I do think affordable housing is a priority, but I, I don't see
an assurance if that's what this area is going to end up being.
And I wasn't part of those meetings. 1 knew a lot of those people who were in those
meetings, people like Buck Buchanan, who aren't around anymore. And, and I know
that they put their heart and soul into it. But there's, I don't know who was around that's
going to make sure that it happens the way it was supposed to happen. So, I'm, I'm
just having a hard time supporting it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Good. Thank you. Anybody else? Ready for the vote? Okay, ready?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; 1 just want to say, you know, the only members of the
community, you didn't, you didn't hear from all of the members of the Ka'anapali 2020
working group that have been around and are still alive. You know, I did consult with
Uncle . . . Delos Reyes, life-long resident; Uncle John Kuia, they've been on the
Ka'anapali 2020 working group. They don't support, support this iteration of the plan.
You know, the, the main thing when people got involved in this community planning
process was they thought it was going to be for 2020. It wasn't, I mean, it was great
that they were being listened to, but so much has changed in the last 30 years and,
and it's not the end of the story.
I mean, we got managed retreat, which is a big issue. We've got nine condotels falling
into the ocean. I mean, perhaps a deal can be struck for strategic relocation. The way
I see it, it's, it's pretty much a blank slate with a lot, I think Kai Nishiki said 1,000 acres
been up zoned already. And I don't want to up zone more until I see some
commitments, like Member King said. You know, we've heard the story for the last
30 years. And to up zone more than a thousand acres with no solid commitment is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 191
just, you know, knocking your head against the, the wall a few more times and
expecting a different outcome. So, not supporting.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Want to echo Member Paltin’s
comments. Member King's comments, and I won't be supporting the motion. I won't,
I'll keep it brief like that. I think they both did an excellent job, and. and also reiterating
CPAC Chair's testimony. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: That's fine. See this is, this is democracy at work. We can disagree. Anybody
else? Okay, all those in favor of Member Sugimura's proposed amendment, raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, two "ayes"?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Three.
CHAIR LEE: Three "ayes"? Who's the third "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Me.
CHAIR LEE: You, me, and who?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Tasha.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Tasha.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Councilmember Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. I, okay, I guess she's frozen on my screen. I, I don't see her hands at all.
So, three "ayes".
And those against, raise your hand and say "no".
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS KING, JOHNSON, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 192
three "ayes"; motion fails.CHAIR LEE; Six "noes'
Now, we go back to--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Go back to the main motion as amended.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Wait, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; All six-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair, Chair, Chair. So. this is, if we won't approve this
designation, Kaanapali, will you take it back to agriculture?
SO, I MOVE TO AMEND PAGE 89 OF THE PROPOSED PLAN
TO DESIGNATE KAANAPALI TOWN SOUTH LAND, LAND
USE DESIGNATION, AS AGRICULTURE.
MOTION.
THAT'S MY
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Since my first motion failed, I would like to have itCOUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
designated as agriculture.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member who? Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Kama, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. To redesignate this property as agriculture.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; And I will explain. This would reflect-
CHAIR LEE: Discussion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 193
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Kaanapali Town, this would reflect Kaanapali Town
South's current land use designation as determined in the 1996 West Maui Community
Plan. If kept as an agriculture land use designation, it with will allow Ka'anapali 2020
Community Planning Group to continue planning for sea level rise, future managed
retreat efforts, infrastructure, and connectivity from the Lahaina bypass. The proposed
designation is privately owned land as, yeah, as Park/Open Space infringes on
property owner's rights by denying Kaanapali Land Management Company all
economically viable use of the land. So, that's--
CHAIR LEE: More discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. I won't be supporting this motion. I disagree
it prevents Kaanapali Land Management from getting the full use of their land. You
can, you can do ag if your zoning is ag. Nothing prevents from you from it. What it
does prevent you is that problem that Member King said that we need to move away
from with the community plan zoned ag, and the zoning, I mean, community plan
designation ag and the zoning ag. There's nothing stopping them tomorrow from
creating an ag subdivision with no public hearing process.
Keeping the community plan designation in open space reflects the vision that the
community has for the area without preventing them from doing ag. They can do all
the uses of ag, because the land is zoned ag. The vision from the community is open
space. But it's not going to stop them. The only time it would stop them is if they
wanted to do an ag subdivision with the fake farms we were just talking about us
moving away from, because there's no public hearing process for an ag subdivision.
So, we'll be walking down that road that we just said that we wanted to get away from.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, thank you, Chair. I think Member Paltin took the words right
out of my mouth, because we were just talking about the issue of ag subdivisions. And
the only thing that stops the ag subdivision at Maalaea Mauka was the fact that it wasn't
in our community plan and so, we had to go through the public process of a community
plan amendment. So, you know, if they are going to want to do something like that,
then they would have to go through the community plan amendment, and that would
bring the public in for comment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 194
So, you know, and I just, I, I really hope, hope that we, we really move way from these
ag subdivisions at some point. Because if we're going to try to keep ag in ag for the
reasons that we discussed earlier, you know, and it's not the only way to address
climate change and plant trees. Because you can plant just as many trees in a rural
zone. But there’s, there's that idea that that it's one way to get out of, you know, allow,
even notifying people, even notifying your neighbors.
I think we had a bill in that didn't, didn't quite pass that was even just going to require
notification of ag subdivisions. And you couldn't even do that. So, if not, I think it needs
to stay where it's at in the community plan. And if they do propose something, it'll have
to go through the community plan amendment process. And that will bring the public
back in.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, anybody else? If not, all those in favor of the amendment, raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, SUGIMURA
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE; Okay, I have to ask you—
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I'm an "aye". Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, four "ayes".
All those against, raise your hand and say "no".
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN,
SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
four "ayes"; motion fails.CHAIR LEE: Five "noes'
Now. we are ready for the final vote. Okay, the main motion.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, just discussion whenever you deem it appropriate.
CHAIR LEE; Are you going to have more discussion on this? Okay. The main motion as
amended. And don't forget, we have six amendments. Okay.
Discussion, Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 195
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. And for the Members
consideration, I have three amendments. No, just kidding, just kidding.
CHAIR LEE: it's after six.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, no. no. I will support.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you for the laughter.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, I think we need it. We need it. But yeah, I'll support the
Plan. But I would like prior to second reading, we heard in testimony the concerns
about the land use designations possibly not being legally adopted. So I'd like to get
something in writing from Corporation Counsel in the interest of time. So, I won't ask
them right now, but prior to second and final. I'd like to get something in writing from
Corp. Counsel with regard to that concern expressed by Mr. Mayer, and I believe even
Mr. Perez made mention of that as well. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, wait. We just want to make sure that, I don't know if the Clerk's Office
would, can do that, but we'll ask David to follow up with Corp. Counsel, okay?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Alright, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: On that. David, are you on the, are you still on the call? David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes, thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I just want to make sure, right now, somebody's assigned to it. David, will you
take care of it?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Yes, we'll follow up with the
Department of the Corporation Counsel. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Next hand.
Member Paltin, I'll get to you. okay, cause you probably have the most to say. So, let
everybody else say something.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. And actually, I was going to bring up the land
use designations. But I don't think the biggest concern was the legality of it. The
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 196
biggest concern was it wasn't specific enough, so that it left open the possibility of, you
know, because the designations named a few options, but then it said, "included in
these options". And so, it left it wide open for additional types of development. So, I
just wanted to get Member Paltin's thoughts on how we can address that? If not, I
mean, it sounds like a really, a big job to, to address those land use designations and
make them more specific, more than we can do right now. And so, is there any way
to--
CHAIR LEE: Member-
COUNCILMEMBER KING; -to look at that?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Well, maybe we do it before second reading.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Well, okay, do you want me to answer?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. If you can.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, during our, our weeklong review, we had a day when we
tried to tighten it up, but we didn't have the votes to do it, and then we had resistance
from Planning. If you folks remember, like Albert Perez said, this isn't the first time he
brought it up. He brought it up at every single testimony. And then, we had that day
when we were working on tightening, tightening them up based on his
recommendations, but we didn't get the vote. And like Member Kama said, that you
take the vote, win or lose, you disagree, and you move on. So, that’s kind of what
happened.
In response to Member Molina's concern and Mr. Mayer's concern, 1 don't believe that
it would hold future community plans to those exact designations, because the way
that it came to us was Urban Center/Corridor, Park/Open Space combined. And then,
we took the action of saying, you know, we don’t want the focus to be on Urban Center.
Let's call it Transit Oriented Corridor. And then, we said we don't want Park and Open
Space together and made Park, Open Space. So, I don't, I don’t believe that these
things are set in stone. We, we did have an opportunity to try and tighten it up. We
didn't get the votes.
At this point, we’re closing in on the deadline. And 1 think this is a good lesson to us
all that, you know, it's not done with the passage of the final ordinance. Members of
the community need to be forever diligent and forever involved. And this document is
not meant to sit on the shelf. It's meant to be used and carried around like a bible and
interacted with. And that would be my comment in response to you folks' concern.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 197
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank, thank you for that. I appreciate that. And I, I also
want to say, and thanks for reminding us about, you know, not getting the votes. But I
also want to say that when those land use designations were brought before those
public meetings, I attended one of them, it was at the Planning, I mean, it was at the,
yeah, it was at the Planning Commission building, the meeting room. I did bring that
up and I did specifically ask are, you know, are, is the intent to try to, you know, instigate
this, this land use, you know, program into every community plan?
And I was told by Planning that, you know, it would be up to every community. So, if
the South Maui community wants to change it, you know, I've been told a couple of
times by Planning Department, yes, we can change it. It doesn't, we don't have to
accept it just like it is. So, and maybe that will influence the West Maui Community
Plan, to go back and look at it or something. But  Ijust kind of wanted to, to find, I, I
hadn't recalled that we took those votes, and we didn't get enough votes so, thanks for
the reminder on that. But maybe that's a lesson for next time. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; David Raatz? If you, David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: If you don't mind, I would still like to pursue that, so that we, you know, Mr.
Mayer was quite serious about his testimony, and just some kind of analysis on that.
And how difficult is it? How difficult is it to try to, to make amendments, or changes
that does tighten up the language, if needed and if agreed upon by everybody?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We're sorry, Member Paltin, if we voted something down that was needed at
that time. But sometimes your meetings, we're, we have information overload, you
know? And we, it's, it's exhausting sometimes. And sometimes, we had enough, and
we just want to go home. And so, I'm not trying to make excuses. That's the god's
truth, it's a lot of information.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It was on the Thursday, the, like towards the end. So, I, I don't
blame you. And like Member King said, if, if they come up with better iterations, and
our community likes their iterations. I'll be more than happy to propose it to our
community in a town hall as, for adoption. But yeah, it was, it was towards the end.
Maybe, we should have taken it up first
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we're not too good at the end of the meetings, any meeting.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well, thank you-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 198
CHAIR LEE; Member King
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you for exploring that, i do remember that when we,
you know, that the, the land use designations that were put into the Lanai Plan were
brought to the Molokai Plan just like that, and we tried to change them, and we also
did not have the votes to change them. Because we wanted, because we felt like this
was something they were going to march through every community plan. And they
went through, again, it wasn't specific enough. So, and hopefully we, we can take that
lesson to the South Maui Community Plan. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; David, did you want to say something? No?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: No, thank you. Chair. We, I think we
understand our directions.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, thank you. Anybody else who would like to say anything?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I was, I was just answering  aquestion. That wasn’t my
discussion, right?
CHAIR LEE; Oh. No, of course not. I just wanted to check if anybody else had anything to
say cause we will end with-
COUNCILMEMBER KING; That was my discussion. Don't take it out of her time.
CHAIR LEE; We'll end, we'll end with you, okay? Alright. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I don't want to blow the load before second reading, so
I'll keep it brief this time around. I just wanted to, if anybody was wondering what
happened to item 4 on my original ASF regarding DHHL maps. We just need to take
an, a different avenue to pursue that, and it's just going to take one more step. So, I
didn't want anybody watching or any of you, my colleagues, to think that I just shined
DHHL. It's just going to take another step first before we can add it into the community
plan. And I did discuss this with Andrew Choy, and he emailed a bunch of folks. So,
they're aware and they're okay with that.
And other than that, I know I put you through information overload, and I'm sorry. And
I sometimes was very passionate. And just thank you for putting up with me. And I
don't want to say the whole thing before second reading, because I don't want to jinx
us. Knock on wood.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 199
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Sounds good. Alright, Members, ready for the vote?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. I just wanted to respond to Member Paltin. Member
Paltin, 1 would expect nothing but the best from you, and this is your best. So, yes, it's
late, but it's Friday and we're off tomorrow. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Member Sugimura, you have your hand up.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; You know, for me, it's really, it's really major for Corp.
Counsel not to sign the West Maui Community Plan. And I will do my own investigating,
or own research until when it comes up for second reading. But I cannot vote for it,
because it's not signed form and legality by Corp. Counsel. I think there's a lot of it
that's good. But in terms of, you know, the final, to me, stamp, I always look for it, even
when we do other, you know, other legislation is Corp. Counsel. So, I'm going to vote
no".
And I'm going to do exactly like what I did with Department of Water Supply purchase
of the Maui County Federal Credit Union Building. I'm going to go do the research.
But for today. I'm voting "no". Nothing against Tamara, all your good work. But 1 just
want to explain to you why. And, yeah, for me, it's huge. To me, that's, that's pretty
huge for a document this important that's going to be living in perpetuity. So, thank
you.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Oh, you're frozen again.
Okay. Okay, how about now?VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
CHAIR LEE; Good.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay. Okay. Alright. I, I wasn't going to comment,
but I, you know, I think Member Paltin and the community just worked too hard to leave
this discussion on not a positive and happy note. So, I just wanted to echo Pro Tern
Kama's comments. Member Paltin, thank you so much for your leadership on this and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 200
attending, you and your office attended all the CPAC meetings and the Maui Planning
Commission meetings, and really shepherded this through.
And you, you really helped our Council walk through this whole thing, making it as, as
easy as possible. I'm not saying this was easy, I'm just saying that you really, you
know, put a lot of work, you and your office put  alot of work into it to make it as easy
for us to follow all of that information in four days. And then, you know, through the,
the public hearing. And so, I just want to commend you and your office, and the
community for working so hard on this community plan. And so proud to vote in support
of this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I, I know, I know it's getting late, so I'll
be really quick. I really appreciate all of your hard work, Councilmember Paltin. And
your communities got your back for all of these great, this great plan. In the back of
my bookshelf, I have the Lanai Community Plan, and it is my bible, and I do carry that
thing around. So, I really appreciate you saying that, because that is something that
the community should be aware of. We should all be able to read our community plans
and know it inside and out. So, I, I'm really impressed with the, with the way you
manage such a heavy load. And you did a great job at it, so full support. Thank you.
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And yeah, I totally agree with you. Chair,
I thought it was information overload. But to, but to Member Paltin's credit, I mean,
she put in, she delivered it in a way where, you know, it was organized, we could easily
follow along. So, with so much information, I think the way she . . . , we even tried to
follow her process with the WUDP process, and that's, you know, 1400 pages. So,
kudos to the staff, the Planning Department and, and Member Paltin's office. Glad to
support this first reading. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Just real quickly. I'll, I'll just reiterate what
everybody else said. 1 thought it was a good process. I thought you brought a format
to us. Member Paltin, that was easy to follow, And so, I appreciated all the forms and
the organization you did for the day-to-day review of the plan. I wish we could have.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 201
the only word I have is I wish we could have tightened up those, those land use
designations. But like you said, we didn't have the votes at the time.
And thank goodness we don't have to, everything we pass doesn’t have to have Corp.
Counsel's signature on it, because I do disagree that, I mean, I think it's, the form and
legality is there. So, I don't understand why they wouldn't sign off on the community
plan? But, you know, they have their reasons, and this is a policy decision. So, I think
we can all feel good about the fact that this is  agood policy, we listened to both sides
of ail the issues, all the controversial parts. And we, we took, you know, we made a
vote, and we took a fair vote. And the plan, hopefully, will, will continue to evolve, that
we find better ways to do things.
As, hopefully by the time we get done with the South Maui Plan, it won't be time to go
back to do the Lanai Plan again, because we have three more plans after that. But,
you know, and hopefully, we can find a way to do this faster. But I think you did speed
it up. And hopefully the next plan will, goes faster, because the Planning Department
already has a template, so.
And also, you know, I wanted to give kudos to the Planning Department, too, because
they put a lot of work into this. And, you know, we might not have agreed with
everything they brought to us. But they were very helpful in helping us deciphering
decisions and leaving the decisions up to the Council in the end. So, I do want to
acknowledge all the work that Planning put into this, and that they are now putting into
South Maui, the South Maui Plan. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Okay, my turn. Member Paltin, I want to congratulate you on an
incredible job. It was amazing how you pulled us through, plowed us through this
volume, sheer volumes of information. And we made it, and we did it. And of course,
we have to thank the Planning Department, and all the others before us, the Planning
Commission, the CAC, the community, and everybody else who has their handprint on
this. But you are the leader of this one, and we look forward to the rest of the plans
that we, we'll be going through.
I do have some concerns about this plan, but I do support you, and I will vote yes with
reservations. Okay. Alright, everybody ready for the vote? All those in favor of the
main motion as amended six times, raise your hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 202
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so I see eight "ayes". Wait. Okay, I cannot see you, actually, Member
Kama. Are you an "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I'm going to vote "no", Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. So, that's seven "ayes".
All those against, raise your hand and say "no".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND SUGIMURA.NOES:
CHAIR LEE: No?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: It's my "no" because you can't see my hand.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, the, the vote passes 7-2. Congratulations. Very good. Very good.
Now, everyone, last say. You going to do anything special this weekend? Get married,
whatever, what? Sleep?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm going to clean my closets.
CHAIR LEE: Clean your closets, okay. Anybody else doing anything special?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, Pukalani, the golf cart parade is postponed to next
week Saturday because of the weather, at the golf course. And then, the Made on
Maui got rescheduled to tomorrow and Sunday. And that's at the food concession area
at the, where Maui Fair is. So, that's where the booths are.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, well, we're expecting rain again. So, I'm not sure how that's going to go.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And then, everybody be careful, because, you know, they just
found the Omicron variant on, on Oahu. So, you know, we have to be very diligent
with COVID ....
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Madam Clerk, do we have anything you want to say before we adjourn?
COUNTY CLERK: Just for the record, Chair, that was BILL 149 (2021). And with that, there's
no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you, everybody. Be safe. And we'll see you on the other-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 3, 2021
Page 203
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: -side of the weekend.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just wanted to say, I hope I see, I know Member Sugimura
couldn't make it, but ! hope I see you folks at the South Maui District Office on
Wednesday. We'll try to have a . . . .
CHAIR LEE: We'll be there. We'll be there and at the, the Paia one also.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Chair, 9:00, if you can make it. Friday, December 10
for the blessing of the District Office at the Heritage Hall, Baldwin Avenue in beautiful Paia.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'll be there after MPO, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Alright, everybody, have a great weekend. This meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of December 3, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 6:23 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF HAWAII
211203/lks:jm
VED
m\ OEC -3 AH 7= 47
F^ECTestimony of
Pacific Resource Partnership
City Council
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani N.W. Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
OFFICE OF THE
'.OUNTY CLERK
Bill No. 148-Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
CHAPTERS 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT
ACCOMODATIONS ON MAUI"
Friday, Decembers, 2021
9:00 A.M.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council.
Pacific Resource Partnership (PRP) is a non-profit market recovery trust fund which represents approximately
7,000 men and women union carpenters and 240 large and small contractors. With our expertise in research,
compliance, marketing, and project advocacy, we are committed to building a stronger, more sustainable
Hawaii in a way that promotes a vibrant economy, creates jobs, and enhances the quality of life for all
residents of Hawaii.
Imposing a moratorium on the construction of visitor accommodations will further hurt Maui's economic
recovery. Maui's economy both relies on and benefits tremendously from the visitor industry. Historically,
Maui has benefitted from the property tax revenue generated by visitor-use properties. Intelligent and
purposeful adjustment of property tax rates has served to heighten reliance on this revenue. Undercutting it
poses a long-term threat to the county's revenue and tax bases. Prior to the pandemic, accommodations-
related employment was the largest provider of jobs in Maui County, employing 12,900 residents. Industry
employment has subsequently declined by 60 percent and has yet to rebound. Limiting visitor
accommodations through a moratorium will also limit the growth of other industries like construction, retail,
restaurants, and many of our small businesses, These industries provide important employment
opportunities for local residents who depend on these jobs to survive and raise a family on Maui.
Maui is confronting a major shift in the composition of its population. The period between 2010 and 2019
saw a decline in Hawaii-born residents and an increase in mainland U.S.—and foreign-born residents. During
the same time period, many Native Hawaiian residents have left Maui to live in a different state, as the
attached graphs illustrate. By reducing the potential for employment growth, a moratorium will likely
accelerate this trend causing local residents and their families to leave Maui for more job opportunities and a
better life elsewhere.
Maui's popularity as a travel destination is unlikely to change. Pausing visitor accommodations development
will not stop tourists from flying to Maui. It will only limit places where they can stay. Tourists will continue to
PRP^IFIC flFSOURCe P4?rNCBSHlP
THE POWER OF PARTNERSHIP WWW. P Rf ■ HAWAU.COM
WWV/.FACEBOOK.COM/
^ PACIRCRESOURCEPARTNERSHIP
PHONE 808.528.5557HUOAUKEASTREET/4THFLOOR i ® TWITTER:
HONOLUUJ/HI96S13 i ^ laPRPHAWAIl
(Continued From Page 1)
visit Maui, particularly once the pandemic passes and pent-up demand for travel is unleashed. Limiting
construction of facilities where they can stay will shift their presence to residential neighborhoods that were
never intended for visitors.
Given the above, we respectfully request that this Council to defer this measure.
Maui County population demographic shifts
2010-2019
IBO.DOO
ISO.OOO
120.000
90,000
60.000
30,000
Populatfoc Hawali'bom US citizens bom elsewhere Foreign-bwn
■ 2010 12019
Sourt^: ^rtpi://d»Li.c»rmn.gov/
●HE ?>CWEa GF PARTNERSHIP
(Continued From Page 2)
Maui County population exodus by destination, place of birth
2010-2019
20(0 MiHiMia7,569
8.94520U
2012 6,058
Average annual oxodus
1,613
5,179
7,792
M S.529
5,644
2013
In-stato
Out-of-stato2014
Total2015
2016 7,275
2017 6,327
2018 5,514
2019 id 8,643
2,000 4,000 6,000 S.OOO 10,000 U,000
●  rountY - nattvc bcm ■ DiH»r*ni (OuntY - fnml(n b«rn < Different ftvTe ● rutivfl'bom - 0!H»i It ttat* ' fercifn bom
Exodus of Native Hawaiians, Other Pacific Islanders
2012-2019
1,800
1,645
2012-2019 average exodus
Different county 418
Different state 320
Total 738
1.600
1.100
1.200
1,052
1.000 883
761800 681
600
40/
100 312
161200
2012 2011 2011 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
■ Moved to different Hawaii courtty ■ Moved to different slate
THE POWER Of PARTNERSHIP
Kaanapali Land Management Corp.
275 l-ahninaluna Rond * l.ahaina, Maiii, HI 9676T  * (808) 661-9652 ● /; {808) 667-9658 * www.Kannapalil.and.com
I him'71111; oiir riHits.
Preserving our spirit.
GO
O
m
CPm m<r>December 2, 2021 ot
mUJ-<OO
Council Chair Alice Lee
Council of the County of Maui
Office of Council Services
200 South High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
mrn O
Subject: Council of the County of Maui Regular Meeting 12/03/2021
Testimony by Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp.
Re: Bill for an Ordinance Amending Section 2.SOB.070
West Maui faces many challenges, including a lack of affordable and market housing, and
limited infrastructure. We all want better, but how can we come together as a community to
effect positive change?
The basis of the Kaanapali 2020 community planning effort was to bring together community
members (anyone willing to participate), to share concerns and ideals, to educate, and to
collectively create a vision for Kaanapali to meet the needs of future generations.
This effort started over 20 years ago, and was revolutionary at its time, and remains so. Tm not
aware of any equal community-based planning effort.
I grew up visiting my grandparents in Honokowai in the 70’s and know well the changes to West
Maui over the years. Change is inevitable, it’s impossible to stop, but with proper planning can
be implemented in a manner that best serves the community. However, without proper planning,
change is likely to produce inadequate results. Proper planning would not place three schools in
an area accessed by a single road. Proper planning would allow for redundant roadways to
mitigate blockage from accidents or roadway work. Proper planning would facilitate much
needed infrastructure and encourage the creation of housing.
Whereas the proposed West Maui Community Plan is being created now with the intent of
providing guidance over the next 20 years, the Kaanapali 2020 master plan can evolve with
consideration of regional factors and community input. The current proposed West Maui
Community Plan places in serious jeopardy the Kaanapali 2020 master plan and viability of
community planning. Please reconsider the proposed plan, most specifically the approximate
100-acres of park and open space designation in Kaanapali Town South (the following exhibit
best represents the vision of the Kaanapali 2020 master plan).
/■
//
urcK
c^i.wri' iMo war
>^i£t
'  i - CBB W rUMiC P%«UC
CZD
««Uik Vovniom^pi
iMflM
MMmAk
fttc
r?y-H aoWAfMMai /'<rWtMT /●AtCMrUWT
14*
^ KAANAPALI 20a0 PROPO&CO
j COMMUMTY PLAN LAND U»E DCSICNAHONS
West Maui faces a lack of affordable and market housing and has limited infrastructure.
Creating a well thought out master plan is a valuable step towards positive change.
Sincerely,
Chad Fukunaga
Vice President
Kaanapali Land Management Corp.
DAVID Y. ICE
GOVERNOR
STATE OF HAWAII
WILLIAM J.AILA, JR
CHAIRMAN
HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION
JOSH GREEN
LT GOVER.NOR
STATE OF HAWAII
TYLER I. GOMES
DEPUTS' TO THE OlAIRMAN
STATE OF HAWAII
DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS
P O BOX 1S79
HONOLULU. HAWAII 96S05
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM J. AILA, JR. CHAIRMAN
HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION
BEFORE THE MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
MEETING ON DECEMBER 3, 2021 AT 9:00 AM
BILL NO. 141 (2021)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the County Council;
The Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL) submits testimony in strong
support of this bill.
The availability of water is one of the key barriers DHHL faces in the
development and delivery of homesteads across Hawai'i. By adding DHHL projects to
the list of projects that are exempt from the requirements of the Water Availability
ordinance (14.12.030, Maui County Code), you will empower the County and DHHL to
work cooperatively to provide much needed housing in the County. This will be a
meaningful step in helping DHHL and the County to faithfully implement the Hawaiian
Homes Commission Act, a Constitutional mandate and a condition of statehood.
DHHL supports the language that is before the Council that was passed at your
previous meeting. We would be happy to answer any questions.
Thank you for your consideration of our testimony.
Me ke aloha
o LU ii::oQ
UJ LU William J. Aila, Jr., Chairman
Hawaiian Homes Commissionu.Q- Oo>■CN lUI Ko Oz:
',1. 3LU t-U
c=»
01 oGoC=5
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 14.12.030, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, EXEMPTING DEVELOPMENT BY THE DEPARTMENT OF
HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS UNDER THE HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION ACT
FROM THE WATER AVAILABILITY POLICY
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI:
SECTION 1. The purpose of this Ordinance is to exempt development by
the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands under the Hawaiian Homes
Commission Act from the Water Availability Policy.
SECTION 2. Section 14.12.030, Maui County Code, is amended to read
as follows:
14.12.030 Esemptions. This chapter fshalll does not apply
to:
Building permits as described in chapter 18.28 [of this
code,] or other ministerial construction permits that do not require
new or additional water services;
Subdivisions that do not require water service, such as[,
but not limited to,] family subdivisions as defined in section
18.20.280 [of this code], consolidations and concurrent
re-subdivisions that do not create additional developable lots, road
widening lots, utility lots, or easements for access or utility
purposes;
A.
B.
Subdivisions that will not be regulated as a public water
system [pursuant to] under department of health rules, [provided]
except that this exemption [shall] does not apply to any subsequent
subdivision of any of the resulting parcels;
Infill development, [provided] except that this exemption
[shall] does not apply to any subsequent development or subdivision
of any resulting parcels;
C.
D.
Residential workforce housing units developed by a
qualified housing provider [pursuant to] under chapter 2.96 [of this
E.
code,] and are within the service area of the department's central or
west Maui water system;
Residential development projects with [one hundred]
100 percent affordable housing units and are within the service area
of the department's central or west Maui water system; [or]
Public or quasi-public development projects as defined
in section 19.04.040 [of this code] and related subdivisions that are
within the service area of the department’s central or west Maui
water svstemf.); or
F.
G.
Development bv the department of Hawaiian home
lands under the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, provided that
exemptions for industrial, business, hotel and resort, or other
commercial use projects designed and intended to generate
revenues as authorized bv the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act be
approved bv the council.”
H.
SECTION 3. Material to be repealed is bracketed. New material is
In printing this bill, the County Clerk need not include theunderscored.
brackets, the bracketed material, or the underscoring.
SECTION 4. This Ordinance takes effect upon its approval.
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY:
JENNIFER M.P.E. OANA.
Df*partmpnt nf the Corporatinn Cminspl
County of Maui
paf:kmat:21-349b
- 2 -
DIGEST
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO.__141_(2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 14.12.030, MAUI
COUNTY CODE. EXEMPTING DEVELOPMENT BY THE DEPARTMENT OF
HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS UNDER THE HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION ACT
FROM THE WATER AVAILABILITY POLICY
This bill proposes to amend Section 14.12.030, Maui County Code, exempting
development by Department of Hawaiian Home Lands from the Water Availability Policy.
I, KATHY L. KAOHU, County Clerk of the County of Maui, State of Hawaii, DO
HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing BILL NO. 141 (2021) was passed on First Reading
by the Council of the County of Maui, State of Hawaii, on the 19th day of November, 2021,
by the following vote:
Councilmembers Gabriel Johnson, Natalie A. Kama, Kelly T. King,
Michael J. Molina. Tamara A.M. Paitin, Shane M. Sinenci, Yuki Lei K.
Sugimura, Vice-Chair Keani N.W. Rawlins-Fernandez, and Chair
Alice L. Lee.
AYES:
NOES: None.
DATED at Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii, this 23rd of November, 2021.
KATHY L. KAOHU. COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
Copies of the foregoing Bill, in full, are on file in the Office of the County Clerk,
County of Maui, for use and examination by the public.
Aloha Councilmembers;
I know that you are at second reading of the moratorium Bill 148 ordinance. However, two issues have come
up with the ordinance wording.
#1. CC 21-543 asks you to approve what looks like  aminor change in 19.98.040 part F4. It would amend
the ordinance to allow previously granted housing credits to be utilized to meet the housing requirements for
additional transient accommodations.
These credits can be used by developers who are putting up market homes, but should NOT be used to
construct new tourist accommodations.
Rather than deleting the sentence that she wants deleted. I would keep that sentence AND add a sentence
with a slight modification. It will make everything very clear.
Allow both SGfltenCGS: 4. Housing credits may not be issued to or used by the developer to satisfy
the requirement of this subsection for any type of unit constructed. The new affordable housing units must
be physically constructed for the purposes of this section.********************************
#2. A second concern regards the very last paragraph (Section 2.) of this Bill 148 (2021) ordinance. The
wording could be much clearer. Here is the present version, followed by a suggested revision.
EXISTING
SECTION 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval, or
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received its final
discretionary approval prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.
SUGGESTED REVISION
SECTION 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, [
granting-of-any-applieation for-the-appreval-Gf-a  ]and applies to any new transient accommodation that has
not received its final discretionary approval prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.
ing, approvalrQP●ss
. Mahalo for all you do, Dick Mayer
808-283-4376
C' oo 1 1
C3c m rn mC->
Im w
OO i::I I =2£
rn -i m
oX m w
received
m\ DEC -2 PH J 33
MAUI
A WALDORF ASTORIA’ RESORT
December 2,2021
OFHCe OF THE
ty of Maui
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Council Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Council Vice-Chair
RE: BILL 148 - "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABUSHING CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI
COUNTY CODE. DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS
ON MAUI"
Hearing date and time: Friday, December 3,2021, at 9:00 a.m.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Honorable Councilmembers,
I am ■writing on behalf of Grand Wailea to comment on BiU 148, the proposed moratorium for new
visitor accommodations on Maui.
In October 2018, Grand Wailea began what has become a more than three-year review of a request
for permission to move forward with the resort’s first major renovation and expansion since it opened
30 years ago. The project includes 137 guest rooms, new pool amenities, expanded pool decks,
infrastructure upgrades, and other improvements to the iconic property.
Conversations with community members have guided the scope of Grand Wailea’s enhancement
plans. Since the review process began, there has been a significant reduction in the number of new
rooms being proposed, the chapel will be preserved, and a new fl oor of parking has been eliminated.
There has also been careful planning to minimize potential impact on cultural resources.
Grand Wailea is currently awaiting a Maui Planning Commission hearing where commissioners will
vote on the project’s fi nal discretionary approval.
Economist Paul Brewbaker estimates Grand Wailea’s enhancement plans would provide a significant
boost to Maui’s economy and tax base for four years during construction and continuing after the
expanded resort starts welcoming guests. 215 construction jobs wiU be created each year over four
years, generating $46 million in earnings and $7 million in new state taxes. 245 permanent tourism
jobs will be added on Maui, equating to $12 million in earnings per year and $2 million in state taxes.
These jobs will be in key areas, including management, food and beverage, accounting and at the
front desk.
The expansion will add $650,000 per year in property taxes paid to the County of Maui, amounting to
a 12.4% increase to the current $5.2 million. It will also increase Grand Wailea’s annual contributions
to more than $20 million in Transient Accommodations Tax revenue for the state.
On this Council’s referral of Bill 148 to the Maui Planning Commission, commissioners explicitly
noted the investment of time and resources that go into complex permitting and planning
applications to the County. In response, the Planning Commission voted to modify Section 2 to
exempt from the moratorium any projects that have “filed” applications with the County authority
that will determine the project’s final discretionary approval. ,
Before voting in favor of passage on the first reading, Councilmembers amended Section 2 to read:
Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing,
approval, or granting ofany application for the approval ofa new transient accommodation
that is properly filed with the Coim^ that has received its final discretionary approval prior
to the effective date.
In adopting the current version of Section 2, we understand it may have been the intent of
Councilmember’s to prevent what some fear will be  arush to file new permit applications on the eve
of the moratorium becoming law.
Grand Wailea respectfully asks Councilmembers to consider a minor but important change, as shown
below with inserted language underlined.
Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing,
approval, or granting ofany application for the approval ofa new transient accommodation
that has received from the Department of Planning  awritten notice ofapplication
completeness and acceptance, or received its final discretionary approval prior to the effective
date.
Councilmembers can rest assured, given the limited scope of the proposed change, such an
amendment will not result in a mass of new applications that will evade the moratorium. A review of
publicly available information about new visitor accommodations projects with complete applications
awaiting final discretionary approval appears to be limited to one: Grand Wailea’s enhancement
plans, which has been “complete” for more than two years and is in the final stage of its final
discretionary approval.
Please know that Grand Wailea is committed to achieving a sustainable tourism future where visitors
are redirected to the parts of the island where tourism was intended and envisioned by the Maui
Island Plan. The resort also stands ready to work together with the Council to minimize the impacts
of visitors through thoughtful planning and conservation efforts that will, likewise, maximize the
benefits of tourism for local communities and families.
Mahalo forWoiir^nsideration,
(
William Meheula, Esq.
Sullivan Meheula Lee
A Limited Liability Law Partnership
Counsel for Grand Wailea
Count^Clerk Riiori u¥  i
From:
Sent:
Tcroly <tcroly@maui.net>
Thursday, December 2, 2021 3:28 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for Bill148
?0Z{ DEC -2 PH 3- 41To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from tcroly@maui.net. Learn why this is important
Transient accommodations moratorium
Aloha Council members
I was disappointed to see that a fundamental change was made to Section 2 of the transient accommodation
moratorium at first reading that would result in the suspension of the processing of all current Short Term Rental Home
permit applications, some of which have been in the system for more than three years. I am hoping that you might
consider further amending this ordinance out of fairness to these permit applicants.
I would suggest an additional exemption be added to section 19.98.040 to read:
F. Any Short Term Rental Home permit application submitted prior to December 3. 2021.
When this moratorium was reviewed by the Maui Planning commission. Corporation Council made very clear that the
moratorium would not apply to permit applicants who had already submitted their applications. In their discussion and
comments, the Maui Planning Commission strongly supported this provision of the proposed moratorium ordinance.
Then, when the moratorium was discussed in Council committee, this provision, protecting current applicants,
remained. Then suddenly at first reading it was changed, without allowing the public or the administration to comment
on the affect of such a change.
When the amendment to Section 2 was proposed. Council member King asked if the Planning Director was available to
comment on how many permits were in process. I don't know what hotel, timeshare or condo permits are in process,
but I do know that the County's kiva system currently shows 16 STRH permits in process. One of these applications dates
back to 2017, five date back to 2018, one from 2019, one from 2020 and seven from 2021. While I don't expect that all
of the applications will be granted, it seems unfair to these applicants to suspend any further processing of their permit
applications for which they have already spent allot of money, time and effort in the process.
I asked the Planning Director how she intended to treat these open STRH applications with respect from the
moratorium. She said that she had expected to continue processing them, until last week's amendment to section 2. She
said that if that amendment stands, these applications would be suspended and no further processing would take place
until the moratorium had ended. So even if these applications did meet all the requirements, they still would not be
ready to grant at the end of the moratorium, because oniy then would the department's processing resume, it would
seem far better to allow the department to dispose of all of these applications by either granting or denying them and
only begin accepting any new applications after the moratorium would end.
In July, the Council reduced the caps that apply to STRH permits in each community plan district and reduced those caps
to the existing number of permits (or less) while allowing the applications that had been submitted by Juiy 1, 2021 to be
processed. Telling those same applicants, some of whom have been waiting many months for the department to even
begin processing their applications, that now, after accepting their application fees that they will have to wait an
additional two years to have their permit applications processed is just plain bad faith on the part of the County.
1
Council member Rawlins-Fernandez made a further amendment to the purpose of the moratorium to say that a cap on
all transient accommodations in each community plan district would need to be established to end the moratorium.
Similar to the caps already established for STRHs and B&Bs. It would seem that the Council has already done this for
STRHs and has included the current applications in those caps. That being the case, the question might be, why would
this moratorium apply to any STRH?
I respectfully ask that you amend the transient accommodation moratorium to add an exemption in 19.98.040 to
include:
F. Any Short Term Rental Home permit application submitted prior to December 3, 2021.
Tom Croly
submitted on my own behalf
2
Count^£lerk
Kai Nishiki <kai.nishiki@gmail.com>
Friday, December 3, 2021 11:12 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Tasha A. Kama; Yukilei Sugimura; Mike J. Molina; Kelly King;
Keani N. Rawlins; Shane M. Sinenci; Gabe Johnson; Tamara A. Paltin
CC21 -542 West Maui CP- K2020 map submittal
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Good morning Chair and Council members,
I'd like to provide this map that Ka'anapali Land Mgt Co/K2020 originally handed out to the CPAC and our community
with Ka'anapali Town South proposed with Resort/Hotel(brown) and Urban Center/Corridor(Red) with the highest
density in this area. They later changed their maps, perhaps realizing this proposal would never be approved.
Mahalo,
Kai
OQ
O-.i CDC “n \T\m
2:0H
<r>
oIm UJ
Oo n
mm -H
73 X
rn O
CO
1
KLMC Company Invoivtmont"West Maui Community Plan ● MauI Cullurjl Lands pMtnerkhip
2 ● Expansion * Ka'anapali Subarea ● Natur«ConMivancvpattner»l
(1.»7
Fo( nw« inlwmation, ptvav (onuct
Cfvid fu‘ ■
Haar-i>04t> uml < «p
Pn
S ^rrsjt* Hi'
«-M AAfiUnif i««r»%at^4uA s* M
CountyCleH<
From:
Sent:
Jeff and Sue Anderson <smander@pacbell.net>
Sunday, November 28, 2021 10:41 AM
County Clerk
County Council Testimony re First Reading of A BILL TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST
MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from smander@pacbell.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha Councilmembers,
This testimony is regarding the 12/3/2021 agenda item for the First Reading of A BILL TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST
MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN. Note that there doesn't appear to be a bill identifier in the agenda.
I want to say a big THANK YOU to the folks who participated in creating the new West Maui Plan, especially the
volunteer CPAC committee members. I sat in on a few of their many long meetings they held over literally years. The
committee put in lot of work and the plan is quite an accomplishment. I admire their passion and commitment to
reviewing every aspect and to upholding key values that should serve us well in the future. The plan's focus on avoiding
sprawl by locating new development near existing infrastructure, employment and services is great. I'm especially fond
of the new "Areas of Stability".
You will likely get lots of feedback spurred on by self-interested groups and individuals suggesting last minute
changes. Please resist the urge to make any big changes to the plan. Making big changes would shift the plan from a
community crafted and supported effort to one built and owned by the County Council, it would devalue many
thousand hours of effort, much of it by unpaid volunteers, to get the plan to this point. Overriding the plan would also
discourage community members from participating in similar future efforts.
Please approve the West Maui Community Plan as-is or with minimal changes.
Jeff Anderson, Lahaina
OC
O-Ti :x)C ~ CD
z;oH Orom
oo ~n
mn ●o
a^ -i-
CO
1
Count^£lerk
From:
Sent:
Elle Cochran <cochranelleOO@gmail.com>
Thursday, December 2, 2021 11:58 PM
County Clerk
Fwd; Bill(2021) First Reading
To:
Subject:
oc TO0"n CDC“t; m-— Forwarded message
From: Elle Cochran <cochranelleOO(a)gmail.com>
Date: Thu, 2 Dec 2021 at 23:51
Subject: Fwd: Bill(2021) First Reading
To: County Clerk <countv.clerk@mauicountv.us>
Cc: Elle Cochran <cochranelleOO(S)gmail.com>
n^.OH OIm -nw<
OO a-n
mm --i
73 X
7^ m Oj=
->vj
Aloha Council Chair Lee and Coincilmembers,
I continue to be in favor of keeping the Ka'anapali 2020 Plan In its entirety. Just as it has been kept in, all through the
General Plan Advisory Committee (GPAC), the General Plan (GP) and the Maui Island Plan (MIP) processes. This has been
a Prime example of Consistency which needs to be upheld.
I really believe the Ka'anapali 2020 has been ahead of its time. The Plan continues to be Relevant today as It addresses
Today's Real-Time Issues of our Kupuna, young adults and local housing needs. Members do the right thing by taking this
opportunity to address the longstanding issues of our West Maui community.
Members,perhaps try to think of a new title for the Plan in your open mind as the name seems to trigger resentments of
the Past and taints the Plan with negative thoughts. Look at it through a fresh set of eyes through the eyes of our
Kupuna and Youth. The Pandemic has taught us now more than ever that we are in dire need of Medical facilities in
West Maui. With the West Maui Hospital, Medical Center and Wellness Center moving forward within the K2020 Plan,
housing for Skilled Nurses, Doctors, wellness professionals, etc. will be in demand along with current needs. It's a
Wonderful tthing that surrounding these complexes in the Plan are set to have Multi-family and Single-family homes
which could build a medical community to enhance all of our Quality of Life.
As a whole the entire plan addresses Sea Level Rise (SLR) and is the Best answer to our Managed Retreat issues well into
the future just by the sheer location being Way Mauka of the ocean and Honoapi'ilani Highway. When our population of
local families, workforce housing, jobs/businesses,churches, community centers, need to move inland or upland from
SLR it's this Project that will answer these needs. In particular, the Ka'anapali South portion directly Mauka of Hanakao'o
Beach Park, the Burials there and Wahikuli Wayside Park. Should the Canoe Hales, Picnic Tables/Benches, BBQ Pits,
Lifeguard Towers, bathrooms, etc. be threatened by SLR then the Ka'anapali South has a prime 10 acre parcel slated for
Park to assist with these threats.This 10 acre park parcel also creates a nice green viewplane corridor when looking
Mauka from Hanakao'o. K2020's most Northern portion has a huge section for a Memorial Park where the Burials at
Hanakao'o could be nicely reinterred with views. Think about it. West Maui has no where for our Veterans to be buried
or a place for West Mauians to be buried in their Hometown if not affiliated with a Churches private graveyard.
K2020's internal infrastructure not only beautifully ties its entire project together for a Walkable/Bikeable Community
but also helps to create needed connectivity with the Northern portion of The Bypass along with the Bypass Extension to
Hwy.30 and surrounding landowners like Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL), Department of Land and Natural
Resource (DLNR) and Hawaii Housing Finance & Deveiopment Corporation (HHFDC) to the South. Ka'anapali Land
Management Co.(KLMC) has already paid $3M into the Bypass. Their interior North-South roadway would work
1
as a parallel alternate route to the existing Hwy 30 when fires, accidents, road work, downed power lines, floods, SLR,
etc. occur. This Project can be part of the solution to utilizing the R1 Water being injected By the West Maui Treatment
Facility next door.
The majority of K2020's build out will be Low-Med Affordable Multi-family and Single Family Homes which are
desperately needed . We are at THE Worst Crisis Level for affordable homes and rentals for our people who want to
continue to call West Maui their home and others who want to be able to move closer to their jobs located
in West Maui!
Members, DO the Right Thing and take this Once In  ALifetime opportunity to support a Project that will answer our
ongoing communities woes for affordable housing, for professional careers, to being business friendly, to perpetuating
our Culture, to have a Bus/Transportation Center and to create an actual Smart Growth/Walkable/Bikeable Award
Winning Community which would set an example for others to follow.
It's amazing that there is a wide acceptance by All the Neighborhoods most directly affected by the build out of this
Project since there has not been a single Anti K2020 sentiment by anyone ever since its inception!
In closing, I believe that I captured a good cross section of supportive signatures from our diverse community voice on
the K2020 Petition. The Signatures on my Petitions came from Generational Families of West Maui, our Kupuna, our
Young Adults, local workforce, parents, Kama'aina who want to come home, entrepreneurs, etc. The West Maui
community needs you more than ever to make their Dreams Come True by Supporting to keep the K2020 Plan in its
entirety!
Mahalo for your time and consideration,
Elle Cochran
2
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Amber C. <ambercoontz@gmail.com>
Wednesday, December 1, 2021 11:28 PM
County Clerk
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from ambercoont2@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Councilmembers,
I'm writing testimony in SUPPORT of BILL 148, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI.
Over-tourism and overdevelopment in Maui County are responsible for Maui's housing shortage for full-time residents.
Residents can't find long-term rentals because owners prefer to earn short-term rental income legally and illegally from
transient accommodation. Residents can’t afford to buy homes because over-tourism and overdevelopment have
inflated land and housing prices in Maui County.
Maui County has a shortage of teachers, doctors/nurses/healthcare workers, and skilled trades people due to the high
cost and low availability of housing. The housing shortage has also contributed to hospitality/tourism worker shortages
in the last several years.
Maui County doesn’t need more jobs, despite the disingenuous claims made by tourism and real estate development
lobbyists. Maui County needs to create more housing options by incentivizing home owners to rent to long-term
residents that can fill the current worker shortages in essential sectors like healthcare, skilled trades, and education.
Building new transient accommodation will not solve the housing shortage and will not provide residents with high
wage, full-time employment. Union construction workers should be retrained to update Maui's outdated and
overburdened infrastructure. Roads, sewage treatment, coastal erosion, outdated electric and internet infrastructure,
medical facilities, and public schools are all in dire need of repair to support the existing resident and tourist
populations. How can a state that hosts 10 million visitors per year be in such a state of disrepair? How is building more
transient accommodation going to fix the housing shortage and infrastructure that's already overburdened by too many
visitors?
How is building more transient accommodation going to stop rampant illegal commercial activities operating with
impunity at county and state beaches, harbors, and near shore waters? County and state agencies already claim they
can't keep up with enforcing existing laws for commercial activities on public land. How will more tourists and more
tourist accommodation fix this problem?
Maui’s median household income is approximately $80,000 per year. Half of Maui's households earn $80,000 or less
while the median home price is almost $1 million. One bedroom apartment rentals are $l,800-$2,500 per month, not
including utilities. The residents who work in hospitality jobs for $20-25 per hour can't afford to pay rent and pay for
essential needs like clothes, food, transportation, and medical care. Tourism is not creating high-paying employment and
Maui can't build it’s way out of this mess.
There are already too many visitors here for limited land and resources. On any given day, there are approximately
50,000-75,000 tourists on Maui in addition to the resident population of approximately 160,000. Maui has a finite
amount of natural resources, land, and infrastructure to support the existing over-tourism numbers. Why would Maui
1
need to build more transient accommodation when the County Charter clearly states visitor numbers should not exceed
approximately 30% of the resident population?
Visitors should be staying in the existing hotels and resorts and legal, short-term vacation rentals. There is absolutely no
need for additional transient accommodation in Maui County. State and county agencies already cannot enforce existing
tax and zoning laws for transient accommodation violations. How is building more accommodation and bringing more
visitors going to solve this problem?
Stop building, stop new developments, and stop bringing more visitors. Maui County must raise taxes on existing
transient accommodation, provide tax incentives for owners of long-term rentals, and create training and recruitment
programs for residents to fill job vacancies in essential sectors. Residents with full-time employment in education,
healthcare, skilled trades, and other professional jobs can contribute to Maui's tax base and island economy. More
development from out of state and foreign corporations that exploit tax loopholes will not solve Maui's over-tourism
issues. More low-wage service jobs will not solve Maui's over-tourism issues. Doubling down on a failed strategy is not
the answer. \Ne don't need even more of something that isn't working in the first place. The status quo is failing Hawaii
residents and enriching exploitative industries that profit off of local residents and Maui's natural resources. Please pass
Bill 148 to show Maui residents you support effective and meaningful policies to limit the current over-tourism levels
that are not economically or environmentally sustainable.
Mahalo,
Amber Coontz
Lahaina, 96761
OQ
O TO11
aC
^.OH
m
oIm m-< ts>
ooTl
mm -I
X- D7^ m
2
^cCEiVED
M OEC ~ I
office of rua
OUNTY CLERK
12= 5
C
December 1, 2021
3RE: Bill 148
Moratorium on Transient Accommodations
Aloha Maui County Council Members:
I am writing this letter in support of the proposed moratorium on visitor accommodations on Maui. This
moratorium is a crucial step toward remediating the current unregulated over-tourism we are seeing
here.
The Maui Island Plan suggests limiting the number of visitors to approximately 1/3 the number of
residents in order to preserve our environment, infrastructure, and quality of life for residents-all of
which would improve the visitor experience as well.
The year 2019 was already a year of uncontrolled growth, fueled by the tourism industry. Promises
were made by leaders during the early part of the pandemic to improve on the tourism experience for
both visitors and residents. Residents were promised that the goal would be to decrease the number of
tourists while protecting the islands. Since October of 2020, those promises have been completely
forgotten by our leaders, who proudly announce that the goal of reaching 2019 numbers has been met
and now exceeded.
The current volume of tourists we were seeing pre-pandemic and now, in 2021, during the pandemic, is
a threat to the health, safety and quality of life of the residents of Maui, our environment and wildlife.
Our island resources are very limited. Our inadequate sewage treatment, water, and landfills are not
meant for this level of use. We just finished months of a of a severe water shortage, yet only Upcountry
residents were affected, not tourists. While my family's yard dried up and died due to not watering it,
the hotels are literally sucking up water as if there is no restriction. While sewage is discharged into our
oceans, tourists are overcrowding our beaches and cruelly abusing our wildlife (1 am thinking about
honu and dolphins right now). Our fishing industry is endangered by the abuse the ocean environment is
experiencing.
On Maui, tourists do not stay in the tourist areas, but drive all over the island, causing huge traffic
congestion—and this is despite the rental car shortage. Tourists don't even think twice about using up
resources meant for residents, such as UHauls! I have seen horrific pictures of the road to Hana being
blocked by tourists who choose to park on the road, blocking traffic, because of lack of parking.
Residents are literally being told that we do not count and that the tourism industry is all-powerful. Our
mayor has not showed any support of controlling tourism, including vetoing the last proposed
moratorium for south and west Maui and vetoing the affordable housing bill. He goes out of his way to
please the big money brought in by the tourism industry and mainland investors. He has made it clear
that residents are second class citizens to tourists. It is the responsibility of government officials to
ensure that there is adequate affordable housing for those who are essential to making our community
work (health care professionals, teachers, police, social workers, restaurant workers, grocery/retail
workers and yes, workers in tourism), not to incentivize nonresidents' profiting off tourism.
Residents here sacrifice a great deal financially to live here and deserve to be able to enjoy the beaches,
hikes and parks. Instead, there is no room for residents on any of these. The majority of residents here
do not depend at all on the tourist industry—yet all of us are made to sacrifice for it. For me, it is about
more than a financial sacrifice, as this is not only my birthplace but also that of my ancestors.
Hardworking residents are trying not to chased out by greedy leaders who put short-term profit first.
Our economy needs to be diversified. Our children need to be taught skills that will help them to
succeed in society, rather than just to serve tourists. We need a moratorium on future visitor
accommodations while solutions can be implemented, including leadership that supports resident lives
over the tourism industry.
I appreciate the members of the Maui County Council greatly. With few exceptions, you are the leaders
who put residents and the 'aina first.
Mahalo Piha,
Kal tiupokvte
Kai Duponte, MSW
RPr.riVED
im NOV 29 W 9^8
OPFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Count^OeHc
From:
Sent:
suzette montalvo <sumontalvo296@gmail.com>
Friday, November 19, 2021 2:05 PM
County Clerk
Section 2.80B.070
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from sumontalvo296(S)gmaiI.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentificatlon.]
Aloha Chair Lee and Councilmembers,
My name is Suzette Felicilda a multi-generation member of Mala, Lahaina. 1 have attended many council meetings on
this subject and I support to adopt the updated West Maui Community Plan. I've seen growth over many years here in
Lahaina and the entire West Maui. I agree we need to lay down the foundations and I do wish to give our future
generations opportunities to decide the growth of West Maui. We need our future generations to have options. If we
take everything at this moment, where is their room for their growth. Thank you for your time.
Suzette Felicilda
Kanaka Maoli
Mala, Lahaina
Sent from my iPhone
1
Countj^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Gordon Firestein <gfirestein(a)seapact.com>
Monday, November 29, 2021 10:57 AM
County Clerk
West Maui Community Plan
OCTo: O-r, Z)Subject: CO r-rz\ » I
ONOm
O[You don't often get email from gfirestein@seapact.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
O
m H 11
.m OoAloha, Councilmembers, w
I am delighted that the West Maui Community Plan is before you now for final approval.
This represents the culmination of countless hours of community meetings and official hearings. I participated in some
of them, but the CPAC members attended all of them! What a fantastic contribution to the community. I am confident
the plan represents the desires of the vast majority of West Maui residents, especially when it comes to the challenging
issues of where to locate affordable housing and which areas should be protected from future development.
You can be sure that adopting the plan as presented is the right thing to do.
Sincerely,
Gordon Firestein
Launiupoko
1
County Clerk
n!:c:,K'gb
DEC -3 AH 7-- 47
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Tom Fox <tomfoxlaw@gmail.com>
Thursday, December 2, 2021 5:22 PM
County Clerk
My Testimony for Bill No. 148
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from tomfoxlaw@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Hello County Clerk,
I would appreciate it if you would please include the following as testimony for tomorrow's hearing on Bill No. 148.1
have sent this testimony to each of the council members, individually. Thank you, Tom Fox
I own a small home in Launiopoko and have had a short-term rental application pending for 6 months. I
understand that bill 148 would place moratorium on all new transient accommodations including those with already
submitted applications. 1 can't weigh in on the politics of this issue because I simply don't know anything about that. I
can only address why I made the decision to apply for one myself.
I was born in Honolulu in the mid 1950's when my father was in the US Navy and stationed at Barber's Point. My
parents, being midwestern farm folks, immediately fell in love with Hawaii and left reluctantly. They vowed that when
they could, they would move back, and when they both retired, they did just that.
They first bought a condominium in Puamana, but in 2001, the purchased a lot and built a home in Launiopoko.
Shortly after they bought their lot, I purchased one as well. They lived there for about 10 years before selling their Maui
home and moving back to the mainland due to health concerns in 2011.
After they moved, for a couple of years, I would bring them back for their respective birthdays, renting a
condominium, usually at the Puamana and would notice that when they were in Maui, they would seem ten years
younger. You couldn't wipe the smile of off their faces and they walked straighter and quicker.
That prompted me to build my small house on my property. It is intended to be my retirement home, and for my
parent's frequent use, as long as they were able. While it was being built, 1 would travel over every third week, for 5-7
days at a time. My home was finished about 8 years ago, in 2013. I take great pride in it, so it wasn't an easy decision to
decide to apply for the short-term rental application. My lot, being in an agriculture-zoned subdivision meant I needed
to farm. And as a result I have put in a large fruit orchard and palm nursery and hire a host of workers to care for the
orchard.
Pre-pandemic, mom and dad would use my place, 3-4 time a year for 3-4 weeks at a time. I too would get over
every other month. Since the pandemic, for a variety of reasons, that has changed. Dad's health has deteriorated
significantly, so they haven't been back for a couple of years, but i do hope to get them back this Christmas.
I don't know what the future will bring. I want to spend as much time with my parents as I can, so my trips to
Maui are less and less. Time will tell when I will be able to move over. In the interim, the cost of maintaining 2 homes,
one of which is 2,500 miles away, is problematic.
I recognize how lucky that I am to have my Maui home. I truly do. When I look around and see the homeless
people here in Los Angeles, I count my blessings.  Iunderstand that there is now a visible homeless population on Maui
as well, and that breaks my heart.
1
1 recognize the need on Maui for more affordable housing, though I understand that the homelessness and the
lack of affordable housing might be separate issues, but I've got to believe that they are somehow interrelated. But,
again, I haven't studied it enough to know the solution.
I'm uncertain on the reason why there is a movement to put a moratorium on short term rental permits, but my
small home and orchard are not the solution to it.
I can only address the issue as it relates to my application, which is, that if my application isn't eventually approved, it
will mean that I won't be able to offset my mounting costs, but it also won't mean that I will be renting it out for a long
term rental. 1 want/need to maintain the flexibility of getting over to the island that I love, as often as I can, hoping that
Mom & Dad can squeeze a few more trips into their lives. Once I can no longer be of use to them. I'll move over
permanently to tend to my farm.
All of this is background for my requesting that, if you think it's necessary to put in a moratorium on transient
accommodations, I ask that you consider allowing the applications, such as mine, that are already in the pipeline, to go
through the process that they have already initiated.
Respectfully,
Tom Fox
Thank you for including this testimony.
Tom Fox
Law Office of Thomas L Fox ARC
16133 Ventura Blvd., Suite 1200
Encino, CA 91436
Phone: (818) 995-4074
Fax: (818) 995-1213'
www.tomfoxlaw.com
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail and any attachments are for the exclusive and confidential use of the intended recipient. If
you received this in error, please do not read, distribute, or take action in reliance upon this message. Instead, please notify
us immediately by return e-mail and promptly delete this message and its attachments from your computer system. We do not waive
attorney-client or work product privilege by the transmission of this message.
2
received
/8ZI OEC -2 PH £|: 28
■ ■ ■
■ ■ ■
■ ■ ■
December 3, 2021 HAWAII HOTEL
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair ' C U N T P ^ ^
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez,Vice-
Members of the Maui County Council
Opposition to BUI 148 ("A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON
NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI")
Hearing date: Friday, December 3, 2021 at 9:00AM
RE:
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Femandez and members of the Maui County Council,
My name is Jerry Gibson, President of Hawai'i Hotel Alliance ("HHA"). I am testifying
in STRONG OPPOSITION to a moratorium on building permits for hotel development, as
described in Bill 148 regarding a bill for an ordinance establishing Chapter 19.98, Maui County
Code, declaring a moratorium on new transient accommodations on Maui. Bill 148 seeks to
create an island wide moratorium which prohibits the issuance of any permit under Title 19 for
two (2) years.
The purpose of Bill 148 is to establish a moratorium to reduce the number of visitors to
comply with visitor to resident ratio specified in Chapter 2.SOB of the Maui Island Plan by pausing
the increase of transient accommodations. However, there is no evidence which indicates that
pausing the development of transient accommodations will decrease the number of visitors to
Maui. Bill 148 will not stop visitors from flying to Maui. Rather, visitors will continue to travel to
Maui and will seek out other accommodations even though transient accommodations are limited.
It is concerning that such a broad and inflexible policy would be implemented without first
showing transient accommodations as the primary cause of these negative impacts.
In turn, the volume of visitors will stay in accommodations such as the increasing number
short-term vacation rentals ("STR"), which are the fastest-growing segment within Maui's visitor
accommodations industry. These STRs burden residential neighborhoods and long-term apartment
inventory on Maui and directly impact the quality of life for Maui residents. The data shows that
the number of hotel rooms on Maui has decreased by 16% from 8,577 in 2000 to 7,251 in 2020,
however, the average number of visitors arriving on Maui per day rose by 25% from 2000 to 2015.
Thus, it is clear that the increase in visitors to Maui is directly correlated to the growing number
of STRs. The moratorium fails to address the illegal STRs that continue to permeate residential
neighborhoods on Maui. If the purpose of the bill is to ultimately decrease the visitor count,
perhaps further regulation is needed on the number of illegal short-term vacation rental units that
are allowed.
Moreover, Section 2 as currently drafted is grossly unfair to existing projects undergoing
permit application review. Under the new Section  2language the moratorium will be applicable to
permits currently being reviewed that have not received their final discretionary approval.
Essentially, applications that have already expended a substantial amount of recourses and time
will be halted in the current step of the application review process once the moratorium is passed.
It is clear, the amended Section 2 is patently unfair to applicants that have properly filed and
applied for a permit prior to the implementation of the moratorium. In addition, Section 2 as
currently drafted undermines the Planning Commission's recommendation that the moratorium not
impact current permit applications. Accordingly, if Bill 148 is to be passed, HHA respectfully
requests the following amendment of Section 2 of Bill 148:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the
processing, approval, or granting of any application for the approval of a new
transient accommodation that has received from the Department of Planning a
written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its final
discretionary approval prior to the effective date.”
The proposed amendment would allow projects with applications deemed complete and awaiting
final review to be exempt from the moratorium and will permit said projects to move forward if
ultimately approved.
Furthermore, this measure will result in substantial negative economic impacts for Maui
County. The visitor accommodations industry provides employment to thousands of Maui
residents which make up approximately 75% of all private-sector jobs on Maui. Bill 148 will result
in the loss of much-needed employment opportunities for local Maui residents who work in
construction, tourism, and other related industries. In fact, if such a moratorium is implemented,
there will be a loss of hundreds of construction jobs and hundreds more hotel jobs during the two-
year period alone. For example, the proposed renovation of the Grand Wailea which will be paused
by the moratorium will result in the loss of:
1. 215 construction jobs that will be created each year over four years, which generate
$46 million in earnings and $7 million in new state taxes.
245 additional permanent tourism jobs on Maui, equating to $12 million in
earnings per year and $2 million in state taxes. These jobs will be in key areas,
including management, food and beverage, accounting and at the front desk.
2.
3. An additional $650,000 per year in property taxes paid to the County of Maui -
amounting to a 12.4% increase to the current $5.2 million.
Increased annual contributions from Grand Wailea to the newly established County
Transient Accommodations Tax and more than $20 million in Transient
Accommodations Tax revenue for the state.
4.
The loss of new jobs and economic impact will be far more substantial with the prevention
of future transient accommodations. In turn the moratorium will contribute more to the outward
migration of local families.
Lastly, Bill 148 will discourage future capital investment in Maui. It is concerning that the
County would seek to implement policy that would deter future investment in Maui as the County
continues to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. With the passage of Bill 148 the County will
risk forgoing substantial amounts of future investments, tax revenues and job creation for Maui’s
economy moving forward.
On balance, the unintended consequences, including the negative impact on our economy,
far outweigh any potential, yet unsubstantiated reduction in the number of visitors this moratorium
will cause. Indeed, there are far more.effective ways to reduce the amount of visitors on Maui
without such a far reaching measure. Accordingly, HHA respectfully asks the Council to defer
Bill 148 or alternatively pass Bill 148 with the proposed amendment to Section 2.
Mahalo for your consideration,
Jerry Gibson, President
Hawaii Hotel Association
Testimony for Maui County Council
Meeting of December 3, 2021
Aloha, Committee members.
My name is Sarah Hofstadter. I am a full-time, permanent resident of Kihei and a steering team
member of the HALE Hawaii community group. 1 am writing to express my strong support for the
proposed visitor accommodations moratorium (Agenda Item M.2, Bill No. 148).
It is no secret that Maui County residents, especially on the island of Maui, are increasingly voicing
strenuous objections to the uncontrolled growth of tourism. One down side of our excessive economic
reliance on tourism was evident during the height of the pandemic, when so many residents were
financially devastated. As long as our economy is so tightly tied to tourism, any major disruption to
the global economy in the future wiU have the same effect.
And now that visitors are back, the contrast between current conditions and the relative peace and
quiet we enjoyed when we were “closed” has thrown into sharp relief the other down sides of
overtourism: traffic, overcrowding, food shortages, overuse of our natural resources, abuse of
wildlife, and an excessive number of expensive rescue operations attributable to poor judgment and
disregard of warnings by visitors.
Enough is enough. Maui residents are getting fed up with the double standard that allows crowds of
visitors to degrade our quality of life, while resident-oriented recreational facilities and gatherings
are still subject to closures and limitations. We are facing severe drought conditions; farmers are
fighting over water rights and Upcountry residents are letting their gardens die to conserve water,
yet our resort areas are green and lush. We have  alooming problem with adequate sewage
processing facilities, and other aspects of our island infrastructure are seriously in need of repair;
visitors add to these problems, but do nothing to help solve them. We are in desperate need of
affordable housing, yet we continue to commit an excess share of our construction resources to
visitor accommodations and luxury second homes for rich mainlanders.
The Maui Island Plan, which was adopted in 2012 and is supposed to have the force and effect of
law, specifies in section 4.2.3.a that we are to “Promote a desirable island population by striving to
not exceed an island-wide visitor population of roughly 33 percent of the resident population.” That
provision has NEVER been enforced. Now is the time to start. Let’s not wait until a cherished
kupuna in East Maui dies unnecessarily because visitor traffic on the road to Hana made it
impossible for an ambulance to get through in time.
Of course, neither Maui County nor the State of Hawai'i has the legal authority to directly control
the number of visitors who come here. Thus, the ONLY legal tool we have to regulate tourist
numbers is our ability to limit the accommodations available to them. If visitors cannot
book lodgings, they will not come, and reducing visitor demand is the only way we have to influence
the number of incoming flights. As the detailed discussion below clearly illustrates, we already
have MORE than enough hotel rooms and vacation condos to house the number of
visitors Maui’s infrastructure can properly handle, and MORE than enough to house a
number of visitors equal to 33% of our resident population. Building yet more capacity would
only add to our existing problems.
Maui County Council, 12/3/21
Hofstadter Testimony on Bill 148, page 1
The population of the County of Maui is just over 168,000. ('httns://\vorldnoDuIationreview.com/us-
counties/hi/maui-CQuntv-DOPulation') That means that under the one-visitor-to-three-residents ratio,
our daily visitor count should not exceed about 56,000 per day. Yet in July 2021, we had an average
daily visitor census of 76,195 — some 20,000 more visitors than called for under the Maui County
Plan, (https://www.hawaiitourismauthority.org/media/7924/july-2021-visitor-statistics-press-
release.pdf) Obviously, we already have more visitors than we want, and more importantly, more
than our island’s infrastructure and carrying capacity can handle.
Moreover, we already have approximately 21,400 visitor accommodations units on Maui, each of
which will presumably house from two to four people. (See illustration below, from
https://www.hawaiitourismauthoritv.org/media/8208/202-visitor-nlant-inventorv-report-l-ll.ndf.')
Assuming an average occupancy of three visitors per unit, we already have enough rooms to handle
64,000 visitors — 8,000 more than called for by the Maui County Plan. And that figure does not
include two developments in Kihei which will not be affected by the moratorium — the Maui Bay
Villas by Hilton Grand Vacations timeshare on the former Maui Lu site, and the expansion of the
Maui Coast Hotel.
It is worth noting that even at the 2021 peak of visitor numbers in July, Maui hotels had an
occupancy rate of less than 82 percent, ('https://mauinow.eom/2021/08/23/occupancv-at-81-7-for-
maui-countv-hotels-in-iulv-202lA In other words, our existing hotel rooms are not full.
The opposition to the proposed moratorium has been groundless and deceptive. Why do the hotels
need to expand, when they are not operating at full capacity now, and even more visitor
accommodations are already set to open before the proposed moratorium could take effect? If the
visitor lodging industry really needs more revenue, they can raise rates instead. As for construction
workers, if they need jobs, they can get them from building affordable housing for residents,
including their own ohanas and friends, instead of additionaPexpanded visitor accommodations.
Construction union opposition to the moratorium bills is very short-sighted and narrow-minded, and
does not reflect a commitment to the long-term well-being of the workers and their community.
The tourism pause necessitated by the pandemic gave us the perspective to see that we MUST
diversify our economy, both to insulate it against future emergencies and to preserve residents’
quality of life, as well as Maui’s infrastructure and ecosystems. Let’s not waste the present
opportunity to build on that insight with actual policy changes. Let’s not succumb to the pressure
for tourism growth, when what we need is better tourism management. Let’s not build any more
of what we have too much of already. Instead, let’s focus Maui’s workforce and investment
resources on the things we really NEED and DON’T have: affordable housing, updated
infrastructure, more local food production, and a better future for our keiki, with good-paying jobs
that enable them to stay on island.
Mahalo nui for your attention. - Sarah Hofstadter, Kihei resident and HALE Hawai’i Steering Team
member
\T\
o uip-
lU 4:0O >-
...i liJv-
o-zniou- O
OO
\ Maui County Council, 12/3/21
Hofstadter Testimony on Bill 148, page 2
C CJ
LU UJ
C=k
cc
LOCAL M HI. lUBAC
International Union of Bricklayers and
Allied Craftworkers Local #1 of Hawaii
2251 North School Street, Honolulu, HI 96819
Phone: (808) 841-8822 ● Fax; (808) 777-3456
OO
o "nC
50“i m
73oDecember 3, 2021 mmc~>
oI
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The Honorable Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
200 South High Street, Eighth Floor
Wailuku. Hawai‘1 96793
mto-<
OO ~n 3:
m
7: m
O\jy
Statement of Local 1 in Strong Opposition to Bill 148
Moratorium on New Transient Accommodations on Maui
Dear Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members:
The International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Crafts, Local 1, writes to strongly oppose Bill 148,
which proposes a moratorium on new transient accommodations on Maui.
Our members would be dramatically and detrimentally affected by the proposed moratorium. Due to
the discerning nature of Maui’s visitors, hotel construction and renovations typically involve a
substantial amount of high-quality, high-finish stone, marble, terrazzo, and tile work - the type of
work that our well-equipped contractors and well-trained members perform. Hotel construction and
renovation work provides our members with living wage jobs so they can support their families on
Maui County.
If the proposed moratorium were to pass, our members and contractors would find it nearly
impossible to find stable and economically-sustaining work opportunities in Maui County. While the
moratorium purports to only be in effect for a few years, if our Maui members are forced to move
way from the island, it will be much more difficult for them to return home afterwards even if hotel
construction were to be permitted again. If local contractors close up shop and are unable to open
back up after the moratorium expires, the void will be filled by mainland contractors which would
further harm the local economy.
With the tourism industry in a tenuous position due to the COVID-I9 pandemic and with an
uncertain future ahead for the local construction industry due to the state of the global economy, we
are extremely concerned by this proposal. Thus, we must resnectfullv urge the Council to reject
this very problematic moratorium nronosal.
However, if the Council decides to proceed forward on this problematic proposal, we would
request that language be added to address projects which have already submitted completed
applications to be allowed to proceed. For projects which have submitted applications, in many
cases, our contractors have at that point already provided pricing information and assessed manpower
requirements. Prohibiting projects with completed applications from moving forward would be an
even more difficult blow for our membership, many of whom have been waiting for job opportunities
so they can provide for their families.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify on this matter.
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Kaaz <rbjykz@gmail.com>
Wednesday, December 1, 2021 1:24 PM
County Clerk; Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Tasha A. Kama; Alice L Lee; Yukilei
Sugimura; Kelly King; Keani N. Rawlins; Gabe Johnson
Moratorium on Transient Accommodations, Bill 148
To:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from rbjykz@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council Members:
We are writing this letter in support of the proposed moratorium on transient visitor accommodations on Maui.
We support this moratorium as an initial step toward remediating the current unregulated over-tourism we are
experiencing on Maui.
in accordance with the Maui County Plan, the goal for visitors to Maui has been to limit the number of visitors to
approximately 1/3 the number of residents in order to preserve our environment, infrastructure, quality of life and all
that makes Maui such a beautiful and popular tourist destination.
The current volume of tourists we were seeing pre-pandemic and now, in 2021, during the pandemic, is a threat to the
health, safety and quality of life of the residents of Maui, our environment and wildlife.
These huge numbers of tourists are consuming and using scarce resources with few restrictions and controls. Maui's
sewage treatment injection wells are Inadequate to properly treat the sewage produced by our residents, let alone
thousands of tourists. This results in inadequately treated sewage discharging into our oceans, killing coral, infecting
people and ocean life, alike.
Due to climate change and global warming, Maui is experiencing a major drought that is predicted to get worse, not
better. Tourists not only consume water, but the resorts and hotels and golf courses consume massive amounts of water
in a wasteful manner to maintain the illusion of  agreen and lush Maui in areas that have traditionally been dry and
sunny, not lush and green.
Traffic on our highways is terrible, particularly on the road to Hana, and East Maui is being overwhelmed by tourist
traffic. All of Maui is being overwhelmed by traffic. The exhaust from the thousands of cars is ruining the clarity of air,
threatening our health and consuming fossil fuels that contribute to the acidification and destruction of our oceans.
Toxic sunscreen further pollutes the ocean, killing and bleaching the coral on which we depend to create reefs that help
control our sea levels, provide a haven for fish, and support a sustainable fishing industry.
Tourists crowd our beaches, and tour boats crowd our oceans disturbing the quality of life for both residents and
existing wildlife. Noise from tour boat engines affects the already struggling whale, honu and dolphin populations.
Despite Federal and state regulations and guidelines, tourists on our beaches and in our coastal waters have been seen
disturbing spinner dolphin pods and honu which are trying to bask and sleep during the day causing them illness and
harm. 25% of Maui’s coral reefs are damaged and destroyed both directly and indirectly by tourism. The ocean water is
often oily and poisoned by excessive use of cancer causing sunscreen. Molokini is a great example of how
tourism disturbs the overall marine environment. During the pandemic, the fish and oceanic predator population
returned to its normal ecological balance. Now it is once again disturbed, as shown in a recent study.
Rents and the cost of housing are sky high due to short term transient tourist rentals (TVRs). Many residents of Maui can
no longer afford to live here. Eliminating TVRs will decrease rents and improve the quality of residential neighborhoods.
Please don't authorize the building of what we have too much of already.
1
These are but a few of the consequences of the unregulated rampant over-tourism we are once again experiencing. I
thank you in advance for your support of this moratorium on transient tourist accommodations. Maui is literally being
"loved to death" by excess tourism, and we are in danger of sacrificing our island, it's rich cultural heritage,
environmental beauty and diversity on the altar of tourism. Once the island is destroyed, tourism will decrease and we
will literally have destroyed that which is currently supporting us. Now is our chance to limit tourism and begin to
diversify our economy.
Sincerely,
Joy and Rob Kaaz
Kihei residents
noO "n
cn2:0H
:x3C3
m
oIm m-<
oo “OTl
rnm -i
XX
7: m aw
2
County Clerk
■ -fei^CHVCQ
20ZI DEC -2 PM 3-- 33
From:
Sent:
Angela Leone <angie@coconutcondos.com>
Thursday, December 2, 2021 1:54 PM
County Clerk
Opposition to Moratorium on Transient Accommodation^- Qp TH™
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from angie@coconutcondos.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Councilmembers,
On behalf of Maui PRMA, the Vacation Rental Trade Council under the Maui Chamber of Commerce, we would like to
express our opposition to the proposed moratorium on transient accommodations. Bill 148 establishing chapter 19.98.
PRMA, the Professional Rental Management Association, is a coalition of professional property management companies
representing over 1600 legally zoned condominium vacation rental units throughout Maul. Our members are licensed
in the State of Hawaii, engaged in the management of legal vacation rental properties, primarily condominiums, and
comply with real estate license law and code of ethics. Our companies represent 216 years in business, employing nearly
200 employees and over 300 independent contractors and vendors.
The visitor industry supports so many other small businesses, contributing to our island's overall economic health. When
this industry is stifled and suffers, jobs are lost and that creates broad waves of negative impacts that ripple throughout
our community. When our industry was shut down during COVID, West Maui in particular saw unemployment rates in
the 50%+ range with food lines that were 2-3 hours long. Changes to our industry affect our local community, especially
in the areas where many of the tourism related employees live and reside (West/South Maul).
Ultimately, this will not stop visitors from traveling to Maui. We believe it will have other negative impacts such as reduced
industry revenue and increased costs for guests, which could potentially lead to stays in illegal units at a time when we
are trying to support legal vacation rentals and shut down illegal operations. The council and planning office have spent
so much time and effort in establishing rules, permitting and oversight for legal vacation rentals. We would support
continued efforts in allowing permitted transient accommodations to apply and operate in order to continue to collect
GET & TAT revenue and reduce the number of illegal operators. If there is no means for homeowners interested in
pursuing legal permits, we run the risk of creating more illegal operators. At the end of the two years, this moratorium
may create a bigger problem than when it started.
On behalf of PRMA, we ask that you please focus your attention on the Maui Nui Destination Management Action Plan
(DMAP) for the islands of Maui, Molokai, and Lanai. We would prefer to see the Council focus on efforts to support the
DMAP and further this work instead of looking for ways to punish property owners and potentially inadvertently create
more illegal vacation rentals.
We welcome any discussion with you or a member of your administration and can be contacted at Mauiprma@gmail.com.
Mahaio,
John Kevan
Angela Leone
Co-Founders of Maui Professional Rental Management Association (Maui PRMA)
1
Count^CleH< BkCir/CD
From:
Sent:
Michelle Sigmund <michelles@leisinc.com>
Thursday, December 2, 2021 9:00 AM
County Clerk
Michelle Sigmund; Stephen Leis
m\ DEC -2 AH 9: 07
To:
Cc:
‘-/hFlCC Or THE
Written Testimony - Bill 148 (Dorvin D. Leis Co., lnc.)(^Q(_!^ jy CLERKSubject:
Importance: High
IYou don't often get email from michelles@leisinc.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
This message is from Stephen Leis, President of Dorvin D. Leis Co., Inc. which is a Maui-based mechanical contractor who
have employed thousands of Maui residents over our 50-i- years on the island.
Dear Council Members,
As a long-time Maui-resident, with deep ties to the community, we understand the community's concerns with
balancing the quality of life and need for economic stability. This need for economic stability also presents itself
in our business as a long-time Maui-based contractor, who employee hundreds of Maui residents at any given
time that allow them to provide for their families. We are sensitive to overgrowth on Maui, but we do not
advocate for that balance to be forced through a  2year mortarium whose restrictions will continue well past the
2 year mark. The initial investment of capital and resources required just in the due diligence period for large
hotel developments span multiple years, and this moratorium may avert Developers to other communities
where they will spend their development, construction, and operating budgets in benefit of the communities in
which they reside. Growth needs to be managed, but we feel there is a better way within the various planning
committees and regulatory bodies to accomplish this task already, without impacting Maui's future
developments.
If this passes, we ask that the Council consider amending the language in Section 2 of the Bill to allow an
exemption for developments who have already submitted complete applications that meet all requirements and
are awaiting final review.
Thank you for your time, consideration, and hard work.
Stephen Leis
Thanks,
MS
/2OOAVMO
V9t, Inc.
Michelle Sigmund
CFO
Dorvin D. Leis Co., inc.
202 Lalo Street, Kahului, HI 96732-2924
Office: 808.270.0120
Cell: 808.987.7488
Fax: 808.871.6828
1
if
§)ABDAHTimeshare with CO-n
C
H
73CD
mC~)
aIDecember 3,2021 rn-< uy
OO ~nTO: Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
m -j mCO
am oOv
FR: AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)
RE: Opposition to Bill 148 (“A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER
19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI")
Hearing date: Friday, December 3, 2021 at 9:00AM
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing ARDA-Hawaii to submit testimony in STRONG OPPOSITION to Bill
148 regarding a bill for an ordinance establishing Chapter 19.98, Maui County Code, declaring a
moratorium on new transient accommodations on Maui. Bill 148 seeks to create an island wide
moratorium which temporarily prohibits the issuance of any permit under Title 19. The proposed
measure creates multiple concerns that could have broad impacts on Maui’s economy.
The stated purpose of the proposed bill is to establish a moratorium to comply with visitor to
resident ratio specified in Chapter 2.80B of the Maui Island Plan by pausing the increase of
transient accommodations. However, there is no data to suggest that stopping the development of
transient accommodations will decrease the number of visitors to Maui. It is simple, it won’t.
Visitors will still come to Maui and seek other accommodations even if the supply of lodging units
is limited. As we have seen, the volume of visitors will permeate into the residential neighborhoods
and long-term apartment inventory on Maui through an increase in short-term vacation rentals
("STR"), which are the fastest-growing segment within Maui’s visitor accommodations industry.
If the purpose of the bill is to ultimately decrease the visitor count, perhaps further regulation is
needed on the number of illegal short-term vacation rental units that are allowed.
There are better alternatives to accomplish the Council's goals of reducing the impacts of the
tourism industry on Maui residents, without the negative economic impacts created by the
proposed moratorium. Regulating on the fastest growing segment of transient accommodations in
1
Maui would provide the greatest reduction in the number of visitors to comply with the Maui Island
Plan.
Conversely, the moratorium would seek to limit transient accommodations island wide, thus,
prohibiting increased accommodations even in districts that are intended for tourism. Hotel and
resort areas are where visitor accommodations should be focused and aid in insulating Maui
residents from the perceived negative impacts of tourism.
In addition, there several legal concerns associated with the procedure and public transparency of
Bill 148. The legislation appears to be rushed with it being heard by the Planning and Sustainable
Land Use Committee before receiving and having the opportunity to consider the Commission's
minutes. Further, the proposed moratorium may be unconstitutional as it: I) fails to substantially
advance a legitimate government interest as required by the due process clause; 2) is
unconstitutionally vague; 3) and it violates the equal protection clause in treating similarly situated
individuals differently. Additionally, the new language in Section 19.98.010 which allows the
moratorium to remain in effect until the temporary investigative group establishes "a transient
accommodation limit categorized by accommodation type and by community plan area, or two
years from the effective date of the ordinance" raises concerns regarding termination of the
moratorium. The new language is unclear and doesn’t provide a definitive end date for the
moratorium.
Furthermore, the new language in Section 2 of Bill 148 may unfairly impact existing projects
currently undergoing permit application review. Section 2 as currently drafted makes the
moratorium applicable to permits currently being reviewed that have not received their final
discretionary approval. This amendment to Section  2is patently unfair to applicants who have
already expended resources and time to obtain a permit that is being reviewed. Further, Section 2
would directly contradict the Planning Commission recommendation that the moratorium does not
affect current permit applications. In turn, Section 2 should be amended to reflect the Planning
Commission's intentions.
Moreover, the moratorium will have substantial economic impacts on Maui’s economy. It is
concerning that the County would seek to deter capital investment in a time where it is still
recovering from the pandemic. This is especially concerning given the recent surge in cases that
may continue to impact the tourism industry. The County would risk forgoing substantial amounts
of investments, tax revenues and job creation for Maui’s economy. For example, the timeshare
industry is currently a major contributor to Maui’s economy by providing more than $73 million
per year in state and local taxes, sustaining occupancies to keep Maui residents employed and
supplying well compensated jobs to Maui residents.
The proposed ordinance would enact a moratorium to “maintain the status quo” while the Tourism
Management Temporary Investigative Group ("TIG") explores and recommends legislation to
better manage the tourism industry’s impact on the environment and residents' quality of life. This
poses significant risk to Maui’s economy, without first obtaining information to better manage the
industry. Instead, the TIG, in collaboration with the tourism industry, could address the Council’s
concerns prior to the moratorium to prevent causing unnecessary harm to Maui’s fragile economy,
which is still recovering from the pandemic.
2
Additionally, the proposed ordinance is intended to mitigate negative impacts on the environment
and residents’ quality of life. Again, there is a lack of data suggesting that a moratorium will
substantially reduce the negative impacts on the environment or residents. It is concerning that
such a broad and inflexible policy would be implemented without first showing transient
accommodations as the primary cause of these negative impacts. As mentioned previously, further
regulation of STRs would reduce the negative impacts on resident's quality of life. Measures
eliminating illegal STRs would accomplish the moratorium's intended goals without implementing
such an inflexible policy that would result in lost jobs and reduced economic activity for residents.
Further, as (a member of/chair) of ARDA-Hawaii, which represents the vacation ownership and
resort development industries in Hawaii, I’m surprised that the County would want to stop
timeshare visitors from coming to Maui. The timeshare visitor has the exact profile of the type of
visitor that we should welcome with higher income levels, more spending off property in
restaurants and local stores, and are more likely to take care of their property and Maui County.
Maui is a “home away from home” as Timeshare visitors they are owners, not transients. We
should be mindful that the timeshare industry could be part of the solution.
Due consideration should be given to the broader impacts of the proposed measure. We as a
community should consider a resolution that provides our Maui residents with the ability to
continue to work and provide for their families, while at the same lime addressing the impacts of
the influx of visitors, until Maui can transition to a more diversified economic base.
I respectfully ask that you recommend the Council defer this measure and instead pursue the
further regulation of STRs prior to implementing any form of moratorium to address the Council’s
concerns in a more meaningful way.
Thank you for your consideration of my comments.
Respectfully submitted.
Ryan Nobriga ^
Maui Task Force Chair
ARDA Hawaii
3
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Maui Vacation Rental Association <jenrusso@mauivacationrentalassociation.org>
Friday, December 3, 2021 1:39 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148, oppose, needs amendments; West Maui Plan needs amendments
To:
Subject:
Aloha Chair Lee, and Councilmembers,
Thank you for the opportunity to submit testimony on Bill 148.
We agree that the visitor industry needs management. However we do not agree with ostracizing any of the short term
rental home permits that have already been submitted. We cannot support this bill in its entirety. Please revise the
language to allow permits that have been in process to continue that process. The planning commission also
recommended that these permits in process be allowed to finish the process. Several of these permits are held by local
residents and they have been in process for years. These are small businesses, supported by the current Maui Island
Plan.
With regard to the West Maui Community Plan, we do not support the language in the plan that states that vacation
rentals need to be phased out to create housing. We think this proposal is problematic. The many meetings that the
Planning Commission held and the testimony heard, resulted in the change of this language in the community plan. That
language was changed again in committee back to the original. We believe that language should be changed back to
what the planning commission recommended: that is to just create housing. Vacation Rentals are the biggest
contributor to the housing fund. It doesn't make sense to phase them out, we need them to fund real property tax, and
the affordable housing funds and projects.
I appreciate the opportunity to submit this testimony. Thank you for all of your hard work.
Best,
Jen Russo
Executive Director
Maui Vacation Rental Association
mauivacationrentalassociation.orQ
140 Hoohana St Suite 210
Kahului, HI 96732
OC
O-n
c
“im
73CD
mm
o1
w-<
oq X
mr" i-nro
oroV/1
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Gary <gary@ALOHAAKU.COM>
Tuesday, November 30, 2021 2:39 PM
County Clerk
Testimony on Bill 148 - Amendment request for Proposed TA Moratorium
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from gary@alohaaku.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Councilmember Kelly King, Chair Lee, other Council Members, and Staff,
My husband, Gary Passon, and 1 have been following the Transient Accommodations Moratorium
bill. We believe it comes up on Friday for a second reading.
While there are many good and acceptable elements of the bill, there is a part that was recently added
that directly and punitively affects a very small set of people that still have in-process STHR permits. It
appears this fundamental change was made to Section 2 was without getting MPC and/or community
input. We would appreciate your giving some additional consideration to this proposed addition to the
bill.
What has been added is a block on allowing in-process STRH permits to be granted by the planning
department during the moratorium.
We are asking that an Amendment to the TAM is made to exempt any in-process STRH permit
applications that have been in process prior to 12/3/2021 to allow for them to continue to be
processed and if approved granted in a timely manner.
The current wording in the TAM is extremely unfair to the few families {we believe approx. 16 of them)
that have been working inside the Planning Department system for a long time (in some cases up to 4
years). In all cases, the applicants have spent significant monies, time, and effort to prepare the
property to meet the very stringent requirements already needed to get these permits.
In full disclosure, my husband Gary Passon and I are awaiting a permit for a STRH application that has
been in-process for 3+ years. This is on a property we acquired in Jan 2017 and our application went in
BEFORE the 5 years waiting period was introduced.
We ask that the Council allow these few in-process permits be allowed to continue.
Mahalo for your consideration.
Charlene Schulenburg and Gary Passon
ooOti
c "II
20
73Cell (808) 446-4310 mcr>
om CD i < i
Oo
mm --i
73 X
7s m
w
O
o
1
R£CE!'/ED
Maui Land & Pineapple Company, Inc. 2021 OEC -3 AH 7: 47
OFr-lCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
December 3, 2021
Alice L. Lee, Council Chair,
Maui County Council
County of Maui
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai'i 96793
county.clerk@mauicounty.us
SUBJECT: TESTIMONY REGARDING A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 2.80B.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ADOPT THE UPDATED
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN.
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony on a Bill for an Ordinance Amending Section
2.80b.070, Maui County Code, to Adopt the Updated West Maui Community Plan. Previously we
submitted comments at the Council Public hearing on the Updated West Maui Community Plan. Our
concern remains the same, as reflected in this testimony.
Maui Land and Pineapple Company, Inc. (MLP) appreciates the countless hours of work tlie many
community members, tlie Community Plan Advisory Committee (CPAC), the Planning Department,
the Planning Commission, and the Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee, put in to in the
process of updating the West Maui Community Plan (Plan).
During the process, MLP submitted written testimony to, and testified before, tlie Maui Planning
Commission to express concerns regarding the elimination of Project District designations and
replacement with community plan designations may not be consistent with current Project District
:^oning and ordinances. The Kapalua Resort includes two Project Districts:
1. Lahaina Project District 1 (I-Capalua), related Project District ordinance codified as Maui
County Code (MCC) Chapter 19.73
2. West Maui Project District 2 (Kapalua Mauka), related Project District ordinance codified as
MCC Chapter 19.92
Through the Planning Commission hearings, and working with the Planning Department, the two
undeveloped areas within Project District 1 were designated Small Town Center on the Plan. Wording
was also added to clarify that for lands formerly designated as Project District, the boundaries between
designations can be adjusted, provided the total acreage of each designation remains the same.
200 Village Road ● Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii 96761 ● 808-665-5458 ● Fax 808-665-0641
Maui Land & Pineapple Company, Inc.
MLP’s understanding at the time was that the Small Town Center designation would permit all the
uses permitted under Chapter 19.73, MCC which includes a list the specific permitted uses within
Lahaina Project District 1. MLP also understood that the Plan designations for West Maui Project
District 2 would permit all the uses permitted under MCC Chapter 19.92
Before the Plan is adopted MLP would like a clear, a definitive statement in tlie Plan that the uses
permitted under Chapter 19.73, MCC and Chapter 19.92 MCC would still be permitted under the Plan
designations without being required to seek a community plan amendment.
Thank you for your time and attention to this matter and the opportunity to provide testimony.
Maui Land &c Pineapple Company Inc.
Paul Subrata
Vice President
200 \'illage Road ♦ Lahaina, Maui, Hawai'i 96761  ●808-665-5458 ● Fax 808-665-0641
Count^CleHc
Joyce Naruse <jnaruse@ilwulocan42.org>
Thursday, December 2, 2021 8:56 AM
County Clerk
Statement of ILWU Local 142 On County Communication 21-543
Statement of ILWU Re County Communication 21-543.pdf
From;
Sent:
To;
Subject;
Attachments;
IYou don't often get email fromjnaruse@ilwulocal142.org. Learn why this is important
Good morning. Attached are signed statements from members working at the Grand Wailea Resor.t regaling County
Communication 21-543. 730“ .: CD
mm
~jm s JI
hOJoyce Naruse
Division Clerk
ILWU Local 142 - Wlaui
896 Lower Main Street \ Wailuku, HI 96793
Main: (808) 244-9191 | Fax: (808) 244-7870
i  ‘ t
CDO-T 'C',1
mn “I ■o
r; OCD
ILWU 142 Hawaii
Intematiocul Longshore & Warehouse Union
This electronic message transmission contains information from the ILWU that may be proprietary, confidential and/or privileged. The information is
intended only for the use of the individual(s) or entity named above. If you are not the intended recipient, be aware that any disclosure, copying or
distribution or use of the contents of this information is prohibited. If you have received this electronic transmission in error, please notify the sender
immediately by replying to the address listed in the "From:“ field.
1
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8'^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Counciimember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the ILWU Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This Is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. I
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval, or
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received from
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
^ncerely.
Charles Andrion
December 2, 2021
Maul County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8^" Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION
Dear Maui County Council:
21-543
148. Bill 148 will negatively i^PacSirfrowTworkersTra^^
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time The CoviH iq ^
by
"Section 2 This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing annrnw.i
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accomldation tharhis r'ecefved f
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and ^ ^
final discretionary a acceptancepproval prior to the effective date'of the moratorium
, or received its
.
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industrv that hac h
additton which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui:'
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
reno
negatively
vations and
Sincerely,
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8’'' Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3. 2021; 9:00a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maul County Council:
148. Bill 148 will negatively
rrurdsTf “t “t- twrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are str^liSrfW goo7eZTovm^'’'t
-°---n:::;:t hy
final discretionar^?ptTvafprirfoThe eff?ctteT^^^^^^ acceptance, or received its
transient accommodations on Maui-i
negatively
a moratorium on new
i.. u P^'^'cular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort
addition which would stimulate our local economy. ana waiiea Resortrenovations and
Please do not hurt local families.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Workers need good-paying jobs on Mauif
Sincerely, Q
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councllmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maul County Council:
As a member of the IL\A/U Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. I
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received from
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
, or
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Sincerely,
5^
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8^^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the ILWU Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively Impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. I
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval, or
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received from
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
is the
Sincerely,
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8’*' Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the IL\A/U Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. !
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval,
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
or
received from
Sincerely
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8*'’ Floor
Councitmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
Asa member of the IL\A/U Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. I
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand V^ailea Resort which clarifies Section  2by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval, or
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received from
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand \A/ailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. \A/orkers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Sincerely,
p^/Fie^tjo ot>^-r]ou)
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8'^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY
Dear Maui County Council:
COMMUNICATION 21-543
wrong time to limit job growth on Mauilhen workers a're sSing'rfSod°“'^°i‘’'’Strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its rurrpnt form . ® ^ ^ ^ ^ employment. I
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating- " Pi-oposed amendment by
granting of any aTpllcaZ ffrThe^pJovaTofTrelTrL^^^ “i-
the Department of Planning a written notice of apolation m  ^as received from
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the mor“”
imSd industry that has been
transient accommodations on Maui - in particularThelrZsld GranTra^LTe^^ """
addition which would stimulate our local economy. ^
neg
renovations
Please do not hurt local families.Workers need good-pa
atively
 and
ying jobs on Mauif
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Sincerely,
iO^r-on/Q
Go/z
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8*'' Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember KeanI Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the ILWU Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job grovrth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. 1
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local
, or
received from
economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Sincerely,
December 1, 2021
Maul County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8^^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Counciimember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
148. Bill 148 will negatively
As you know we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time The Covid iq nanri»m- ● ^
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return hLv t
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are strLelins tn finri^ “^r jobs. This Is the
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form e ^ ° find good employment. I
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating: " Proposed amendment by
granting of any aPP^cat “n ffrThe?ppmva7oraTelTrL^s°rntTcV^^^^^
imSdlThe"roM industry that has been
transient accommodations on Maui - in particul^rpCsId GrLTailL“"^
additton which would stimulate our local economy. ren
negatively
ovations and
Please do not hurt local families.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Workers need good-paying jobs on Mauif
Sincerely,
K
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8^^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3,2021; 9:00a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maul County Council:
148. Bill 148 will negatively mTstlUelTowTworrer^^^^^^^^
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time The Coviri iq n:»nH ■ -
out thousands of jobs on Maul and many of us are iust tn / u , Pandemic wiped
wrong time to limit Job growth on Mau7when w'^kers ar ^
Strongly urge you to vote against Bill 14R In ttc to nnd good employment. I
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 amendment by
grantg of Iny\riica^irn fet'th:?p;m:a7ofrnew ‘h
the Department of Planning a written nrce lf applation^
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the ^ acceptance, or received itsmoratorium.
imprte?byTheTovrD'l9rnH^“'^ -dustry that has been
====F===~""“Please do not hurt local families.
Thank you for your consideration of this
neg
renovations
Workers need good-paying jobs on Mauif
testimony
atively
 and
.
Sincerely,
/ oicua, 6?.
('f
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kaiana 0 Maui Building, 8'^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Councii:
148. Bill 148 will rregatively i-PacCslrfel7owTworke^
out thousands of jobs on Mau^and" ^^uTare Just 7artJl“t7r
wrong t,me to limit Job growth on Maui when workers are struggling rfind lnd ln^ " "
t e°Gr nJw and support Ihepr^posTd''"""
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Secti
I
amendment bon 2 by stating: ^ y
,r.«ins .1 «
r  ““■» *●' b»"
transient accommodations on Maui-in oarticularthp^n '|]^Plenient a moratorium on new
addition which would stimulate our local economy. renovations and
moratorium.
negativeiy
Please do not hurt local families.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Workers need good-paying jobs on Mauif
Sincerely,
T Madrt,c^a
f)ep^riyn(?/yf.
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8*^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawiins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the ILWU Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. I
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval, or
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received from
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
on new
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Sincerely,
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8^^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3,2021; 9:00a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maul County Council:
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are strLlipE to find LL ^ "
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and siinnnrtth ^ f^PloYment. I
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating: ^ Proposed amendment by
sr:=iirz“;"—
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.'
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
negatively
renovations and
Sincerely,
R\YLA
GOP- -
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the ILWU Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are Just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. I
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval, or
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received from
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVlD-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Sincerely,
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8*^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawllns-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY
Dear Maul County Council:
COMMUNICATION 21-543
14., Ml 148 will "wa-yMp
wrong time to limit job growth on Mauilhen workers are simgg°intrfind'good°“'^°i‘'''Strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in ik mrront r  ^ ^ ^ ® ^ employment. I
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stltin"^:^" amendment by
OfIny a°Srn fm;:?p;r:a7ofT -
the Department of Planning a written notice of aoo^^ accommodation that has received from
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the Zratorfu”"" '^s
« byThe"cov^^^^^^^^^^^^^ >nc-ustry that has been
Please do not hurt local families.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
renovat
Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui:'
negatively
ions and
Sincerely,
I
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8**^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the ILWU Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. !
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval,
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received from
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
or
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Sincerely,
UL^
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8*'’ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the ILWU Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. I
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
, or
received from
Sincerelv
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8^^ Floor
Counciimember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE IIWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the ILWU Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and all working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. I
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
"Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received from
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
, or
Sincerely,
tr5(f '
●A.
December 2, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8*^ Floor
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Friday, December 3, 2021; 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-543
Dear Maui County Council:
As a member of the IL\A/U Local 142 and an employee of the Grand Wailea Resort, I strongly oppose Bill
148. Bill 148 will negatively impact myself, fellow co-workers and ail working families in Maui County.
As you know, we are living during a very uncertain and turbulent time. The Covid-19 pandemic wiped
out thousands of jobs on Maui and many of us are just starting to return back to our jobs. This is the
wrong time to limit job growth on Maui when workers are struggling to find good employment. I
strongly urge you to vote against Bill 148 in its current form and support the proposed amendment by
the Grand Wailea Resort which clarifies Section 2 by stating:
Section 2. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval, or
granting of any application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received from
the Department of Planning a written notice of application completeness and acceptance, or received its
final discretionary approval prior to the effective date" of the moratorium."
Ultimately, we need to focus on job growth and healing our hospitality industry that has been negatively
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the wrong time to implement a moratorium on new
transient accommodations on Maui - in particular the proposed Grand Wailea Resort renovations and
addition which would stimulate our local economy.
Please do not hurt local families. Workers need good-paying jobs on Maui:
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Sincerely,