MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-09-03
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1380,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
September 3, 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2021,
BEGINNING AT 9:02 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
September 3, please come to order. It is approximately 9:04 a.m.
Madam Clerk, may we have roll call?
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Chair, proceeding with roll call. In accordance with
the Governor's most recent emergency proclamation related to the COVID-19
response. Members should state who, if anyone is present with them, as part of roll
call.
ROLL CALL
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: . . . Aloha la Po'alima kakou my Maui hikina. We are
celebrating Hawaiian History Month in our virtual palace with my EA Dawn Lono.
CHAIR LEE: Beautiful. Bonjour.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Bonjour.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and good morning. Madam Chair. Bonjour and . . . in
honor of our colleague over in France. Hope everyone will have a very wonderful
blessed day on this Aloha Friday. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 2
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Next.
COUNTY CLERK: Council, Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka . . . and everybody is doing well this morning
looking forward to a nice long weekend of being social distanced and masked.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Morning, Chair. Good morning, Members. Bonjour.. . and
I'm happy to be here and learning new words every day.
CHAIR LEE: I love to . . . Member Johnson.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, everybody look real carefully.
Member Paltin are you on the call? Okay, maybe she'll be joining us later, so excused
for now.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning, everybody.  Iam in Kula and I have my
husband here at home with me, not in this room, to listen to this meeting, but I wanted
to just say in English what we're trying to say in France, to Tamara Paltin is that I hope
you're missing us as you're in France. Good morning, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair, my Moloka'i nui ahina. I am
at the Moloka'i District Office and I'm alone here. Bonjour kakou ... I miss you all, I
miss seeing you all in . . , Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 3
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And I am Alice Lee, your Chair, and I am present, obviously. Alone
in my room and \wishing everyone a \A/onderful Friday, Aloha Friday.
COUNCILMEMBERS GABRIEL JOHNSON. KELLY T. KING.
MICHAEL J. MOLINA, SHANE M. SINENCI, YUKI LEI K.
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
COUNCILMEMBERS NATALIE A. KAMA AND TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN.
EXCUSED:
(CouncHmembers Kama and Paltin were not present when the roll was called; however,
Councilmember Paltin arrived at 9:54 a.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are seven Members present, two Members excused, and a
quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record. I am County Clerk Kathy Kaohu. Also present from the Office of the
County Clerk are Deputy County Clerk James Krueger; and Legislative Division staff
Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Members, Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura will provide opening remarks.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sugimura, for bringing us up to date and for honoring those
special people.
I want to say that, if our meeting ends early enough. I'm planning to attend the sign-
waving event in front of the Cannery Mall in Lahaina today. I'm not encouraging big
crowds of any kind, so the lone person sign-waving will be me. I'm not going to be
standing next to anybody. And are you going, Member King?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 4
COUNCiLMEMBER KING; Yes, Chair. I just wanted to mention there will be a similar rally
in South Maui over at the corner of Lipoa and the highway by the, by the elementary,
by Kihei Elementary School. So, I will be out there too. And I will be distanced like
yourself and wearing a mask. But I think it's important, I thank Member Sugimura for
bringing up that. It's going to be a statewide event. So--
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; -we have these two locations on Maui.
CHAIR LEE; Very good. Members, now, I ask you to join me in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Please stand.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with presentation of testimony on our ceremonial
resolution.
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk, could you hold up one second? One second. Before we proceed
with today's agenda, may I please request that everyone keep their microphones
muted unless it is your time to speak. Decorum must be maintained at all times.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, we currently have no one testify, I mean, signed up to testify for the
ceremonial resolution.
CHAIR LEE; Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the ceremonial resolution.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 5
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 21-135
RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 2021 AS
CHILDHOOD CANCER AWARENESS MONTH
MR. STEVEN FIRESTEIN: I'm here. Hello, there. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Hi. Mr. Firestein?
MR. FIRESTEIN: Firestein, yes. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; We're, we're not quite ready for you. But hang in there. We'll be there--
MR. FIRESTEIN; Okay.
CHAIR LEE: --with you in a minute.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: The resolution. We need a motion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh. Oh, I'm sorry.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
adopt the resolution "RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 2021 AS CHILDHOOD CANCER
AWARENESS MONTH".
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 6
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May  Irequest the Clerk read the
resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion? If not, Members, all I would like to say is I'd like to thank
Mr. Firestein and, and his wife who's not able to be here today, for their efforts with this
incredible cause. And, and all the volunteers, and people, and advocates of those who
work with childhood cancer.
Mr. Sinenci, discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo to Ms., Mr. Firestein. too. I too
wanted to extend my regards and aloha to those families affected by childhood cancer.
I also wanted to honor the memory of a past student of mine, Ikaika Ko'omoa Williams,
who had succumbed to a rare form of Hodgkin's Lymphoma. Ikaika would come to
school with the best attitude despite his physical condition. Ikaika showed such
resiliency and courage amongst his non-disabled peers. So, ke aloha nunui to his
ohana. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Anyone else? All those in favor of the motion to adopt the resolution, please say "aye'
and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND PALTIN.EXCUSED:
no "noes", two "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: All "ayes'
And then, we have here, with us, Mr. Firestein. Would you like to say a few words
Mr. Firestein?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 7
MR. FIRESTEIN: Yes, I would. And I just want to,  Imahalo, mahalo nui loa to all of you. i,
I'm very grateful for the many years of support from the Maui County Council. I had
the pleasure of visiting a few years ago, before COVID, with past Chair Michael White,
and visited with the staff. And just, my wife Amy and I had a wonderful visit. And it
was our way of, again, just saying mahalo for the support that we received from the
County Council, and from the Mayor's Office. I, I think that's the most important thing.
I see some friends on the, in Zoom here, folks that have been with us over the years.
And I would also like to just acknowledge the families, the plight of the families and
those touched by cancer. I remember one family, the Dukes family, little Trucker Dukes
of Maui. His father is a firefighter, Joshua Dukes. And we're thinking of them during
this time. So, just mahalo nui loa, and I love Maui. We really do. And my, my wife
was with me earlier to set me up, and I'm, I'm just grateful to everybody. It takes a
village. It takes ohana. And again, much aloha. And mahalo nui loa to, to my friends
out there. Thank you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; And thank you, Mr. Firestein. Any more comments, anybody? Okay. Thank
you very much. And appreciate you bringing this resolution forward for us to, to adopt.
MR. FIRESTEIN: Thank, thank you, again.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Thank you. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that is ceremonial resolution is NO. 21-135.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, that's our only resolution. Any objections to closing testimony on
resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, ordered.
Madam Clerk, please continue.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY CLERK: Moving forward on the agenda with Item F., setting the Consent Calendar.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 8
CHAIR LEE: Members, at this time, we will set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder, the
calendar can still be adjusted even after it is set. Are there any requested changes to
the Consent Calendar at this time?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I don't have any requests to amend
or add or remove anything from the Consent Calendar at this time. But I did want to
just quickly explain, since in the BFED Committee, I did say that we may be able to
take up CC 21-430 into the Consent Calendar. But  Imisspoke, because we do need
to do Rule waivers, discharge, and Committee referral in order to take up the item. So,
it would not be possible to put it into the Consent Calendar. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for that clarification. Anyone else? Okay.
Are there any objections to setting the Consent Calendar at this time?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; So, ordered. If there are no objections, the Consent Calendar is set.
Madam Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda items.
Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting by
phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for
three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Community Television or on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 9
mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at
any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, our first person signed up to testify is Carol Deshay Truman, using the last four
digits of telephone number 7496.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Ms. Truman?
PRESENTATION OF WRITTEN TESTIMONY
MS. CAROL DESHAY TRUMAN (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. TRUMAN: Good morning. Bonjour mes amis, e aloha kakou on this Aloha Friday. My
name is Carol Deshay Truman. I was born and raised on Lana'i and have been on-
island for two-and-a-half years, because this community stands together in the face of
this terrible pandemic. We so appreciate everyone wearing their masks, keeping apart,
and doing everything we can to stop this pandemic. As a retired educator and a Native
Hawaiian and not a paid lobbyist, I want to add my support, oh, excuse me, and also,
a long-time cancer survivor. I'm delighted with your resolution. And I want to add my
support for CR 21-69 Hokuao affordable housing development. As a retired educator,
1 understand firsthand the importance of having a safe, stable home environment for
our keiki to prosper in school. I am delighted with the model and am happy that this
crying need for our community is being addressed at last. Thank you so much for the
allowing me to speak. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you.
Madam Clerk.
MS. TRUMAN: Thank you.
To be followed by ValerieOur next testifier is Keiki-Pua Dancil.COUNTY CLERK:
Janikowski.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 10
MS. KElKi-PUA DANCIL. PQU\MA LANA'I (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Aloha kakahiaka and . . . (Spoke in Hawaiian.) Keiki-Pua . . . Pulama Lana'i. Aloha.
I am here to testify today on CR 21-69. First off, I want to mahalo all of you. We spent
so much time over the last couple of weeks. I've also submitted my testimony in writing
if anyone wants clarification. There's one item I'd like to bring up in particular, and it
was written in the Committee Report. It's the third bullet on page 9. In my written
testimony, 1 go through the discussion that Councilmember Johnson had with our
president. And I want to reiterate what Councilmember Johnson had said. He had
said, "I want to get specifics, I want to get it in writing. So, that I am doing active
listening for you Kurt Matsumoto. I want to make sure that I'm hearing what I say back
to you, we put it in the record and we'll get that". So, the one part that was missing
that was in the Committee Report, and Gabe, you had mentioned that you want it on
record. So, I just want to call it out again.
Is if we could insert in the bullet no, 3, on page 9, the "Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the
County's Affordable Project" after the word "Project". So, that the full bullet will read,
"After completing this project," insert this language, "Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the
County's Affordable Housing Project, and fulfilling Pulama Lana'i rental needs, if an
assessment demonstrates the need for workforce housing ownership units, the
Developer will consider offering existing homes in its rental inventory for sale to
income-qualified residents". And that's the only thing we'd like you to consider today.
It was just, I think an inadvertent mistake in leaving that part out. And that's all I'd like
you to consider. And mahalo so much for all you guys do for our community on Lana'i.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Dancil. Are there any questions? If not, thank you again.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Valerie Janikowski. To be followed by Sonia
Lo.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Janikowski?
MS. VALERIE JANIKOWSKI ftestifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking time to speak with us. I just wanted to
express my support for CR 21-69. As everyone knows, there's housing needs on
Lana'i, and I would hope that this can be part of the solution. That's all.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any clarifying questions. Members?
If not, may we have the next testifier. Madam Clerk, please?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 11
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Sonia Lo. To be followed by Elton Kinoshita.
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Lo?
MS. SONIA LO (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Good morning. Thank you very much for having us on this call. 1 am the CEO of
Sensei Ag, which owns Sensei Farm on LanaT We are an employer of approximately
50 people at the farm. And we are teaching the new indoor growing techniques and
we're growing vegetables and fruit year-round from Lana'i. In December of last year,
we actually managed to serve all of the Hawaiian Islands after having started in the
Spring of last year, in the middle of the pandemic. We are strongly in support of
CR 21-69, because we see daily as we look to grow the capacity of the farm, the
constraints that we have. And we'd very much like to be able to bring on more people,
but it is, the housing is severely, severely constrained for us.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Lo. Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Elton Kinoshita. To be followed by Derek Remillard.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Kinoshita?
MR. ELTON KINOSHITA (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Good morning. Madam Chair and Honorable Councilmembers. My name is Elton
Kinoshita. I recently retired as a principal of Lana'i High and Elementary School. I am
testifying in support of CR 21-69. I have testified previously and have shared the
challenges Lana'i School has had recruiting qualified teachers. Adding to the
challenge of finding qualified individuals who are first willing to relocate to the island,
was the added challenge of finding housing for anyone who might be interested in
joining the faculty. We often discontinue recruiting efforts once we had exhausted the
available rental units allotted to us. Thus, leaving the school with unfilled teaching
positions at the start of the new school year.
I understand the modifications to the proposal will include ten units designated for the
school,
agreement. This measure will go a long way in the school's green efforts, as well as
I  thank the Councilmembers, and Pulama Lana'i for negotiating this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 12
possibly retaining current staff members, who might wish to relocate to one
state-of-the-art rental units. Thank you very much for allowing me to speak.
of these
CHAIR LEE; Any questions for Mr. Kinoshita? If not, thank you. Thank you
testimony.
for your
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Derek Remillard. To be followed by Linda Kay
Okamoto.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Remillard? Mr. Remillard, are you there? We see you. You're muted.
Madam Clerk, can you unmute the testifier?
COUNTY CLERK; He’s unmuted on our side.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Remillard, you have to unmute yourself. We can't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; ... on your phone.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, we're starting to hear you.
MR. DEREK REMILLARD (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69);
Aloha. Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, yes.
MR. REMILLARD; My apologies. I had a little technical error there. My name is Derek
Remillard, a resident of Lana'i. I work for Four Seasons in Manele. My wife works for
PQIama Lana'i. We're just calling in support of CR 21-69. We both feel that additional
housing on the island would be wonderful, and we are definitely in support of anything
that helps better the community. Mahalo for your time and allowing me to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mr. Remillard. Any questions, Members? If not, thank you.
And Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier, please?
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Linda Kay Okamoto. To be followed by Roger
Alconcel.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 13
MS. LINDA KAY OKAMOTQ (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69);
Greetings. This is, this is Kay Okamoto. I have testified before you a few times
regarding this housing. I do not work for the company Puiama or Four Seasons. 1 am
a realtor and really have nothing financially to gain from this. However, it is so
important for this community. And not just for, you know, bringing in new employees,
it's important for all of those young people who are having to live with mama and daddy,
and sometimes grandma and grandpa because there simply is no housing. I just had
a young man come in yesterday, got married, there's no place for them to live. They're
having to simply move in with some friends. And that's just not a good way for our
community to have to survive. I definitely am in support of this project. Although it
may not be perfect for everyone, it's, it's definitely something that we should all be
getting onboard with and moving forward. Here's a project to help our people with
really no cost to the taxpayer, and that's amazing. So, I just want to go on record again
in testifying in support of CR 21-69. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Okamoto. Any questions. Members?
If not, may we have the next testifier. Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Roger Alconcel. To be followed by Jacky Takakura.
MR. ROGER ALCONCEL (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Hi. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. ALCONCEL: My name is Roger Alconcel, born and raised on Lana'i. I testified before,
and I wanted to reiterate again support of CR 21-69. I graduated Lana'i 30 years ago
and I was fortunate enough to return back home, only because I had a place to stay. I
know there's a lot of friends of mine, a lot of people who graduated in the past that
want to come home and help the community, but they really don't have any place to
stay. Please support this bill so there's a lot of locals that want to come back home
and help the community. Thanks again for your dedication and support. Stay safe.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Alconcel. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you again for
coming by, and providing testimony.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 14
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Jacky Takakura. To be followed by Anna Mabbutt.
CHAIR LEE: Hi, Jacky. I didn't know you lived on Lana‘i.
MS. JACKY TAKAKURA (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-78):
Good morning, Chair Lee and Members. And 1 don't live on Lana'i. It's a lovely place
though. So, my name is Jacky Takakura and I'm speaking on behalf of the Department
of Planning. I'm testifying on the committee report from the Planning and Sustainable
Land Use Committee, CR 21-78, specifically regarding the bill amending Maui County
Code Chapter 19.65, Short-Term Rental Homes. As those of you on the PSLU
Committee know, another bill is in the works to update Chapter 19.65. We don't
normally update a Chapter while it is being updated. So, the timing is somewhat
unusual and that's why I'm before you today.
The bill that you are looking at today has some proposed updates to Sections
19.65.050.B,, as in boy, and 19.65.050.D., as in dog, .4. And this is regarding the
neighbor notification requirements. And these are specific to the island of Lana'i. The
notification requirements will be different for Maui and Moloka'i and we would like the
final bill to reflect that. And it could be something as simple as adding the words "from
Maui and Moloka'i," to the sentences that describe the procedures spelled out for Maui
and Moloka'i that are not for Lana'i.
The Planning Department can work with the Office of Council Services and Corporation
Counsel to ensure that the final bill includes the procedures that were approved by the
Lana'i, Moloka'i and Maui Planning Commissions to accommodate the unique
circumstances on the different islands. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Takakura. Mahalo for
your testimony. The proposed changes that you just stated, would those changes
need to go before the Planning Commission before Council can pass it?
MS. TAKAKURA: Thank you, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. So, the, what's before you
today was approved by the Lana'i Planning Commission.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 15
MS. TAKAKURA: . . . want to keep for Lana‘i.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: For the Molokai.
MS. TAKAKURA: For Moloka'i, they approved what you are going to see, which, what we
passed out of PSLU on Monday.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay.
MS. TAKAKURA; What my concern is that when the next round of changes come through,
they overwrite the changes that hopefully you will, going to approve for LanaT We
don't want to lose what we've agreed upon for Lana'i, because the mailing situation is
a little bit different there.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh, I see.
MS. TAKAKURA; We want to make sure that the end result is, we have something for Lana'i
and then we have the Maui and Moloka'i procedures for those two islands, which was
approved by Maui and Moloka'i Planning Commission.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Ms. Takakura. So, you're just asking
for consistency with the two bills?
MS. TAKAKURA: Yes, please.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Got it. Mahalo for that clarification. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yea, so as we ask everybody, Jacky, did you submit to,
can you submit something to us in writing, so we have a, you know, clear where you
want us to amend? So, we don't miss, you know, amend it so that it works against
what you're trying to tell us? Thank you.
MS. TAKAKURA; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: I have a question. Is the Vice-Chair of PSLU prepared for this? Who is the
Vice-Chair of the PSLU?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 16
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member King.
CHAIR LEE; Member King, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: What was the question, Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Well, I'm asking if you’re prepared to make any, whatever suggestions that
Ms. Takakura is talking about?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I can. I was just sent this morning, the notes from Member Paltin,
who Chairs that Committee. So, I've been trying to read them over. . . . stuff we're
doing but I'm happy to entertain, you know, when we get to that point to entertain that
change, if she, if. I'm assuming the Planning Department will be available for us when
we get to that item.
CHAIR LEE: Right. Right. Okay. Great. It's just so long as we are prepared.
And then same with Member Johnson, same with the correction on the committee
report. You have the language that provides that clarification?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I can, I can get to it.
CHAIR LEE: You do? Okay. Okay. Good. Alright. Thank you. Any more questions for
Ms. Takakura? If not, thank you very much, Jacky.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Oh, wait. Oh, one second.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, instead of assuming that the
Department will be there when this item comes up, can we ask if they will be?
Ms. Takakura?
MS. TAKAKURA: Yes. You mean for-
CHAIRLEE; Can you be available?
MS. TAKAKURA; -the item today?
CHAIR LEE: Pardon?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 17
MS. TAKAKURA: Do you mean for when you come to CR 21-78?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MS. TAKAKURA; Yes, definitely.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Good. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more questions or comments?
If not, Madam Clerk, could you please proceed?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. Our next testifier is Anna Mabbutt. To be followed by Scott
Ashworth.
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Abbott? Mabbutt?
MS. ANNA MABBUTT ftestifyinq on Bill Nos. 73 (2021). 74 (2021). and 76 (2021)1;
Oh, Mabbutt. Hi. Good morning, Councilmembers. Thank you for your time this
morning. I'm testifying to respectfully request that you defer any action today on Bill 73,
74 and 76 due to what appears to be a violation of Hawaii Revised Statutes.
Section 92-7(a), at the Council meeting on August 24. HRS Section 92-7(a) requires
that the notice for ail Council meetings include an agenda that list all of the items to be
considered at the forthcoming meeting. But nowhere on the agenda for the August 24
meeting is indicated or noticed an item to approve on first reading Bill 73, 74 and 76.
I realize that at the August 24 meeting, that Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez's
motion, the Council voted 8-0 to waive Council Rule 7.G., standing committee referral
and report requirement. But that waiver of Council Rule 7.G’s requirements in no way
excuses or diminishes the Council's obligation to comply with the State of Hawaii
Sunshine Laws regarding the conduct and notice of the public's business, it is a core
principle of open government to, for officials to only take action at public meetings that
have been, for which the public has been provided proper and prior notice beforehand.
So, my further comments are going to be directed specifically towards Bill 76, but those
are my general objections to any consideration today to pass on second and final
reading, Bill 73, 74 and 76. Regarding Bill 76 in particular, I am a Maui resident, a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 18
California attorney, and a long-time open government advocate. When I was reviewing
the agenda for today's meeting and I clicked on Bill 76, I fully expected, given its title,
that it was going to refer to fees, rates, assessments or taxes. The title for this bill
reads, "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX  BREVENUES -
FEES, RATES, ASSESSMENTS, AND TAXES". There is absolute no mention in the
title of "concessions, leases, or licenses". This title could have easily been changed to
read "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," by adding "APPENDIX B-1, SCHEDULE OF
CONCESSIONS, LEASES AND LICENSES". 1 feel that would have been much
clearer and would have given proper notice to anyone interested what this bill actually
concerned. So, 1 feel the title for Bill 76 is insufficient. Secondly, as I mentioned
already, 1 feel that for Bill 76, the public was not provided any notice on the agenda for
the August 24 meeting of the first reading of Bill 76.
And then finally, my third reason to object to any action today on this bill is that if you
look at the actual Appendix B-1, all 80 leases on this exhibit appear to possibly violate
the Maui County Code Section 3.40-040 /s/cj limitation, five-year limitation on leases
of County property. There are three specific exceptions to that five-year limitation, and
it is not at all clear that any of these 80 leases fit within those exceptions. There are
clearly at least two that were passed recently that do not fit within the exceptions to the
five-year lease limitation. So, if I personally were sitting on the Council, I would not
want to approve an exhibit, an appendix, that contains what appears to be so many
leases that are in violation of the Maui County Code's requirements.
So, I would respectfully request you defer any action on Bill 76, and additionally. Bill 73
and 74 today. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? I have a question. Ms. Mabbutt?
MS. MABBUTT; Yes?
CHAIR LEE: Do you represent any of the lessors or lessees?
MS. MABBUTT; Absolutely not.
CHAIR LEE; So, you're just talking about process?
MS. MABBUTT: Yes. This wasn't, the leasing and fees issues, I have over a decade's worth
of experience advocating for the residents of San Francisco. So, I have a lot of
experience on these two issues in particular. And  Ifeel that they are important issues,
and any action on these items should be properly noticed to the public beforehand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 19
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you for that clarification.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Mahalo for your testimonyVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
Ms. Mabbutt. I don't have any questions for our testifier. I just wanted to let the
Members know that I plan to consult with our Corporation Counsel, as well as our OCS
attorneys on the concerns that Ms. Mabbutt raised in her testimony. And then that way
we can get clarification from our attorneys before proceeding. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Sinenci, did I see your hand up? No? No? Okay.
Thank you, Ms. Mabbutt, for your testimony.
MS. MABBUTT: Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk, how many more testifiers do we have?
COUNTY CLERK: We have five more-
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: -signed up to testify. Our next testifier is Scott Ashworth. To be followed
by Alastair McAlpine.
MR. SCOTT ASHWORTH (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Aloha and good morning Councilmembers. My name is Scott Ashworth. I am the
director of golf for Four Seasons Resorts, Lana'i. I have been fortunate to live on Lana'i
now for almost eight years, and also fortunate to be the director of golf at Manele Golf
Course, which is I think is a golf course that we're all, are all extremely proud of here.
But as great as the golf course is, our biggest challenge by far is labor, We've had,
obviously, a huge challenge in trying to hire staff for the golf courses, and that's
certainly kept us from reaching our potential. And also made it difficult on the existing
staff members that we do have. And probably more challenging, or maybe even
disturbing in the last couple of months we've lost two of our members; one which has
lived on Lana'i for over a year and one that was born and raised on Lana'i, and actually
had to move to LA again due to housing, which is, you know, really unfortunate. So I
am obviously testifying in support of CR 21-69 and hope that we can get some housing,
much-needed housing here on Lana'i. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 20
CHAIR LEE; Questions, Members? If not, thank you.
May we have the next testifier, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Next-
MR. ALASTAIR MCALPINE. FOUR SEASONS L^NA‘I (testifying on Committee Report
No. 21-69):
Aloha and good morning. Yea, please accept my full support of CR 21-69. I'm the
General Manager of the Four Seasons Resorts on Lana'i and have lived on the island
of Lana'i for a combined seven years. Tourism is an integral part of Lana'i economy
and our two properties. Four Seasons Resort Lana'i, and Sensei Lana'i, directly
employ over 800 people, obviously a significantly large segment of the local
community. And the vast majority of our workforce lives on Lana'i. And the 800
number does not even include the supporting elements of local businesses that we
also support.
The housing issue is one of our biggest challenges, as Scott has highlighted. And I
am in full support of the proposed residential project, which will provide affordable
workforce housing for our residents and the community. It is vital for this to move
forward and 1 would like to give it my full support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Alastair. Any questions, Members? If not, thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier, please?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kaleo Gonzalez. To be followed by Todd Apo.
MR. KALEO GONZALEZ (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Aloha. My name is Kaleo Gonzalez. 1 am a Sensei employee here in Lana'i. I've, I'm
a fairly new resident of about two years now. And since being here, I have noticed that
the housing has been an issue for quite a while. From my understanding it's been an
issue for quite a few decades, actually. And not only has it affected the employees not
being able to find housing to come here and work and to help expand the economy
here, but it's also been a big issue with the local residents, families growing, kids
growing up, having to move away and not able to come back. And just sounds like this
makes sense to help sustain the economy here, and not keep pushing people out, and
having large investors come in and buy up a bunch of property. And again, creating
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 21
more of a housing issue for the local, the local community. So, I am in favor of the S
CR, my apologies, the CR 21-69 bill. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk. Mr. Apo--
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier-
CHAIR LEE: -good morning.
MR. TODD APO. HAWAI I COMMUNITY FOUNDATION (testifying on Committee Report
No. 21-69):
Aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. Todd Apo with Hawaii Community Foundation.
Appreciate the chance to be in front you all again. I'll try to keep this brief. I'm testifying
in support of CR 21-69. As I shared at the Affordable Housing Committee meetings
that you had, I had the opportunity and was fortunate enough to get over, see these
lands, see where the County lands sit. Do now understand the strong need for rental
housing and overall housing on Lana'i, as well as the entire County of Maui. And, you
know. I'll talk a little about our housing Maui initiative.
But really believe that these rental homes are really the place to start. So, appreciate
what the landowner is willing to provide for these rentals. You know, one thing that
we're finding through our overall initiative in looking at affordable housing is that it takes
time to connect up the supply with the demand on the for-sale purchase side. You
know, people, families need the opportunity to build up their credit scores, their
financial situations for purchase. So, moving forward first with these rentals, I believe
is really important.
Second point is as I committed earlier, we as Hawaii Community Foundation will stay
engaged with you as the Council and with the entire County in housing matters. You
know, and so we know that the County lands sitting adjacent to Pulama's lands for this
project is a next step. I've actually taken the opportunity to talk with the Administration
about how we can assist and play a part in moving forward, with sort of that next phase.
And I know the discussion, through your last hearings, in regards to getting for-sale
product, I think the County lands hold that opportunity. And again, we'll participate in
trying to figure that out.
So, again, in the big picture, we know there needs to be a number of system changes
to bring about more affordable housing. This project is one step into that, and we look
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 22
fonward to continuing to participate with you, including your work with the affordable
housing plan that you received about a month ago in bringing those solutions for the
County of Maui and its residents for homes. So, thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Apo. Any questions, Members? If not, thank you. Aloha.
MR. APO: Aloha. Have a great weekend, all.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Riki Hokama. To be Cindy Figuerres.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hokama.
MR. RIKI HOKAMA (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Hey, good morning. Chair Lee. And good morning, Members. This is Riki Hokama. I
am speaking to you this morning as a Lanaian, whose family has been there over,
about 100 years. We know the history of this island. We know the, how this housing
thing has moved over the last 38 years, that Lana'i has been waiting for this, for a
County housing project to come to fruition, and for various reasons, and the delays.
(Councilmember Paltin arrived at 9:54 a.m.)
MR. HOKAMA: I'm here just to share some comment because I understand Pulama LanaYs
proposal. It's not great to me, but it's enough that I can support it to get the housing
units. My concerns I share with you is that it's bringing me back to the old traditional
plantation days where the employer is now going to control this 150-units of housing,
just like it was in the old days. The only thing we could do back then with the union's
helping the community leadership was force the company to do a community housing
committee to ensure fair distribution of company-owned houses to all community
needs, whether it was the independent businesspeople, enforcement, first-responders,
those that were not employed by Dole, Castle & Cooke. I look at this and I'm going,
gee, all the housing is going be rented, it'll al lbe controlled by the same guy that is
your employer, that controls your water, controls your recreational grounds. I don't like
to go backwards in time. I think we're going to go back to the 1940's. So, I just share
that with you folks.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 23
I think one of the things that you could do, since you're going to allow some market
units just to ensure some of the conditions of zoning for the Koele Project District
becomes executed. And one of the key things I think Mr. Johnson is really aware of,
that he and I worked together, is the bypass road. Because that bypass road for that
project was never done, we've had to deal with residents, or Lanaian fatalities, to our
city streets that was never meant to handle development traffic. So, I just bring these
things up to share with you that these are things that I think is important, as you look
through this project.
And the only thing I'm going to say is my biggest disappointment is in the County
Housing Department. Because I've been pushing for  ajoint project for the County and
this company over the last six years. Now, it became one or the other? Well, Members,
I'm going to say, you know, I, I understand where this is going, and I want the units on
Lana'i. But I think in my heart. I'm going to tell you straight. Thank you for killing the
County housing project on Lana'i, because that was part of the critical mass
requirements that you're going to shift now to the Pulama project that would have made
our project potentially viable, especially on the infrastructure requirements of the road,
the water, and the wastewater. And if you look at our projects reports on those three
infrastructure things, it's interesting how different it is for the Pulama report on those
very same things that you have in your committee report today. But I thank you for
your work and I look forward to your final decision. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Any clarifying questions?
Member Paltin, hello and welcome.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Bonsoir, Madam Chair. Merci beaucoup. My question to
clarify. Mr. Hokama, I'm sure you're aware that we have a 45-day deadline. And I just
was wondering, you can support the project, but you want these other things. Is that
just your comments or was there something that we can do at this point?
MR. HOKAMA: That's just my comments, Ms. Paltin. Thank you for asking that question. I
think all of you are aware that a lot of things that happens with Lana'i is because of the
project district ordinance that were passed with conditions of approval. I think, if
anyway may remember is Ms. Lee, I think she can go back to that era.
I mean. I’m talking about 1980's now, okay, when we pushed these projects through.
That's for Project District 1, Project District 2, in the County Code is Koele and Manele
of Lana'i. And again, that's how long these conditions are, and that's how long the
County has this land to do what the community had always wanted, which was an
independent housing project where the employer couldn't control who got the housing;
your employer. Right now, your employer controls your whole life if you're on Lana'i,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 24
if you work for them. They control your job, they control your house, they control your
water, they control your recreational grounds, okay.
And like every place else on Maui, we have lost people because of the pandemic. So,
are the numbers still right? I think Maui lost, has lost over between 10 to 15,000
employees that left the island. So, our numbers still viable?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, is your concern that, of the limited capacity of the
wastewater treatment facility on Lana'i, that this Hokuao Project is taking and leaving
us with . . .
MR. HOKAMA: Well, eventually, if the County ever does this project or there's additional
expansion of non-PGlama assets, either the County or that other project is going to
have to work to help expand the County infrastructure. Whether we build more ponds,
whatever. Okay, so right there, you got, you created a knot in the road. The next
project may never ever happen, and maybe that could be the County's project. That's
why I'm saying, this may kill the County project and you're going to have to deal with it
Because this is something interesting, the County cannot even support its own housing
project. That's my point.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Hokama.
CHAIR LEE: --did you have your questions answered?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Sugimura, only on clarification now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so 1 do know, okay, tell me if this is not clarification.
But I do know that Riki put money into the budget year after year, I don't know, and
into the Affordable Housing Fund, but he was trying to work on this. So, are you saying
that the money that you placed within the County budget cannot support this, or, and,
and the fulfillment of the County housing? I thought that was your goal when you were
a Councilmember?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member, Member Sugimura-
MR. HOKAMA: That's two different projects, yea-
CHAIR LEE: —what we're really talking about-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 25
MR. HOKAMA; Ms. Sugimura?
CHAIR LEE; Member, Mr. Hokama. We're talking about the Pulama Lana'i rental project.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. I’ll take it back. I'll take it back. I'll talk to Riki later.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Good. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions for Mr. Hokama?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, former Councilmember
Hokama. Nice to see you.
MR. HOKAMA: Aloha.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I wanted to clarify  acouple things. The first is the,
you cited 10 to 15,000 employees that Maui lost. Would you be able to share where
you got that, what source you got that information from?
MR. HOKAMA: And, again, yea, Ms. Rawlins, I'm giving you what, the kind of feedback that
people share with me from the, you know, hotels, the golf courses, restaurants and
what not, you know. And because I, you know, they always say oh, Hokama, what do
you think? And I'm going, oh I'm only interested in what you think, you know? Cause
now I feel like I'm just like the regular, regular guy at the. you know, coffee shop drinking
coffee with everybody else.
For those that have been employers, or working, they notice that, you know, in the last
six months or plus, some of their so-called friends have relocated because they cannot
work and deal with the cost of living of our County. So, they've already vacated and
left, whetherthey went to Vegas or other communities, they're noton-island. And that's
why for some employers, they're saying, I told them why don't you hire back your
people? He goes, they're not here, that I was depending on, or who used to work for
me, they’re not here anymore.
So. I'm just making a, you know, assumption, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, on the, about
how much people are, have potentially left, because you can see it in the housing,
impact in, how it's impacting the housing market on all islands. You can see how it's
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 26
still affecting employment because a lot of our local businesspeople, if you look, are
saying they cannot operate a regular workweek because they have lack of employees.
Your local restaurants, whether it’s the Sheik's or whatnot saying not enough
employees. So, to me, that’s a sign that, you know, they're not here. And that's what
I'm saying--
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Hokama.
MR. HOKAMA: --that the numbers have adjusted accordingly.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. Ms. Rawlins, please ask your questions pertaining to
the Lana’i, the island of Lana'i, and not Maui.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I was just clarifying his testimony. Okay, and
then so my second question. I guess as a follow-up to Member Paltin's question. So,
in your, in your testimony, I know you said that you were just providing comments. Is
it to, instead of using the current capacity, are you, are you asking that the condition
be that Pulama Lana’i build additional capacity in the systems, water, wastewater,
instead of taking up current capacity, to build capacity to accommodate the project?
And then to follow-up, a second condition on the bypass to avoid construction vehicles
going through roadways that wasn't meant for those types of vehicles to go through.
MR. HOKAMA: For me. I'm hard on the bypass, because the bypass was part of an
infrastructural agreement with then Castle & Cooke, who did the proposal of the project
and the County, and at that time, the ILWU, which was a strong community organizer
and most of the community members were a part of that organization agree that the
bypass would then become a physical delineation of the boundary of the expansion of
the community of Lana’i City. That was the plan.
So, if you look, Maui Electric had already put its utility poles along the proposed bypass
road, that we've all agreed to, but was never built. But the utility put in the lines,
following that proposed route, that should have been done in the '80s, when we passed
this project in '83, okay. Mr. Bagoyo, who was on Council, then worked for Pulama
and got them to defer timing of execution of conditions of zoning.
CHAIR LEE: I, I'm going to have to interrupt you here, Mr. Hokama.
MR. HOKAMA: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 27
CHAIR LEE: i don't believe the bypass is on the agenda. Bypass road is not on the agenda.
MR. HOKAMA: No, I understand, Ms. Lee. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Do you have any other clarifying questions, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Those were-
CHAIRLEE: With the 201H. Huh?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Those were my questions. Mahalo, Mr. Hokama.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MR. HOKAMA: Aloha. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Hokama. Nice to see
you.
MR. HOKAMA: Thank you. Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, ourfinal individual signed up to testify right now is Alberto Gonzalez.
MR. ALBERTO GONZALEZ (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Hi. Good morning, Councilmembers. My name is Alberto Gonzalez. I am not a paid
lobbyist. I'm currently the resident manager of Iwiole Hale and Kanepuu housing.
Between both complexes, there's about a little over 180 different units. And within
those 180 something units, and throughout the rest of Lana'i City, there's a lot of
residents that are living in a less than ideal housing situations. And this is for many
reasons. You know, in some cases, you know, people have divorced, and they need
to split and find new home. In other cases, people are moving onto the island and
there isn't housing available so they're staying in the hotels; mainly Four Seasons and
Sensei employees, and some PDIama employees as well. There is also people that
are growing their families and they need a larger place to live in. There's people that
are involved in domestic violence and they have nowhere else to go. There's issues
among the different scenarios that are forcing people to live in these less than ideal
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 28
living situations, which is affecting the quality of life. And this is why we know we need
more housing. Because there is no housing. You know, there's a waitlist for tenants
to find or secure a unit here within the apartments.
I also understand that the workforce affordable housing, the 76 units that will be
reserved for affordable housing within the HokOao residential project, not everybody
will qualify for those. However, there's a significant amount of people that are going to
qualify for those. And what's going to happen is once those people vacate their current
living situation and they move to Hokuao, it's going to open up a significant amount of
units between iwiole and Kanepuu, which is going to help relieve some of that housing
stress. That's why I support the Hokuao residential project. And thank you for your
time.
CHAIR LEE; Very good. Any more questions? Members, questions?
Member Paltin. And let the record show, Member Paltin, what time did you join the
call, roughly?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I tried to get on and then I had some internet issues. So
I think maybe I really was on from maybe 10:00, or 10:00 your time?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, so-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Which is 10:00 p.m. my time, 10:00 a.m. your time.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Thank you. So, we can show that you were present from about
10:00 a.m. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: In the room with me, Noe Lee, Kai Nishiki, and Taylor Kealoha, right now.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Please proceed with your questions. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh. Thank you. Mr. Gonzalez, thank so much. I wanted to
clarify what you said about the 180 units. Is it all two-bedroom, or is it a mixture?
MR. GONZALEZ; It's a mixture, Within Iwiole, there's 16 buildings. And each building has
eight units. And those range from one to two, to  acouple three bedrooms. And in the
quads, which is aka Kanepuu, there's 27 buildings. And some of the buildings have
studios. So, it's four studios, some of the buildings have one, some have two
bedrooms. So, it's a mix. So, we have a very diverse in, in both demographic, in
culture, in family size between these units.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 29
Another example I forgot to mention was there’s big families, like multiple families living
in one household. And that's, it's grown a little bit since I first started managing this
property. And it's, a big reason is because they don't have anywhere else to go. I
mean, families help each other out, so they have no problem, you know, putting
10 people or 12 people in a one-bedroom, one bathroom unit, which presents a whole
other issues.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you so much for-
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -that clarification. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Gonzalez.
MR. GONZALEZ: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, are there any other testifiers?
COUNTY CLERK: We do have one more testifier that signed up. The caller identified as
Anabel.
CHAIR LEE: Anabel?
MS. ANABEL RAQUENO (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-69):
Yes. Hi. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking the time this morning. My
name is Anabel and I moved here back in 2004. And  Ialready testified in the past. I
just wanted to let you guys know that I heard a lot of people that wanted to move here
to help some job openings, like the school, or hospital, or home health, homecare
agency. But because of a housing shortage, it's been a challenge. So, of course, they
wouldn't be able to just continue to move to Lana'i. So, ! would be happy to continue
to support and testify this project. And would like to have a continuous update and
want this successful project.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any, any questions. Members? If not, thank you, Anabel.
MS. RAQUENO: Oh, thank you so much.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 30
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair. I had a question.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't see you. Anabel, don't go away. Member Paltin has a
question for you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Hello, Ms. Anabel. Are you still on?
MS. RAQUENO: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering, hearing the previous testifier talk about
how you have so much families in one apartment, but plenty of folks still want to move
to Lana'i. If they move to Lana'i to take these housings, how does it alleviate the
problem that’s existing there right now with everybody stuffed into one unit or house?
MS. RAQUENO; Well, I would, I don’t know answer at the moment. But just, in addition to
that, knowing that the hospital or, I work in a home health, homecare agency and we
are like a short staffing. A lot of people would inquire and wanted to move just to help
out fill in that job openings. But because of a housing problem, how would we continue
to hire people? And so, if that's the case, it would still be a problem.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you for that clarification. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you, Anabel.
MS. RAQUENO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. Can we get the last name of Anabel, please?
CHAIR LEE: Anabel, are you still there? I'm sure we can ask Member Johnson to find out
who Anabel is.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I have a pretty good idea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Thank you. Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. And
if an individual connected to the meeting has not testified, but would like to do so,
please unmute and identify yourself now. This is the last call for testifiers.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 31
MR. GONZALEZ: Alberto here. Am I able to say something, even though I already spoke?
Is that okay?
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Yea, you've already testified.
MR. GONZALEZ: Okay. 1 just, I wanted to clarify something that Tamara had asked about
large families and, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We, we appreciate your testimony. And then, you know, we just want
to, the questions are really for clarification and not for any kind of debate or discussion.
Alright. Anymore testifiers, Members? Well, not Members, but Madam Clerk? Can
you make your last call again?
COUNTY CLERK: Last call. Last call for testify, to testify at today's meeting. Chair, no one
else has indicated that they wish to testify. And confirming that we have received
written testimony as well.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections to receiving written testimony into the record and to
closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Keiki-Pua S. Dancil, Pulama Lana'i;
Roger Alconcel;
Alastair McAlpine, Four Seasons Resorts Lana'i;
Nelinia Cabiles; and
Shayne Kunimitsu.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
CHAIR LEE: No objections? So, ordered.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the Consent Calendar, item I. on our, on our
agenda.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 32
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
{dated August 17, 2021)
NO. 21-423
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for June 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-423 WAS REMOVED FROM
THE CONSENT CALENDAR AND LATER REFERRED TO THE
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE. See
page 35 for discussion.)
NO. 21-424 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated August 2, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development, for the Emergency Housing Vouchers program in the amount
of $420,336.
NO. 21-425 - MARC I. TAKAMORl , DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION
(dated August 17, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the receipt of dues paid from the State Department of
Transportation for the transportation planning portion of the Maui MPO FY2021 and
FY2022 Unified Planning Work Program totaling $100,000.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated August 18, 2021)
NO. 21-426
Informing of a vacancy on the Board of Water Supply due to the resignation of Johanna
Amorin, effective August 17, 2021.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 33
NO. 21-427 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINQ, MAYOR
(dated August 19, 2021)
Informing of a vacancy on the Cost of Government Commission due to the resignation
of Patrick D. O'Neil, PhD, effective August 18, 2021.
NO. 21-428 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINQ. MAYOR,
(dated August 17, 2021)
Informing of a vacancy on the Council on Aging due to the resignation of Katherine
Kama'ema'e Smith, effective August 17, 2021.
NO. 21-429 - JOANN INAMASU. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR
(dated August 23, 2021)
Transmitting an extension request for the OED grant summaries for FY2021.
CHAiR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO FILE ALL THE ITEMS ON THE CONSENT
CALENDAR
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Second. And moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Johnson, to file the items on the Consent Calendar.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and then Member Sugimura.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. As the Consent Calendar, we do not
discuss the items on the Consent Calendar. Mahalo, Chair. We just take action.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 34
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Could, could I ask for 21-423 to my
IT Committee, please?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members? Ifnot, we'll-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair? Chair, point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I know the Consent Calendar is still kind of
new. So, we don’t do that in this motion. That's not the procedure. You would remove
it from the Consent Calendar, and then later on when we take up the rest of the agenda,
you would then request for it to go to your Committee. But not that I have any
objections. I just want us to practice the process.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Okay. So, she, the request to be to remove-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Remove it. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: To remove this item from, okay. Any objections to removing CC 21-423 from
the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
So, the rest will be filed, right? Unless anybody has a request of any kind right now
regarding that. No. Okay, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand, say "aye",
to file all these items, except CC 21-423.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 35
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Motion carries. We have eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Sorry about that.
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk, I notice we don't have minutes today, yea?
COUNTY CLERK: No. We have, we have some standing by for our next meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Chair, proceeding, proceeding with County Communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 21-423
(dated August 17, 2021)
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for June 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, you're requesting that this matter be referred to your
Committee, IT Committee? Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, proceed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 36
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. CHAIR, BUDGET.
FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE,
(dated August 26, 2021)
NO. 21-430
Transmitting correspondence dated July 30, 2021, from the Budget Director,
transmitting the following proposed bills entitled:
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS
AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY (STATE OF HAWAII MAKENA
LIFEGUARD SERVICES)"; and
1.
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX  D-
CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE, DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
(STATE OF HAWAII MAKENA LIFEGUARD SERVICES)".
2.
CHAIR LEE; Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE BUDGET, FINANCE, AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER
CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSED BILL ATTACHED TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-430.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
discharge this item from the Committee.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
As we discussed in
BFED Committee, the Department is able to expedite lifeguards to Makena Beach
Park. And it's necessary for us to take action on this today, so that we can support the
Department in expediting the lifeguards. And that'll be the same reason for my next
motion, which is the waiver on Committee referral and report. Mahalo, Chair.
Mahalo, Chair.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 37
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion for the discharge
raise your hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: I see eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rules of the Council and 7.G.
Any discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Same discussion as the previous.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion. Members? If not, all those in favor waive, wave
your hand. Raise your hand. You could wave your hand as well. This is for the waiver,
so we can wave our hands.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 38
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor, I see eight "ayes" and one "excused": motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
AND FINALLY, I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON
FIRST READING AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION
21-430.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King
to pass the attached bill on first reading and filing of the communication.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the proposed bill would
amend Appendix A, Part I, and Appendix D of the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget by adding
a new grant under the Department of Fire and Public Safety entitled, "State of Hawaii
Makena Lifeguard Services", and conditional language limiting disbursement for
salaries and premium pay to 10.5 LTA equivalent personnel.
As discussed in your Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee
meeting of September 1. 2021, this is an annual agreement with the State. And the
Department anticipates sufficient staff, supplies, and equipment to have personnel
stationed at the beach by October 13 or 15. I ask for the Members support of this
motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Oh, Member Paltin, our lifeguard.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. You know, I'm very grateful the State give
back this money. But I just wanted to make comment that in opening up Hawaii to the
tourists before returning the lifeguards to Makena Beach, how many people lost their
lives, how many people got paralyzed, you know? I have friends that are medics,
friends in the hospital. They said over a three-week period everyday they bringing
people to the hospital with injury. And that is direct result of the State opening up
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 39
tourism without taking the proper steps to ensure that there's lifeguards at Makena
Beach.
And everybody blaming the County cause it's us that supply the workers with contract
to Makena Beach, but it's a State beach park. And they collecting $10 for parking, so
much for admission, $90,000 a month and this is way late. This is way late. How many
people lost mobility of all their limbs because the State dragging their feet. It never
should have been cut off in the first place. It sends a message that only the tourist's
lives are more important than the local people that is going to Makena Beach. So, I'm
grateful they gave us back the money, grateful they gave us back the position. But for
some people that cannot walk anymore, it's too late.
And, and the Hawaii Tourism Authority, how many years we give them millions of
dollars? Maui Visitors Bureau, how many years we give them millions of dollars? And
yet, somehow, we cannot put messages on the airplanes? So, I'm glad it's back, but
for some people, it's too late. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to support this motion. I'm not
going to belabor what was just said, but it is a dangerous area with undertow out there
at Makena. The one thing I wanted to bring up is it came up in Committee that this is
going to be an annual thing. So we don't have to go back every year and ask for this
money. And probably increase every year, because, you know, people need an
increase in pay. So, hopefully, we can work with the State, and our Administration to,
to not be in, you know, in a crunch time like this where we're, we are late on getting
this money and ... I just put that out there. But thank you, Member Rawlins-
Fernandez, for expediting this in the Committee and for trying to get it on the Consent
Calendar. That's all. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion to
pass this bill, and file the communication, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 40
CHAIR LEE: It's eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, that is BILL NO. 86 (2021) and BILL 87 (2021).
Proceeding with communications for referral. The following County Communications
are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR,NO. 21-431
(dated August 25, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF FIRE
AND PUBLIC SAFETY, COUNTYWIDE. COUNTYWIDE FIRE FACILITIES".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-431 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(THE PROPOSED BILL ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-431 WAS PASSED ON FIRST
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL
NO. 88 (2021). COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-431
WAS THEN FILED. See pages 42 through 46 for discussion and
action.)
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR,NO. 21-432
(dated August 27, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX D
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM; AND AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND".
CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE. OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-432 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 41
(THE PROPOSED BILL ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-432 WAS PASSED ON FIRST
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL
NO. 89 (2021). COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-432
WAS THEN FILED. See pages 42 through 46 for discussion and
action.)
NO. 21-433 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated August 17, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING
THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE OFFICE OF THE AUDITOR,
STATE OF HAWAII, TO AUDIT THE SCHEDULE OF ALLOCATIONS OF THE
EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF THE STATE OF HAWAI I".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-433 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(THE PROPOSED BILL ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-433 WAS PASSED ON FIRST
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL
NO. 90 (2021). COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-433
WAS THEN FILED. See pages 46 through 49 for discussion and
action.)
NO. 21-434 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE,
(dated August 17, 2021)
Transmitting the Summary of Total Funded Indebtedness of the County's Outstanding
and Unpaid as of July 1,2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-434 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 42
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated August 23, 2021)
NO. 21-435
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING CERTAIN FINANCING
STRUCTURE COMPONENTS RELATING TO THE USE OF FUNDS RECEIVED
THROUGH CHAPTER 3.35, MAUI COUNTY CODE, THE KAIAULU O HALELE'A
APARTMENTS AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-435 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-436
(dated August 27, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 2.08.060, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO COUNCIL SERVICES
STAFF SALARIES".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-436 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(See page 49 through 52 for discussion.)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NOS. 21-431 and 21-432
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration on CC 21-431 and
CC 21-432.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BOTH OF THESE
COMMUNICATIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF
THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 43
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Mem, moved by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded
by Member Sinenci, to v/aive the Rules of the Council on CC 21-431, CC 21-432.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Chair. I’m taking these two
up together. They're both housekeeping items and I'll explain more at, during the main
motion. But there were words that were inadvertently left out that make a substantial
difference, so correcting these as housekeeping items as quickly as possible.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of waiving 7.G.
raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes'one "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-431 AND
21-432.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to pass the attached bills on first reading and filing of the communications.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3. 2021
Page 44
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, these bills do not impact
the totals of the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget or necessitate further amendments.
The first bill amends Appendix C, Capital Improvement Projects, Department of Fire
and Public Safety, to change the word to allow the Department to supplement existing
capital improvement projects that exceed its current budget allocated due to material
and shipping cost increases. The bill also adds the heading "5. Paia-Flaiku Community
Plan Area".
The second bill amends the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix D, to update or add
the conditional language for Re-Tree Flawaii, the Liloa Hale Project, and the Hale
Piikea Project. These changes have already been made in the budget bill and only
needed to be added to Appendix D. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And then I-
CHAIR LEE: -or questions? I'm sorry. Were, were you not done?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, I, I will have to move for amendments. And I
need a second to pull that up. So, if you'd like to see if the Members have any
discussion at this point, I will yield the floor and pull up the motion to amend.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Just wanted to point out for the public in case
they are, if there's any concerns on No. 21-432, that this is not changing the, the
original project. It's just, it's just adding the fiscal sponsor. So, it was, it was something
that wasn't known at the time that we passed it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anymore comments or questions?
Vice-Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 45
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Okay, so the Clerk's have sent
everyone my Amendment Summary Form; ASF CC 21-431. It should be in your inbox
at 10:33 a.m.
THE MOTION IS TO AMEND APPENDIX C. FISCAL YEAR 2022
BUDGET, DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY,
COUNTYWIDE FIRE FACILITIES, TO ENSURE THE LIST OF
PROJECTS IS NOT EXCLUSIVE AND TO CORRECT
INADVERTENT STYLE ERRORS, BY:
REMOVING ", BUT NOT LIMITED TO";1.
CHANGING "STATION" TO "STATIONS" AFTER "PAIA
MAKAWAO, AND KULA"; AND
2.
CHANGING "KIHEI STATION" CAPITALIZED "S", TO
"KIHEI STATION" SMALL "S".
3.
CHAIR LEE: Any comments or questions? Or, okay, that's an amendment. That’s an
amendment, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, I'll need a second.
CHAIR LEE: So, \we need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez to amend the main motion.
And you heard her amendment. This, thisand seconded by Member King,
housekeeping measure is turning out to be cleaning the whole house.
Okay, so any more discussion on the amendment, anybody? If not, all those in favor
of the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 46
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: I see eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Motion carries on the
amendment.
Now, did you have another amendment, Vice-Chair, or that's it?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, that completes it. I support the main motion, as
amended.
CHAIR LEE: Main motion, as amended. Any more discussion on the main motion, as
amended? If not, all those in favor, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused": motion carries. Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-433
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration on CC 21-433. This
is the, regarding the Office of the Auditor, Hawaii State.
OKAY, MOVE, I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF
COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 47
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
\A/aive the Rules of the Council on CC 21-433.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Members, for this
consideration. This is an annual payment for this annual audit that we do. And we've
taken it up on November 9, 2020 in the EDB Committee; November 20, at the Council
meeting; June 13, at the BF 2017 BF meeting. So, we've, we've had discussions on
this previously and there, there aren't any changes. So, consideration on not requiring
it to go to Committee. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Vice-Chair, not Vice-Chair.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Just a question. It was a standard amount, right, Keani?
Every year, it was, I don't want to say 10,000 or, it was a standard amount that every
year it's our percentage that we, we are responsible? Okay, I support this. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes, that's correct. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, we're just on the waiver. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", zero. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 48
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-433.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
pass the attached bill on first reading, and filing of the communication.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. Members, this bill provides funding
for an audit of the schedule of allocations of the Employees' Retirement System, ERS,
for the State of Hawaii for Fiscal Years 2021 through 2026. The cost of these services
would be $1,700 each fiscal year. The County of Maui's Comprehensive Annual Fiscal
Report audit requires the ERS schedule of allocations to be audited in accordance with
the Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 68. Representatives
from the Administration are available to answer any questions the Members may have.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have questions? We have the Budget Chair standing by from
Portland.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The Budget Director?
CHAIR LEE: Yea, the Budget Director. Any, so no questions? All those in favor of the motion
raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 49
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-436
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Sorry. Consideration on CC 21-436.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. She hasn't called that one up yet.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh. Oh okay. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: But she can. She can. Madam Clerk-
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 1,1
CHAIR LEE: -can you call up-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, 1 was going to just yield to the Clerk, and then-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We’re yielding to you. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. I did call up that item, actually.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you did call it up?
COUNTY CLERK: Communication 21-436.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I, I didn't realize it. You skipped over 434, or did you do 434 and 435? You
did all of them?
COUNTY CLERK: All of them for referral, yea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 50
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And, and a quick recap. So, we
passed 430, 431, 432, and 433 just now. I'm requesting referral to the BFED
Committee for 434 and 435; and consideration on 21-436.
AND I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
waive Rule 7.G., regarding CC 21-436.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We're on the waiver? Oh, so approval of this motion
by a two-thirds of the vote of the entire membership will enable us to pass the proposed
bill today. Taking this bill up today will enable our Department to, OCS Department to
work more efficiously [sic], efficiently. And I will explain more in the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion on the waiver?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, I really would like this to go to the appropriate
Committee to discuss in detail, rather than passing it on the floor today. So, that's
going to be my position. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'll, I'll yield to Member Paltin and
then I, 1 have a comment after.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Member Rawlins-
Fernandez. I just was wondering the time sensitivity part. So, maybe she can answer
both at one time or something.
Oh, thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3. 2021
Page 51
CHAIR LEE: Chair, can you comment on the time sensitivity?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member Paltin. If Members didn't have any
objections to sending this to Committee, then 1 would take it up today. But there was
an objection from Member Sugimura, so I would be happy to take it to Committee for
a deeper discussion on this bill.
CHAIR LEE: So, are you saying-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I-
CHAIR LEE: --there is no time constraints?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I, I WITHDRAW MY MOTION.
CHAIR LEE: No time sensitivity with regard to this item?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, I guess that's debatable.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Thank you for that clarification, Vice-Chair. Alright. Members, do you want
to proceed with this, or do you want to refer this to the BFED Committee?
Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay. I, I didn't know you were going to give it
to the Members for informal poll.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Tell me if I'm wrong. I heard you say that you wanted to pass this on the
floor today, unless there's an objection from the Members, yea? So, I'm checking if
there are any other objections from the Members. Any other objections from the
Members? Or did you, Vice-Chair, mean just one objection from the Members?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It sounds like there are two objections, and so I'll take
it to Committee. I'll withdraw my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Main motion and second are withdrawn.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Keani.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 52
CHAIR LEE: And so, you are also requesting-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: --referral of this item to the BFED Committee?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's correct. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections, Members, to refer CC 21-434, 435, and 436 to the BFED
Committee?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
Okay. I think it's time for our morning break. So, let’s see, let's come back at 11:00.
And then if we're very efficient we might be able to get out before lunchtime. Of course,
I may be dreaming, but we can always try. So, Members, recess until 11 a.m. Thank
you.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:36 A.M.
RECONVENED AT 10:55 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER
KAMA, EXCUSED.)
AND WAS
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of September  3please reconvene. Madam Clerk, we
have Member Paltin, who is going to, for the record let us know who's in room with her.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Per the Governor's most recent emergency
proclamation 1 have in the room with me in addition to the three I mentioned earlier,
Kevin Chang, Scotty Garlough, Charlie Young, Margot Chesne, Sol Kahoohalahaia,
and Ginger Gohier.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Big room. Aloha from Maui to everyone there.
Madam Clerk, shall we proceed?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. For the record, County Communication 21-431, the bill that
was passed has been assigned BILL NO. 88 (2021); County Communication 21-432
is BILL 89 (2021): and County Communication 21-433 is BILL 90 (2021).
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 53
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-69NO. AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 21-136 , entitled "APPROVING WITH MODIFICATIONS THE
INDEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT OF THE HOKUAO HOUSING PROJECT
UNDER SECTION 201H-38, HAWAII REVISED STATUTES," be ADOPTED.
1.
That the proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING THE INDEPENDENT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE HOKUAO 201H HOUSING PROJECT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 201 H-38, HAWAII REVISED STATUTES," be FILED; and
2.
3. That the proposed resolution entitled "DISAPPROVING THE INDEPENDENT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE HOKUAO 201H HOUSING PROJECT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 201 H-38, HAWAII REVISED STATUTES," be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-69.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Molina to adopt the, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-69.
Discussion, Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Members, your Affordable Housing Committee met
August 2, 2021, August 16, 2021, and reconvened August 26, 2021 [sic] to consider
the proposed Hokuao 201H Project by developer Pulama Lana'i. Under 201 H-38,
Hawaii Revised Statutes, the Council must approve with modifications or disapprove
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 54
the proposed project within 45 days after the project submittal, which occurred July 21
2021.
Your Committee thoughtfully considered the project and took into account comments
received by various County agencies as well as public testimony and the majority which
expressed support for the project. After much discussion, your Committee agreed that
the Hokuao Project will help fill a large housing need for the Lana'i community, where
many residents are stacked up in overcrowded units. The housing shortage is also a
major issue for our young folk, many of whom would like to remain on the island or
return on the island, but have nowhere to live affordable or otherwise.
The Hokuao project will provide 150 single family homes on 8,000 square foot lots for
Lana'i residents. Seventy-six of these fully furnished two-bedroom homes will be
rented in perpetuity as workforce housing units to households earning between
80 percent and 140 percent area median income as adjusted for Lana'i. Monthly rents
for these units range from $1,000 to $1750 per month, including ail utilities and property
maintenance. The project will also provide 74 market-rate units, a community center,
one-acre park, fruit-bearing trees and Native Hawaiian trees, road extensions,
sidewalks on at least one side of the project’s internal roads, and other infrastructure
improvements.
In addition, the developer will develop stub outs for water and wastewater for the
anticipated County affordable housing project on Lana'i. Puiama Lana'i will also
extend deed restriction period for 39 existing units at Iwiole Hale making them
affordable in perpetuity.
Your Committee recognized that Lana'i has not had large-scale affordable housing
construction for almost 30 years, for over 30 years. With the Hokuao project we could
be seeing construction start within two years. In order to expedite the project, your
Committee approved various exemptions from requirements in the Maui County Code.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolution
approving the project with modifications and filing of the other proposed resolutions.
The Hokuao project will be a great benefit for, to the residents of Lana'i, and has the
support of the community. 1 respectfully ask for your support of this motion. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. More discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So I wanted to know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 55
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry, excuse me, I should have called on the person who seconded
the motion.
Member Molina, first.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes. Thank you very much Madam Chair. I want to first thank
our Affordable Housing Chair, Mr. Johnson for shepherding this matter through. It was
a very, had some longs sessions but it was certainly well-vetted out. And mahalo to
Pulama Lanai for certainly, you know, while this may not be a perfect project in the
eyes of some, it's still much-needed housing for this community. So this is certainly a
very, very big step towards addressing the housing crisis on Lanai. With that said,
Madam Chair, I'm happy to support this proposal. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Molina.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I wanted to if I could, Chair Johnson, if I could, you're
the Chair of the Affordable Housing Committee, but to add in the comments that we
heard from Keiki-Pua in her testimony with the amendment to the Committee Report
on page 9.
CHAIR LEE: Would you like to read it? I think you would have to make a motion, amending
the main motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SO I WOULD LIKE TO AMEND THE MAIN MOTION BY ADDING
ON PAGE 9, BULLET POINT NO. 3 IN THE TOP, AFTER
COMPLETING THIS PROJECT, AND THIS IS THE ADD,
"PHASE 1 AND PHASE 2 OF THE COUNTY'S AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROJECT, AND FULFILLING PULAMA LA.NATS
RENTAL NEEDS, IF AN ASSESSMENT DEMONSTRATES THE
NEED FOR WORKFORCE HOUSING OWNERSHIP UNITS,
THE DEVELOPER WILL CONSIDER OFFERING EXISTING
HOMES IN ITS RENTAL INVENTORY FOR SALE TO INCOME
QUALIFIED RESIDENTS". SO THE ADDITION WOULD BE
AFTER THE WORD "PROJECTS," ADD "PHASE 1 AND PHASE
2 OF THE COUNTY'S AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT,"
AND THEN THE REST OF THE PARAGRAPH.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Is there a second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 56
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Seconded by Member King. Any discussion on that amendment?
Member Sugimura, and then Member King. Member Sugimura do you want to add
do you want to say anything to your motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm sorry. So the only thing I guess I would, you know, if,
if people have questions, maybe Keiki-Pua or Pulama Lana'i can answer it, but it was
basically taken from the minutes, verbatim minutes as it was presented, and just a
discussion between Gabe Johnson and Kurt Matsumoto during the Committee report,
I mean, sorry Committee hearing. And so therefore, this is the amendment that was
proposed. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King who seconded the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I don't have anything to add, I think it sounded
like it was a discussion that they had directly with our Affordable Housing Chair, and I
saw his hand up. So perhaps he would like to discuss this further?
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair.
I JUST WANT TO ADD TO COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA'S
AMENDMENT THAT THEY'RE MISSING THE WORD
"COUNTY'S LANA'I AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT." AND
I THINK THAT MIGHT MAKE A DIFFERENCE. SO IF YOU
WANT TO PUT THAT IN THERE, THAT'S ALL THAT I WANTED
TO ADD TO IT?
CHAIR LEE: Is that okay with you, Member Sugimura? Yeah, this sounds like, for
clarification.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: As the seconder I accept that friendly amendment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 57
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion on the amendment? If not. all those in favor of the
amendment, please say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five, six, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Motion
carries.
Now the motion, the main motion as amended. Any more discussion on that? If not,
all those in favor of the main motion as amended, please say "aye", and raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I. I have some discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry, I missed you. Before the vote. Member Paltin has discussion
questions or comments.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you Chair. And you know, I haven't had a chance to
write that letter to Mr. Ellison yet, cause, well  .. . and so I just, I just need to say my
comments, you know, before, before we vote on this. And, and I feel like, you know,
really our, our back is against the wall. I'm saddened that Mr. Hokama only told us
these comments about the bypass with only a few days left before the deadline, where
it either passes or we don't get any modifications of the native trees, the fruit trees, the
sidewalks, the houses that might be sold to people if they have extra. And you know,
it's a good project for any old developer to bring to a community.
But if you have $117,000 million, and if you own 98 percent of an island, and if, if you
care about that island, you know? Like if it were me, i would want to see the best for
the people that live there. I would want to see them own homes, I would want to see
them have a good school. And especially, if 1 made a global giving pledge to give away
95 percent of my wealth before I die and I'm already 77 years old, you know, a stub out
to the County property? That's, that's not even a million dollars. That is not even
anything. And I know fVlr. Matsumoto said what I was asking wasn't fair, but, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 58
it's not fair that some folks have $117,000 million and some people just want a place
to live.
So you know, obviously, I got to support it, because the need is so great over there.
But if, if you live in Lana‘i, because you like to live there, why he's not doing more for
the people? Why he is not reaching out to us? Why he's not doing more, and that's
all I got to say. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Are there any more comments?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Point of order, I guess.  Igot a text that people are trying
to view this and cannot hear it on Akaku. So I wonder if you could check?
CHAIR LEE: I'm looking at Akaku right now, I can hear you. I can hear it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, you can, channel 53, 54? Okay, okay. It may be old.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I, i support the motion before us, and I want
to acknowledge Councilmember Gabe Johnson, who chairs the Affordable Housing
Committee for his diligence on affordable housing on Lanai I think this is going to
bring a lot of housing, I, even though I was one of the stronger advocates for adding
on the infrastructure, you know. I don't think we should let the good be the enemy of
the perfect, and so moving ahead, I think. Is a good idea.
I haven't given up on the idea of the truly affordable County section of the housing
projects and am, you know, willing to work through the Committee, or with Mr. Johnson
on that issue too going forward. But I think that the, I just want to acknowledge the fact
that as Riki Hokama said, it's been a really long time since any housing has been
developed. And, you know, here we have a bird in the hand, we need to ... we heard
nothing but the need for housing from the residents. So I just want to, I want to
acknowledge that, you know, within your first term. Member Johnson, you brought this
forward and were able to see some, hopefully see some construction of housing on
Lanai And we'll continue to work on the truly affordable side. So, I support the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 59
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. So I have Akaku on, too. And I just
v^anted to let those that don’t have audio on channel 53 kno\w that this meeting is also
broadcasting on channel 54, and channel 54 has audio. So if they're on channel 53,
and not hearing anything, go to channel 54. Mahalo for bringing that up, Member
Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, and since I have the floor, I'll just quickly, you kno\A/,
mahalo Member Johnson for his diligence on this item. And I'll echo the sentiments of
Member Paltin, strongly. But I won't go in detail as I did at the Affordable Housing
Committee meeting, because I'm sure the Members don't want to hear me go through
all of. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, anybody else? I, too, would like to add my congratulations to
Member Johnson fordoing a great job moving this through the system. It was difficult,
and, but it's so well-needed, and I'm really happy forthe people on your island because
for the first time in 30 years, they are going to have some new options, some housing
that's, that's quality housing, not just any housing.
Alright, Members, ready to vote? Ail those in favor.
Member Sugimura, are you asking a question?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I just want to add to what you're saying is that
congratulations to Chair, Affordable Housing Chair Johnson. But I also wanted to
acknowledge Riki Hokama who testified today. And  Iknow that it has been in his veins,
his blood to try to get this also going on the County's affordable housing project for all
the years I have been on Council, he's been working on it. So jointly, I think this is,
this is long time coming. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments? If not, ail those in favor of the motion, please say "aye",
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 60
CHAIR LEE: I see eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Motion carries. Hopefully we
can be there for the groundbreaking.
Alright, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair that's RESOLUTION 2M36.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-70 BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
entitled "AUTHORIZING THE DIRECTOR OF THEThat Resolution 21-137
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS TO MODIFY THE
REQUIREMENTS OF CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE, IN RELATION
TO THE COUNTY'S PURCHASE OPTIONS, AND APPROVING CERTAIN
FINANCING STRUCTURE COMPONENTS RELATING TO THE USE OF
FUNDS RECEIVED THROUGH CHAPTER 3.35, MAUI COUNTY CODE, FOR
THE LILOA HALE SENIOR RENTAL HOUSING PROJECT," be ADOPTED;
1.
That Bill 91 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND (LILOA HALE PROJECT)," be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
2.
That County Communication 21-378, from the Director of Housing and Human
Concerns be FILED; and
3.
That County Communication 21-383, from the Budget Director, be FILED.4.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-70.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 61
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Johnson to approve the committee, recommendations in Committee Report 21-70.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
Economic Development Committee met on August 18, 2021, to discuss a proposed
resolution to obtain Council approval on the Liloa Hale Senior Rental Housing Project
using certain finance structure components related to funds received under
Chapter 3.35, Maui County Code, and a proposed bill to amend the Fiscal Year 2022
Budget, Appendix A, Part II, Special Purpose Revenues, Schedule of Revolving
Funds/Special Funds by adding an appropriation under the Affordable Housing Fund
for the Liloa Hale Senior Rental Housing Project in the amount of $4,300,000.
Your Budget, Finance, and
Your Committee noted the change in financing from grant, from a grant to a loan would
increase Federal and State credits, enhancing Federal feasibility, and strengthen
applications for Federal and State funding.
Your Committee also noted the reduction in units from 150 to 117 was due to feedback
from the community, indicating that they did not want a four-story structure, leading the
developer to remove a floor from the proposed building. Your Committee voted 6-0 to
recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolution, passage of the revised
proposed bill, and filing of the communications.  Irespectfully ask for the Members'
continued support of this item. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I'm in full support and I just wanted to thank
the developers of Hale Liloa for working with the community. And the community is in
full support of this project as it's been redesigned, and it was, it was a good
compromise, I really, I think this is why affordable housing is going forward in South
Maui is because of the willingness of the developers who have come to the community,
and had those discussions, and reformulated things, changed things. It was a big, it
was a big ask of Hale Liloa and I'm just really impressed that they worked on it so hard
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 62
to make it fit into the community. So it is truly appropriate affordable housing. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, very good.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sorry, can't get my audio on. So who was the developer
here?
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Who is the developer for this project, refresh my
memory? I mean I know the name, who the, what are the people's names?
CHAIR LEE: The people's names?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The people.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, do you know the people's names?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Is that a question for me? I'm sorry I don't have those names
right in front of me right now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I'm just curious, because we have seen so many
you know, maybe the Department will tell us. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I've got. I've got so many developers names in my head right now
because we got four projects now in South Maui.
CHAIR LEE: Do you need to know the names?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm just curious? I think the public might want to be curious,
I mean, might what to know, you know, who we're dealing with and who are these good
developers? Thank you. ! guess it's not important then. I'll find out on my own.
CHAIR LEE: Just so happens we don't know their names right offhand. Anybody else for
discussion? If not, all those in favor. Member, before that, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez. Are you voting or you asking a question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I am making a comment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 63
CHAIR LEE; Make a comment.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. In response to Member Sugimura's
question about the names of the developers, while  Idon't have that memorized, it was
discussed, and the names of those who represented the developers were in
Committee, and we discussed thoroughly this item. And so if anyone is curious about
the names of the developers, those who represented the developers anyway, they can
go to the Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee item, and see the
meeting minutes, and it's all there. So there's, it's all transparent. There's nothing, you
know, hidden about that. So if the public wants that information, it is accessible to the
public. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So Chair, i wasn't trying to imply that we're not transparent
or whatever. I was just wondering what the name was. Please disregard my question,
because I wasn't expecting to get a lecture about committee reports. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, alright, my friends, can we move on?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'll thank Ms. Milner who quickly went
and retrieved the information for Member Sugimura. It's Moe Mohanna, Monte Heaton,
that represented Highridge Costa Development Company. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: That's the part I remember, Highridge.  Idon't remember the names of the
people. Okay, I think. I'm glad we got that settled. All those, did we take a vote. All
those in favor of the motion say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 64
HAIR LEE: Okay, it's unanimous. Eight "ayes", one "excused". Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that's RESOLUTION 21-137 and BILL NO. 91 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-71NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING1. That Bill
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
92
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND (HALE O PllKEA II)," be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
That County Communication 21-382, from the Budget Director, be FILED.2.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-71.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-71.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee met on August 18, 2021 to discuss the proposed
bill to amend Fiscal Year 2022 Budget Appendix A, Part II, Special Purpose Revenues,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 65
Schedule of Revolving/Special Funds, by amending the appropriation for Hale O Piikea
under the Affordable Housing Fund, for the Hawaiian Community Development Board,
by; 1) allowing funds to be used for construction instead of land acquisition; 2) revising
the number of units from 96 to 97; and 3) adjusting the unit counts per category; and
4) adding one unit for an on-site property manager.
Your Committee noted the Mayor and Administration initiated the request to, and this
is for Member Sugimura, Ikenakea Development, to allow the funds to be used for
construction instead of land acquisition. This funding changes also helps to clarify
project type.
Your Committee discussed the change in the number of units per category, and the
developer informed your Committee this adjustment was made to meet the threshold
for unit mix for Area Median Income levels and make their application for Federal
funding more competitive.
Your Committee stated they would like to see the adjusted number of units per
category recouped in future phases of this project. Your Committee voted 6-0 to
recommend passage of the proposed bill and filing of the communication. I respectfully
ask for the Members continued support of this project. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion. Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I support the proposal and am grateful that
the Administration, the Council, and developer were all able to work together on these
changes. 1 do want to state for those who don't know, !  think most of the people
involved in the Kihei Community Association know this, but the developer, the original
project from 15 years ago was supposed to be sort of a downtown area, with retail and
a movie theater. And so the developers were able to pivot to turn it into an affordable
housing project.
And this is again, you know, one of the benefits of the, that kind of communication
between the developer and the community, recognizing that, you know, retail
establishments, retail malls are not the way to go these days and we're not, we're not,
we're seeing, in fact we're seeing a lot of empty  ..  . assets from that kind of
construction. So I want to thank everybody involved. And think this is a really good
example of how we all work together to, to develop a project that the community can
truly support. So thank you for allowing me to speak and I'm in full support.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 66
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: I see eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Motion carries.
Thank you, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, that's BILL NO. 92 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-72NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THERecommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF ANDREA RODGERS TO THE MAUI COUNTY COMMISSION
21-138
ON PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-72.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez to adopt
the resolution in Committee Report 21-72.
Discussion, Member Molina?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 67
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your GREAT
Committee met on August 18, 2021 to discuss a proposed resolution relating to the
Mayor's nomination of Andrea Rodgers to the Maui County Commission on Persons
with Disabilities for a term expiring on March 31, 2025, due to the removal of John
Copeland. Ms. Rodgers expressed interest in serving as an advocate for vulnerable
and disabled individuals, and your Committee agreed Ms. Rodgers would certainly be
an asset to this commission; and therefore, voted 8-0 to recommend her nomination
be approved. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, are there any other comments or questions? If
not, all those in favor of the motion to adopt the resolution.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Do you have a question?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so I just wanted to add to what Member Molina said
as we've mentioned Reverend Copeland's name. During that discussion, people were
wondering if he was okay because he didn't show up at the committee meetings. And
just to let you know, I was, I have been in touch with him, and he's actually okay.
Because there was a concern about his overall health, and the reason that he did miss
the meetings that he did to cause this removal was because of some, you know, health
issues, but in general, he's fine. I think that came up in discussion. So just so you all
know, he is fine. But I support this nomination. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions? If not. all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused zero "noes". Motion carries.
Thank you. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 68
COUNTY CLERK: That would be RESOLUTION 21-138.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-73 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-139 , entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS
TO THE CONSERVATION PLANNING COMMITTEE FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI",
be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-73.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez to adopt
the resolution in Committee Report 21-73.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. Your Committee met
on August 18, 2021 to consider the Mayor's nomination of Vernon Kalanikau as the
Aha Moku, for a term expiring on March 31, 2022; Michelle Gould as the University of
Hawaii Maui College representative for a term expiring on March 31, 2023; and Dale
Bonar as the Land Trust representative for a term expiring on March 31,2024.
The Committee discussed all of the nominations starting first with Mr. Kalanikau who
is a very active member of the South Maui community, and having been involved with
the Moku/Ahupua'a Sign Project and he also served as a consultant for various
community projects and was a member of the Kihei Community Association. Ms.
Gould is employed at the University of Hawaii Maui College where she teaches
sustainability-focused courses related to a Sustainability Science Management degree
path. And Mr. Bonar was the Executive Director of the Maui Coastal Land Trust and
Hawaiian Islands Land Trust and retired in 2012.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 69
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolutions
and I want to thank these three individuals who possess a lot of great background for
volunteering their time to serve on this commission. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion
please say "aye", raise your hand?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
zero "noes", one "excused". MotionCHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes". Member Paitin? Eight "ayes’
carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. That is RESOLUTION 21-139.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-74NO. - GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-140 . entitled "AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
CLAIM NO. 4063974 OF KRISTEN SATO," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. Out of respect for your
consideration for us to sort of expedite things today at the Council meeting, if there are
objections, I’d like the Clerk to call up Committee Reports 21-75, 21-76, and 21-77.no
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 70
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-75NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-141 . entitled "AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
CLAIM NO. 4064010 OF ANTHONY NUNEZ," be ADOPTED.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-76NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS, ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-142 . entitled "AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
CLAIM NO. 4066522 OF POLINA GOLDBERG." be ADOPTED.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-77NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-143 . entitled "AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
JOHN MULLEN CLAIM NO. 4070387 OF SANDY FAROWICH," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORTS NOS. 21-74, 21-75, 21-76 AND 21-77.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci to adopt the
resolutions in Committee Reports 21-74, 75, 76, 77.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 71
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. As read by the
Clerk these four committee reports relate to settlement authorizations from Corporation
Counsel. First for Ms. Sato, this is a proposed settlement to, for a claim for $13,969.48
related to damages to Ms. Sato's vehicle resulting from an accident w/ith a Maui County
fleet vehicle on Kaahumanu Avenue, Kahului, Maui, Hawaii on February 25, 2020.
Committee voted 8-0 to approve that settlement.
For Committee Report 21-75, this relates to a settlement authorization for $12,806.63.
This had to do with the damages to Mr. Nunez's vehicle resulting from an accident with
a Maui County fleet vehicle on Kilou Street in Waiehu, Maui, Hawaii on January 6,
2020. Your Committee voted 8-0 to approve that.
And for Committee Report No. 21-76, this matter relates to a Corporation Counsel
recommendation for a claim for $13,942.92. The Committee noted that the claim
alleges damages to Ms. Polina Goldberg's vehicle resulting from an accident with a
Maui County fleet vehicle on Kula Highway, Kula, Maui, Hawaii on August 26, 2020.
The Committee voted 6-0 to approve that.
And finally for Committee Report No. 21-77, the results in, proposed settlement from
Corporation Counsel is a claim for $11,935.47. And the Committee noted that the
claim was a result of damages to Mr. Farowich's, Sandy Farowich's property located
at 2250 Kanakanui Road in Kihei, Maui, Hawaii on May 5, 2021, resulting from a broken
water main, which flooded their property.
And I'd like to thank my Committee Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez for
shepherding the last two settlement proposals on the August 18, 2021 GREAT
Committee meeting. I ask for the Members' full support of these proposed settlement
authorizations from Corporation Counsel. And forgive me for my birds cackling back
there, making a lot of noise. So, thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: It's okay, it's Aloha Friday. Members, any more discussion? If not, all those in
favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 72
CHAIR LEE: Okay eight "ayes", one "excused". Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: That would be RESOLUTION 21-140 for Committee Report 21-74; 21-141
for Committee Report 21-75; 21-142 for resolution contained in Committee Report
21-76; and 21-143 for the resolution in Committee Report 21-77.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-78 PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 93 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 19.64, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO BED AND
BREAKFAST HOMES," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED
TO PRINT;
2. That Bill 94 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 19.65, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO SHORT-TERM
RENTAL HOMES," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT; and
3. That County Communication 20-484, from the Planning Director, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-78.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-78.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 73
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. The purpose of the proposed bills is to
reduce the number of Bed & Breakfasts Homes and Short-Term Rental Homes in the
Lana‘i Community Plan area by: limiting permits of each type to 21 which was
amended by the Committee to a cap of 15; prohibiting on-street parking by guests,
operators, service, or delivery vehicles at any time; limiting density to no more than
one type within a 300-foot radius and no more than one type per block; increasing
notification requirements to include current residents of adjacent properties and
properties across the street; and requiring, requiring Lana'i Planning Commission to
review all permit renewal applications for the island and allowing their approval for up
to five years.
Your Committee agreed that permits in effect at the time of the ordinance enactment
would remain valid until their expiration date and could be renewed, if renewal criteria
were met. Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of the revised proposed
bills on first reading and filing of the communication. I respectfully ask for the Members'
support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more discussion, comments? If not, all those in favor of the
motion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So did we have an amendment proposed by the Planning
Department? Jacky Takakura, is this the one?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Can't hear you, can't hear you. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I defer to Deputy Director Hart. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Deputy Director Hart.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PLANNING JORDAN HART: Chair, thank you. To keep it brief,
no. This, this bill is not the one that would be amended. The next one following is the
one that we would amend. We just wanted to point out that this language was
established by the Lana'i Planning Commission as you are going to adopt it today. And
that the following bill will override it, if we don't amend that one. And so we have to
tweak that one slighty, and then they will both co-exist in the Code together.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 74
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Any other comments or questions? If not, all those in favor
of the motion please say "aye", raise your hand?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that is BILL 93 (2021) and BILL 94 ( 2021)
Proceeding with bill for first reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 95 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.SOB. MAUI COUNTY
CODE. TO ADD "MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE AND WORK TOWARD
RESILIENCE" AS A GOAL OF THE COUNTYWIDE POLICY PLAN
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci to pass the attached bill
on first reading.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the proposed bill is to
incorporate the amended Section IV, attached as Exhibit "1" by adding "mitigate
climate change and work toward resilience" as a theme and goal of the Countywide
Policy Plan.
At the June 18, 2021 Council meeting, we adopted the recommendations of Committee
Report 21-38, to hold public hearings on Lana'i, Maui, and Moloka'i; after the public
hearings, schedule first reading of the proposed bill; and file the communication. The
public hearings were held on August 10, 2021 and no oral or written testimony was
received.
I'd like to remind Members the proposed bill was unanimously recommended for
approval by the Lana'i, Maui and Moloka'i Planning Commissions and the Planning
Department also supported emphasizing climate change in the Countywide Policy
Plan. We need to focus on the causes and effects of climate change by grouping
policies under a single goal and theme. I respectfully ask for the Council's support of
my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion or comments? If not, all those in favor of
passing the bill on first reading please raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. One excused. Good job, Member
King.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair that is BILL 95 (2021).
Proceeding with ordinances for second and final reading.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 76
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 73 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS,
HUMAN CONCERNS AND ANIMAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS;
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM; AND
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION, ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, my I
request the Clerk also call up Bill 74 through Bill 76, and Bill 82.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 74 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAU!
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 75 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND
PUBLIC SAFETY - PUK0‘0 FIRE STATION)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 77
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 76 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX B
REVENUES - FEES, RATES, ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 82 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO KULEANATAX EXEMPTIONS
CHAIR LEE: Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 73 THROUGH BILL 76, AND BILL 82 ON
SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson, to
pass Bill 73, 74, 75, 76, and 82 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bill 82 amends Chapter 3.48 of the
Maui County Code to add a reference to Kuleana Act government grant land, clarify
the definition of a owner who is a lineal descendent, and to allow for retroactive
applications.
Bill 73 through Bill 76 are for housekeeping purposes and do not impact the total of the
Fiscal Year 2022 Budget or necessitate further amendments. At this time I'd like to
call on our Corporation Counsel Moana Lutey to respond to some of the concerns that
were shared via email to the Members as well as in testimony regarding HRS 92-7A
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 78
Notice on Bill 73, 74, and 76. as well as County Code 3.40.040 Term of Contract or
Grant. Mahalo, Ms. Lutey.
CHAIR LEE: Bonjour, Ms. Lutey.
CORPORATION COUNSEL MOANA LUTEY: Thank you and bonjour. In terms of, I'll start
first with the notice. This is an, we have appropriately noticed this matter. I, this is an
amendment and that has been properly set forth in the agenda as it's been published
and distributed properly today. In terms of the leases and grants and so forth, all of
this had been properly vetted through this body, and if you look at the Section 3.40.040,
that's been referenced by the testifier, this body can permit grants that are in excess
of the five-year period and that has been vetted fully by this body. If you have further
questions, I am available.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Lutey.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any. Go ahead.
Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I'm, mahalo. Chair. I was going to yield the floor
to the Members if they needed further clarification about the concerns that were shared
so that Ms. Lutey can respond to them. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just my only clarification is that Ms. Lutey is just saying that
the testifier was wrong.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Lutey.
CORPORATION COUNSEL; I, I think I'm just pointing out that this body has acted
appropriately and that the notice is correct, and so I was referring back to our Code
and also the reference made by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, the statutory provision
that was cited, that we have met all of those legal criteria. So, I'm not sure where the
confusion is there on the testifier, but I, I would refrain from name-calling in this, just
pointing out what we've done correctly here.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, just clarifying you're saying we're not violating any laws
cause you're the lawyer, we're not.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: That's correct. Yes, that's correct. You-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 79
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay.
CORPORATION COUNSEL:
procedures.
-you guys followed all of the proper protocol and legal
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
lawyer.
Okay, thank you, I just wanted to clarify that cause I'm not a
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. You should be. Any other comments or questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. It's for Ms. Lutey. So, I think the, as
I understand It for the concern about notice is that Bill 73, 74, and 76 were not slated
for first reading, it was, it were, they were county communications, so it wasn't
committee reports and it didn't have the, the same look and format necessarily, so we
weren't acting on committee recommendations. And so, in our Council Rules, under,
you know, in compliance with HRS 92 Sunshine Law, we are able to remain in
compliance with Sunshine Laws by waiving our own Rules of operation to send items
to the Committee for further deliberation and take up county communications on first
reading without committee referral and report and remain in compliance with Sunshine
Law.
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Lutey?
CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anything to add?
CORPORATION COUNSEL: I don't. I do think that we're in compliance with Sunshine Law.
So that is not an issue here before any of you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any other comments or questions? If not, let's see, if not, did we
vote on this already? No. All those in favor of passing all these bills on second and
final reading, raise your hand and say "aye". That's 73, 74, 75, 76 and 82.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 80
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused", motion carries. Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 77 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, STATE OF HAWAII
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina. You’re muted. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Sorry about that, Madam Chair. Yes. May I request the Clerk
also call up Bill 78 as well, Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered. Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 78 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, STATE OF HAWAII
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 77 AND 78 ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 81
CHAIR LEE: Second. Moved by Member Molina, second by Member Sinenci to pass Bill 77
and 78 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much. Madam Chair. First Bill 77 would
authorize the Mayor to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with State
Department of Attorney General Office regarding the granting of funds for the Victims
of Crime Act Victim Assistance Grants Program. Special Needs Advocacy project. The
grant agreement is for the period of July 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022 totaling $825,325,
which includes $164,865 in matching funds, and $1,000 in admin costs.
Bill 78 would authorize the Mayor to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with
the State Department of the Attorney General regarding the granting of funds for the
STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant, the anticipated project period is
June 1, 2021 to May 31, 2022, totaling $109,946 which includes $27,487 in matching
funds, as provided for in the Department of the Prosecuting Attorney's Fiscal Year 2022
Budget. I ask for the Members' full support of these two bills. Thank you. Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion or questions? If not, all those in favor of the
motion to pass Bill 77 and 78 on second and final reading, raise your hand, say "aye"?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused". Motion carries. No "noes".
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO.^^9_(2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 20.08.031, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, REGARDING LIMITED EXCLUSIONS FOR GRADING AND GRUBBING
PERMITS AND AMENDING THE CATEGORICAL EXCLUSION FOR TRENCHING
FOR UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 82
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 79 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Johnson to pass Bill 79 on
second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you. Chair. As previously discussed, the proposed bill
would repeal Ordinance 5229, which would have taken effect on November 1. This bill
amending the exclusions for grading and grubbing permits for trenching for
underground utilities would take effect upon approval. When addressing unintended
consequences, the bill did not do what we had hoped that it would do, which was
protecting known burial sites. Instead it had expedited trenching without any oversight.
So Chair as we celebrate Hawaiian History Month, we must ensure that our history be
protected from ever being erased. So I ask for the Members' full support.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. I want to offer my sincere mahalo to Member
Sinenci for this bill and hoping that it ends the division in the community, and more
destruction of cultural sites in Maluuluolele. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else to add or have comments/questions? If not, all those in favor of
the motion, please say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 83
CHAIR LEE: Unanimous, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 80 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, PACIFIC ISLANDS WATER
SCIENCE CENTER, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
(COOPERATIVE WATER-RESOURCE MONITORING PROGRAM)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. May I please request the Clerk also call up
Bill 81?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered.
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 81 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, PACIFIC ISLANDS WATER
SCIENCE CENTER, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
(STUDY TO ASSESS GROUNDWATER AVAILABILITY UNDER
SCENARIO-BASED RECHARGE CHANGES ON THE ISLAND OF MAUI)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 84
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 80 AND 81 ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Sugimura to pass Bills 80
and 81 on second and final reading. Any discussion?
Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Members, Bill 80 would authorize the Mayor to enter into a
Joint Funding Agreement with the USGS, Pacific Islands Water Science Center, the
U.S. Department of the interior, to continue its cooperative water-resource monitoring
program. The intergovernmental agreement is for the period October 1, 2021 to
September 30, 2022, at a cost of $104,555 to the County.
Bill 81 would authorize the Mayor to enter into Joint Funding Agreement with the USGS
Pacific Islands Water Science Center, U.S. Department of the Interior, for a study to
assess groundwater availability under scenario-based recharge changes on the island
of Maui. The intergovernmental agreement is for the period October 1, 2021 to
March 31,2022, at a cost of $168,000 to the County. I ask Members' full support.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye" and raise your hand?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused". Motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 85
CHAIR LEE: Very good, very good.
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 83 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING FROM
R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT AND R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
TO A-2 APARTMENT DISTRICT FOR PROPERTIES
SITUATED AT KAHULUl, MAUI, HAWAII,
TAX MAP KEYS (2) 3-8-007:050, (2) 3-8-007:095, AND (2) 3-8-007:096
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. thank you, Chair. Just, the last one was (2) 3-8-007:096;
right?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. okay.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 83 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King to pass Bill 83 on second
and final reading.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. The purpose of this bill is to grant a change
in zoning to ensure that zoning is consistent with the multi-family community plan
designation for three properties owned or leased by Hale Mahaolu and used for their
existing affordable senior projects at Akahi and Elua. I respectfully ask for the
Members support of my motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 86
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused", motion passes. Thank you.
Next Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 84 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE COMMUNITY PLAN
DESIGNATION FROM PARK AND MULTI-FAMILY TO PUBLIC/QUASI PUBLIC
FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KAHULUl, MAUI, HAWAII,
TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-8-007:097
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. May I ask the Clerk to also call up
Bill 85 (2021).
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
Mem, Vice-Chair, Vice-Chair, Madam Clerk. You have all these different titles. Madam
Clerk, please bring up Bill 85 as well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 87
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 85 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING FROM R-2 RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT TO P-2 PUBLIC/QUASI PUBLIC DISTRICT FOR PROPERTY
SITUATED AT KAHULUl, MAUI, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-8-007:097
CHAIR LEE: Okay, and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 84 (2021) AND BILL 85 (2021) ON
SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King to pass Bills 84 and 85
on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. The purpose of the proposed bills is to
amend the community plan designation and allow for a change in zoning for the
planned expansion of Kahului Community Center Park. Hale Makua Health Services
plans to develop a gateball field and field house, and a performing arts building into
something else. The proposed bill would be limited to the 7.401 acres covered in these
expansion phases. The expansion would support senior-oriented living and
recreational facilities, rehabilitation services, and workforce development for
community health care workers. I respectfully ask for the Members' support of my
motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of passing these two bills on
second and final reading raise your hand and say "aye"?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 88
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excusedzero "noes". Motion carries. Oh, my goodness.
Madam Clerk, do we have any more business?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there's no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Members, hope you have a wonderful, wonderful, wonderful weekend.
A long weekend; right? And let's see. Member Paltin, now everybody now is the time
to put in your order for her to bring us something from France. How about. . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just had some for dinner. It was delicious.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, Member King? Yeah, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I got corrected by my husband that tomorrow is actually our
38th Anniversary, not 39 that I thought it was. But I'm not sure if it's silver, gold, or
platinum, but you’re welcome to bring me whatever you want. Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Very good. That, that’s wonderful. Congratulations.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: That's a milestone, definitely.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Some crescents and some hors d'oeuvres.
CHAIR LEE: Hors d'oeuvres. Anybody else. Oh, Member Molina wants Portuguese sausage.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, and, and french fries and french bread.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: ... the baguette, the baguette at the supermarket is only forty
.40 euros, so you guys can all have baguettes.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, alright. Member Sugimura, did you want something from France?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 89
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Just come home safely, Tamara. Come home safely.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Anybody else? Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chocolate.
CHAIR LEE; Choco, oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I can do that. ... I don't know if everybody else's baguettes
might get crusty, but I can do chocolate.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson, you want anything?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I'm humble, I just want her to come home safe, just like what
Councilmember Sugimura said.
CHAIR LEE; We all do. We all do. We want you to have a nice time, but then come home
safely and then get straight back to work.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I was trying to take a selfie with-
CHAIRLEE: What's that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I was trying to take a selfie with Macron's bodyguards cause
they had all those AK-47 kind of guns, but it started, as soon as like the France part
started there was a huge thunder and like it started pouring rain, and we had to make
a run for it.
CHAIR LEE; Wow.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It was, it was kind of, ho‘ailona-ish, I don't know. But it was
pretty heavy. It was like huge, I was like I thought it was a bomb, but it was thunder.
CHAIR LEE: So what, do they understand you when you speak French over there?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: They understand merci and toilet.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright everybody, thank you so much for this meeting, and have a
wonderful weekend. Stay safe. This meeting is adjourned.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 3, 2021
Page 90
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of September 3, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 12:09 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF HAWAII
210903/lks:jm
RECEIVED
Pulama Lana'i 2021 SEP-I PH 12: 43
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSeptember 1, 2021
By e-mail
Re: CR 21-69 Version 1
Testimony in support, clarifications for consideration
Maui County Council Meeting September 3, 2021
Aloha Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
We would like to acknowledge all of your sincere efforts in the review process of our 201H Hdkuao
Housing Project in Lana'i City. We understand that the expedited process of a 201H application is a burden
on all of your time and resources. We appreciate the diligence that you have put into the evaluation of
our application and the many discussions we have had over the last several weeks at the three Affordable
Housing Committee meetings on the topic.^
After the review of Committee Report 21-69 Version 1 (CR 21-69), there is an item that we would like to
bring to your attention that was discussed at the August 16'^ and most recently at the August 25
Affordable Housing Committee meetings.
th
CR 21-69 Page 9 of 56
On page 9 there are three bullets at the top of the page, the last bullet discusses the "for sale" option.
We believe CR 21-69 is missing a key component, which isthe County's Affordable Housing project. During
the discussion on August 25, Councilmember Johnson started the discussion at 2:23:00 and it was clear
that the County's Affordable Housing project was included in this discussion. Further in the conversation,
there was a specific exchange where Councilmember Johnson reiterated the order of events, see the
exchange transcribed here for convenience:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson: What I heard, was after Phase 2 of the County project, with a
survey done, then Pulama would be willing to sell some of its old plantation homes, 235 of.
^ See AH-l(l) Direct Referral created on July 21, 2021 on Granicus;
httDs://mauicountv.legistar.com/LegislationDetail.asDX?ID=5082254&GUID=9666216E-1425-461E-A4C6-
040546F80CE2 . Meeting dates were August 2,16, and 25, 2021.
HONOLULU OFFICE 733 Bishop Street, Suite 1500, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813 ● TEL 808.237.2001
LANA'IOFFICE 1311 Fraser Avenue, PO Box 630310, LSna'l City, Hawaii 96763 ● TEL 808.565.3000
FAX 808.566.6927
FAX 808.565.3881
CR 21-69 Maui County Council September 3, 2021
Testimony from Pulama Lana'i
Kurt Matsumoto: That is correct Chair, we would want to assess the housing needs at that
point, and then be able to make a decision about whether there was enough breathing room
on the rental demand that we could sell some homes. So you can Imagine we see Hokuao
developed, we see phase 1, 2, at the County level developed, and there will probably be some
movement within the rentals. In order for us to sell any of the older homes, we would first
need to have accommodations for those residents in place. So just to paint the picture of what
we're envisioning - what could happen in the future - it is not a quick trigger. It would take
some time, but depending on how it looks.
Councilmember Gobe Johnson: I want to get specifics, I want to get it in writing. So, that is
why I'm doing active listening for you Kurt Matsumoto. I want to make sure that what I'm
hearing and I say it back to you and we put it on record and we'll get that. So after Phase 2,
after housing study, you would be willing to sell some of your single family homes, some of
your single family rental units in Lana'i City as workforce housing ownership. 20 homes? What
are we talking? You mentioned you had 235.
Kurt Matsumoto: I can't commit to a number tonight. 1 can't commit to a number Chair, but
we would sell homes and would look at what the demand is at that time.
Gabe Johnson: How about a minimum number of homes, or a percentage of homes. We have
to have something where we can have -1 need a bone. I need to have something. I can't just
say we'll look into it, that doesn't work for the County.
Kurt Matsumoto: If you are saying I have to give you a number in order to get this approved,
I can't do that. Like I said, it, I think it really depends on what the conditions are when we get
there. How long is it gonna take the county to start the project? How many people pick up
and qualify for those homes? You've seen the data and you've seen the rents that we have
on those older homes. And in a lot of cases some people may not want to leave those rentals
because the rentals are gonna be less than even living in the County affordable project. The
dynamics are so hard to imagine in the future we have to play it out. But yeah, you have our
commitment that there will be a point where we will sell some homes, but I'm not gonna give
you a numbertonight.
Gobe Johnson: I'll let you know that we have programs that are setting up for first-time home
owner buyers. They've got 30,000 that they can apply for. 1 believe that the people of Lana'i
deserve affordable homes and I believe that they would apply and they would be in there.
That being said, you made your point. I think that is all I have for you. If any other members
have any questions, thank you for that response.
The third bullet does not make any mention of the County's Affordable Housing Project, here is the excerpt
from page 9 of CR 21-69:
● After completing this Project and fulfilling Pulama Lana'i's rental needs, if an assessment
demonstrates the need for workforce housing ownership units, the Developer will consider
offering existing homes in its rental inventory for sale to income-qualified residents.
Page 2 of 3
CR 21-69 Maui County Council Septembers, 2021
Testimony from Pulama Lana'i
The County was deeded 115 acres to develop affordable housing in 1992, to date that condition by the
County has not been met. Councilmember Johnson has been advocating for the County's Affordable
Housing project since January 2021.
We would like this Council to consider adding in the following (underlined/bold) verbiage to reflect the
record of the exchange that took place during the August 25'^ Affordable Housing Committee:
● After completing this Project, Phase 1 and 2 of the County's Affordable Housine Project, and
fulfilling Pulama Lana'i's rental needs, if an assessment demonstrates the need for workforce
housing ownership units, the Developer will consider offering existing homes in its rental
inventory for sale to income-qualified residents.
Again, we want sincerely mahalo the Council for their support of our project over the last few weeks and
look forward to our continued efforts to bring much needed housing for the residents of Lana'i.
Mahalo for your service to our community and for your consideration of our request for clarification.
Mahalo,
Keiki-Pua S. Dancil, Ph.D.
Senior Vice President, Government Affairs & Strategic Planning
AH.Committee@mauicountv.us (via email)
Mimi DesJardins, Maui County Department of the Corporation Counsel (via email)
Karlynn Fukuda, Munekiyo Hiraga (via email)
cc:
Page 3 of 3
RECEIVED
Date: September 2"'*, 2021. Z0ZI SEP -2 AH 8: 35
To: Maui County Council
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKRe: CR 21-69 Hokuao
Dear Council Members,
Thank you for your service and your commitment to make Maui County a better place to live. I work for
Pulamalanai but 1 am not a paid lobbyist. I am writing this letter on behalf of myself. Please support the
Hokuao Housing project on Lana'i. 1 am born and raised on the island and last time there was any
housing development was when I graduated High School, that was 30 years ago. Now that I have my
own family, housing on Lana'i is very difficult for my fellow Lana'ians. Personally, my family and I are
fortunate that we have a family home to live in. We moved back to the island from Montana, knowing
that we had a place to stay. Unfortunately, not many can do that now a days. There are so many
Lana'ians and people who move to Lana'i to make a better life forthemselves and their families but
have no place for rent that is affordable. With the limited available rentals on island, the rent for these
families or individuals are so ridiculously high that I feel so bad for them. Please support this project so
that the prices on rental on Lana'i will come down so that people who need a place will be able to find a
place that they can afford. Thank you again for your time and your continued dedication to make Maui
County a better place. Stay Safe and Healthy during this difficult time.
Sincerely,
Roger Alconcel
RECEIVED
m\ AUG 31 PH 4= 19
●i>
FOUR Seasons OFFICE OF THh
COUNTY CLERKRESORTS
LANA'I
August 31,2021
Maui County Council
countv.clerk@mauicounty.us
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council:
t am writing today in support of the proposed Hokuao 201H Residential Project, which will
provide affordable workforce housing for the residents in our community who choose to call
Maui County home as they work, live and even raise families.
Please accept my testimony as a current Lanai City resident and General Manager of Four
Seasons Resorts Lanai. Tourism is an integral part of LanaTs economy and our two properties -
Four Seasons Resort Lanai and Sensei Lanai, A Four Seasons Resort - directly employ over
800 people, a significantly large segment of the local community. The vast majority of our
workforce lives on Lanai. This number does not include the supporting elements of local
business owners and tour operators that play an active role as ambassadors to everyone that
visits our beautiful island as well as the many other members of the community that choose to
make Lanai home.
It is vital for projects like this to move fonA/ard, so our residents, and those who would like the
opportunity to live in the community, have access to a choice of available housing.
The proposed development would add 150 new single-family homes for lease with just over half
the units set aside as affordable units, allowing for a variety of pricing options to accommodate a
range of residents, no matter where they are on their life path. The additional elements of a
Community center with parking, a park, and pocket parks along the south border will serve to
enhance the overall project.
I thank you for the opportunity to share my perspective as you gather the viewpoints of the
various stakeholders - from county officials, community members, neighborhood
homeowner's associations, local business and immediate neighbors and know that we all
are working towards making Maui County, our home, the best it can be for us all.
Once again, please accept this letter in support for the H5k0ao 201H Residential Project.
Alastair McAlpine
FOUR SEASON RESORTS LANA’I, POST OFFICE BOX 631380, LANA’I CITY, HAWAI’l 96763 U.S.A
Phone: (808) 565-2889 Email: alastair.mcalpine@fourseasons.com wwwJpurseasons.com/lanai
September 2, 2021
Aloha, Maui County council members. Thank you for the opportunity to provide written
testimony.
My name is Nelinia Cabilcs. I'm not a paid lobbyist; I am testifying on my own behalf as
a resident of Lana‘i. I am writing to give my full support for the H5kuau housing project.
If you lived on Lana‘i, you would know that the housing situation is dire. Two to three
families with children under one roof. Little to no inventory of homes for incoming
teachers, new hires at the Four Seasons’ resorts, Sensei Farms. What is available to buy
is, as other properties for sale across the state, slightly out of reach for a t>'pical working
family. And that describes only the situation of homes that arc for sale. Units available
for rent are rare.
I received an email from a new hire with Hawaiian Electric a few months ago, who asked
me if I could help him find housing. I put him into contact with a few realtors I knew, and
after a few weeks, he wrote to tell me that, beyond all odds, he was able to secure a
rental. He is on the island now, working as a journeyman for the utility company. He is
one of extremely lucky ones. Many people have not fared so well.
The Hokuau housing project would help increase the inventory of homes here, while
simultaneously free up other rental properties.
I support Hokuau because I know first-hand what it’s like to live with another family,
waiting for a rental home to become available. That was the situation some fifty years
ago, and as many of you have learned, little has changed since then.’There have been
housing development projects over the years, with the last one, Olopua Woods,
completed twenty-five to thirty years ago.
Hokuao is an important major project that affects not just a growing demographic of
families coming to the island, but also potential hires in education, agriculture, health,
and the service industries. How can we possibly attract workers to our island if there is no
housing to offer them as part of the recruitment package?
I support Hokuau because it would add to the inventory of homes. It would mean homes
to rent for a growing workforce. Our community needs this. It would be one of the most
important housing projects Lanai has seen in decades and would improve the quality of
live for countless hundreds of people on our island.
I don't need a place to rent. Hokuau would not be for me. I'm one of the rare few to have
a place on Lanai, for which I'm so grateful. But just because I don't need housing doesn’t
lessen my support for Hokuao. In fact, it only increases my support for it and my
empathy for those who do need housing. I was that child whose family needed a place
when we moved here from the Philippines some forty-plus years ago. I was part of that
family who had to rely on the kindness of strangers to take us in. I have empathy for all
the families and kids and new teachers and nurses and workers sharing a small space. Our
housing shortage on Lana‘i is why I’m throwing my full support for H5kuau.
Respectfully submitted, and with kind regards,
Nelinia Cabiles
OC
O "n
CTl
-2:0
73CO
m-o
oIm fTI-< isa
Oo 3s»TJ
m<S>XIX
7; m Ow
Count^OeH<
kuniz kunimitsu <kuniz4lyph@gmail.com>
Monday, August 30, 2021 1:32 PM
County Clerk
Testimony
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from kuni24lyph@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
if it still means anything. As a resident of Lana'i it is currently a struggle with housing and we are as (locals) are In need
of housing! I'm tired of seeing people move here and get housing that is family sized and family's that are already here
long time don't get a spot to increase in house size. I myself have a one bedroom apartment and have a family of 4 in
one bedroom. It's very difficult. So please let's get to building.
Mahalo!
Shayne Kunimitsu
OQ
O "n
czi
Tim
C= mcr>
oVjJ
Vio
oO T5
mm —^73 3:
NO
aro
1