MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-12-17
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1480,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MiNUIiS
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
December 17, 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 17, 2021,
BEGINNING AT 9:01 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L. LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L LEE: Will the Council meeting of December 17, 2021 please
come to order. The time is approximately 9:02 In the morning.
And before we begin with roll call, Mr. Clerk, I would just like to give the Members a
heads up on the morning greeting. So, there's the letter "N", but we, instead of saying
"N", we would say the sound of "N" . . . This is from Nigeria. In case our Nigerian
friends are here watching our meeting today.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call. In
accordance with the Governor's most recent emergency proclamation related to the
COVID-19 response. Members should state who. If anyone, is present with them as
part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: . . . Chair. Aloha kakahiaka kakou my Maui hikina. I'm here
at the Council office at the moment by myself. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha, . . . Madam Chair, and colleagues, and everyone else
joining us for our Council meeting today. For the record. I'm transmitting out of my
residence. And I'm sorry, I don't have a hat today. So, I guess my, my role will be for
the holiday season, at least just for today only will be as the Grinch. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 2
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka, ... I hope I, I wasn't considering myself a
grinch, but I don't have a hat either. Member Molina. So, I think you're okay. But I am
in my house in South Maui. And I'm going to try to, assuming that this meeting goes
past lunch, which I don't want to jinx us, but I'm going to use that break to go over to
the, the district office. Because if I try to make it there by 9, the traffic is horrendous.
You can leave at 8, or you can leave at 9 and you'll get there at the same time.
But hello to, yeah, ... to all the Nigerians watching too. And want to congratulate the
folks from Africa and the projects, the Great Green Wall, which we're hoping, you know,
is successful. Biggest climate change action in the world right now, I think.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: ... to Chair Lee and ... to ail of my Councilmembers. I am
in the County Building with my staff Kate Griffiths, and soon to be Autumn Rae Ness.
Happy to be here on this beautiful Friday. And boy, did we have some thunder last
night. So, hopefully, this meeting isn't, doesn't have that kind of thunder and lightning.
We're ready to rock and roll. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha kakahiaka and . . . kakou. Broadcasting live and direct
from the Lahaina District Office. We're open as a courtesy site to anyone who wants
to give testimony at the Old Lahaina Center, Room 205. And I'm here with my aide
Angela, who's more than six feet away.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 3
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: . ,. Happy Holidays, everybody. And I'm so excited for this
meeting today. I want to let our residents in Kula know that if you were without water
last week and, and there's a bacteria in the water, so please do not drink it. And check
with the Water Department this week, I mean, today, because I think they're testing
everyday. But be safe and we're thinking of you. Happy Holidays.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Councilmembers.
Kalikimaka to everyone out there. I am in my work space in my home, and I am alone.
And . . . to all of my fellowAloha kakahiaka, Chair.
And aloha kakahiaka and Hau'oli Makahiki Hou and Mele
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Excused for now.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: ... my dear colleagues, and the viewing public, and our staff, everybody out
there. Wishing all of you a very happy holiday season. And in particular, this is a very
special day for our family and for the family of Member Sugimura, because my
grandson is coming home from college today and her son is coming home from the
mainland.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: So, lots to be thankful for.
Mr. Clerk.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, KELLY T. KING, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 4
COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.EXCUSED
(Vice-Chair Rawlins Fernandez i4/as not present when the roll was called; however,
she arrived at 1:31 p.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight Members present, one Member excused.
A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Deli Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is First Deputy
Corporation Counsel Richeile Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: I will be providing the opening remarks this morning. Please bear with me.
Generally, you know that if I did this all by myself it would be half a page. But since
the staff helped me, and they did a great job, it's almost two pages long.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Council Chair Alice Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Please join me now for the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on the
ceremonial resolution. The first person, the only person we have signed up to testify
is Lucienne de Naie.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 5
CHAIR LEE: Before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request that everyone
keep their microphones muted unless it is your time to speak. Decorum shall be
maintained at all times.
Good morning, Lucienne. Happy Holidays.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE;
Good morning. Very wonderful to see all you. You look great. I just wanted to say a
few words about Peter Baldwin and the amazing life that he's led. I, I've known Peter
from various conservation causes and community causes for many, many years, as
have probably thousands of people on Maui. And not only, you know, did he do all
kinds of, you know, great work in our community for the aina, for, you know, community
causes, for paniolo causes, but he was just such  ahumble person. Just so easy to
talk to. Just so easy to be with.
And it's always sad when a great presence like that leaves our community. But he has
left an amazing legacy. And I, I'm just very, very happy to see the Council reach out
to honor that. So, you know, thanks to you all for putting this resolution on the agenda.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Lucienne. Any questions, Members? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testify on the
ceremonial resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections to closing public testimony on ceremonial resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the ceremonial resolution.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 6
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 21-200
HONORING THE EXTRAORDINARY AND
FRUITFUL LIFE
OF THE LATE PETER DAMON BALDWIN
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ENTITLING
FRUITFUL LIFE OF THE LATE PETER DAMON BALDWIN".
HONORING THE EXTRAORDINARY AND
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member, seconded by Member Molina.
Member Sugimura, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you very much. Member Molina. May
I please request that the Clerk read the resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Chair. And thank you very much, James
Krueger, for always doing a good job reading the resolutions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 7
1 want to ask for the Members full support of this resolution, and to honor a man that
has touched our lives in many ways. When you think about what he has contributed. I
think many families have benefitted from AYSO and having soccer in the, in their lives
as a family and for, for, you know, for many generations.
Probably, for me, the, the reason that Peter touched my life so, so much was my work
with Upcountry and doing, seeing him with the paniolo community, as well as a time
when he and I wanted to open up a museum. It was really his idea for, for Upcountry
in Maui, in the Upcountry Makawao area where he wanted to open up a museum. And
I got to know him well through many meetings. And through that, I also met his family.
I want to say thank you very much, John Harrisson, who wrote this book. 1 don't know
if you can see it. It is "A Maui Boy - Stories of Peter Baldwin's Fruitful Life". And
there's two volumes. And John Harrisson is going to speak. He helped us write the
resolution in behalf of the family. And Susie, his wife, is also going to speak. But I
would like to extend my condolence to the family. And thank you for allowing us to
recognize him for a life so rich and fruitful is  agood way of describing him.
So, thank you, Members. I hope that you will also support this resolution. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. And mahalo to Member
Sugimura for introducing this resolution and special, well-deserved honor for
Mr. Baldwin. And, you know, I think Lucienne testified earlier and she, she said it all,
especially in terms of Peter's charisma. He was very engaging. He was one of those
types of individuals where he walks into the room and everybody stops and say, "eh,
it's Peter". And all of a sudden, people flock to him to go talk story. And he could put
you at ease. You know, you could meet him for the first time and then once you're
done with your conversation, you feel like you've been talking to an old friend. He had
that kind of persona.
He would've made a great politician too, by the way, on top of his great achievements
as a, as a paniolo and a businessman. And for Haleakala Dairy, I'm sure he was very
instrumental in helping develop the popular juice we know today as POG; passion,
orange, guava.
And then, back in the day, a special moment for me when I was a much, much younger
man, he was very instrumental in helping bring NFL football players to Maui to do free
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 8
football clinics and participate in the Makawao rodeo. And i had a special moment at
one of the basketball games that those players would play against our Maui Police
Department. I had the opportunity to meet a player by the name of Merlin Olsen. He
was a NFL Hall of Fame player and he was a Emmy-award winning sports announcer,
and also an actor for the old TV series Grizzly Adams. But it left such an impression
on my life at the time, at being 11 years old. I've never forgotten that. But as a young
person, you don't really appreciate what made that moment possible. But as the years
go by, then you find out who helped make it possible. So, whenever i would see Peter,
I would always tell him how much I appreciated his efforts for bringing, you know,
opportunities like that for, for young people like me and many others.
So, he has certainly, certainly touched many, many lives. And 1 just want to, want to
thank him, and for all what he did for Maui County. And he was just everywhere and
always community minded. So, he wasn't just a cowboy, he was really a community-
minded individual. So, just would like to thank the family for sharing Peter who certainly
was a special, special, special guy. He could make you laugh and yet, he was so
akamai in a lot of things. So, mahalo. And thank you again for sharing Peter with us.
Mahalo, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Molina. Anyone else? If not, all those in favor of the motion
please your, raise your hand and say "aye".
KAMA, KINGCOUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.EXCUSED:
one "excused": motion passes.CHAIR LEE: Okay, it looks like eight "ayes", zero "noes'
And Member Sugimura, I believe we have some guests to say a few words. Would
you like to introduce them?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. So, thank you very much. Members, for your support
of this resolution to honor this great man. And with us today, we have John Harrisson,
who I mentioned earlier, who helped write his book as well as the resolution that was
presented today. In behalf of the family, he would like to say a few words. And then,
Susie Baldwin, his wife.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 9
MR. JOHN HARRISSON:
Aloha. Councilmembers. This is John Harrisson. And I'd like to thank you so much for
the resolution and the Council's touching tribute to a renaissance man and a favorite
son of Maui, and a true Maui treasure. I'd also like to acknowledge and thank Lucienne
for her testimony.
I was fortunate enough to spend a good deal of quality time with Peter over the last
three years, as we worked together on his life memoir. And we, we would meet for
exactly one hour every week. And that was Peter's rule, just one hour; no more, no
less. He would make a great psychoanalyst, I think. So, when the hour's up, that was
it.
And I first worked with Peter over 15 years ago while I was writing the 125-year history
of Haleakala Ranch. And so, over the years, and especially laterally spending that
much time with Peter, I became very fond of this great man who knew he'd live life to
the fullest. And to echo some of the previous comments, to say he was a character is
an understatement.
Thank you, Councilmember Molina, for reminding us that it was Haleakala Dairy that
came up with, with the passion, orange, guava juice and POGs, the milk caps that
Peter and the Dairy, it was an old game played by kids in Hawaii long ago. But it
became a national phenomenon in the 90s. And it was amazing to think that that began
here on Maui.
Peter also was I, I think, at the forefront of watershed stewardship on Maui. And I think
we should acknowledge the role that the Haleakala Ranch continues to play in
protecting invaluable watershed.
As mentioned, Peter was a savvy and successful businessman and his many
contributions we miss. Again, he, he founded the Maui Youth Soccer Organization,
which was the first organized soccer league on the island and has resulted in a lot of
athletes successfully going to college and beyond. And he also led the fundraising
campaign to establish the J. Walter Cameron Center. So, that's just a couple of
examples of his many contributions.
So, Maui is a much richer community because of Peter. And it was the community that
Peter truly loved and truly valued. So, thank you, Councilmembers, once again.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Harrisson.
Member Sugimura. Member Sugimura? We can't hear you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 10
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Susie Baldwin. 1 know she had, I know she had logged on
earlier when I spoke to her this morning saying that she wanted to make sure she was
present. So, Clerk, can you, do you see Susie Baldwin on the call?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, yes. Yes, I do see Susie Baldwin on the call. She is
muted on her end. She was unmuted previously. I'm not sure if she's encountering
technical difficulties.
MS. SUSIE BALDWIN:
Oh, there we go.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh perfect.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, good.
MS. BALDWIN: Okay, can you hear me now?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
MS. BALDWIN: Oh, great. Well, hello. Aloha, everyone. And it is such an honor today to
have you all here, and everyone that spoke before, because John and Mike, and I very
much appreciate it because it's difficult for me to speak right now. But I did want to
give my sincere gratitude on behalf of the, the Baldwin Ghana, and your recognizing
Peter for his contributions to the community are, are really valuable to us.
And it was Peter's home, Maui was Peter's home for, he died just short of his 84‘^
birthday. And I know he loved Maui and the diverse communities of our island and
what makes up our island today. And that's probably one thing I fell in love with Peter
about, is he loved everyone. Walking around Makawao Town, shop owners or people
maybe had hard times that were living in the street, he was friends with everyone. And
he was a really beautiful spirit. And luckily, I was able to spend the last eight years
with him. And he really was a remarkable man.
But I want to thank you all. It's very special. And Happy Holidays to all of you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Susie.
CHAIR LEE: To you as well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 11
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; 1 see Jimmy Haynes here. Mr. Haynes? Susie had
mentioned he wants to say a few words. So, Jimmy Haynes is a life-long friend of
Peter.
MR. JIMMY HAYNES;
Right. We were very good friends. And it's a hard, hard thing for me to do. But the
thing I just wanted to talk briefly about, I think we've all heard about his
accomplishments, statures was huge in this community. But this man was lots of fun.
And just say the last thing that we'd always watch the Super Bowl together. And Peter
was, at the last Super Bowl, Peter was a big fan of the, of the Chiefs, Kansas City
Chiefs. And so, we had a, we had a bet. I took the Tampa Bay Buccaneers for the
sum of $10. And of course, I won. And he went into, to pay me, and brought out some
dollar bills. And 1 knew I needed to count these bills. And of course, I saw this smile
on his face, and there was only $9 there. So, Peter still owes me a dollar. It, it was so
much fun. But he'll be greatly missed. And thank you for acknowledging his
accomplishments. And a great guy. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Mr. Haynes.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mr. Haynes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, thank you. Appreciate that. I know that the kids are
watching. He has three boys and I know they're watching, and grandchildren. And
they, when I spoke to Susie this morning, she said that they wanted to express their
appreciation. So, thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Molina, for your good stories.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you. Member Sugimura. Madam Chair, can I just say
one last quick thing?
CHAIR LEE; Of course.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; On the topic of Peter's sense of humor. I appreciate in the
resolution it mentioned that Peter brought a horse into a restaurant. My family owned
a restaurant in Makawao. It was called "Club Rodeo", it's where Casanova's is today.
I believe that was one of the restaurants Peter brought that horse in. And when he
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 12
brought the horse in, the story was my dad went up to Peter's horse and offered the
horse a drink. And that was how times were back in old Makawao. But that's a great
example of Peter's humor. So, really going to miss the guy. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you for sharing. Thank you. Any, anyone else?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: He was quite a man.
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: He was quite a man. We're going to, we're going to miss
him. So, Susie says that whenever she sees a dragonfly, she thinks about Peter as
he's come to visit her. And he has, or dragonflies has appeared in her life in special
times recently as she kind of mourns the loss of this great man. So, appreciate
everybody for letting us take this moment to recognize Peter. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members.
So, the next item will be the Consent Calendar. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. For the record, that resolution is RESOLUTION
21-200.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next item on the agenda is the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Members, at this time we will set the Consent Calendar. We currently have no
items on Consent Calendar. Are there any requests to add items at this time?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No.
CHAIR LEE: No?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No requests.
CHAIR LEE: No requests. Okay. Alright.
Member, not Member, but Mr. Clerk, proceed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 13
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with the presentation of testimony on
agenda items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online
meeting by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's
agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also Identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media or on
mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at
any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first individual we have signed up to testify is Keisa Liu. To be followed by
Miranda Somers.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Liu?
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. KEISA LIU (testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-556 and 21-557):
Good morning, everyone. My name is Keisa Liu and I'm here to testify on two agenda
items today; CC 21-556 and CC 21-557. And I will start with the latter. I'm just going
to be commenting a little bit on what I read from the Mayor about this particular
sunscreen, a beautiful bill that I was really, really excited about by the way. There's
two things I'm going to bring up.
One is that this response felt a little bit like  athreat. 1 don't know who comes in and
suggests that basically, hey, you got this bill passed, but I'll be back in the Spring to re
evaluate and probably change it up. It was kind of confusing. And it felt like a threat
to me, of course, because I'm the community. And the Council listened to the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 14
community about what we wanted, brought that forward, went through the whole
process. And the Mayor, honestly, had plenty of time to do whatever extra research
he wanted to do in order to, you know, ask questions and things like that. Because it
takes a long time for the bill to get passed. And all of a sudden, he's like, well, I see
that you did it, but I'll be back in the Spring. So, I'm not particularly happy about that.
And the second thing that I wanted to point out is one of my pet peeves is when
somebody uses one's struggles to undermine another, especially when those struggles
are interrelated. So, for instance, when at the very end, when there was a part where
he applauded the Council's efforts in attempting to reduce the threats from the marine
ecosystem, he pointed out several other issues that maybe the Council should pay
attention to. That's actually a way to just undermine the fact that you're working on
something, part of a larger issue, which I'm sure you're thinking of right now and making
sure that you don't do that. Because it's just a way to kind of move from one space to
another. Well, oh, you're working on this, when you should really be looking at this.
And then you go over and look at that and they say, oh well, you should really be
looking at this. It's a game and !'m not particularly excited about that either.
And one last thing before I move on, we are not interested in fake applause. That was
a fake applaud, by the way. He is not excited about what you did. But I just want to
remind you that we are. So, thank you.
And I'm going to go ahead and just move on. I apologize, this one is much longer. So,
for CC 21-556, I understand that the Mayor vetoed Bill 111 as it relates to the applicant
selection process and provided reasons as to why. And I'm starting to see patterns of
when a politician doesn't want to support a bill, but they want to keep up appearances,
so they sell it in order, and then use trigger words or convoluted phrasing that seems
to shut people down really quickly. And the Mayor's reasonings are really good
examples of this and I wanted to point them out.
One simple example of using a trigger word is the word, is the use of the word "liability".
Liability means lawsuits. Lawsuits mean losing money, and that scares people.
Another thing they'll do is structure their sentences so that they seem neutral and
intelligent but are designed to create doubt and fear, so you don't really absorb the
message being sent. So, here's an example of that: "Increasing the marketing duration
from 90 days to 120 days for unsold units will limit our ability to quickly get qualified
residents into housing that may belong to another income bracket, and increase
carrying costs for developers, which will likely be passed onto homeowners." Now, I'm
going to say the exact same thing, but in a different way. Increasing the time for people
who are least likely to be able to afford housing will make it challenging to quickly give
it to someone else, who can pay more for it. Developers will make less money with the
change. We won't stop them from passing this onto the consumer.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 15
Now. the last thing I will point out is that politicians will often cite laws to justify
processes that discourage undesirables from participating in them. And I'd like to look
at the Mayor's use of the Federal Fair Housing Law as an example. Now, this is not
America's land, and yet America has been able to occupy position of almost absolute
authority on how it is managed.
And I'd like to take a moment to recognize how unfair the American government has
been to the Hawaiian Kingdom. We took their land and then brought in our own laws
so we could colonize more easily so we could steal even more land. Then we created
fear around those laws to make it almost impossible for the Hawaiians to get the tiniest
fraction of their land back.
As an American colonizer, I am part of the problem because the occupation of America
is how my family got to live here. And that feels really crappy. But because I know I'm
part of problem, I know I have a kuleana to be part of the solution.
And at this point, I don'tthink that the veto of the bill has anything to do with the reasons
stated by the Mayor at all. And it looks like the continued effort to steal land from the
Hawaiians without actually going to war, because the land is what's valuable to America
and America wants it. And I think the Mayor benefits from stealing land from the
Hawaiians, and I think he's got a lot of friends that do too.
Now, I may not be able to remove the American government from these islands, but I
could try my best to stop it from doing any more damage. And so, these are the last
things I will say. To the Americans that are on the Council I'm going to ask you to do
the same. And before we get on our high horses, just remember this isn't about being
a savior. We don't get to have that. . . because it implies that we did nothing wrong.
And to those of you who are family to these lands and sitting on the Council right now,
let me just say this to you, your ancestors did not carry you on their shoulders so that
you could sit down and shut up when you got that seat to the table. And do not think
for a second that they will let you fall when you speak up after they carried you this far.
Protect your people. Mahalo for your time and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Liu.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Miranda
Somers. To be followed by Eli Hazlet.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 16
CHAIR LEE: Clerk, let us know after the next testifier how many are signed up, okay? Thank
you.
MS. MIRANDA SOMERS. KIHEI CHARTER SCHOOL (testifying on County Communication
No. 21-557T
I'm here to testify on agenda item CC 21-557. Dear Maui Council, I strongly believe
that Bill 135 should be signed into law. As a 7th grade girl who lived on Maui all her
life, I have seen the effects of non-reef-safe sunscreen. For my whole life, I have been
in the ocean, and I would hate to see the generations to come not being able to see
the beauty that Maui really brings. I truly love the ocean and I would love for it to stay
as beautiful as it is now for my kids and grandkids.
I hate seeing the effects that take place when people don't use reef-safe sunscreen.
Most people don't even understand what they are doing to the environment. Most think
they are actually using reef-safe sunscreen, because brands that are not reef-safe
advertise their products as reef-friendly. This infuriates me because these sunscreen
companies are basically lying to their customers. Well, we have the opportunity to
change this. Bill 135 offers us the chance to save Maui before it's too late. Mayor
Victorino, please help us sign this bill into law for your community and for. . . Maui's
natural environment. Sincerely, Miranda Somers.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Next testifier, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Eli Hazlet. To be
followed by Noa Moscovich.
MR. ELI HAZLET. KIHEI CHARTER SCHOOL ftestifvina on County Communication
No. 21-557V
I am here to testify on agenda CC 21-557. And my name is Eli, and I'm sorry if there's
a little background noise. I'm in class right now. Okay. I'm here to try to. I'm writing
this letter to you to express my support for Bill 135, and why, and why I think you should
make it a law. 1 am here to try and convince you that it's worth ... This law will support
the health of the reef and Maui in general. Think about it, if you want to live here, we
have to respect and clean our own island. I emphasize that it is ours, because we live
here. This is, this . . . help the reef, but it will help the land and us. The work will be
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 17
worth it, I assure you. This will help Maui last dozens of years longer. Yes, you may
have to do some work, but think about it in the long term.
We have, have you ever bought reef-safe sunscreen? Well, sorry to break it to you,
but it was probably a lie. There are dozens of chemicals that are harmful to the reef
labeled as "reef-friendly". Bill 2571 [sic] was a step in the right direction, but it only
banned two ingredients. We need to, to make this  alaw. This is in our own interest.
And yes, I do see the other side. This will be very hard for hundreds of sunscreen
companies that, and might put a lot of them out of business. But if we don't make it a
law, it will put millions of living orgasms [sic] in crisis. If we don't, if we don't have a
reef, tourists won't come to admire it. And that is our main source of income here on
Hawaii. I hope I have made a good argument that convinces you to make Bill 135 a
law. Thank you for your time. Sincerely Eli Hazlet, 7th grade Kihei Charter School.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? I guess he's left the scene already.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Noa
Moscovich. To be followed by Jessica Rosada.
MR. NOA MOSCOVICH, KIHEI CHARTER SCHOOL (testifying on County Communication
No. 21-557):
I am here to, dear Maui Council, I am here to testify on agenda item CC 21-557. I think
that if you ban these chemical sunscreens, it will make a great change and possibly
even stop coral bleaching from taking place. Harmful chemicals from sunscreens are
making coral reefs less resilient to climate change. The ocean is already being
impacted and contaminated from chemical-based sunscreen. This . . . affects the
ocean through . . .
Some scientists are saying that if this doesn't stop now. there will be less than
10 percent of coral reefs alive in the years ahead. Why are we allowing sunscreen
companies to kill our reef? The tray, kill our reef, the trading of our ocean's ecosystems
for money, for money, money is not now or ever going to be a fair trade. No price can
be put on our health of our planet and bodies. Please, Mayor Victorino, sign this Bill
135 into law. Sincerely, Noa Moscovich.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 18
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? If not, thank you.
Next testifier, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Jessica
Rosada. To be followed by Luz ArnaPMagallon. Chair, there are 26 testifiers
remaining.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Hello?
MS. JESSICA ROSADA. KIHEI CHARTER SCHOOL (testifying on County Communication
No. 21-557V
I am here, hello. I am here to testify on agenda item CC 21-557. Dear Maui Council,
I'm, I'm writing to you today to indicate my support for Bill 135. I support Bill 135 for
the reason that sunscreen have many harmful ingredients such as Octisalate and
Homosalate. It's important that we keep our coral and health safe. Our community's
health impacts the community's health and everyone. In order to help ban non-reef-
safe sunscreen, we must spread the word. Our health, coral, and community are in
danger. By banning the use of non-reef-safe sunscreen, we, we can change many
things that are negatively impacting our society, coral reefs, and health. This bill would
do just that.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
If not, may we have the next testifier, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Luz Arnal-
Magallon. To be followed by Makani Cogliandro.
(testifying on CountyMS. LUZ ARNAL-MAGALLON, KIHEI CHARTER SCHOOL
Communication No. 21-557):
I'm here to testify on agenda item CC 21-557. Aloha Maui County Council. I am here
to you today to express my support for Bill 135. When I look at the bill and the way
that the author's consider other people who . . . ecosystem, I am grateful because they
are willing to help. These people are educated and know the consequences of what
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 19
will happen if. . . thousands of people every year buying sunscreen and being in the
ocean.
My classmates and I have been learning about the effects and threats of this problem.
I believe that we have the ability and the opportunity to conserve coral reefs, and we
should. Consumers sometimes don't know the effects of non-reef sunscreen. Because
of this, little attention has been given to the effects of sunscreen. And over 70 percent
of the coral in the entire world has been bleached. They mostly go to places with
amazing coral and beautiful . . . , but overtime, the coral gets bleached and loses all
of its colors and fish, losing profit from tourists and killing the ocean.
If we ban these chemicals, the ocean would be safer, and the people and the ocean
ecosystems would be healthier. The amazing coral reefs should last and continue to
draw the attention of people. There are numerous problems in the world. If we have
the ability to help, why shouldn't we. Sincerely, Luz, 7th grade Kihei Charter School.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members?
Yes, Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And mahalo, Ms. Arnal-Magallon. I just
had a question for you. Are you currently in a science class?
MS. ARNAL-MAGALLON: Yes, I am.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Alright. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Makani
Cogliandro. To be followed by Ava Herren.
(testifying on CountyMR. MAKANI COGLIANDRO. KIHEI CHARTER SCHOOL
Communication No. 21-557):
I'm here to, I'm here to testify on agenda item CC 21-557. Aloha Maui County Council.
I'm here today to express my support for Bill 135. I support this bill because it will help
save the coral reefs and the marine ecosystem. 1 want marine life to be safe and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 20
protected from bad chemical and ingredients in sunscreen because ! love the ocean
and the things in the ocean.
Other people might think that I'm wrong and that the oceans don't need to be saved
and that the oceans are fine . . . But! know that the ocean, the ocean animals, and
organisms in it are dying because of a . , . Bill 135 presents a unique opportunity for
us to do something good for the environment. It is a step in the right direction. Please
consider my testimony, and please sign Bill 135 into law.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
If not, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Ava
Herren. To be followed by Bodhi Williams.
MS. AVA HERREN. KIHEI CHARTER SCHOOL (testifying on County Communication
No. 21-557):
I'm here to testify on agenda item CC 21-557. Dear Maui County Council, Bill 135 . . .
for Hawaii. . . . biodiverse ecosystem in Hawaii. Our coral reefs are housing millions
of species . . . many of those species. This Council based . . . coral . . . Warming
oceans have . . . ocean acidification. This bill also needs to stop the false
advertisement that says, chemical-based sunscreens are reef friendly. Reef-safe
sunscreens are still incredibly harmful to our reef. This bill will inform people about the
harmfulness of these chemicals. The more people are educated on this problem, the
better.
At Kihei Charter, we are trying to make our own Impact and reaching out . . . and
informing the public of these harmful effects on coral reefs. Even though we are trying
to help, it is only a small impact on the problem. But if you pass the bill, it will help a
lot. Maui Council, Maui County Council, please listen to our, our request.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? If not, thank you very much for your testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Bodhi
Williams. To be followed by Wyatt van der Lee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 21
MR. BODHI WILLIAMS. KIHEI CHARTER SCHOOL (testifying on County Communication
No. 21-557):
I am here to testify on agenda item 66, CC 21-557. Dear Maui County Council, we
need this bill signed into law to save the coral, the ocean ecosystem, and even
ourselves. To be frank, I am disappointed and angry that you're considering not
honoring the unanimous vote by the County Council and your commitment to the
environment. Although I understand your desire to have the latest research, I don't
think it is a sound judgment to have second thoughts on Bill 135 after the Maui County
Council has already voted. You need to keep your word and sign Bill 135 into law so
we can have a brighter future for Maui.
I have already given testimony to bill, to the bill before the Council voted, and it saddens
me that I have to do this again. Your lack of commitment really shows, and I'm appalled
that you want to recall such an important environmental solution. If things do not
change, things will only get worse. As I stated in my previous testimony, this couid
cost us money. And if we don't have tourists coming after the sunscreen kills our coral
and drives away the fish, we won't have a good economic solution. If you really care
about Maui, you will sign the bill and help the island before it's too late. Sincerely,
Bodhi Williams, Kihei Charter School, 7th grade Science.
CHAIR LEE; Bodhi?
MR. WILLIAMS: Yes?
CHAIR LEE: Bodhi, what we're going to do, we’re going to send all of your letters to the
Mayor, because you need to address your testimony to him really. Okay? Thank you.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Wyatt
van der Lee. To be followed by Scott Fisher.
(testifying on CountyMR. WYATT VAN DER LEE, KIHEI CHARTER SCHOOL
Communication No. 21-557):
I am here to testify on agenda item CC 21-57, or 557. Dear Maui County Council, 1 am
writing this to testify on my opinion and why you should pass Bill 135 as it is very
important to us. Because even though there are other problems going on with the reef
like warming temperatures, banning non-safe, non-reef-safe sunscreen will make an
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 22
important difference. We can see Hawaii's reefs are slowly dying because of climate
change, but also because of non-reef-safe sunscreen.
This impact makes marine animals that take shelter and feed off the reef. . . and food
supply. This will affect the fishing community throughout Hawaii, and they will be able
to catch fewer fish, negatively impacting the fishing economy.
Visitors who come here to see the colorful reefs of Hawaii will be disappointed by the
environmental damage. This may negatively impact the tourist industry, which will
certainly won’t be good for Maui and Hawaii as we get most of the money via tourism.
But it is not only the marine animals and non-safe sunscreen, and non-reef-safe
sunscreen affects, sunscreen also causes water pollution, which again harms the reefs.
Furthermore, sunscreens are not FDA approved in the U.S. Meaning they are not
actually as safe and protect... So, please sign this bill so you can save our reefs.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? I have a question. Be, before 1 call on you, Ms., Member
King. Is your last name van der Leaf [sic]?
MR. VAN DER LEE; van der Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Did, did you participate in the ‘Imi Pono challenge a year ago?
MR. VAN DER LEE: Oh, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: You did, yeah? I remember you. I remember.
Okay, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. I think it's van der Lee. And I'm going to
assume, Wyatt, that your mom is Nicolette van der Lee from . . .
MR. VAN DER LEE: Yeah it is.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I'm sure she's very proud of you. I'm, I'm really proud of
all of you Kihei Charter School students, not just for the testimony today, but for the
very professional, very well thought out report that you did that's on Granicus today
because of this issue. And I want to thank you. And I think you worked with Jeff
Bagshaw on that, and some other folks from around the community.
But I, I also wanted to ask you, are, 1 hope all you folks are getting extra credit for, all
you students are getting extra credit for this testimony. Because this is really incredible,
an incredible civic lesson. I'm so happy to have you all engaged in this issue. Thank
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 23
you so much for coming forward. Thank you to all of you Kihei Charter School students.
Your, no wonder your school has such a great reputation.
MR. VAN DER LEE: Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Scott
Fisher. To be followed by Stephanie Ohigashi.
Mr. Fisher, we can't hear you. We can see you, but we can't hear you. Apologies
Mr. Fisher, still can't hear anything yet.
Okay, Chair, I believe Mr. Fisher has some technical difficulties. We'll return to him
later. The next person signed up to testify is Stephanie Ohigashi. To be followed
Susun White.
MS. STEPHANIE OHIGASHI. SISTER CITIES INTERNATIONAL (testifying on Committee
Report No. 21-134L
Hello, everybody. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. OHIGASHI: Okay. Good morning. I'm beaming in from downtown Wailuku. It's a
beautiful day and I'm in the office. There are people here, my husband, for one, and
another client, that's why I have my mask on. So, aloha. And .. . buenos dias, as they
say in Ecuador. I am Stephanie Ohigashi, Sister Cities International's Hawaii State
representative.
It's such a pleasure to be here this morning with this hardworking body. And I was
hoping to follow and listen to Scott Fisher, but I, i guess I have to wait now. I am
impressed with the Kihei Charter High School and their testimony. And I just love
having youth involved in policymaking. And I think that's the way to go for the future.
I'm here to thank you in advance for passing CR 21-134, "ESTABLISHING A SISTER-
CITY RELATIONSHIP WITH SAN CRISTOBAL ISLAND, GALAPAGOS ISLANDS
[SIC], REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 24
Passing this resolution is. of course, is just the first step. There is going to be an
agreement between our two cities, and also contact between Dr. Luis Suarez, who is
the Ambiental Ambassador to the Galapagos. Ambiental, I guess is a fancy word for
environmental. And with Mayor Angel Juarez and Mayor Victorino, and with the
Council representative, these documents are going to be earth-changing for Maui
County, because we're going to be the first relationship with the Galapagos.
It is a people-to-people relationship, not to mention all the wild inhabitants there like
the turtles, and the iguanas, and the blue-footed booby bird. I've never heard of them.
But anyway, it's going to be a journey that we are, are going to be having fun with and
learning some very important sustainability and environmental protection processes.
So, thank you so much for reviewing this resolution and Feliz Navidad.
CHAIR LEE: And same to you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Stephanie. Thank you for your
testimony. And thank you for your Sister City program, really appreciate it. I just
wanted to . . . that I will send you a video of the blue-footed boobies that we saw when
we were actually doing ... ten feet in front of us. So, you'll, then you'll know the
biodiversity.
MS. OHIGASHI: Thank you. Mahalo. Yes. The Darwin Institute has listed all the, you know,
one-of-a-kind animals that are there. And it's so important to preserve the ecosystem
there and here in Maui. So, I think we've got a lot to learn from each other and we can't
wait to get started. So, mahalo for all your work. Thank you so much.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thanks, Stephanie. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you, Stephanie.
MS. OHIGASHI: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: And Mr. Clerk, may we have the next one?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Susun
White. To be followed by Scott Crawford.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. White?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 25
MS. SUSUN WHITE (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-140):
Aloha. I'm here. Can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. WHITE; Oh, good. Okay. Alright. Well ... to ail of you. I hope I said that right. But
just wanted to testify for CR 21-140, which is the Pa'ia Youth Council lease, extended
lease and lease expansion. And I hope that you will all support this today. I really want
to say that it's been a long, long process. It's been through two Administrations, at
least four Council Committee hearings, and a ton of community review, and debate,
and dialogue. And some of it wasn't very much fun. But I have to say in the long run
in reflection, that it's all been extremely positive.
And I think that through that process, that we have a better, more connected
community. And I'm actually looking forward to the next steps, once we get the lease,
to have even more community involvement and input. Because that's what we always
wanted anyway. So even though it went back and forth so many times, in the end, 1
think it was really great. And for me, a really great educational and humbling, I have
to say, experience.
So, I really want to thank all of the County Council for being with us and helping us
through this process. And I want to thank, especially, the Department of Parks and
Recreation, Karla Peters, the Director, and all of her staff. They have been the primary
example of what it means to be a real partner in the community, government partner
with a nonprofit. They have stood by us through all of this, and I, I just can't even thank
them enough. And also, I want to thank Mimi from the Corporation Counsel for
enduring and being so amazing and legal and professional. I think she's had to rewrite
the lease at least five times now. Now, she's just put a hold on it till the final whatever
we end up doing. So, I just really wanted to say thank you. And 1 hope that all of you
support us.
And I think that the next thing coming forward once we get the lease should be really
fun. it should be an incredible, positive example for the community, how we can create
a building and a structure and an environment that is an example for the kids, we hope,
to be, you know, totally off the grid, even collecting our own water, everything. And be
a amazing thing that all of Maui County could be proud of. But anyway, thank you very
much.
And also, one last thing to add. I admire all of you. 1 don't know how you do it. I don't
know how you work all the hours you work. And how many, like I was telling Yuki Lei
the other day, how you can keep so much stuff in your head and keep it straight. So,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 26
I hope you get a break during the holidays, and really can just be with your families.
And we'll leave you there. So, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much, Ms. White.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Scott
Crawford. To be followed by Jeff Bagshaw.
MR. SCOTT CRAWFORD, KE AO HALl'l (testifying on County Communication No. 21-560):
Aloha. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Committee. I thought I would
join the holiday spirit that you're all showing this morning.
CHAIR LEE; Very good.
MR. CRAWFORD: So, thank you for this opportunity to testify on behalf of Ke Ao Halil, and
the Hana community, and the families of the Mokae and Maka'alae area. I just wanted
to thank you for your ongoing support of our efforts to protect and, and steward these
precious lands along the coastline from Hamoa to Waioka and Waiohonu.
We, as you know, we closed on the first parcel acquisition back in March of 2020, and
just the end of November, we're happy to have completed the acquisition of four
additional parcels in Maka'alae. And unfortunately, the, the third phase of this project,
with the request that we had made to the Legacy Lands Conservation Program, they,
because of their budget limitations, we ended up not getting the basically 50 percent
match that we had asked for from them.
So, we're now coming back to the County to ask for some additional funds from the
Open Space Fund in order to be able to complete this third phase, which is kind of right
in, right above my head here, in between the two previous phases that we've
completed. So, it's a really crucial piece to complete the overall protection of this
approximately 1.5 miles of coastline.
And since we submitted this request, we've actually been doing some fundraising on
our own. We're very thankful for, to Hawaii Land Trust that has secured a grant of
$100,000 from a foundation to go towards this purchase. We also have about $18,000
coming back from the Legacy Land that's left over from the Maka'alae purchase. And
we've raised about $16,000 from private donations so far. So, that is funds that will,
will be reduced from our request when we actually go to put these funds into escrow.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 27
We are continuing our fundraising campaign and have some other possibilities out
there. So, whatever we can raise between now and, and actual closing date will be
reduced from what we're actually asking the County for from the Open Space Fund.
We're trying to make that ask as little as possible, but we realty appreciate your support
to be able to close that last gap.
And then, 1 also just wanted to note that once this acquisition, the third phase is
complete, then the sellers have committed to donating eight parcels that are already
under conservation easement with Hawaii Island Land Trust to Ke Ao Hali'i to basically
complete the, the contiguous conservation lands all the way along that coastline. So,
if anybody has any questions, I would also be willing to stay on as a resource person
when you come to discussion of this, if you would like me to do so. Thank you very
much.
CHAIR LEE: Questions? Comments? Member Sugimura,
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, Chair, I just wanted to thank you, Scott. You are so
important to pull this whole project together. So, thank you for your good work and
what a great Christmas present for your community. Thank you. Member Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
MR. CRAWFORD: Can I just say that it is really a team effort and I'm so fortunate to have so
many great, you know, community members that all work as part of this. And so, I do
my part, but it's really, we have so many people in the community that all, all of their
efforts helped to make this happen, including yeah, many.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here this morning, Scott.
I was just thinking about how, how long I've known you and how much you remind me
of the Peter Baldwin ohana. But I wanted to ask you, what is your shortfall? What is
your current shortfall?
MR. CRAWFORD: It is, let's see, I should have that number, Let me pull it up. Just a moment.
CHAIR LEE: Members we have, seem to have a lot of feedback. So, please turn off your
mics if you're not using them. Thank you.
Scott, did you want to answer the question?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 28
MR. CRAWFORD; Yeah. It's basically, if you add those up, shoot, puli it up in just a minute
here. Basically, we're at about 535,000, is the current need. And we will continue
fundraising, so hopefully that'll be reduced even further. But, I mean, you know, the
request is for 669,300, which is basically the gap between what the Legacy Land
request fell short. But we're trying to fill that in with private donations and other
requests as much as we can.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Scott.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And Mr. Crawford had sent in some written
testimony for Members to, to look at. And so, but if we can, I just request that he stay
on as a resource, in case Members have more questions when we get to the item.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, okay. Anybody else with questions? So, Scott will you be able to stay
on when we take this matter up?
MR. CRAWFORD: Yes, I will standby and be available when it come back up on the agenda.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, great. Thank you.
MR. CRAWFORD: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Jeff
Bagshaw, to be followed by Zhantell Lindo.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Mr. Bagshaw.
MR. JEFF BAGSHAW. DLNR/DOFAW (testifying on County Communication No. 21-557):
Good morning. Hello again, Maui County Council, and aloha Mayor Victorino. This is
in regards to No. 21-57, 557. I'm Jeff Bagshaw with Division of Forestry and Wildlife
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 29
here on Maui. I urge you to not delay, alter, or make amendments to Ordinance 5306,
Bill 135.
No one argues that our reefs face numerous problems, many of which can't be solved
in Hawaii alone. We know that more bleaching events like the devastating one we had
in 2015 are coming because our planet is getting warmer. But delaying actions we can
take here and now, today, is like telling a heart patient to do nothing to change their
lifestyle, because their family's history is a bigger factor. We know from past events
that reefs that are healthiest to begin with have better chances for some recovery. So,
preparing for those upcoming events begins today, not months from now. This is, as I
mentioned before in previous testimony, this isn't just about reefs with pretty fish for
snorkelers to see. It's also about our food resources. It's a matter of environmental
justice.
And in my written testimony, I have attached three international studies that show that
these chemicals bioaccumulate in higher animals. We eat from the oceans here in
Hawaii. Everyone knows that. But when you make, I want to highlight that we're
making a choice. People who make the choice to not wear sun protective clothing,
who demand to recreate between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. ,who don't like mineral sunblocks
and choose petrochemical sunscreens instead, they are imposing their health choices
on the rest of us people who eat from the ocean in Hawaii. They are imposing their
secondhand smoke on the rest of us. So, preserving their bad choices means we place
a higher value on their actions and their health above the health of the people who eat
from our shores.
Now, the National Academy of Science is not a regulatory agency. It will only make
recommendations to the EPA. We don't need to wait because a dermatologist on Maui
has a storeroom full of products being sold through their office and online. We know,
we have generations of data from credible dermatologists that the most effective sun
protection remains clothing or mineral sunblocks. Those just aren't as profitable,
because they're minerals and they can't be patented.
Bill 135, which is a great piece of work by this Council, corrects loopholes created by
the weak statewide ban on only two compounds. Petrochemical sunscreen ingredients
bioaccumulate. We know the long-term health effects and medical costs for people
who eat from the ... we don't know what those costs will be. And when people
highlight, oh yeah, worried about skin cancer, they're placing a higher value on that
than the people who live here. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, you're muted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 30
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bagshaw, we're going to be hearing from the
Managing Director, Mr. Baz in a few minutes, so he can clarify why this item is on the
agenda. We did not request it. It was a letter from the Mayor saying that he signed,
he actually signed the bill. But I guess there's confusion because it's on the agenda,
that the Council is going to reopen this item, which we have no intention of doing, okay?
Thank you.
MR. CRAWFORD: Understood.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Jeff. Thank you so much for being
here. I think you've been working with the students at Kihei Charter School?
MR. BAGSHAW: My colleague from the Big Island has. I, I would like to work with them.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That, that report they did was just amazing. I couldn’t believe it
was a school project.
MR. BAGSHAW: It was good.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But I, I've been, I've heard from folks on the Big Island, on the
Council that they're, they're right now authoring similar legislation, so they've asked for
a copy of ours. I know that Representative Lowen of the State House is also looking
to strengthen the State legislation. But I also heard rumors that the industry is lobbying
to try to get the State Legislature to preempt the counties from being able to take the
steps that we've already taken. And I just wondered if you had any knowledge of that
happening or that being in the works?
MR. BAGSHAW: I understand all of those things are happening. And that's why I think it's,
it, that's why it's timely to do this now, and that we don't need to wait. It's not just for
environmental reasons, but it is because it is much more profitable to sell these
compounds than it is to sell mineral byproducts. But all of the major corporations
already make these products. And our small businesses just need to order different
things. They're not going to lose money and they can sell sun shirts that are a nice
souvenir. So--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Would you, would you agree that, because I've been looking into
some research into the mineral sunscreens and there are several of them that are
actually made locally on Maui, by companies on Maui. So, would you agree that that
those are opportunities for local economic development, whereas I don't think there
are any chemical sunscreens that are made locally?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 31
MR. BAGSHAW: That's correct, there are no petrochemical sunscreens made in the islands.
But yes, there are small businesses that do very well. For those who argue that they're
more expensive, they actually go farther. So, it just means, for retailers, a shift in what
they do. it doesn't mean a loss of sales. And I'm working on some outreach products
to help them understand what the County ordinance would mean, and ways that they
can keep their businesses, keep it flowing. Because people do need sun protection,
but just not that kind.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you so much. And  Ireally, I think you're one of the
heroes of this movement too. So, thank you for being here again.
MR. BAGSHAW: Thanks to you folks.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any more questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Bagshaw.
Mr. Clerk. We'l! take a few more testifiers.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Zhantell Lindo.
To be followed by Kelli Lungren.
MS. ZHANTELL LINDO (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-131):
Aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. Thank you for this opportunity. I would like to
testify. My name is Zhantell Lindo. i am a staff member of Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, but I am testifying on my own time and on my own behalf. 1 would like to
testify on CR 21-131, the acquisition of the property in 'Ualapu'e, Molokai, to be used
for the relocation of the Puko'o Fire Station. I just have a few bullet points to support
the acquisition.
First, this is an effort of over 25 years of community effort and consultation to get to
this point. There's an immediate need for the safety and welfare of our firefighters, and
the maintenance and storage of fire equipment to be moved from its current location.
The property is located within the parameters set by the community, as far as location.
Minimal to no adverse effect on the surrounding properties, nor the social, economical,
environmental, and cultural resources of the area. This innovative effort to morph from
a fire station to a firehouse provides a solution to the need for emergency services in
Manae while being fiscally responsible, giving an example of working smarter, not
harder, and doing more with less.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 32
The acquisition and anticipated improvements to the property is far less than the
estimated costs of the original plans for relocation of the Puko'o Station. This provides
us the opportunity for our Manae community and ohana to support the enhancement
of emergency services in the area, without having to compromise our natural and
cultural resources, nor explore, exploit our way of life.
And finally, I personally believe it's important to support good ideas, especially when
the solution involves true community participation and amazing partnership efforts from
the Department, the Mayor's Administration, our Molokai Councilmember, and you the
Council. This is destined to be a truly great blessing to our island as it is rooted, rooted
in true aloha by so many who truly care about our island and our people. Mahalo and
a Merry Christmas to you all. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Happy Holidays to you, too, Zhan. Any questions, Members? If not, thank you.
Mr. Clerk, let's take two more before our break.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, then the last two testifiers before the break are Kelli
Lungren, to be followed by Christine Sabado.
CHAIR LEE: And then how many more do we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, after Christine Sabado, about 17.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Lungren?
MS. KELLI LUNDGREN (testifying on County Communication No. 21-557):
Yes, hello. Can you, can you hear me, see me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. LUNGREN: Okay. Yes, hi. My name is Kelli Lungren and I am a volunteer at 'Ahihi-
Kina'u since 2014. I know I've talked to this Council before, and I want to tell you that
I really appreciate you passing this bill. And I appreciate the Mayor signing this bill.
But I also want to bring up a few comments on this environmental impact study that is
being discussed to potentially delay this bill. One of them was, half of this study says
that there's, it's going to talk about the sunscreen effects that would, if people stopped
using sunscreen, to what will happen to them? What would happen to their health?
Well, we already know that minerals work, and rash guards work. It doesn't mean that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 33
people are not going to be using sunscreens if they don't use chemical sunscreen. So,
I, this, these comments are addressed to the Mayor right now, cause I know the Council
understands this. So, I, I'm hoping the Mayor is listening to this.
The second thing is. on that same environmental impact study there's item number 4
on there that says that if they are inconclusive in their findings in the Spring, they can
delay their findings for some time. Well, that's also dangerous for the reefs. You know,
it's, it's a, it's a, times running out on our reefs. And there are graver dangers as has
been commented. But there's no great, this is not any less grave than any other of the
dangers, the global warming. This, if we can get rid of these chemicals in our reefs, in
30 days, they'll go away. If you could just stop 500 people from getting into the reef
with these chemicals on, it goes away.
And these are comments for the Mayor. So, if we delay this bill, how many more
months are we going to go out, and years are we going to go out until we get these
sunscreen chemicals out of our reefs? And I just don't think we have the time. There
are scientists in Kaneohe Bay that are, are eagerly and, you know, designing new
corals to save our reefs. Let's give our reefs some time to preserve themselves and
preserve the rest of the oceans. Minerals work, and the science is there. And thank
you very much for your time for Mr. Mayor.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We have a question from Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. Aloha, Kelli. I think you came last time and you had both
of the mineral sunscreens on.
MS. LUNGRED: I do now, too, by the way.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And you still look beautiful and don't look like Marcel Marceau.
So. that. . .
MS. LUNGREN: Yes, yes. And this one is just zinc. This is just zinc. The other one is a
combination of zinc and titanium. And I was just saying it works. It works.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: . . . Thank you for. . . But what I wanted to ask you was, you
know the Big Island at Hapuna Beach got that, I think it was DLNR that put in that
dispenser with the mineral sunscreen?
MS. LUNGREN: Yes. Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 34
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Do you know if there's anything like that coming from, to Maui, or
is there a way we can ask. I mean, I'm going to probably ask Suzanne Case, but is
there a way, are you guys lobbying for that also somewhere, especially ‘Ahihi?
MS. LUNGREN: You know, we did before the pandemic, as a volunteer, when we were
actively volunteering before the pandemic. We had  alocal manufacture, actually,
bring, give us a big tub of it. You would not believe how people were receptive to that.
And we, I would love to see it on every reef beach, every visitor beach on Maui, just
like Hapuna Beach. And you know, our, our Governor is supporting this at Hapuna
Beach.
Everybody that shows up and, and wants to set aside their chemical sunscreen is very
happy to put on this mineral sunblock. How wonderful is that to have it there for people
to use that alternative? It, it's just an amazing thing. And, and whether we can get a
nonprofit organization or the DLNR to do this, it, it would be invaluable. And the people
that we're putting it on are also protecting their skin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, maybe we can work on that together. Cause I thought it
was ironic it was on the Big Island the day that we, we passed our bill.
MS. LUNGREN: I know. And it's great. That is the solution, right? We're solving things.
That's, that’s great, yes. Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Oh. you're still muted.
CHAIR LEE: Sorry, we’ll have one more testifier before our break.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You need to have that little ornament I gave you?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Which one?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Did you get the one that says, "you're on mute"? It's in your box.
It's a Christmas ornament.
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no, I didn't. I didn't see it yet. Oh, okay. Is that, is that what 1 need?
Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; All, everybody's got one.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, one more.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 35
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the last person we’ll have before the break is Christine
Sabado. Then, after the break, the next testifier will be Leslee Matthews.
(testifying onMS. CHRISTINE SABADO. CHAIR. MAUI COUNTY SISTER CITIES
Committee Report 21-134):
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sabado.
MS. SABADO: Yes, I'm in. Hello? Aloha. Can you see me? Yes? I am representing article
CR 21-134 and it’s about the Galapagos. And I am Maui County's Sister Cities Chair.
Geez, some of the beauty of being on, on this BlueJeans is that I can just support and
reiterate everything that's been said, because our theme this year and our banner is
sustainability and water. And I concur and support everything that's been said,
because I think it's really all very advantageous to our, having a 2022 theme. Thank
you, Kelly, for visiting our Sister City in Scotland. It was a huge success. And we're
all so excited to move forward this year.
I'm going to be brief, because I know the break is, is coming up. And as I've said in
past, timing condition is about everything, I think we're all at the right moment in time
to work for all our themes. Sister City is a part of it all, and we happy to join you and
be a part. Any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Members?
MS. SABADO: Forme?
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just really quickly, Christine. Thanks for being here. Do you
have Dropbox?
MS. SABADO; 1 do.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm going to send you that, that video of the blue-footed boobies.
MS. SABADO: Oh, thank you so much, i would, I would love that knowledge as well. I, 1
appreciate that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: If we pass the resolution, we'll play that as a, as a celebration.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 36
MS. SABADO: Absolutely. We, we could do that. I appreciate that. Yeah, so let's move
forward and make 2022 a great year for Sister Cities and for Maui County. And we're
all joining hands and making this work together.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Thank you very much.
MS. SABADO: Good. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, we'll take a break till 10:50. 10:50. Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:31 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:52 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT. EXCEPT VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of December 17, 2021, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, please resume testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Leslee
Matthews. To be followed by Elizabeth Oliva.
MS. LESLEE MATTHEWS (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-137):
Good morning. Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers. My name is Leslee Matthews
and I'm here to testify enthusiastically in support of Committee Report 21-137 in
support of my mom Rainey Dock Matthews to be a commissioner on the Mayor's, Maui
County Commission on Persons with Disabilities. I have no doubt that this Commission
has helped play a hand in my mother's healing after I relocated her back to Maui for
her health. The vision of that Commission is to promote and enhance the quality of life
of Maui County residents with disabilities through advocacy, education, and education
by working with our community elected and other County officials who have the ability
to make change. And I'm really excited.
And thank you to the current commissioners who have allowed my mom to attend
almost every meeting. And she's shared different resources. She was super sad when
she had to retire as the Fort Worth, the Chair of the Fort Worth Committee on Persons
with Disabilities. But she took a chance because she knew it would be beneficial for
her health. She was honored by the Fort Worth Mayor, and even the Governor flew a
flag over the Texas State Capitol for, in honor of my mom.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 37
i had no idea where life would take us November 16 of 2004 when she had a major
stroke. But it's taken us to beautiful places. She was once a flight attendant and had
to make the decision to retire for her health. It’s taken us to places like seeking services
that are available through Maui County. So, to the service providers that have helped
me in my time of need transition to being a full-time caregiver, I also want to say thank
you to you all.
My mom has advocated in spaces like voting, housing, access to services, and
transportation. I'm really excited that she's going to be on the council, on the
Commission, prayerfully with you all's vote. Because then, maybe I'll hear a little bit
less often, "I need to contact Councilmember Sugimura about this transportation
issue", or "what can we do about housing, so I need contact so and so?". And now, I'll
just say, I'm going to contact commissioner Matthews about my issues.
People experiencing homelessness lack sustainable access to housing, and instead
turn to emergency shelters, transitional housing, and places not meant for overnight
residents. They, people experiencing disabilities often experience discrimination in
housing, healthcare, employment, and wage, preventing and making it difficult for them
to secure sustainable housing and income necessary to meet their basic needs. I have
no shame anymore saying that I've had to reach out for the services of this County and
other places to help in taking care of my mom. But my mom has helped take care of
others.
So, to this Council, as you consider things like housing being a basic human right, 1
say, thank you, cause it makes a difference for me and people like my mom. For those
of you that are thinking about taking care of our oceans, I want to say thank you, cause
it makes a difference for people like me and my mom. For those of you thinking about
ways that you can do exactly what this Committee is set out to do, then make
recommendations to make systematic changes that maximize independence and
county, community integration for Maui County residents with disabilities. ... I want to
say thank you.
Whether my mom has access, advocated in Rome, Italy, or she's gone to
Washington, D.C. to advocate for the Americans with Disabilities Act, or right here in
Maui County as she already makes announcements for the Commission meetings, I
know that she'll make a difference. And to each of you, thank you for the difference
that you make in all of our lives to help make this world a little bit better. Merry
Christmas.
CFIAIR LEE: And Merry Christmas, and Flappy Holidays to you, Leslee and your mom.
Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 38
MS. MATTHEWS: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Elizabeth
Oliva. To be followed by Shelby Serra.
MS. ELIZABETH OLIVA (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-137):
Can you guys hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. OLIVA: Okay. Weil, it's actually Elizabeth Oliva and I am in Fort Worth, Texas. And 1
am here to testify for CR 21-137, on behalf of Rainey Dock Matthews. And I know her,
I've known her for several years and I know the family. And I just have some words
that describe the Rainey that I know and the person that you would be privileged to
work with if you so choose. She's highly regarded. Some of the words that I think of
about her are love and respected by all who know her. She's kind. She's
compassionate. She's a leader. And as Leslee just talked about, she's an overcomer.
She has wisdom way beyond her years. She's tenacious with causes that she’s
passionate about. And she’s a champion for those who may not be able to fight for
themselves. And her legacy can be seen in her successful children, like Leslee, for
sure.
Fort Worth loss for her on that, that board is your gain for her to be your, one of the
commissioners on the Maui County Commission on Persons with Disabilities. And she
finds a cause and she’s passionate about that, and she goes for it. And she cares
deeply for the people that she is fighting for, that she's advocating for. So, I know you
guys would be blessed and privileged to have her work with you there in Maui. I can't
say enough wonderful words about this woman that  Iknow. She's as close to family
as she can be to me. So, I hope you guys do consider and do approve that for her to
be on the board.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you, Elizabeth. Any questions? If not, thank you very much. Happy
Holidays.
MS. OLIVA: You too.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 39
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual we have signed up to testify is Shelby Serra.
To be followed by Lucienne de Naie.
ftestifying on CountyMS. SHELBY SERRA, PACIFIC WHALE FOUNDATION
Communication No. 21-557):
Aloha. Good morning and . . . Council. My name is Shelby Serra, conservation
advocate and I'm testifying on behalf of Pacific Whale Foundation. Today, I would like
to offer comments on the passing of Bill 135 and the subsequent comments provided
by Mayor Victorino in CC 21-557. First, I'd like to thank the Council for voting to pass
this important piece of environmental legislation and putting the health of the ocean
and the planet first.
At PWF, we support an approach known as the precautionary principle, which
emphasizes caution when extensive scientific knowledge on a matter is lacking. When
we know that something has the potential to be harmful, we encourage the pause and
review before we continue adding undue harm. The pause being a prohibition on
chemical sunscreen.
We look forward to the review from the National Academics on Sciences, Engineering,
and Medicine, echoing and emphasizing what has been said these last few months.
We, as humans, are uniquely positioned to act on this matter before we know
extensively that chemical sunscreens prove to be disastrous.
Coral reefs across the globe, including right here in Hawaii, are threatened. Coral reefs
provide shelter for 25 percent of all of the world's fish. They provide protection to
coastlines from severe storm events, and they provide economic value supporting
fisheries and tourist activities. Coral reefs here in Hawaii alone provide over $33 billion
in economic value to the State.
As the Mayor pointed out, there are a multitude of stressors on corals, such as
increasing ocean temperatures leading to acidification, and pollutants such as plastics
and stormwater run-off. The scientific knowledge on these stressors is well-studied,
extensive, and indeed will be an uphill battle to address. The point I would like to make
today is that if we can have control over even one stressor facing coral reefs today,
there is no reason not to take it. The precautionary approach implies there is a social
responsibility to protect the reefs, and in turn people from exposure to harm when
scientific investigation has found a plausible risk.
We cannot stop carbon emissions from being absorbed by our ocean, or realistically
prevent every piece of rubbish or every pollutant from washing into the ocean during a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 40
storm event. But we can put prohibitions on harmful chemicals and stop them from
entering the ocean right here in Maui County, and hopefully, eventually, throughout all
State's waters.
Mr. Mayor, please do not consider amending or reversing your decision to pass this
legislation. Mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here, Shelby. Really
appreciate your input and throughout the whole process of getting this bill passed. Is
there a, is there a benchmark period where we might be able to see some results from
the, I mean, it’s not going to go into effect till October 1, but, you know, would it be like
a year after that that we should expect to see some kind of result on, that we could
measure on the reef?
MS. SERRA: Oh, you know, I don't know. I heard a testifier earlier mention that it was pretty
quick once chemicals stop being used. But I'm not sure about the science on, on the
timeframe of seeing the impacts.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. But you, would you folks be one of the entities that might
be involved in something like that, you know, in those measurements?
MS. SERRA: You know, our research is pretty specific to marine mammals. And so, until we
have the capacity to expand our research to do specific coral reef studies, we would
not specifically have those, that data. But I bet Maui Ocean Center Marine Institute,
they have a coral lab over there and, you know, they could be good people to do that
type of study.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Great. Well, thank you so much again, again for being
here. Thank you, Chair.
MS. SERRA: Oh, happy to. Mahalo all. Happy Holidays.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Happy Holidays.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Serra.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Lucienne
de Naie. To be followed by Linda Munsell.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 41
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE, [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-556, 21-557, &
21-560; Committee Report Nos. 21-138, 21-139 & 21-140: and Bill No. 149 (2021)1;
Aloha. Good morning. Mele Kalikimaka. Nice to see all of you in your holiday finery.
My name is Lucienne de Naie and 1 am testifying, for the first part of my testimony, on
behalf of Sierra Club Maui, as the Chair of the Maui Group. Sierra Club is in very, very
strong support of the bill you passed, Bill 135. And we are speaking to agenda item
21-557 and the Mayor's letter. We are also grateful that the Mayor signed the bill, but
like many before us, we question the need to sort of look at this as a process that needs
to be backtracked. We're sure new information will keep coming in over the years. If
there's anything truly significant, we're sure that this Council will, will jump on it and fix
what needs to be fixed. This is really a landmark bill, the first in, in the State. And you
guys are the pioneers.
I just want to point out that, you know, for many years. I've sat on the Maui Nui Marine
Resource Council, 15 years ago was formed. And again and again what we've heard
from our kupuna fishermen, these folks with generational knowledge, is that they really
see the effects of sunscreen on our reefs. And they for years, like they started 15 years
ago asking why don't we do something about the sunscreen film, the kinds that, you
know, just leave people, they wash off and settle on the reefs? They can see when
they're out there fishing and diving that this is having an effect. So, I'm really proud of
this Council for listening to our kupuna and moving forward.
I will go on to the next item. This is item 21-556. And this is the Mayor's intended veto
of the bill that you folks passed on having an application selection process and a master
list of folks that are applying for affordable housing in Maui County. Once again. Sierra
Club Maui has weighed-in on affordable housing issues for many years, supporting a
process that, that actually helps folks who live here already to be in the right queue for
affordable housing. And of course, every project has its own list and its own claims,
and some of them are quite . . . some of them are  a... as our research has shown.
But I, I did sit in representing Sierra Club on many of the early meetings of the task
force that was convened by the Maui Economic Opportunity Board. And this task force
worked for about a year and came up with ten points that they thought would go a long
way towards solving affordable housing in our community. These were issued, oh man,
it's probably 15, 16 years ago. But one of those points was a master list, maintained
either by the County or a designee.
Now, if the County Department of Housing and Human Services feels that it's just, you
know, not in their scope to maintain this list, they can designate a qualified nonprofit to
maintain it. There just needs to be a solution where we have an accountable process
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 42
that's transparent. And that is the intent of this. And also, to make sure that that we
really know that the people who are being served are people that we want to serve, the
folks who are, you know, the public servants, the firemen, the teachers, the nurses,
and every, every family that strives to own a house here on Maui and continue their
family traditions that have come through the generations.
So, what we don't want to do is build a lot of housing that attracts many mainland
buyers who have the money to spend more than the people that live here. And they
just, it's a replacement sort of equation. So, if this bill does not meet legality in the
Mayor's eyes, we support fully the Council tweaking, amending it. We have some very,
very intelligent people on this Council. But please go forward and support this concept.
And then, the last two items that I would like to testify on, on behalf of Sierra Club Maui
are strong support for item 560. And this is acquiring, putting forth the, the additional
funds needed to acquire the 30 acres in Maka'alae along the Hana coast. You know,
I also sit on the board of the Land Trust, of the Hawaii Land Trust years ago, and this
was one of our dreams to see this place protected. It is visited by so many people,
both local residents who are gathering and, and family, family excursions, and also by
visitors who just want to see a beautiful untouched part of Maui. It's also very
productive cattle grazing land, which helps maintain the land. So, it's a, it's a triple win.
It’s a great fit. Thank you for your support of it. And of course, Ke Ao Hali'i is a very,
very hardworking organization that are good stewards, and really trying to do their part.
So, thank you for your support of that.
The last item on behalf of Sierra Club Maui that  Iwould like to testify on is Bill 149.
This is the final reading of the West Maui Community Plan. It's important that we move
forward and pass the plan. I know that there was some considerations brought up last
time that if language was in the plan that supported the actual intention of the past plan
to have some sort of park dedication come out of the land around Mala Wharf that has
already been developed. Not on that land, because that land's been developed, but in
consideration of that land's obligations under the community plan, which were just
swept under the rug, until citizens sued.
Really, we shouldn't give the message that you can break the law, and don't worry,
nothing will happen to you later. Well, if this plan contains that language, there will be
a resolution to purchase additional land that can qualify for that park dedication. It's
not going to be a literal sort of thing. And all we need is for the language to specify
that, you know, this can be fulfilled off-site. So, thank you for your consideration of
those bills on behalf of Sierra Club Maui.
As a private individual, I would like to strongly support Bill 140 /s/cjfor the Pa'ia Youth
and Cultural Center. As a long-time supporter of the center and the fine work Ms. White
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 43
and others have done, it's just amazing asset for our community. And so happy that
the County now owns that land and can extend a proper lease to allow the, the Youth
and, and Cultural Center to continue its activities. So, please support that.
And the last two items 138 and 139, just thank you for your consideration of myself, as
a member of the Paia-Haiku Advisory Board. And a mahalo to all the other folks who
put their names in and are willing to serve. You, you have a really good selection. I
think you should be proud of supporting them. Mahalo for all of your time this year,
and we'll see you guys next year.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? If not, thank you, Lucienne, and Happy Holidays to you
and yours.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Linda
Munsell. To be followed by Mike Moran.
MS. LINDA MUNSELL, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS
(testifying on County Communication No. 21-556):
Good morning. Chair and Councilmembers. My name is Linda Munsell. I'm the Deputy
Director for the Department of Housing and Human Concerns. I'm here to testify in
support of the Mayor's veto of Bill 111. The Mayor has indicated three specific reasons
for his veto. I'm not going to go overall of them, but I did want to specifically talk about
his first reason, which is the liability created when the responsibility to determine
eligibility is transferred from the developer to the County.
Timeliness is kind of a funny thing, but there was a Facebook post tagging at least one
Councilmember this week about errors that were made in qualifying tenants at a
property here in Kihei. These errors have resulted in financial liability for the property
management company and the incredible pain of having to require tenants who are
over-income to move out of the property. It's been suggested that this is a perfect
example of why the County should take responsibility for qualifying tenants. I strongly
disagree. This is the exact reason we should not be interfering in the management of
a property.
At least one property manager has already testified at the previous meeting about the
incredible process they go through to qualify a potential resident. Line staff first goes
through the application and gathers documentation to determine eligibility. And then
once they have finished qualifying an applicant, their compliance officer reviews the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 44
files. At that point, the tenant is able to move in. At some point later, the State then
sends their compliance officer to audit and verify that the tenants are indeed qualified.
There's also the outside auditor for the property manager who audits annually, and
then the auditor for the property owner who also reviews files. Somewhere in all of this
audit process these errors were identified. Now, this is the exact same process that
the County would use and the entire cost of this will transfer from the developer to the
County, whether we would use a third-party designee or not. But that's not the primary
objection.
The focus of the Mayor's first objection to this bill is the transfer of liability. Property
management company in this case in Kihei is very experienced. They oversee multi
family projects across California and Hawaii and are known to be careful and caring
landlords. But errors occur. In the case of this property, the audit process worked.
Errors were identified and steps were taken to correct them. And the liability of the
error is assumed by the property manager. In this case, the property management
company has provided assistance to the displaced tenants and is now working with the
tenants' attorneys to bring their legal and financial complaints to a close. The property
management company will also be responsible for any fair housing and other legal
complaints that may be brought by these tenants in the future. And the property
manager will also be financially responsible, excuse me, for the loss of the tax credits
to the owner for the entire time that the over-income tenants are living in those units.
I don't know what the standard error rate is for  aproperty, but I do see the compliance
reports from the State for a number of properties every year. I also know from my time
working in Section 8 and from doing compliance reviews for the HOME Program that
errors occur in eligibility determinations all of the time. If the responsibility is transferred
to the County, our error rate will be no different, alright, just a second. Our error rate
will be no better than the experts who are managing these properties now and we will
be liable. This is only one property. Multiply that all by the properties in the County.
Even the use of a third-party designee will not shelter the County from responsibility
and liabilities if errors are made, and they will be. It's a guarantee. Please uphold the
Mayor's veto of this bill and thank you for your consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions?
Ms. Munsell, can you be available when we take up this item?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Yes, 1 can.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, any objections to having her as a resource person?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 45
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no objections. I’m not sure when it's coming up, but probably after lunch
sometime.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Alright. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thanks.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Next individual we have signed up to testify is Mike Moran. To
be followed by Al Henderson.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
(testifying on CountyMR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION
Communication No. 21-557 and Committee Report No. 21-138):
Good morning. Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Mike Moran for the Kihei Community
Association. Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays to all of you. Our Christmas present
is we're limiting our testimony to only two items this morning. It looks like you have a
long day.
We're very disappointed with this 21-557. As community activists, we constantly get
so much blow-back from people who don't want to get involved in the system. They
say, you know, it's like there's another meeting, another meeting, another hearing,
everything changes. And here we went through all the process of going through
Committee, having al! the hearings, to have this world-class bill seemingly first in the
world to, to, to ban these harmful sunscreens, and point out all of the things that have
been said by the experts and even by others who are not experts, like me, who say
wear the, a rash guard. And, you know, and there are things to, to protect, if you don't
use these.
So, we think it's done. It's gone through all the readings. The Mayor has signed the
bill. And we tell everybody it's a done deal, see. And then, this pops up, oh, wait a
minute, the Mayor may be reconsidering. Well, we know that a lot of times government
entities reconsider things that were passed maybe, or revisit them two years and say,
well, you know, there's more information that has come up. But this is like it seems to
be the same month that the bill was signed by the Mayor and now it's like, whoa, hold
on.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 46
And at KCA, we've been involved in this for years. We first heard about it from
Mr. Bagshaw, who is one of these experts and came up and presented at a State
meeting. And we took it from there, gave it support. And we see that the Maui Ocean
Center posted this morning, another South Maui entity posted the, a few of the letters
from the kids that came on this morning. So, for South Maui we see our, all these
entities from our community, from the keiki coming out to testify, to the experts, ‘Ahihi-
Kina'u, and to our association saying enough already. You, you've passed it. Let's go.
Let's stop looking for, if we can't stop it, let's see if we can delay it. We have seen that
happen so many times with these issues. So, please let, let's get by this objection to
the Mayor and do what you already done. And it is providing confusion to the
community. That they, at first, I didn't understand it either when I saw it on the agenda.
But enough on that. Thank you for, for continuing to support that issue.
Our other item is 21-138. And that's for our South Maui Advisory Committee. And this,
too, has been a long action. We commend our, our South Maui Councilmember King,
who started this process, I think it's getting close to three years ago now. And for a
couple of years, we had provisional meetings, unofficial meetings. And now it looks
like to start the year, we will have the first meeting of our South Maui Advisory
Committee. And we thank you for, for, for doing that. We thank Member King for
getting it started. We thank Member Molina and his Committee for the process, and
then finally for the Council for approving it.
So, again, that's our present to the Council. We're going to stop blabbering here. And
we think you've done such a good job this year that you should take the rest of the year
off. And we'll see you next year. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. Members, do we have any questions for Mr. Moran?
If not, thank you so much and Happy Holidays.
MR. MORAN: Happy Holidays to all.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Next individual we have signed up to testify is A1 Henderson. To
be followed by Bevanne Bowers.
MR. AL HENDERSON (testifying on County Communication No. 21-137):
... and good morning to everyone. I am not a paid lobbyist. My name is Al Henderson
and the Mayor's Committee in Fort Worth person with disability. I'm the staff liaison to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 47
give a testimony regarding CR 21-137, Commission on Persons with Disabilities on
behalf of Rainey Dock Matthews.
Back in 2015, excuse me, there was a lady who came to us, the Mayor's Committee
on Persons with Disabilities, and indicated to us that she had put in an application. I
said, well we don't have openings right now, but you'd be more than happy to join our
meeting as a volunteer until you become a member. Well, she waited two years to
become a member, and shortly after that, she became the Chair in 2017. Since then,
the Mayor's Committee on Persons with Disability has been just, it was very
unorganized, it was, it was lacking in leadership, and it needed someone to just point
them, point them in the right direction. And she did all of that.
Rainey in the Mayor's Committee, at one point, because of the transportation issue,
they tackled that. And one, and one of these City Council meetings, the City Council
in Fort Worth was having a big discussion about transportation. And there was a, we
had a standoff, and in fact, two of its City Council individuals walked out of the meeting
to not have a quorum. Well, they didn’t have Rainey Dock Matthews in the room and
27 other voices, and some of those folks with disabilities that stayed there and gave
their testimony and refused to leave because they felt that the City of Fort Worth
needed something better to address the people with, with disabilities for transportation.
Not only for people with disabilities, but for all the folks in Fort Worth. Yes, and Rainey
was a bulldog. And of course, she set her sights onto.
Rainey joined not only with that, from that effort, she was invited to join the Tarrant
County, TarrantTransient Alliance Authority and Tarrant Transit Academy. Those are
two things that was birthed out of that effort. And she joined and led that and was on
the board of directors for those organizations. Rainey also played a huge part in our
active transportation plan. This was a citywide seamless transportation plan for folks
with disabilities, and folks who readily walk, bike, and use transit.
Any plan was voting on by the City Council in the past. Rainey turned, then turned her
attention to a climate reality leaders training. It was a eight-door, eight-day virtual
training. And that too, was led by Vice-President Gore. And she had to educate them
on how that impacted folks with disabilities.
To sum it up. Fort Worth loss was your gain. And you will be, have, we, you will be
doing a disfavor if you do not elect Rainey Dock Matthews onto your commission.
That's Al Henderson signing off. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Henderson. Members, questions?
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 48
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Henderson, I just want to thank you for making the time and waiting till you
could testify. And we have nothing, we have heard nothing but raving reviews about
her. But your statements are super strong. And we appreciate your comments and
look forward to working with her. So, thank you for making the time to share. Thank
you.
MR. HENDERSON: You’re welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any comments or questions? If not, thank you very much
Mr. Henderson. Aloha.
MR. HENDERSON: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Bevanne Bowers.
To be followed by Peter Landon.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. BEVANNE BOWERS (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-137):
Aloha and good morning, Chair and Council. My name is Bevanne Bowers and I'm
here speaking in regards to 21-137. I am here to enthusiastically voice my strong
support of the appointment of Rainey Dock Matthews to the Commission on Persons
with Disabilities. We've all heard the phrase it takes a village. And I know that to be
true. But what we don't talk about are the people that bring to that village, strength,
courage, compassion, and vision. I know Ms. Matthews to be such an individual. Her
commitment to faith, family, and community are evidenced by her long list of
accomplishments, as you read in her application and her resume. I am here to simply
state that Maui County, our village would greatly benefit from the appointment of
Rainey Dock Matthews to the Commission on Persons with Disabilities. I thank you
for your time, your consideration, and wish you Happy Holidays. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Bowers. Members, questions? If not, Happy Holidays to you
too.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 49
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Peter
Landon. To be followed by Dick Mayer.
MR. PETER LANDON, DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES (testifying
on County Communication No. 21-557):
Hello. I'm trying to get my video up and running here. Hi. Thank you. I'm Peter
Landon testifying on behalf of myself. I work for the Department of Land and Natural
Resources and have been involved in this process for quite some time now. And I just
want to applaud the Council for their action on this matter, the bill for sunscreen 135.
My testimony is in regards to the Mayor's Communication 21-557. You know, and,
and, and shame on the Mayor, you know? He really should know his audience.
You know, when this, when this communication came out, I was really taken aback. I'd
really like to second the testimony by Mr. Moran and Keisa Liu, who came before me.
They kind of hit it right on the head. I mean, what, what's going on, Mayor? You, you
signed this bill and then you come back with this communication that says like oh, you,
you question it, maybe down the road you want to wait for this National Academy of
Science and Engineering? You know, i, I say know your audience. Because basically
what you're saying to the resource managers, and the community, the, the, the kids of
Kihei Charter School, the community members that volunteer their time on this issue,
the scientists that work in the State, work alongside this Council to vet this issue to, to
move this forward to protect the, the eco, the ocean and marine ecosystems of, of
Maui. You're saying to them that you don't put your full faith and trust in us, right. 1
mean, we, we worked hard. We did our research. We passed the bill.
And you know, whoever you're talking to, I ask you, like, you know, ask yourself, do
these guys sell sunscreen? Because whoever you're talking to probably sells
sunscreen, right. Those are the only people that came out in opposition to this, right.
You know, didn't matter if they were lobbyists or, or, or doctors, right. They sell
sunscreen and that is why they had an opposition to this.
You know, I would be really surprised if the National Academy of Sciences and
Engineering came out and said that, you know, the research that had been done on
coral reefs and things like that were wrong. I mean, that, that's not how science works,
right. When you publish an article in a peer-review journal, you know, it's not, it's not,
it's not bunk, right. It's not something that's just, you know, that wasn't well thought
out, that these, the experiments weren't well-planned, the data wasn't collected
properly, right. Like, these, these are the things that, you know, are looked at before
you publish an article, right.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 50
So, i really say to the Mayor, know your audience. This was really kind of an insult in
my book to all the people that worked on this. Make sure that guys, you know, are not
selling sunscreen when they're talking in, in, in opposition to this bill, or want to hear
more information. And just know that it's not just the coral. Every marine organism
and humans themselves are affected in a negative, and, and negatively by these
chemicals, right. Chemicals are not good. Minerals are from the earth. It's a pretty,
pretty much a slam dunk. But 1, I thank you for your time, Council. And thank you for
once again hearing all this testimony. And that's all I have to say. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Landon.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual we have signed up to testify is Dick Mayer.
To be followed by Kalama'enu Takahashi.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Mayer.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifying on County Communication 21-556):
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. MAYER: Thank you. One second. I'm sorry. My television was on at the same time. I
want to only comment on one item, that is the bill which the Mayor vetoed regarding
setting up a housing list. I'm hoping that you'll, will pass that item today out. And if
down the road, there seems to be legal challenges, or other problems, that you will
then be able in a position to fix those problems. Then you'll know what kind of issues
arise. There may be residency questions. There may be other issues, liabilities issues.
etc.
But 1 think the concept is extremely important that we get this on the record, that we
get this going. That we take this out of the hands of so many different developers who
maintain their own lists with no regard to where people are on the list, where, where
they may place anybody on the list. Number one, to get the housing, this would allow
for a much more coordinated or, and I think fair process for our local residents to get
their housing. It's much needed and I don't have to tell you all that, you know it very,
very well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 51
But I would urge you override the Mayor's veto at this point. And then, if there are
issues, or even before issues arise, if you fee! the Mayor may have some points he
might want to make, you have the ability to make an amendment to the ordinance and,
and fix it up. But I think the time has come finally to get this on the books and to begin
the process of making it easy and fair for our residents to get affordable housing, both
rental and purchases. And that's all I want to say today.
And I do want to wish you all a wonderful, wonderful holiday season and a terrific new
year. Not only is it going to be a ... a year of hopefully productive activity, but also, I
know many of you will be looking for re-election and I wish you well in that as well.
Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair you’re muted.
CHAIR LEE: Whenever there's feedback, I turn off my, my mic.
MR. MAYER: Did you get--
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Mayer. Any questions, Members? If not, mahalo and have a
great holiday season as well.
MR. MAYER: Thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is Kalama'enu
Takahashi. To be followed by Robin Rayner.
MR. KALAMA'ENU TAKAHASHI (testifying on County Communication No. 21-556):
Aloha. Good morning. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. I'm testifying on item
No. 21-556 against the veto of Bill 111 by the Mayor. I support, well, actually more in
support of, you know, decentralizing the decision-making power and stuff like that to a
third-party as opposed to the developers, who I would argue their intentions and sort
of actions do not necessarily reflect those of the well-being of our actual communities.
I also believe that this could prove as a measure to house local families that truly need
and deserve this opportunity, as opposed to off-islanders, who have no cultural or
historical context, and even less concern about the actual well-being and sustainability
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 52
of our communities in Hawaii, and particularly Maui. Prioritizing our local communities
of the utmost importance, especially of the Native Hawaiian community as the people
that have faced the most impact culturally, historically, physically, mentally, and
spiritually.
Any chance to get us and other families with longstanding ties should be high on the
list of priorities. We, as a communities of this place should be prioritized as the people
that have worked these lands, shared in times of struggle and trials with each other,
made the most collective sacrifices to forge strong relationships to make a living here,
and who are the most accountable to this place and to each other.
Developer’s intentions and actions are not oriented for truly housing and serving our
communities, in my opinion. We, as a local community should also have the autonomy
to choose the means by which we seek and manage the finances of this process. The
steering of homebuyers to institutions that might not have, might not otherwise consult
and the gatekeeping, who they might not othenvise consult and the gatekeeping
capabilities that in, these institutions hold and maintain, which has the potential for
price to rise as to market above that of which we are available to afford.
As we make moves towards a sustainable future in the face of climate change, the
solutions can only be found with our local communities who have the intimate
knowledge and, once again, the most accountability and stakes in this place to decide
its future. Personally, it does not look like high-rises, super houses, Airbnbs, or any
form of extracted tourism and unsustainable reliance on foreign resources and
enterprises continue to pollute our minds, bodies, and aina with the idea that the value
of our places and our labor lies with foreign speculators and transient settlers.
Our people, especially the Hawaiians, need to be on this land. And any type of policy
or actions that seek to further marginalize, displace, and traumatize our local
communities should not even be considered. We must decentralize power again from
the developers and their associates and their employers and enable our local
communities to live safe, sustainable, and healthy lives in our homes and our home
spaces. Thank you for your time. Kalama'enu in opposition of the Mayor's veto of
Bill 111.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Takahashi.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Sandy
Baz. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 53
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Baz.
How many more, Mr. Clerk, after Junya?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are currently six individuals signed up after Junya
Nakoa.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: If there's anyone else in the meeting who wishes to testify and
has not done so, done so yet please sign up now by letting us know in the meeting
chat.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see Mr. Baz. Welcome, Mr. Baz.
(testifying on County CommunicationMR. SANDY BAZ. MANAGING DIRECTOR
Nos. 21-556 and 21-557):
Yeah, aloha. Chair, Members. I'm sorry, 1 apologize, I'm multi-tasking as usual, getting
ready for the Christmas drive-thru tomorrow night. So, I'll take the half a second of my
testimony, and please, if you're in Wailuku tomorrow, 5:30 or so, we're going to have a
wonderful drive thru. Council is participating in as well. So, we welcome the community
to come and celebrate the season here.
So, just a couple things, and I'll make it quick and be available as a resource, as we
get to the discussion, Chair, regarding to the two communications that 1 signed up for.
22-557, first, just real briefly, the Mayor is in support of this. He asked me to testify at
Committee. If you remember, I did testify in full support of this bill at Committee. And
he continues to support this action, that's why he signed the bill.
You know, and as was mentioned by some of the testifiers, you know, as more
information is available and science is tested and studies are done, you know, what he
really wants to do is just to make sure that we're doing the best thing, and doing the,
that we're on our radar screen to do additional things regarding the sunscreen. And
that's why he added those to the letter as well.
So, he's not delaying it. He's not putting it forward. He could have vetoed it if he
wanted to delay it, but he did not. He signed it and wants it to move forward. And as
new and additional information comes in, he wants open dialogue with the Council on
that information, and how it may impact not only our environment and our reefs, but as
he mentioned in his letter also, the people as well .So, that's on 21-557.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 54
On 21-556, our Deputy Director of Department of Housing and Human Concerns Linda
Munsell did reiterate the Department and the Mayor's intent, or the veto, and the
reasons why he objects to the bill. And, you know, those really are the main reason
why he did object to it. The intent of having a interest list is very good, and we support
that whole-heartedly. It's the qualification, as you heard, that is going to be a part of
the that, part of that wait-list requirement that is in the bill, that the Mayor and the
Department has objected to.
The Department has testified at pretty much every step of the way in opposition to this
bill, and so the Mayor wanted to make sure that he supports our Department in their
operations. And that we can discuss this with Council, and hopefully, create a way to,
to solve problems. We're not quite sure what the, the level of challenge there is,
especially related to the number of people who are not Hawaii residents or not Maui
residents who are getting affordable housing. If that would be quantified, then, you
know, we can see if that is a really big issue in retrospect to the constitutional
requirements that the Mayor did mention in there. And it was made aware of a couple
of different instances where there, the intent of local governments to restrict affordable
housing to local residents was overturned by Federal courts. And so, we want to make
sure that we're doing things legally at that standpoint as well.
So, Chair, thank you for the opportunity to testify. And as the items come up, I will be
available as a resource.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Baz. We have a question, a couple questions. Member King
then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha, Managing Director. Thank you for being here. And I do
appreciate, I do remember that you came to the, the CARE Committee and supported
the, the ban on the chemical sunscreens. So, the letter from the Mayor was troubling,
but also, I want to ask you, it seems highly unusual. I haven't seen any communication
like this before after somebody signs a bill, after any Mayor signed a bill and then send
a letter saying they, they now maybe doubt the reason for this bill and maybe want to
take another look at it. Of course, if something comes up, we would take another look
at it.
But we, we've had a lack of communication from the Mayor. So, if he had these
concerns, I would just want to encourage you to have him contact myself as the Chair
of the Committee that first proposed the bill. This kind of letter is not only highly
unusual, it's highly disturbing to tell you the truth. And that's why all these people have
come out to speak out against that, that communication. So, if you have any other
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 55
example of any time he has sent a letter like this, after signing a bill, I'd be happy to
hear it. But I, I just think this is really strange.
MANAGING DIRECTOR; Okay. No. and thank you, Chair. And thank you. Chair King, as
well, if, if you'll allow me to respond a little bit? I don't think that was his intent, to
create confusion or, or any challenge within the community or mistrust. The intent was
really to share more information related to this bill with the Council. Yeah, it wasn't
meant to have a discussion or, or any kind of debate about it today, or at this point
even.
He did also provide a letter when he signed the ‘aina kupuna bill, and that's on the
agenda as well. I don't know if in the past that's been something that's been done. But
his intent really is to try to communicate more with the Council, and I believe that this
was a way to do that. I apologize on his behalf if there's confusion in that process.
But, you know, we do want to continue to work forward and communicate well with the
Council, SO--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And I appreciate that response. And I appreciate the fact that i
have heard from Tamara Farnsworth ... is, is intending to move forward with this. But
if that was an, an attempt to communicate with the Council, that was a big fail. You
know, I'm right here. Send me a letter. I'll sit down and talk with you. You know, just
let the Mayor know that this was a huge fail in, in a, in an attempt to communicate and
or collaborate. And, and you can see the. you can see the kind of confusion and angst
created in the community.
So, I hope you'll share that with him and just urge him to follow through with his previous
campaign promise and, and collaborate with the Council cause we're right here. We'll
talk to him. I'll talk to him. But no one, he hasn't reached out to me once. So, anyway,
I just wanted to share that with you. And, and I don't mean to lay it all on you because
I know you, you tried. And, you know, it's, it's much easier to communicate with you,
to tell you the truth. I have not heard from him.
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Well, yeah, again-
CHAIR LEE: Alright. . . question? You don't have to reply, Mr. Baz.
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Okay. Thank you, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I don't want to put that pressure on you. I just want to
express what the community is feeling and how, you know, we have not seen that level
of collaboration that was promised. And thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 56
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Clarifying question, couple for Mr. Baz. In
terms of like, you know, the other stressors to the reef and ocean ecosystem, are we
to expect from the Administration legislation like banning microplastics or like that? Or
is it that you wanted us to ban microplastics and those other stressors? I just wanted
to clarify.
MANAGING DIRECTOR; You know, the, right now, we have the position is vacant that
Makale'a Ane our climate and sustainability person did, did, you know, she did resign.
And we are recruiting, and I believe weTe going to have somebody on-board. And,
you know, yes, this is something that we have, you know, want to have discussions on.
it's going to be a joint effort, right? You know, whether it's introduced first by the
Members, or by the Administration, all of this has to be a joint effort to be able to, you
know, accomplish, you know, the goal of protecting our reefs and our environment.
And the more that we can work together on that, the better. It doesn't really matter who
initiates the proposals. In the end, the Administration will have to implement them and,
you know, and Tamara Farnsworth, as well as, you know, other staff within DEM and
within the Mayor's office will, will implement the actions and the laws passed by the
Council and signed by the Mayor.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, so then you're working on that, too. I had a question on
the other one, the Kahoma Villages. Was it that you, or, sorry, not Kahoma Villages,
but Bill 111 veto. You were asking if there's folks from the mainland coming in and
buying these affordable housings in place of our local families. I just wanted to clarify
that I received calls from folks that had moved here from the mainland, buying
affordable housing, and complaining that they didn't get the homeowner exemption
because they haven't lived here six months yet. So, if you need a place to look, it
would be Kahoma Villages would be the first one. Mortgage steering, recruiting
families from the mainland to buy affordable housing out from local folks. And you
know, and, and they're in a lawsuit right now for taking up six acres of our parks. So,
that would be a place to start if you're looking to find that.
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yeah. Thank you. That was a concern of some of the advisors
within the, within the County of the, you know, what the quantity of the issue was. And
yeah, that, that's great. Appreciate that. And I'll work with Deputy Director Munsell on
that as well. And, you know, I'd be happy to work with the Council in the future.
Ms. de Naie had mentioned the Maui Nui Housing Task Force, which in 2003, I was
actually the Deputy Director of MEO, and was one of the leads on that whole project of
development of the 10 points for action and, you know, really looking forward to what
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 57
the, how to solve our affordable housing problem, or at least take a big stab at it. And
Chair Lee was the Department of Housing and Human Concerns Director at the time.
And so, you know, we have good minds, I think. We want to definitely work on this.
It's not a silver bullet. Nothing is going to just like snap our fingers and solve our
affordable housing problem. But I think with the correct collaboration, we can move
forward and work together to make it happen. So, appreciate the input. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Mr. Baz. I appreciate you coming out and
speaking with us. And okay, so of course, this question is going to be about the veto.
I'm just telling you straight, you know, that's how I speak. I'm disappointed in it, but I, I
wanted to ask you this question. Did you read Appendix G in the Comprehensive
Affordable Housing Plan that addresses the legalities of, of your concerns and the
Mayor's concerns?
MANAGING DIRECTOR: I did, I read through it. 1 don't recall exactly what that was. And
those were items that were brought to the Mayor, you know, from Corporation Counsel
and the Department itself. So, you know, yeah, we'd be happy to discuss the details
of that.
I, 1 did look at a case and 1 don't have it in front of me, I apologize, that where it was
clear. And I did read that case, that it did get overturned. That the local governments
intent to, you know, again, affordable housing is limited. We want to make sure that
we, you know, provide it for our local residents first and foremost. But they, they didn't
see that that was such a critical need that it overrode the constitutionality of, you know,
the items that were mentioned in here. I forget the exact terms that they used. But
really, you know, that was the discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Well, you know, it's. I'm just clarifying, this is the
same Corporation Counsel that signed off on the bill is what you are saying. I'm, that's
what's confusing is they signed off on the bill. That's a very important key to this
process. So, that's why it's, this veto comes as  abig surprise to me. So, alright, I, just
before you come on, I know you mentioned you, you, you were going to look at it, or
you looked at Appendix G in the past. Maybe when we get to that item, you can refresh
and we can speak on it then. So, thank you so much, Mr. Baz.
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Sure.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 58
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Okay. Alright. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So, Member, I mean not Member, but you feel like a Member Baz. Managing
Director Baz, are you going to be a resource for us? Can you be a resource for us
when you come back, and come back?
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Correct. Yeah, I'm, like 1 said I'm moving boxes around, things like
that right now. But I am listening to the meeting and will be available as you come up
to these two items.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any objections. Members, to having Member Baz as a resource person?
MEMBERS VOICE NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I'm not sure what time that's going to be. It'll be after lunch.
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Okay. Alright. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That was just for CC 21-556, right? I don't think we need any
resources for 557.
CHAIR LEE: For the Bill 111. Yeah, 556.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now, thank you, Mr. Baz.
Mr. Clerk, how many more do we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, including our next testifier, we have seven testifiers
remaining. The next testifier is--
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait. Members, do you want to take a couple and then take a lunch
break? Or do you want to go through all seven, plus?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 59
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: All seven.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Flowthrough. Let's plow through.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody wants to go through. Okay.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then the next testifier is Junya Nakoa. To be followed by Cora
Schnackenberg.
CHAIR LEE: Hi, Junya.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-556 and 21-557: and Bill
No. 149 (2021)):
What's up? How you guys doing? Yessah, Happy Holiday first. Okay, going talk about
557, yeah, the sunscreen one. I told you guys through plenty times already testify,
yeah, get rid of that junk kine sunscreen. Use the good ones and all that stuff. You
know, brah, was awesome, the kids when talk this morning, you know, on this thing.
Was whoa, chicken-skin cause I think when had the injection wells, we had plenty
people from Lahaina, kids when come and testify too. So, you know what? And you
get all the, you get all the marine guys, you get all the kine reef guys that already when
dakine.
But like Sandy Baz said and you guys said, they when, they when sign urn, he when
sign up. But again, like Kelly King said, buggah is confusing. Yeah, yeah, yeah, oh
no, and then what? We screwed, we don't know what's going on. Yeah, and I agree
with Kelly, the buggah hard for communicate with.  Icall that buggah's office how many
times, I no get one call back. But yeah, the sunscreen one, I don't know what you guys
gotta do with urn, but just, you guys already when passed um, good job. He when
signed um, good job. I don't know why the heck he when go bring um back again, but
no, not good job. So, yeah, that, that sunscreen stuff, just pass em. Just pass em.
And then, talk about da kine Bill 149, that in support of the West Maui Community Plan.
Like I said, the buggah is good. Good job. Hard work by the community. They put
their time and effort into this thing. You know, they going, you know, you had couple
developers came out the last time, in the first reading, saying that they don't support
um. Of course, cause they like, you know, they like, they, they crooked, brah. You
know, we just had a big, big issue so we get settled, thank you to the Public Works and
the Planning for shutting down one developer. And that's the same thing what I like do
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 60
with these other developers. Hold em accountable. Make em build affordable home
and all that kine stuff. So, yeah, I was listening to the hardworking people that was on
that CPAC, cause if you guys no listen to them, ho brah, nobody going like be on the
CPAC cause poho. All that hard work and then you guys don't listen to them, you know
what ! mean? So, yeah, so I, I support the West Maui Community Plan thing, the
Bill 149.
And then, yessah, going talk about the 556 video, uh video, veto. Brah, you know
what, we dealing with this trying to get affordable housing for over 20 years this buggah,
Junya Nakoa, you know, in Lahaina especially. Ka'anapali 2020, all kine, this
developers had all control, they had control of the list and what not. But nothing was
built, zero was built. I mean, you are putting too much powers into these developers
where they, they screw us guys up, us locals up.
I know the thing, yeah, the Stanford Carr one, same thing. The buggahs when screw
plenty locals. My niece when apply. She got, she got kicked out of the, the affordable
.  . . market, and what all, million-dollar guys.  Imet couple of em, you know, the
millionaire guys that came in. And I told urn, brah, I hate you guys, but eh, you like one
beer. But I hate you guys for kicking out the locals out, you know what I mean? Given
the, you know, what I mean, the locals get the shafted again, you know.
And then, like Dick Mayer was saying, eh, pass this buggah. Oh, you know, well, you
gotta . . . Okay, good job. Vote against this veto, whatever, yeah. Vote against this
veto. The Mayor is confused. Like the Deputy Director was saying, you know, all this
kind of stuff. But all she's saying is again the developer, developer, developer. Guys,
we gotta take the power away from the developers and put em back into the people.
You know, like the Stanford Carr one, plenty people like go get their own loan officers,
you know, the guys that going, you know, that we get mortgage from. But no, we gotta
go through their bank. And then, we, like, you know, they get denied and next thing all
screw up. Us guys, we get, you know, we get a, the trusted bankers over here on Maui
that we deal with for how many years that we trust. That they going come over there
and they trust us. And then, so we like use them, brah, not what the developer tell us
for use. Take the power away from developers, cause they the one who screwing us
up, gang, they the one.
Everybody, all you, all, you know what I mean, all, all the people who run for office say
they want affordable housing for the local people. Mahalo Gabe Johnson and your
team for putting this together, cause this is something that needed to be done 30 years
ago. And you know what? This is where the, us the people, get control. We get real
power. This going put us guys back in one house, okay? This going put the local
people in the house. And like Dick Mayer said, we getting, if challenges come, we take
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 61
um. We smash Urn. You guys smart buggahs, I tell you guys plenty times. You guys
can be able to amend the thing, make um da kine, make um more cherry. But this is
the first step to make um cherry. Okay, you guys, that's my ring. Goodnight. Good
afternoon. Happy Holidays. You guys have a good one. And ah nice hats, except for
you, Molina and Kelly King. But, yessah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Junya, you take care.
MR. NAKOA: I will.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions? If not, thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual we have signed up to testify is Cora
Schnackenberg. To be followed by Christopher Delaunay.
MS. CORA SCHNACKENBERG (testifying on County Communications No. 21-557 and
21-558: and Committee Report Nos. 21-131 and 21-137):
Aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. My name is Cora Schnackenberg. I'm residing on
the island of Molokai. I also the president of Ahonui Homestead Association, wait-
listers on the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.  Iwanted to testify, and I know
you hungry, so I'll go right through it real quickly. I have four items.
The first item is CC 21-557, Bill 135. I heard all these testimony. I just want to say that
Mr. Mayor, Mayor Victorino, make your noes, noes, and your yes, yes. No need be so
confusing for the people of, of Maui County. First and foremost, our culture resource
management, if it's not good for our reef, then say no and move on and look at other
alternative that would best help our reef. That's our food source. Mahalo for item
number 1.
Number, item number 2, CC 21-558, Bill 118. This is in regards to our ‘aina kupuna. I
totally support our kupuna's tax relief program. Our kupuna needs help. If they need
help for, you know, save their home, then let's do it, you know? I think that's very
important to, for our kupunas to move them forward in their life wherever the ending
up their life may be in years.
Also, my third item. CC 1-267 [sic]. This is in regards ofthe acquisition of the relocation
of our Molokai Fire Department from Puko'o to Ualapue. I totally support. During the
community beneficiary meetings there were some disagreement. But I have to say.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 62
for the most part, it was a full-on agreement to have our, our fire department in the rural
area of Ualapue. We totally support. It has helped our families of Molokai as first
responders in emergency help. So, that $300,000 totally for expenses, I totally support.
My last item is your nominee of Ms. Matthews. I had the opportunity to read up on her
experiences. 1 think she'd be a great access [sic] in this, in making decision-making
for adults with disability. I do want to share the Arc of Maui had their Molokai only first
facility on Molokai to provide this type of services. And I totally support the nominee of
Ms. Matthew [sic].
In closing, when we talk about Maui County, Lanai and Molokai is not exempt to all
these concerns, excuse me. I'm on the phone. Sorry, my apology. So, I just wanted
to end, 1 totally appreciate all your hard work, Councilmembers. Mahalo, a hui hou.
And Merry Christmas.
CHAIR LEE: Merry Christmas, Cora. Are there any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is
Christopher Delaunay. To be followed by the individual calling in from the phone
number ending with these last four digits, 9964.
MR. CHRISTOPHER DELAUNAY, PACIFIC RESOURCE PARTNERSHIP (testifying on
County Communication No. 21-556):
Aloha Councilmembers. Chris Delaunay, Pacific Resource Partnership. I'm a
registered lobbyist. So we are in strong opposition of Bill 111, Draft 1. And we
respectfully request this Council to uphold the Mayor's veto of this bill. This bill, Bill 111,
does nothing to incentivize the construction of more affordable housing. If anything,
the bill would just complicate things, putting more liability on the County, as we've heard
and also more responsibility where I think the County isn't in the best position to handle
that responsibility in terms of getting people into affordable housing, qualified people
into affordable housing quickly.
Third, the changing the sales period from 90 days to 100 days will create additional
carrying costs for projects, making them more expensive. And it's limiting our County's
ability to quickly get qualified residents into housing.
So, you have our testimony, written testimony. And you've heard me speak on this
many times. And, you know, there's just many concerns were raised by a lot of the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 63
stakeholders, you know. A lot of them affordable housing developers, a lot is HHFDC
and a number of other entities in opposition of this bill and raising concerns.
So, anyway, I hope you will uphold the Mayor's veto on this bill. And appreciate this
opportunity to testify. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is the
person calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 9964. To
be followed by Brandon Mauna.
MS. ADELE RUGG (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-134):
Good morning and aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. This is Adele Rugg. I'm
9964. And I'm calling to ask for your support of CR 21-134, recommending the
adoption of resolution "ESTABLISHING A SISTER-CITY RELATIONSHIP WITH SAN
CRISTOBAL ISLAND, GALAPAGOS, REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR", i so very much
appreciate all of your efforts in bringing this resolution forward. I've been watching all
of you this morning, and I agree with all those who have shared their comments about
the beautiful Galapagos Islands. And if you could see me, I would share you a picture
of a blue-footed booby. Again, thank you all so very much. 1 know that the Galapagos
Islands are excited to become a sister-city with the County of Maui.
And as they say in the Galapagos at this time of year, Feliz Navidad. And to all the
Councilmember, gracias. And from me, aloha and Mele Kalikimaka.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you, Adele. We always appreciate hearing from you. Happy
Holidays.
MS. ADELE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Members, do we have any questions? If not, thank you. Adele.
Mr. Clerk.
MS. RUGG: You're welcome. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 64
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Brandon
Mauna. To be followed by Walter Ritte.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Mauna.
MR. BRANDON MAUNA [testifying on Committee Report No. 21-134):
Yes. Aloha. . . . Mele Kalikimaka. Mahalo to the Maui County Council for making the
time available before taking your lunch. I'm here to testify in support of CR 21-134, the
adoption of the resolution to establish a sister-city relationship with San Cristobal Island
of the Galapagos Islands in the Republic of Ecuador. I am Brandon Mauna. I am
testifying on behalf of myself as a long-time resident of Maui.
The similarities between these islands is obvious to me, and I do believe that this
relationship will proportionately benefit those small island communities. I will be visiting
the Galapagos Island chain at the end of January and I'm excited to share the good
news of this resolution to the community members of San Cristobal Island. Mahalo nui
for the time to speak today on your diligent consideration. Have a very blessed holiday
season. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here. Mr. Mauna. I just
wanted to ask if you were going to meet with the sister-city folk, with Stephanie and
Christine before you go over to the Galapagos?
MR. MAUNA: I think the, the potential is there. I mean. I'm, I'm, I guess we're kind of waiting
on the resolution to finalize there, and then I'm open to any meetings that would be, be
appropriate or, or possible to, to, you know, present ho'okupu or anything along those
lines if necessary.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. If you, if you want to send your, your contact information
to my office, I can try to connect you guys.
MR. MAUNA: Absolutely. That would be great. Thank you so much, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you for being here.
MR. MAUNA: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 65
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Mauna. Have a good
trip.
MR. MAUNA: Mahalo. Thank you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, we have another testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. The next testifier is Walter Ritte. To be followed by
Todd Apo.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha. Walter.
MR. WALTER RITTE (testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-557 and 21-560; and
Committee Report No. 21-131):
Aloha Members. . . . nui i ka makahiki. I want to testify in support of our long-time
effort in trying to get a fire station on East Molokai. It's been one of Molokai's typical
kinds of issues, lots of arguments going back and forth, which allows everybody to
participate. So, now we're kind of like, okay, not every single person likes that exact
spot, but we all like the idea of having a fire station up at Manae. We really need one.
I also want to testify in support of the scenic views. I didn't know about that until
listening to everything that's going on now. On Molokai, we go from Kawela to Kamalo,
is like about seven miles that you drive along the ocean. And there's many places
where we can improve the scenic view on Molokai. So, I really support that idea.
The sunscreens one. There's many negative impacts on our ocean. And we all know
that we live in an ocean continent, so we need to always protect the ocean. So, I'm
really in strong support of trying to control the sunscreens that we, that we using on our
bodies.
So, I'd like to say something, like. I've been involved statewide, and I want to really
congratulate you guys, because you guys have, you know, when I talk about issues
statewide, you guys, the Councilmembers from Maui always comes up. And it doesn't
come up with a negative way. it comes up that you guys are really statewide leaders
and really being progressive about how we're trying to help the people and how you
trying to help the environment. And you being really good examples for everybody on
how to try and work together. Of course, the hardest thing is working with the Mayor.
But I think you guys are really giving a really good effort in trying to do that. If that can
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 66
happen, I think Maui County is going to be a top example of how to get elected officials
working together. So, keep up the good work. And lono i ka makahiki.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE; I'm sorry. Thank you, Walter. Happy Holidays. Any questions, Members?
If not, let's hear from the next testifier, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Todd
Apo. To be followed by Mahina Poepoe. Mahina Poepoe is the last individual we have
signed up to testify. If there's anybody else wishing to testify, please let us know in the
meeting chat now.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Apo.
MR. TODD APO. HAWAII COMMUNITY FOUNDATION [testifying on County
Communication No. 21-556 and Bill No. 149 (2021)1:
Aloha, Chair and Council. Happy Holidays, I'll start off with, and thank you for the
opportunity. I know that I’m second to last to getting you guys to lunch after a long
morning of testimony, so I'll try to keep this brief. But testifying in regards to
Communication 556 and Bill 149, as they both, I think, impact housing and affordable
housing, specifically. You know, as, as we continue to think through this, sorry, with
Hawaii Community Foundation and talking on behalf of our House Maui initiative.
But there's. I've sort of looked at these two pieces and thought through things over
time. The word that comes to mind is really fragility. There’s fragility in getting housing
built for Maui residents. And there's also, we recognize great fragility in the community,
and those, especially those that need housing. And it's complex. And the upside I
hear, as we go through this, is that everyone, those that testify from the public, the
Council, the Mayor's Office, are all in alignment in that priority of trying to find housing
for, for Maui residents. And believe me, from Hawaii Community Foundation, we are
in alignment with that as well.
But we also recognize that, and has really come from some thinking, especially in
regards to Bill 111. The conversation the Council had with Deputy Director Munsell
back at the hearing on second reading, and some of the complexities that exist. The
fragility means that these policy decisions need to come out right from the start. You
know, to take a little different position than the previous testifier. It's not something that
you can grab onto and do something, and then correct later. Because what that does
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 67
from long-term, getting things developed, becomes impactful. And so, risks get, get
put on the process means homes will not be built. And so, just, I think what we ask is
that that be kept in mind as you go through this. This is that fragile that things need to
be done correctly in every step.
And so. I'll finish by saying, and you've heard me say this before, Hawaii Community
Foundation, we will continue to work and work hard in being a part of helping the entire
County find some of these solutions. We've now hired a full-time director for our House
Maui initiative, who will work alongside with the consultants we've been working with
on Maui to bring these.
I, I also finish by saying really appreciate the conversations I've been able to have with
Councilmember Johnson and his staff. Know the passion and see the desire to get the
answers. And we really want to help because of that fragility, know that we'll stand by
side. So, again, I believe both Bill 149 with some of its restrictions, as well as
Bill 11 [sic] with some of its provisions that the Mayor has raised in his veto message
create risks. And I hope the, you know, ask the Council just take that in consideration
as you address these issues. So, thank you very much. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Apo.
MR. APO: Happy Holidays, all. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: And to you as well.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the last person we have signed up to testify is Mahina
Poepoe.
MS. MAHINA POEPOE (testifying on County Communication No. 21-557 and Committee
Report No. 21-131):
Good morning or good afternoon. This is Mahina Poepoe. I will say that I'm testifying
on my own behalf and time, as I am not a lobbyist. 1 will start with CC 21-557. I support
the prohibition of non-mineral sunscreens. Our reefs around the world are under threat
from numerous angles and sources. Our reef produces a lot of oxygen for us. And
with climate change, our ocean is just being overloaded with Co2 absorption, and that
impacts the coral as well. And you know, the, the Co2 ... in the ocean is like a global-
scale effort to fix. But with the sunscreen, it's  areally, like, it’s a local effort, but it's
really tangible and it's doable. And it's something that we can do and affect change on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 68
the local level. So, yeah, we can still be safe from the sun with mineral sunscreens
and protective clothing. So, I fully support prohibiting the non-mineral sunscreens.
Onto the next, CR 21-131, related to the acquisition of real property for Puko'o Fire
Station relocation. I have to just support everything Zhantell Lindo said. She hit all of
the main points. So, I'll just take this opportunity to express my gratitude and
appreciation to everyone involved. This is a long time coming. It's been worked on for
decades, and to see it starting to come to fruition is really gratifying. It's a community
plan action item, so I'm excited to check that off our list.
And, you know, when this property came up, there aren't many properties that can fit
the community and the Department. And so, when this one came up, we knew we had
to get moving. And within days, Chief Ventura visited the site, and the Department has
been very diligent in taking care of their kuleana for this project.
Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez, she made magic happen getting this into the
budget. And the rest of you Councilmembers, you know, I appreciate that you really
understood the urgency, and the need for this and responded with your vote of support.
Scott at the Finance Department was like on it on, on their end, and they're always on
it. And even DHFIL, you know, they've played a big role in this, and they moved through
their process very expeditiously and was really responsive. And, and it just, I'm so
appreciative of everyone.
And, and the Mayor, you know, his support really brought it all together. And, and I,
especially appreciated the Mayor coming to Keani's town hall and, you know,
celebrating this moment with us. Yeah, you know. I've never personally experienced
the government layers working so cohesively before. I usually, you know, get routed
around a lot. And, and yeah, in this, there were no fiat tires. And it's just been a really
refreshing and positive experience. And I am. I'm also relieved, you know, to be taking
this out of limbo and to be securing a permanent site for this critical resource for our
community. So, just a lot of things. Thank you all. Flappy Holidays.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. Members, do we have any questions for Ms. Poepoe?
No? So, Happy Holidays. Thank you for coming.
Now Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. If an individual
connected to the meeting has not testified, but would like to do so, please identify
yourself now. This is our last call for testifiers. Please indicate if you would like to
testify. Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have received
written testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 69
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objects to receiving written testimony into the record and to
closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION. WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Jessica Rosado;
Scott Crawford;
Jeff Bagshaw, Department of Land and Natural Resources;
Christopher Delaunay, Pacific Resource Partnership;
Rachel Albright, The Tarrant Transit Alliance;
Marty Baker;
Lisa Bishop, Friends of Hanauma Bay;
Patricia Cadiz;
Vince Carr;
Kathleen Clark;
John Cranshaw;
R.A. Culbertson;
Keiki-Pua S. Dancil, Pulama Lana'i;
Stan Franco;
Wendy Galasso;
Patti Henry;
Shae Kamakaala, Hawai'i Land Trust;
Cynthia Punihaole Kennedy;
Ron Lucey;
Michael and Deborah McGuire;
Ellen McKinley;
Susan Menton;
John Palmer;
Robin Rayner, Ke Ao Hali'i;
Lynn Ryan;
Ann and John Seed;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Cyndy Urry; and
Ann Zadeh.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
CHAIR LEE: No objections? Okay, so ordered.
Members, it's lunchtime. So, do you want to come back at 1:00 or 1:30?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 70
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 1:30.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 1:30.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 30.
CHAIR LEE: 1:30? Alright, we will be in recess till 1:30 and we'll see you then.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:17 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:31 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT FOR
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS, EXCUSED.)
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez arrived at the meeting at 1:31 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of December 17, 2021, please come to
order, reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, please proceed with our agenda.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of October 1, 2021 was
presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha ‘auinaia. Chair and my colleagues on the
Council. Let's see, I'll, I'll do the proclamation stuff first, really quickly. I am in
Ann Arbor at my hanai sister's house. And with me, I have my son, A‘ia Rawlins-
Fernandez, my daughter Ka'ikena Rawlins-Fernandez, my hanai sister. . . and others
may be walking around, my husband Makena Fernandez, and my hanai sister's
husband ... Okay, and so ... from the land of Potawatomi, Ojibwa, and Odawa. Okay,
I'm-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so you can share with them today's greeting, just in case they bump into
people from Nigeria. It's "n", it's like . . . like the letter "n". . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 71
. . . kakou.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, right. Very good.
Mahalo, Chair.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
I MOVE TO ACCEPT THE AGENDA [SIC] AS READ BY THE
CLERK, OR APPROVE, SORRY.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; You said agenda, but you meant minutes.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I sure did. Approve the minutes as read by the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE; Jet lag. Okay, so do we have a second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Second.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Second.
CHAIR LEE; Seconded by Member Sugimura. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve the minutes of October 1, 2021.
If not. all those in favor of the motion please raise your hand and sayAny discussion?
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 72
CHAIR LEE: So, now we have nine "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair proceeding with the county communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. ^21-556 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINQ. MAYOR
(dated December 7, 2021)
Notifying of his veto of Bill No. 111 (2021), Draft 1, entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING POLICY APPLICANT SELECTION
PRIORITY".
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO OVERRIDE THE VETO AS IT PERTAINS TO
BILL 111 (2021), ENTITLED "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING
POLICY APPLICANT SELECTION PRIORITY", AND FILE
COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-556.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk? Mr. Clerk? Was that verbiage okay, or should he have said, "I move
to override and veto"? And, over, I move to, excuse me. "I move to reconsider and
override", or doesn't it matter?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, I believe for, Mr. Johnson's motion would be sufficient for
the body to-
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -consider--
CHAIRLEE: Alright.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -overriding the veto.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 73
CHAIR LEE: Just want to make sure. Okay, so do we have a second?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Molina, to override the
Mayor's veto.
Discussion, Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Thank you. Members, this bill has been thoughtfully
designed and deliberated at length to ensure that it will serve its purpose of expanding
the housing options and opportunities for our residents. The Council has fully taken
into consideration the issues raised by some testifiers and the Administration, including
those listed in County Communication 21-556.
Some of the objections are unsubstantiated at best. For example, the bill does not
have "durational residential requirement". That is simply not accurate. Bill 111
contains a formula that gives a preference for long-term Maui residents. And we have
heard over and over again at how municipalities have implement, implemented a
similar formula without legal challenge, which is why our Corporation Counsel has
signed off on the bill.
As for concerns that these new requirements may affect or stall projects with Federal
or State funding, such as LIHTC projects. I'd like to draw to your attention 2.96.100.B,
as in bravo, applicant section process, rental units. The Section 1. Eligibility criteria.
"If the project is receiving Federal or State assistance, the applicable Federal or State
eligibility criteria must apply." This clearly states that LIHTC projects, fundings, and
criteria are safe. And arguments saying otherwise are red herrings drummed up by
the elements and development, development community meant to scare us away from
making these very important changes, or they just don't understand the bill. Frankly,
many of the for-profit developers challenging these changes have been benefiting from
the current system, including mortgage steering. So, of course they want the status
quo.
Next, let's talk about liability. Using the Kenolio Apartment situation happening as we
speak, the management company erroneously calculated folks' income brackets,
signed one-year leases for units, and then three to four months in a lease, realized the
mistakes, is now issuing 45-day eviction notices to multiple families. These errors were
made by the company, not the residents, and the residents are left suffering. This is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 74
not the, this is not a reason the County should shy away from liability for the matter.
This is another reason we should accept the responsibility. Do what's rights for the
people. The folks affected by these errors literally have nowhere to go and no one to
help them. At the very least, if the County made similar errors, the County has the
kuleana and the resources to help these folks instead of just kicking them out on the
street.
This housing crisis is the reason the County should be taking on more responsibility,
being more involved in all specks of solutions, and moving further outside our comfort
zone. Many, many Maui residents have been pushed far outside of anything like a
comfort zone because of the chronic stress that comes with housing insecurity. We
owe it to them to roll up our sleeves, stand next to them, and pull them out of this. The
perceived liability that comes with, with solutions pales in comparison to the real liability
that we have for inaction that further endangers our people. This bill is central to our
strategy for comprehensive affordable housing plan, and 1 ask for the Members full
support of my motion. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And we do have two members of the Administration available, if
you have questions; Ms. Munsell and Mr. Baz. If none of you have a question, I do.
Anybody have a question of these two resource people? No?
Okay, Ms. Munsell, are you on the call? Mr. Baz, are you on the call? Okay, I'm sorry
we didn't--
MANAGING DIRECTOR; Sorry, Hi, Chair, I'm here.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, good, good, good. Mr. Baz, as County director years ago, when the
Waikapu Gardens project first came up, there were over 4,000 applicants for 400 units.
Now I, I know for a fact that our Department, the Housing Department, would not have
been able to manage that kind of volume. I mean, we only had like two people in the
office who could possibly be assigned to something like that. Has, has anything
changed in 15 years so that the Department would now have the resources and the
personnel to handle that type of task?
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Not really. We do have some additional staff within Department of
Housing and Human Concerns, Housing Division. But none, nobody currently
assigned to anything related to what this bill would require us to do. So, it would require
additional resources, staff, personnel. Or if we contracted out with a third-party person,
we would require funding to do that. So, and we don't have that right now.
CHAIR LEE: Well, you may recall that I, I suggested that we create a new Housing
Department. Of course, nobody agreed with me, but that's okay. Do you have anything
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 75
else to say on that matter? Any other questions for Mr. Baz? If not, thank you. . . .
No?
Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Did Linda Munsell come, appear? I don't see her. I wanted
to know about the statements regarding the fair housing. I don't know if Sandy Baz
would have that expertise, but the fair housing law, ability to comply with the fair
housing law. Cause we heard it during Committee, and we heard it during first and,
and it's part of the Mayor's rationale.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Baz-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, here's Richelle. Richelle. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Who did you want to ask?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, whoever. I see Richelle just walked up.
MANAGING DIRECTOR: I'll definitely defer to Corporation Counsel from a legal standpoint.
But from an operational standpoint, even though the bill says whatever applicable laws,
if the funding sources require, you know, different criteria things like that, for us to be
able to manage all of those funding criteria and the different requirements of that, and
then apply separate criteria and laws to each one of these projects and applications,
you know, that, that's where we see a challenge.
Because if we're taking in an application from somebody who would like to purchase
an affordable house, generally we have, you know, one application process. And if
there's changes to that, you know, then I don't know how that we would consider, you
know, every time a specific project comes up, we would have to go and re-qualify
everyone based on those new criteria, new laws. So, you know, that, that's one issue
with the, that piece of it. With the durational residency, if that's not a requirement, I
don't know. What I saw was a, it was a, it was objected to and overridden because it
was a, it was a requirement.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? Okay. So, any more comments or discussion?
Are you, Member Molina?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 76
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam, Madam Chair. So, for the record, we're
speaking on the motion to override. I will support the, the motion to override as
proposed by Affordable Housing Chair Mr. Johnson. Thank you for this initiative.
Member Johnson, for all of your hard work and your staff.
And Madam Chair, you brought up something really interesting with regards to your
question to Managing Director Baz. Like you, I proposed a separate Department of
Housing. As Members recall earlier in the term,! proposed bifurcating the Department
of Housing and Human Concerns just for the very reasons you stated, exactly. We
need a separate division of housing. And it ties in really nicely with Member Johnson's
bill. But we fell, as we know, one Councilmember vote short of putting this on the ballot
earlier in the term.
But no worries, the Charter Commission has, from what I've been told, and ! believe
they're going to put this on a ballot for 2022 for the public to consider separating the
Department of Housing and Human Concerns from, well, creating a whole separate
Department of Housing. So, certainly, it'll play in nicely with this proposal from Member
Johnson. And !, as Mr. Mayer had stated, Dick Mayer had mentioned in testimony, we
find some bumps along the road, I'm sure we can take a look at it and fix what needs
to be fixed. So, with that said, Madam Chair, I will support the override. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And if I may, I just wanted to add some
quick historical contexts. During Maui's plantation time, the plantation companies built
housing for our workers. Those housing projects were either the old plantation camps.
Dream City, the 6th increment all the way up to the 12th increment projects. But, when
we moved to tourism-driven economy, that industry did not continue this tradition.
Whether they failed or they just didn't follow the conditions for more worker housing in
Maui.
i applaud past Councils. They established an impeccable credit rating for the County.
From the same token, we did manage to dig ourselves in an affordable housing crisis
that we find ourselves in today. And so, I think we need to adapt to the changes so
that we can address this. We know that the luxury home construction industry is not
going to help us build more affordable homes for residents. So, that's why, with this
bill, I think, you know, we need to collectively shepherd the process, appropriate more
funding for the Affordable Housing Fund, subsidize the development of vital
infrastructure. So, like Member Johnson said, this is, it's not going to solve the
problem, it's adding a tool in our toolkit to help us address the problem. And hey,
maybe help some families along the way to stay in their hometowns. So, speak in
support.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 77
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Mr. Baz, are you still there? Are you still here?
I had a question.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Baz, are you on the call?
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yes, Chair. I'm still here. Different location, but I'm still here.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. I know, . . . Yeah, thank you, Chair. So, yeah, I was
reading, I, and I was trying to pull it up, but 1 couldn't, I guess I got cut off, the Maui
News cut me off. I had a link to the article in the Maui News and the Mayor made a
comment about how he didn't, he didn't like this bill, this ordinance we were passing.
And he thought we should instead strengthen oversight. Do you know what he meant
by that? Cause doesn't that take money too, if you're going to, if we're going to have
oversight, we need more bodies to do enforcement and oversight? So, I'm not, what
did he mean by that?
MANAGING DIRECTOR: Right. Right. Yeah, no, that would probably take an additional
body as well. Not quite as much as maintaining the waitlist as what's in this bill here.
But yeah, what the intent of that would be, would, you know, is, is really an enforcement
arm within the Department of Housing and Human Concerns that would more closely
watch what the developers are doing as they are implementing these affordable
housing project qualifications and, and screening and things like that.
Right now, it's complaint driven. And, you know, we do address things as we get
complaints. But if we had additional resources and that, then the, the, the actual
function of it would still maintain with the developers. The cost of it would maintain
with the developers. And we would just make sure they're doing the correct thing. We
already have language in Code that is supposed to be preventing mortgage steering.
You know, anybody can get their own mortgage company, they can get their own
mortgage when they're purchasing affordable housing. I understand that, you know,
there's pre-qualification requirements and, you know, developers in the past have tried
to get around that. You know, we do work with them more so now to make it so that
it's more flexible. But really, that's what that was meant for.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Cause 1, you know, 1 appreciate the idea of more oversight.
But that really needs, should be coming from the Administration. That's something
totally within the Mayor's purview. And I think when we, when we pass these types of
legislation that we just passed in Bill 111, because that's not happening. So, I just find
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 78
it ironic for him to say well there should be more oversight when, when, you know, it's
the Administration that's supposed to be doing the oversight.
And if we had had that oversight, maybe we wouldn't have gotten to this point where
we've seen these deficiencies in the allocations of affordable housing. But because
we still don't have that oversight, that's why we're trying to strengthen the laws, and
that's our purview. We don't, we're not in a position to actually enforce or implement.
That's the Administration's purview. So, you know, that's why I was just kind of
confusing, he's inviting us to tell you guys to have more oversight. But you know you
needed more oversight. So, it just, it just didn't make sense to me.
MANAGING DIRECTOR; There are some things that we could look at in the Code itself to,
to make it, you know, actually a requirement, you know, more stringent requirements
within the Code. And I think that's where it would be something to address. There's,
you know, like I mentioned, there's specific items already. But, you know, some of the
things that were discussed in the development of this bill aren't in Code right now to
enforce. So, you know, we don't necessarily have the best enforcement arm
capabilities.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. So anyway, that's, that's something I think should come
up as we were talking about this bill, you know, that suggestion from the Administration.
Not after we already passed it. So, you know, I would invite you to, you know, and the
Mayor to, to look through the Code and, and these kind of issues. Because most of
what we're passing on the Council is a reaction to something that's not happening in
enforcement and implementation.
And you know, that, that's, it's not for us to try to figure out what the Mayor's job is and
then try to implement what his job is. That's for him do. Our job is to see when
something's not working and try to put tools in there, like has been talked about, to try
to, you know, give us some more tools to see if we can help make it work this way.
So, that, that's just what I wanted to ask. i was confused by that statement, 1 don't
understand, I hope he continues to look for, and not just in affordable housing, but all
the departments where they can better implement, and enforce, and be more efficient
without us having to, you know, come up with legislation to, to counteract. So, you
know, appreciate the position you're in, but it, it, it is, it does kind of go back to the
original idea of strategic planning, which, you know, I thought was going to happen at
the beginning, three years ago. So, that's kind of where we are today. Thank you.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Did I see your hand up. Member Sugimura?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 79
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. It's thunder and rain here in Kula, so I
love it. But just \A/anted to say that I am going to be voting against the motion. And I
never got to speak during first reading, and my vote, because 1 voted. I'm sorry, it was
at second reading. But anyway, I voted against this philosophy or method because I
come from the world of water meter list. And I, from the day one, day one of when I
got elected there's so many people waiting on the water meter list. And I look at this
similarly, in that we have lack of resources in Kula and Upcountry, of people whoVe
been waiting on the water meter list for very long.
And same situation, I feel, cause we're not ready to launch an aggressive program like
this because we do not have the resources to give people. And then just the managing
of the list and if you buy a car or something where you, you know, your financial
situation changes, there's a lot of communication that I think is needed. And so,
therefore, I cannot support this type of mechanism. It's not a tool to me. It's very
discouraging for my residents Upcountry who had to wait. And some of them have
died and not been able to realize their dream of getting another or wish of getting
another water meter.
So, I cannot support the bill. And I cannot support the motion, because I believe that
it is too soon and not thought through enough for it to be implemented successfully.
And you're going to have people like the many that are on the water meter list who
continually email me, or when I see them out in the community, bring it up. So, that,
that is my strong feeling and my experience with lists. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any other comments. Members?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair. I, you know, I want to address what
Sandy Baz was speaking to in regards to enforcement. I am more than happy to work
with the Administration to show them the data that we have collected as, as a, as a, in
our office on mortgage steering. Projects, specific projects with names tied to them
that we would more than, more than happy to help the Administration put the hammer
down on folks who deserve it. So, that's all I'm going to say on that, Chair. Thank you.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Then I saw Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Member Paltin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Okay. I will be voting to support the
motion from Member Johnson. You know, I think Member Johnson, in his opening
remarks on this motion, hit all the relevant points that I made. Mahalo, Member
Johnson, for doing so.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 80
You know, the discussion on liability, you know, we should be liable. Right now, no
one is, and our people are suffering because of it. The Administration is fearing
litigation. But who is suing the developers to hold them accountable? No one? So,
you know, to continue doing the same thing and hoping for a better result is a mistake.
We need to move with the times and evolve to stay ahead of the problems that the
capitalistic market creates. Blackstone and BlackRock, Wall Street Corporations, are
buying up thousands of houses across America, and no doubt making its way here.
If we to talk about resourcing, we can talk about resourcing. I'm happy to work with
the Administration on that as the Budget Chair. And so, if they need more personnel,
let's do it, because houses are so limited. It takes so long to get them up. It’s, it's
worth more than the value on the market, really, because of how long it takes to get
each house up. And so, if we need more resourcing. I'm, I'm more than happy to work
with the Administration on that.
And you know, I don't know if it's crazy to anyone else that our Housing Deputy
Director, in her testimony, already conceded to failure. You know, like, we here on the
Council, no one's perfect, you know? I know we all make mistakes, but we try our best.
And 1 watch every one of us try our best and not not try because we know we're going
to fail, otherwise we would do nothing as a Council if that was our mentality.
Lastly, I just wanted to address the water meter list, which is a false equivalence. It's
not the same at all. This affordable housing list would be done via lottery and not first-
come, first-served, which is what the water meter list is. That list can be fixed if
someone would spend time working on it. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, I wanted to thank Member Johnson and his staff for
putting this bill forward. But the way that 1 see it, I wouldn't call it the Johnson bill. I
would call it the Stanford Carr or Kahoma Villages bill because for us on the west side,
that is the best example of why we need this bill. We're not trying to build affordable,
affordable homes just for the sake of building affordable homes. That's not why we
build affordable homes. We build affordable homes for our residents to get into them.
And we have limited amount of land by virtue of being islands. And so, we can't keep
screwing up, like how we screwed up in allowing Stanford Carr to do Kahoma Villages.
You know, when you, when you look at Kahoma residential, it's maybe only 48 homes.
But I know almost everyone single person in that subdivision. When I look at Kahoma
residential, I know maybe two people that got affordable homes. And I know a lot of
people that got shafted out of the affordable homes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 81
And so, I think, like other Members have said, if, if the, the Department of Housing and
Human Concerns has already conceded failure, I totally support an RFP to have a
independent agency run this list for us. And I can vote that way when it comes time
for budget. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, we're ready for the vote? You, I'm going to
be voting against the motion, because as I said, there's no simple answer and, and I
don't see this as another tool for the toolkit. We don't need a toolkit. We need a
wheelbarrow full of tools. And, you know, the best, one of the best ways we can
contribute to the promotion of affordable housing is if we the Council put up less
barriers and fewer conditions on, on these projects. So, you know, we ourselves are
partially to blame, not only the Administration. But the blame goes right around to
everyone.
Okay. So, ready to vote? All those in favor of the motion to override, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see one, two, three, four, five, six. Wait, one, two, three, four, five, six.
I'm missing one. Oh, six, okay. Six "ayes".
And those against, raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
CHAIR LEE: Three "noes"; motion carries. Okay, so the, the motion to override passes.
Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk.
The county
communication is still before the body at this time. How would the body like to dispose
that item?
Chair, the motion to override prevailed.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: I thought that was in the motion, no? Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, was filing in the motion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 82
CHAIR LEE: Yes, I thought it, it was.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Yes, it was. It was.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. Alright, thank you.
NO. 21-557 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR
(dated December 9, 2021)
Providing comments relating to Bill 135 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 20.42, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO PROHIBIT THE SALE,
USE, OR DISTRIBUTION OF NON-MINERAL SUNSCREENS".
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-557.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
to file County Communication 21-557.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Ordinance 5306 is possibly the boldest
protection for marine life from chemical sunscreens in the world. And I'm so pleased
and proud of this Council for passing it and, and, and thankful to the Mayor for signing
it into law.
However, I'm concerned that the Mayor's comments signal a desire for the bill, which
is based on the most up to date scientific research and literature available, to be
potentially watered down before its effective date. Healthy coral reefs are vital to
marine life and serve as critical protection to our shoreline against erosion, protect
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 83
precious habitats for food and enjoyment, and are arguably the most important
attraction for tourists, which is currently the basis for our economy.
I’m proud to be a member of this Council that passed this important legislation. I'm
also proud to be supporting those who have made the protection of the world's coral
reefs and marine environment their life's work and the next generation who benefit from
them, from this most important work. And if you've looked on Granicus, you'll see the
report that was done by the students of Kihei Charter School, extremely impressive.
And I think it's being sent to publications around the world. So, without belaboring this,
I just ask for our Members full support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion to file, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Very good.
Next, Mr. Clerk.
NO. 21-558 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated December?, 2021)
Providing comments relating to Bill 118 (2021), Draft 1, entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
REAL PROPERTY DEDICATED AS ‘AINA KUPUNA".
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-558.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 84
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to file
County Communication 21-558.
Discussion, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, you know, to the Mayor for
signing our bill into law. While I agree with his concerns, I disagree with the approach
that he included in his comments. And I’ve already committed to him and the
Administration, particularly as the Budget Chair, to working with him on addressing the
concerns that he shared. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion to file, raise your
hand, say "aye".
Okay, I see eight "ayes". Member King, are you there?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I'm, oh, you can't see  .. .
CHAIR LEE: Can't see you, but we can hear you. Are you an "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm frozen. But I'm here. I'm voting "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Very good.
Next. County Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with communications for referral. The
following county communications and general communications are recommended for
referral to the following Committees as noted:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 85
NO. 21-559 - MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA, BUDGET DIRECTOR
{dated December 10, 2021)
Transmitting the following:
A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
EMERGENCY FUND (DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, DECEMBER
SEVERE WEATHER EVENT)";
1.
A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT
OF PUBLIC WORKS (DECEMBER SEVERE WEATHER EVENT)";
2.
A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE, EMERGENCY FUND
(DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, DECEMBER SEVERE WEATHER
EVENT)"; and
3.
A copy of the Mayor's Emergency Proclamation, effective December 5, 2021.4.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-559 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(THE PROPOSED BILLS ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-559 WERE PASSED ON FIRST
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL
NOS. 150 (2021), 151 (2021), AND 152 (2021). THE
SUBJECT MATTER "DECEMBER SEVERE WEATHER EVENT"
WAS REFERRED TO THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
TRANSPORTATION
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-559 WAS THEN FILED. See pages
86 through 94 for discussion and action.)
COUNTYCOMMITTEE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 86
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA, BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated December 10, 2021)
NO. 21-560
Transmitting the following proposed bills entitled:
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL
YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
PART
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022, OPEN SPACE,
NATURAL RESOURCES, CULTURAL RESOURCES, AND SCENIC VIEWS
PRESERVATION FUND (KE AO HALI'I)"; and
SCHEDULE OFSPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES
1.
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX  D-
CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE, OPEN SPACE, NATURAL RESOURCES,
CULTURAL RESOURCES, AND SCENIC VIEWS PRESERVATION FUND
(KE AO HALN)".
2.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-560 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(THE PROPOSED BILLS ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-560 WERE PASSED ON FIRST
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL
NOS. 153 (2021) AND 154 (2021). COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-560 WAS THEN FILED. See pages
94 through 99 for discussion and action.)
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-559
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, did you want to deal with these
items?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Mahalo, Chair.  1would like to.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 87
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDE2:
OKAY. FOR CC 21-559, I MOVE TO WAIVE THE
REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT
FOR THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-559, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rule of the Council.
Any discussion on that, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Mahalo, Chair. As we can see, these are
emergency funds, and therefore there's an emergency that needs to be addressed.
And so, the quicker that we can amend the budget, the quicker they can use the funds
to address those problems that happened because of the storm. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the waiver, please raise
your hand-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . . discussion.
CHAIR LEE: -say "aye". I see nine "ayes'zero noes .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I had discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. 1.1 fully support, oh, is this just for the waiver or for
the-
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, just for the waiver.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry. Okay, I fully support the waiver. But I'll have my
discussion at the vote.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 88
CHAIR LEE: Okay. In favor of the waiver, raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE^CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes zero "noes": motion carries.
Now, back to Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-559.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Move by, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to pass the bills on second, first reading and filing of the communication.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, these proposed bills would
amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget to allow the Emergency Fund to be used by the
Department of Public Works for emergency repair projects necessitated by the recent
heavy rains and flooding in Maui County.
The first bill would amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix A, Part 11, by adding
an appropriation for the Emergency Fund for costs related to the December Severe
Weather Event in amount of $3 million.
The second bill would amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix C, by adding a
project called "December Severe Weather Event - Road, Drainage, and Other
Infrastructure Damages", in the amount of $3 million.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 89
The third bill would amend Appendix D, Emergency Fund, by adding conditional
language for the December Severe Weather Event.
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer questions the
Members might have. 1 also just received the list of some of the projects, in case that's
what Member Paltin was going to ask about. If you'd like me to share my screen, I can
share that. If not, I can send it. Okay. I see her head shaking.
So, Budget Director Michele Yoshimura is on the line, if Members have questions. And
if Members would like me to take up the subject matter in Committee, I can also do
that later. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Everybody was nodding yes about taking it up in Committee. Yep? So, let's
say, now. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. You know, my discussion would be, 1 fully
support the release of Emergency Fund. It definitely was an emergency. And I thank
the Administration for their expedition on this, you know, declaring a emergency
proclamation effective December 5, 2021.
My only comment on the discussion is that, you know, I believe the Administration
knew the potential for a catastrophic flooding event. And I think that there should have
been more done to alert the public to prepare, and not in a way that would cause panic.
But in looking at the Maui County Emergency Management social media site, they
released a statement at 4:30 on December 5, regarding the opening of the EOC and
the coordinating of these things. And you don't just open the EOC at 4:30 out of the
blue. So, I, I think there needs to be more done to communicate with the public. There
were a lot of folks that didn't even know this was coming, that did not take steps to
prepare at all.
And, and also, the terminology. I know, you know, the National Weather Service
hashtags kona low. But majority of, of our residents aren't, don't even understand what
kona low is. Like, you know, the terminology we always use is kona storm. And you
know, if we have a kona storm coming out, the first thing we see in Lahaina is boats
washed up on the shore. So, you know, the preparation in going into this kona low or
the kona storm. West Maui had five boats break their mooring and a jet ski platform.
Was there any, like, press release put out, like, hey, check your moorings, you know,
we're expecting this kona storm coming through, which is actually like a subtropical
cyclone, you know?
And so, that would just be my only discussion, is let the public know if we're expecting
this catastrophic event prior, much prior to the EOC opening. You know, if, if people
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 90
know that the. the EOC is going to be opening, then it's not just oh, we're expecting
flooding, wow. The EOC is opening. I, I better stock up on water. I better charge my
devices. I better do these things. And that would just be my comment. You know, just
trying to say it so that we can better serve our, our residents in the big scope of things.
I think that, you know, our handling, the, the Administration's handling of natural
disasters is getting better. But I think more communication needs to be happening.
And you know, that's a forever thing that we can always work on. So, that's my, my
discussion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I seem to have a weak connection here. So, I may have
to turn off my video if it stops again. But can you, can you see me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I can't, sometimes you guys stay so still 1 can't see if my
screen is frozen or . . . But, no. I just wanted to, in my discussion, I just wanted to
make a point about needing community input on the action that they're taking. You
know, when they use this money to do mitigations.
There's some areas in South Maui that they, I think it was Public Works, you know,
scooped up all the mud and put it right in a neighborhood and people are smelling what
smells really rank, you know, possibly feces in it. So, I was getting complaints about
the actual actions that were taken.
So, there needs to be some kind of a, of a forum for the public to maybe give some
input as to what needs to be done when we have this, you know, we've had, 1, I'm glad
that the DPW was able to get in there and clean up the streets. But moving it from the
street to somebody's backyard is not a good idea. So, we just need a little more public
input. So, maybe we can, maybe we can have that kind of input in Committee as well.
That would be helpful for the community.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anyone else?
Okay, we see Member Molina, then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. And I'm glad Member Paltin
brought up this discussion. I'm going to just dovetail off of her concerns in terms of
when the EOC gets activated and so forth. Because that weekend, you know, I've
worked for the former Administration as an EA and when you'd have these
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 91
emergencies, the EAs would be asked to go and support the EOC with taking phone
calls, and other related duties, both in the EOC and up in the Mayor's Office.
So, myself, when I called the Mayor's Office, there was no answer. And then, I called
the EOC, there was no answer. So, it may have been before 4:30 or so. But like
Member Paltin was saying, maybe we should really look ahead and maybe, you know,
start earlier in terms of activating the EOC and getting the word out. So, I'm totally all,
all in for that. So, we can have deeper discussion with that.
But, but yeah, it was for me, cause for concerns, like, where's everybody, you know?
Because I, I knew how it worked up there on the 9th floor. When you have an
emergency, immediately, the, the EAs are asked to staff the Mayor's Office, cause
that's where a lot of people are going to call. They're going to call the Mayor's Office
first. And then possibly Civil Defense, or is it Emergency Management, yeah. So, and,
and people need that, that voice to voice contact rather than just talking to a machine.
So, but anyway, appreciate the discussion. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, everybody. This is a very important discussion.
My community, Upcountry, Kula, we're still in the storm, as we have the trees that are
uprooted. Public Works has been working really hard. I just want to, you know, give
a shout-out to the departments. Your discussion is vital, also. But it's pouring here,
and thunder is, is going off.
And again, our water is still not a hundred percent. I have been in touch with 270-
7655, I think, which is the, which is the 24-hour Water Department line. So, I've been
having success with calling the different numbers, or with Herman Andaya, whoever,
you know, that needed to help the, my community that has been still in turmoil. But I
look forward to the discussion when it does hit the Committee. I do want to, you know,
thank the departments for their hard work as they're still working on the problem that
we're experiencing Upcountry, Kula. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, as i listened to everyone's
comments, I didn't hear any comments specifically about replacing the culverts and
pavements, replacing, you know, water pipelines that, you know, mainlines and debris,
and all of that stuff. So, it sounds more like this would go to the subject matter
Committee for discussion on process and how emergency services can be improved.
And that's the CARE Committee so, or infrastructure Committee, as well, if, if, you
know. Member Sugimura wants to take up Infrastructure . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 92
So, and then, i don't know if, if Members actually wanted some of their concerns or
questions answered by Budget Director Yoshimura. She is on the line. Oh, there I
see Budget Director.
CHAIR LEE: Michele?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Did you, you have anything to add, Ms. Yoshimura?
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA: Chair, thank you for taking this matter up
today. Just for clarification, I did want to say that the EOC was staffed by members
from the Mayor's Office on Sunday when the EOC opened, and on Monday, as well,
we did staff the EOC to help and assist answering the phones. And although the Mayor
did grant every, all the employees an Administrative leave day because of the weather,
the staff for the Mayor's Office did report to work. Some of them did to answer or field
calls, both in the EOC and in the, at the main office line at 270-7855. So, Member
Molina, we're sorry if we missed your call. But that is our extra duty that we do provide
services with the EOC and to assist with any type of phone bank that we need to do.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And mahalo. Chair/s/c7 Yoshimura and,
and the other departments for, for their help during the storm. I, too, had received
some calls from constituents, and mahalo to the Board of Water Supply for helping to
fix some of those damaged piping Upcountry and up in Kula. However, my question
was, you know, while fixing it, I think the Department fixed some of the errors that
almost helped or contributed to some of the damage. So, does the, can the funding
also help to maybe repurpose or rearrange the design where it's not part of the
problem? Because some of these piping were right in the, in the swales and, and when
the water came with, with all of the debris, it just kind of took out the piping. So, some
of this money is being spent for changing some of the design.
CHAIR LEE: Member/s/c7 Yoshimura.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Councilmember Sinenci, I can't, sorry, but I can't give you the specifics
on how the project was completed, regarding the water project. But Deputy Director
Jordan Molina is on the call, as well for, and he maybe can address some of the
questions that you have regarding to how Public Works go about doing the repairs after
a storm. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 93
CHAIR LEE: Well, how, can we save that discussion for Committee, Member Sinenci? Okay.
Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: That's fine, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. It, it does sound, Vice-Chair, that at least 21-559 should be referred
to IT, because it's all Public Works.
Okay, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you, Chair. I just wanted to just comment on the
earlier comments that the CARE Committee is kind of concerned with the drainage
systems in trying to do things like biological drainage. So, we are working on those
issues. But I just had a meeting with DPW about biological drainage systems two days
ago.
But my, my concern was more about some of the mitigation, some of the post-storm
mitigations that were happening in our area. So, it's more of an administrative thing.
It's, it's really a, it's an issue that I referred to, to the Administration, the administrative
liaison to our area. So, I think they'll get back to us. But it's an ongoing concern, what
act, when the, when actions are taken after the storm that they don't impinge upon the
neighborhoods or if they are going to, that they, they contact the folks in those
neighborhoods first because it was kind of a shock to hear what was happening.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. So, back to you, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Anymore
discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. No more discussion. And as I
mentioned earlier in my opening comments to the motion, I do have the list of all the
repairs that will be covered by the $3 million. So, if any of the Members want that, I
can have our budget analyst send that to the Members, or whatever the process is.
And I just, to clarify that the subject matter would be referred to IT Committee. It, it
wouldn't be referred. Okay. And then, so we're going to pass it on first reading.
CHAIR LEE: Right.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's all. Mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Are there any communications to file? No? Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 94
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; All those in favor-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. And it would defiling County Communication
21-559.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, the motion will cover approving, passing the three bills on first
reading, the subject matter being referred to IT, and filing of the communication. All
those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Okay.
Vice, not Vice-Chair, but County Clerk, next item.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, those are BILLS 150 (2021), 151 (2021)
and 152 (2021), respectively.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You, you already read that item.
So, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, what do you want to do?
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-560
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR COUNTY COMMUNICATION
21-560, IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES
OF THE COUNCIL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 95
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura to
on the waiver of this item.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Just real quick, it kind of cut out for
me. And I don't know if the Clerk would want me to repeat who, who seconded the
motion?
CHAIR LEE: Seconded the motion was Member Sugimura. For, for which item? This item?
Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Discussion, yeah, this, this item, we
you know, we've supported before, so I'd like to-
CHAIR LEE: This is only for the waiver.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. So, this item we've supported before, we'd like
to, you know, expedite the passage of this to help Ke Ao Hali'i protect the coastal lands.
So, that's the urgency on this. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It was an unexpected thing that I'll talk more about
on the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor, raise your hand, say
"aye", for the waiver.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 96
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries,
Now, on the item itself. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-560.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura to pass County Communication 21-560 on the, the bills contained in 21-560
on first reading, and filing of the communication.
Discuss, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the funds were
appropriated in Fiscal Year 2021 Budget to provide a grant to Ke Ao Hali'i to acquire
lands at Mokae and Kakio. These, and these funds have been encumbered. In order
to complete the acquisition of Mokae properties, Ke Ao Hali'i has requested additional
funds for Fiscal Year 2022.
The first bill would amend the Fiscal Year Budget, Appendix A, Part II, conditional
language for Open Space, Natural Resources, Cultural Resources, and Scenic View
Preservation Fund to grant Ke Ao Hali'i up to $669,300 for the acquisition of TMKs in
the ahupua'a of Mokae. Hana, Maui, Hawaii.
The second bill would amend Appendix D - Condition (l){5) for the Open Space
Natural Resources, Cultural Resources, and Scenic Views Preservation Fund.
We have Budget Director Michele Yoshimura, again, available to answer any of the
Members questions, as well as the requested resource personnel Mr. Scott Crawford
of Ke Ao Hali'i. And I'm sure Members will speak more to it, as well as Member Sinenci.
But this has been the result of the State not fulfilling its commitment to Ke Ao Hali'i,
and it's so shameful. I, the State made a commitment and that's why our County gave
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 97
Ke Ao Hali'i, granted Ke Ao Hali'i, the funds that we did when we did. And then, the
State turned around, and just as they did with the Makena lifeguards, they reneged on
their commitment to Ke Ao Hali‘i and not granted them the money that they promised
them. And, I, 1 don't know if, you know, we should look to why these things are
happening. If they know that our County will, you know, pick up the slack where the,
where the State is, is, you know, creating slack.
But that’s just, it's, I appreciate and commend our County and our Council for doing
the right thing in supporting Ke Ao Hali'i and the Hana community and protecting the
coastline. But it's, just, yeah, I just wanted to make sure that that was on the record.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. 1 want to ask Michele how much do we have left in the Open Space
Fund? I mean, do we have $669,300?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair, yes, we do have the funds available. 1 can get you a exact
balance, I need to talk to Finance. But we're reducing the $2.1 million appropriation
that was held in the Fiscal Year '22 Budget and reducing that to $669,300 to provide
Ke Ao Hali'i with the amount of monies that they needed. We did put, we did carry
forward, that's why, this appropriation from Fiscal Year '21, cause we were not sure if
we would be able to encumber the grant to Ke Ao Hali'i by June 30. So, we did double
appropriate the funding. So, yes, the funding is available for this. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. I, too, wanted to mahalo the Budget
Director and the Administration for expediting this, including our Budget Chair. So,
Ke Ao Hali'i has been working hard and able to acquire additional donations and have
been able to solidify more important conservation lands by leveraging our County
funds. So, this is a historic event for the Hana community, Members. That means that
historical sites, burials, and important fishing grounds will remain in conservation for
perpetuity for future keiki of Maui County. It is difficult for local families and public land
trusts to compete with outside investors and billionaires who seek to purchase Maui
real estate. So, these efforts, Members, ensures that important lands remain in local
hands. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members any more questions?
Yes, Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 98
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Mr. Sinenci and Keani. So, I know that we
asked Scott Crawford to stay on board. I did download his testimony. After he gets all
this from us, are they still short? 1 think that was Tasha's question. So, are they still
short, and not enough to complete the transaction? Do you know, Mr. Sinenci, or
Mr. Crawford? Cause he was saying he's still fundraising, so.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, I, the, thank you. Member Sugimura. I believe he
meant additional acquisitions in the future. But if Mr. Crawford is on the line, he can,
he can verify that.
CHAIR LEE: Scott, are you on the call?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, maybe, maybe Mr. Sinenci, then, you can clarify. So
by doing this with the $669,300, then it'll solidify the purchase that they're trying to do
and they're fundraising for future parcels? Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So. .. This will make them whole. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more question or discussion. Members? All those in favor of the motion
please--
MR. CRAWFORD: This is Scott. If, if I, if I can clarify that point a little bit? Would you mind
if I made a quick comment on this, just to clarify a couple points?
CHAIR LEE: A quick, a quick comment. We're in the middle of the vote. So, Scott, do you
want to just say quickly, clarification . . .
MR. CRAWFORD: Okay. 1, I just want to clarify that the fundraising we're doing is to reduce
the amount of the $669,300 that we need, so that we can minimize the request to the
County. So, that if we, basically what we don't, the $669,000 will make us whole to be
able to complete this purchase, but we won't end up using all of it. So, what we don't
use will be returned to the Open Space Fund. So, the fundraising that we're doing,
including $100,000 coming from Hawaii Land Trust will go toward reducing the amount
that we need from the County.
And I also wanted to clarify that, that the State did, basically our request for them was
for matching funds for this. And it's just their budget limitations that they weren't able
to fulfill this full request during this budget cycle. But I did want to point out that the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 99
overall project acquisitions through the three projects, because they provided
75 percent of the first acquisition, more money will still be coming from the State overall
for this project than is coming from the County. So, I just wanted to make sure you
understand that. Even though we're coming back and asking more from the County,
the State has still. . .
CHAIR LEE: Members, any more comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the
motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
Chair, for the record, those are BILLS 153 (2021) andDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
154 (2021), respectively.
Continuing with communications for referral.
- BRADFORD K. VENTURA. FIRE CHIEF
(dated November 26, 2021)
NO. 21-561
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled 'AUTHORIZING THE COUNTY TO
ENTER INTO AN AGREEMENT REGARDING THE PLACEMENT AND
MAINTENANCE OF RESCUE TUBES AT MAUI COUNTY BEACH PARKS".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-561 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
- DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated November 24, 2021)
NO. 21-562
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE
DONATION OF BOMB SQUAD EQUIPMENT AND SAFETY GEAR FROM THE
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 100
HAWAII DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, OFFICE OF HOMELAND SECURITY TO
THE COUNTY OF MAUI, PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.56, MAUI COUNTY CODE".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-562 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-562 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING AND ASSIGNED RESOLUTION NO.
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-562 WAS THEN FILED.
See pages 100 through 103 for discussion and action.)
21-201
NO. 21-563 - KELLY TAKAYA KING, COUNCILMEMBER
(dated December 8, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING THE HAWAII STATE
ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES' OFFICERS AND ALTERNATES FOR THE TERM
ENDING JANUARY 31,2023".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-563 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-563 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING AND ASSIGNED RESOLUTION NO. 21-202
pages 103 through 106 for discussion and action.)
See
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-562
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSED
RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION
21-562.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 101
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Second? Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
discharge the Committee of CC 21-562.
Any discussion. Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Yes, thank you. Madam Chair. The discharge is
needed to enable the Council to consider action today on the proposed resolution.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions or comments? All those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand and say "aye", just for the discharge. Member Paltin?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to waive
the Rules of the Council.
Any discussion on that, Member Molina?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17. 2021
Page 102
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Approval of my motion by a
two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council will, will enable the Council to
act on the proposed resolution today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye". This is for the waiver.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-562.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve the
recommendations in County Communication 21-562 and the filing of the
communication.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. The Police Department wishes to
accept a donation of various bomb squad related equipment and safety gear valued at
$429,287.38 from the Hawaii Department of Defense, Office of Homeland Security, as
noted on "Exhibit 1" of the proposed resolution.
The donated equipment will allow the Department to safely respond to incidents
involving explosives. And under Chapter 3.56 of our Maui County Code, would
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 103
authorize the Council to accept gifts and donations on behalf of the County. I ask for
the Members full support of this matter. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand. Vice-Chair?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, oh. Just real quick.
CHAIR LEE: Just do the record and we'll call on Ms., Member King.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Forthe record, that is RESOLUTION 21-201. Apologies.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-563
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. 1 ask for consideration of County
Communication 21-563.
AND MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 104
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved, moved by Member King and seconded by Member Sugimura to
discharge CC 21-563.
Any discussion on that, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Dm, this, actually, I don't have the discharge in my notes. It just
says, move to adopt the proposed resolution. But the, this is a resolution for the HSAC,
the HSAC officers. And we need to get this passed before the end of the year so that
we can start the next year with a slate.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of, maybe perhaps we didn’t have to discharge it since
it’s only a reso. But anyway, all those in favor of the discharge, raise your hand and
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. And I'm just going by my notes and there’s
nothing there about a discharge.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-563.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 105
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved, moved by Member King, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. Members, at its meeting of November 23,
2021, the HSAC Executive Committee approved its slate of officers and alternates in
accordance with Section 5 of its Bylaws.
The HSAC Executive Committee proposed the following slate of HSAC officers and
alternates for the term commencing immediately and ending no later than January 31,
2023:
President Mason K. Chock, Kauai County Council, with his Alternate being Bernard P.
Carvalho, Jr. Vice-President Kelly Takaya King, Maui County Council, with my
Alternate being Tamara Paltin. Secretary Heather Kimball, Hawaii County Council,
with the, her Alternate being Rebecca Villegas. Treasurer Tommy Waters, Honolulu
City Council, with his Alternate being Andria Tupolo [sic].
And the HSAC Bylaws require all four county councils to approve the proposed slate
of HSAC officers and alternates. If approved today, the HSAC Executive Committee
will confirm the proposed slate during our January meeting. I ask for the Members full
support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If-
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Just real quick. Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member
King. I support your motion. I just wanted to correct the record. It's Andria Tupola.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Andria. Did I, did I pronounce it wrong?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh. Tupolo.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, I thought I said Tupolo, Tupola. Tu, tu, Tupola.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Tupola. Tupola.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 106
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; And, just, just for FYI, the Alternate for Mason Chock will betaking
over... in, at the end of the, his term, because he will be terming out next year. So,
they have a, a little bit earlier term than ours.  Ithink theirs starts in, on, at the beginning
of December. So, the alternate will fill in until the next person is chosen.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Okay, all those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-202.
The, that motion was only to adopt the resolution. How would the body like to dispose
of the communication?
CHAIR LEE; I'm sorry, I didn't hear that part.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 1 did say and file the communication.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, you did? Okay. Okay. Then, proceeding or continuing with
communications for, for referral.
CHAIR LEE: Wait. Mr. Clerk? Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: I just wanted to double-check. Was CC 21-563 supposed to be discharged first
or not?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 107
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, my understanding is that item is not in any Committee
so I don't believe a discharge would have been necessary.
CHAIR LEE; And the other one was? CC 21-562?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: I am not sure if that item was originally in a Committee or not.
The communication we received was from the Department of Police. But I'm not sure
if it was in a Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Cause these were originally for referrals, right? So, how could
it have been in a Committee? Well, that's alright. You know what, let's not waste time
on that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; It's overkill.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah. Go ahead, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay, continuing with communications for referral.
GENERAL COMMUNICATIONS
- CAROL K. REIMANN. VICE PRESIDENT. A&B PROPERTIES
HAWAII. LLC. SERIES T. (dated November 24, 2021)
NO. 21-7
Submitting the 2021 Annual Report pursuant to Condition No. 2 of Ordinance No. 4385,
Wai'ale Project District South change in zoning.
The recommended action is that General Communication No. 21-7 be referred to the Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
NO. 21-8 - NOAH WALIN. PROJECT COORDINATOR. CMBY 2011 INVESTMENT.
LLC. (dated December 2, 2021)
Submitting the 2021 Annual Report in accordance with Condition No. 22 of the State
Land Use Commission Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Decision and Order,
in Docket No.: A13-797.
The recommended action is that General Communication No. 21-8 be referred to the Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 108
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections to. to the referrals as read by the Clerk, which would
be. double-check this, Mr. Clerk, CC 21-561, GC 21-7, and GC 21-8.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I accept.
CHAIR LEE: No objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
Moving on. Mr. Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-131 BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 21-203 . entitled "AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION OF
APPROXIMATELY 10,878 SQUARE FEET IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY
NO. (2) 5-6-002:002 SITUATED AT KAUNAKAKAI , MOLOKAI, HAWAII, FOR
AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $300,000.00", be ADOPTED; and
1.
That County Communication 21-267, from Councilmember Keani Rawlins
Fernandez, be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-131.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 109
COUNCiLMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-131.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget. Finance, and
Economic Development Committee met on December 1,2021, to discuss a proposed
resolution to authorize the acquisition of real property to be used for the relocation of
the Puko‘o Fire Station for an amount not to exceed $300,000 and customary
expenses.
Your Committee was informed the building currently on the property would be
renovated to serve as a replacement to the current Puko‘o Fire Station and would not
be an additional fire station that would require added resources, personnel, or
equipment. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill.
And I am so appreciative of the Members support for this, as well as the island of
Molokai.
I will add just a, yeah, just, just a few added comments that I'll, you know, I don't really
need to expand too much further because our testifiers today did such a smashing job
in their testimonies. I'll echo the sentiments of Zhantell Lindo, Mahina Poepoe, Cora
Schnackenberg, and Walter Ritte. My thanks and gratitude again to the Administration,
to my staff, to Ms. Poepoe for locating the, the parcel. And you know, this will be part
of this Administration and this Council’s legacy. It's been, our island has been trying
to relocate the Puko'o Fire Station for the past 25 years. So, you know, this, this isn't
a small thing. This is, you know, really big for our island. So, mahalo nui to all of you
for the support. Mahalo, Chair.
Oh wait, one more thing. Mahalo to the Mayor for, for attending my town hall to
announce the good news that the Council supported the, this resolution. And that the
Administration will be moving quickly on securing the property. And Fire Chief Ventura
will be moving quickly on the necessary permitting, design, and construction, so that
we can get that fire station up and going as soon as possible. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Okay, the motion is to approve, adopt the resolution in
Committee Report 21-131 and filing of the communication. All those in favor of the
motion, please say "aye" and raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 110
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SlNENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: You're welcome.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair. Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-203.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-132 BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 155 (2021). entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT, WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA.
SANITATION, BOND FUND, CENTRAL MAUI LANDFILL ENTRANCE
FACILITY TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS; TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING
AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)," be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
1.
That Bill 156 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS. DEPARTMENT
OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT, CENTRAL MAUI LANDFILL
ENTRANCE FACILITY TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS." be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
2.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 111
That Bill 157 (2021). entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
ORDINANCE NO. 5219, BILL NO. 48 (2021). RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE,
SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT - CENTRAL MAUI LANDFILL
ENTRANCE FACILITY TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS)," be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
3.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-132.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-132.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee met on December 1, 2021, to discuss proposed
bills to amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, the Appendix C bill, and the bond
authorization bill to add funding and a project description under Department of
Environmental Management, Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area, for the Central
Maui Landfill Entrance Facility Traffic Improvements in the amount of $484,650.
Your Committee was informed that this project will add a drop-off area and another
land [sic] at the Central Maui Landfill entrance to alleviate queuing on Pulehu Road on
weekends and holidays particularly.
Finance for these projects were included in the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, but have not
yet been encumbered. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the
proposed bill. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 112
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, those are BILLS 155 (2021), 156 (2021)
and 157 (2021), respectively.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-133NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 158 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, GOVERNMENT
FACILITIES. BOND FUND, CENTRAL MAUI TRANSIT HUB; TOTAL CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS
APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROJECTS)", be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT;
TOTALPROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
1.
That Bill 159 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS. DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION, CENTRAL MAUI TRANSIT HUB," be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
2.
That Bill 160 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
ORDINANCE NO. 5219, BILL NO. 48 (2021). RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE,
SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION - CENTRAL MAUI TRANSIT HUB)," be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
3.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 113
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-133.
COUNCiLMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-133.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Your Budget, Finance, andMahalo, Chair.
Economic Development Committee met on December 1, 2021, to discuss proposed
bills to amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget bill, the Appendix C bill, and the bond
authorization bill to add funding and a project description under Department of
Transportation, Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area, for the Central Maui Transit
Hub in the amount of $248,108.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Your Committee was informed that because of delays with shipping due to the, sorry.
Your Committee was informed that because of delays with shipping due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, the remaining Fiscal Year 2021 Budget funds for this project was
not encumbered by the end of the year. And the Department of Transportation would
like to include the unencumbered Fiscal Year 2021 funds in the Fiscal Year 2022
Budget.
In addition, the Department currently estimates that the project will be completed in the
Summer of 2022 and has received an extension to the existing agreement with the
Queen Kaahumanu Center due to project delays.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bills. Mahalo
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand
and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 114
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record-
CHAIRLEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -those are BILLS 158 (2021), 159 (2021), and 160 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-134NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
entitled "ESTABLISHING A SISTER-CITY1. That Resolution
RELATIONSHIP WITH SAN CRISTOBAL ISLAND, GALAPAGOS, REPUBLIC
OF ECUADOR." be ADOPTED; and
21-204
That County Communication 21-308, from Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-134.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 115
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, to adopt the resolution
in Committee Report 21-134 and filing of the communication.
Discussion, Ms., Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your GREAT
Committee met on November 16, 2021 and reconvened on November 24, 2021, to
discuss a proposed resolution to authorize the Mayor to formalize a sister-city
relationship between the County and San Cristobal Island. Galapagos, Republic of
Ecuador.
Your Committee noted Maui County and San Cristobal Island established a Friendship
City relationship in 2005, which has elevated over the years based on similarities in
tourism, environmental issues, and climate change impacts.
Your Committee expressed support and voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of the
resolution and filing of the communication.
And Madam Chair, if there are no objections at this time. I'd like to proceed with
proposed amendments incorporating nonsubstantive revisions to the resolution.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; If not, so ordered. Please proceed. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Thank you very much. Madam Chair and Members. I
guess you'll note in your Granicus there’s an Amendment Summary Form with these
proposals.
SO, WITH THAT SAID, I MOVE TO AMEND THE SECOND
"BE IT RESOLVED" PARAGRAPH AS FOLLOWS;
TO CORRECT THE SPELLING OF CRISTIAN ESPINOSA'S
NAME AS THE PERMANENT MISSION OF ECUADOR TO THE
UNITED NATIONS: 2. TO STRIKE "VIRGILIO VIERNES" AND
INSERT "CHRISTINA SABADO" AS THE CHAIR OF THE MAUI
COUNTY SISTER CITIES FOUNDATION; 3. CORRECT THE
POSITION TITLE OF MICHAEL STUBBS TO "HEAD OF
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 116
SCHOOL": 4. STRIKE "NAVIGATOR" FROM NAINOA
THOMPSON'S TITLE; AND 5. STRIKE THE WORD "THE"
FROM "THE KIMOKEO FOUNDATION".
And, Members, there are, is an attached mark-up of these nonsubstantive revisions.
So, that is my motion to amend.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King to amend this
resolution five times, in five places.
Okay, any discussion? Any further discussion on this?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just thank you. Chair. Just wanted to thank Member Molina,
Chair of the GREAT Committee, for updating this resolution. Sounds like some of the
titles were old and, and fixing of the spellings. So, thank you for your attention to that
detail. Member Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or discussion?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. I'm speaking to the motion
as amended. So, again, thank you to Member King for her being very proactive to
moving, helping move this resolution along and for being, I believe, the only
Councilmember to have experienced the Galapagos Islands.
And mahalo, also, to my Committee Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, who on
short notice was asked to facilitate this particular item in the GREAT Committee. She
handled it flawlessly. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Wow, such high praise. Okay, all those in favor of the amendments, please
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 117
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
The motion as amended. Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Just a quick comment, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yeah, I just wanted to thank Member Molina for putting this on
the schedule in a timely manner, waiting till I got back from COP26 to, to hear it. And,
and I also wanted to let everyone know that our Brandon Mauna who, who testified in
favor and said he's going to be going, has already emailed me with his contact
information. So, we'll get him connected with the sister-cities. And I might have been
the first Councilmember to go to the Galapagos, but I don't think I'm going to be the
last. So, looking forward to this relationship with the Galapagos.
CHAIR LEE: Great. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I, I have to commend also Adele Rugg. From when this
first got introduced, she's always been pushing this as a, you know, future sister-city
relationship. So, what is Adele's relationship to the Galapagos? I was just curious. I
mean, I commend her. She hasn't given up over all these years. But I don't know if
Kelly King knows.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, as far as I know, her relationship is with, there's a, there's
a. I'm not sure if he's a pastor or a reverend who is, was formerly from San Cristobal.
And that's where the idea, and maybe, maybe Tasha knows more information on this
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, Chair. I don't want to comment on .. . I want to see if later
we can take one step back to the resolution itself
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 118
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Well, I’m sorry, Ms. Sugimura. That's going to remain a mystery for today.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I’ll call her. I'll call her and ask.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ... is.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Kama, you had a question?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No. But I just wanted to make  acomment that Christina Sabado,
her name's Christine. And my staff just finished talking to her on the phone. So, I don't
know if we want to just make that correction here?
CHAIR LEE; Friendly, friendly amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Is that okay with you, Mr. Molina? Just correcting the name, okay, the spelling.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Member Kama.
Okay. Any more questions before we take the vote? If not, all those in favor of the
motion as amended raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Wonderful.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-204.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 119
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-135NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 21-205 . entitled "RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF
EDWINA-WILSON SNYDER TO THE COUNCIL ON AGING," be ADOPTED;
1.
and
That Resolution 21-206 . entitled "RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF
JOHN TOMOSO TO THE COUNCIL ON AGING," be ADOPTED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCiLMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. If there are no
objections, could I have the Clerk call up also Committee Report 21-136 and
Committee Report 21-137?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-136NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THERecommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF ALMA TASSI TO THE COMMISSION ON CHILDREN AND
21-207
YOUTH," be ADOPTED.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 120
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-137NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE;
entitled "REU\TING TO THE21-208Recommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF RAINEY MATTHEWS TO THE MAUI COUNTY COMMISSION
ON PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-135, 21-136, AND 21-137.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Kama, to adopt the resolutions
contained in Committee Reports 21-135, 136, 137.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. First for Committee
Report 21-135, your Committee met on November 30, to discuss the, discuss proposed
resolutions relating to the Mayor's nominations of Edwina Wilson-Snyder and John
Tomoso to the Committee on, for the Council on Aging, for terms expiring on March 31,
2025 and March 31, 2022. Ms. Wilson-Snyder, a retired school administrator and a
very well-known individual, as well as Mr. Tomoso, who retired from the County's Office
on Aging, performed flawlessly in their interviews. And we're certainly very fortunate
to have their service for this, for this Committee, Council on Aging.
And for Committee Report 21-136, your Committee also met on the same day for this.
This relates to the Commission on Children and Youth, and Ms. Alma Tassi. She is a
self-employed publisher of a local magazine focusing on children and parenting issues
on Maui. So, she certainly will make a fine fit on this Commission.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 121
And this was for consideration ofAnd lastly, was Committee Report 21-137.
Ms. Rainey Matthews to the Commission on Persons with Disabilities. And needless
to say, she will certainly make a wonderful, great addition to this Commission, as you
heard in testimony, as well as in Committee back on that day.
So, we're just certainly very blessed to have these outstanding individuals serve our
County in this capacity. And I ask for the Members full support of these nominees.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Sorry, Chair. Councilmember Paltin was before me.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Member Molina. With all
due respect on, in regards to item 21-137,1 think we may have gotten it wrong. I don't
believe this is the best fit. In listening to all of the testimony, I think Ms. Matthews
should run for Governor maybe. Because we need that kind of leadership in our State,
and across the board. So, I don't know if, if, I mean. I'll vote in support, but I think she
should seriously consider higher up. It's because, you know, with all of that
commendation in testimony, 1 think we need her on a, on a bigger scale.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: There's a higher calling.
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to echo those sentiments, as well.
You know, I met Ms. Matthews once, and 1 also met Leslee, her daughter, many times.
And I just want to say the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. These are good folk doing
good things in our community. So, I rise in full support. You know, the. the Commission
on Persons with Disabilities is where I first cut my teeth on County matters. And I
really, when someone who's that passionate about those types of things in helping
folks who need it the most, oh, man, and then, coming in with that kind of, that kind of
backing from the, her community. Can, can we clone her? Can we make more of her?
1 mean, that's really what, what I'm looking at. Is that's the kind of folk we need. So,
stand in strong support. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 122
CHAIR LEE: Anymore?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. I too, wanted to welcome aboard all the new
appointees. And of course, Ms. Matthews, I'd be remiss to say welcome aboard. She's
definitely a firecracker personality. And right, she comes with a lot of TNT, including
even from an incoming county judge. So, again, welcome aboard.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just wanted to speak to my point. Look, Member Johnson cut
his teeth on the Disabilities Commission, and now he's Councilmember. So, sky's the
limit.
CHAIR LEE: I think we're getting a little punchy now.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: We're planning her career.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Okay. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Very good.
Let's see, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, the resolutions attached to Committee
Report 135, those are RESOLUTIONS 21-205 and 21-206, respectively.
The resolution attached, attached to Committee Report 21-136, that is RESOLUTION
21-207.
And the resolution attached to Committee Report 21-137, that is RESOLUTION
21-208.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 123
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-138NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERSRecommending that Resolution 21-209
AND ALTERNATES TO THE SOUTH MAUI ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO THE MAUI
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-138.
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, to adopt the
resolution in Committee Report 21-138.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair.
Committee met on July 20, 2021, August 31,2021, October 19, 2021, and November
30, 2021, to discuss a proposed resolution relating to the Council’s appointments to
the South Maui Advisory Committee.
Your GREAT
Your Committee interviewed seven applicants. Based on their background and
experience, your Committee was satisfied each would be an asset to the South Maui
Advisory Committee.
Because the applicant pool did not contain an individual who could fulfill the
membership requirement of having demonstrated expertise in Native Hawaiian
traditional and customary practices, in accordance with Section 2.28.070 of the Maui
County Code, your Committee decided to leave one seat vacant to seek additional
applications with this background.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 124
Your Committee was satisfied to have met the requirement of an individual with
background in conservation, natural resources, or climate change, and that being the
nominee Mr. Robert Weltman.
And your Committee discussed having the Planning Director determine board terms
as selected by lot.
And with that said, your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend the appointments of Debra
Hughes, Robin Knox, Mike Moran, and Robert Weltman, as Members; and Bruce Bond
and Raymond Phillips as Alternates.
I'd like to thank South Maui Representative Member King for recommending these
nominees to the South Maui Advisory Committee. Thank you very much. Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. And thank you very much. Member Molina,
for bringing this to a point where we could actually have a meeting of these advisory
committees, hopefully in the new, early in the new year. And I just wanted to let
everyone know that the person I was hoping would be the, the Native Hawaiian cultural
expert ended up declining. He's too busy. He is one of the younger ones with kids,
but that's why he's too busy because he's raising his kids. So, we are, we are looking
and it's, I think Daniel Kanahele, who is in my office has applied, which meant that he
had to resign from the CRC. So, hopefully we'll have that position soon for you,
Mr. Molina. But I really appreciate all the work you did on it to getting it through the
Committee, and the application process.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any more discussion. Members? If not, all those in favor of the motion
please raise your hand and, and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 125
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-209.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-139 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERSRecommending that Resolution 21-210
AND ALTERNATES TO THE PAIA-HAIKU ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO THE MAUI
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, I think it's Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Me.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah, I'll go after him.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You sure you don't want to take this one for him?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-139.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, to adopt the
resolution in Committee Report 21-139.
Mr. Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 126
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I will preface my comments first by
saying, yeah, I think you're right, we're getting  alittle excited. It's Friday and Christmas,
so we all want to get out of here soon. But anyway, I'll try to keep it brief. Again, like
the previous item, the GREAT Committee met on July 20, August 31, October 19, and
November 30, this time to discuss a proposed resolution relating to the Council's
appointments to the Paia-Haiku Advisory Committee.
We interviewed eight applicants. And based on their interviews and considering their
background and experience, your Committee was satisfied each would be an asset to
the Paia-Haiku Advisory Committee.
And again, in accordance with Section 2.28.070 of the Code, your Committee was
satisfied to have met the requirements of an individual that demonstrated expertise in
Native Hawaiian traditional and customary practices. And namely, I believe
Ms. Francine Aarona, affectionately known as Aunty Mopsy, she was designated with
the Hawaiian traditional and customary practices.
And Ms. Lucienne de Naie, very well-known to all of us, she was designated as
someone with background in conservation natural resources.
In addition to Ms. Aarona, Mayor Victorino appointed Rod Antone from Paia to serve
on this Committee.
Your Committee also discussed having the Planning Director determine board terms
as selected by lot.
And with that said, your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend the appointments of
Adrian Boone, Lucienne de Naie, Adrian Kealoha, excuse me, Andrea Kealoha,
Rebecca O'Day, and Timothy Wolfe, as Members; along with Matthew McDonald and
Nikhilananda as Alternates.
And Madam Chair, if there are no objections at this time, I would like to proceed with a
proposed amendments the resolution.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. Okay. Yes, may we have your amendment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 127
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Alright, thank you very much, Madam Chair and Members.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE RESOLUTION TO CORRECT THE
LAST NAME OF APPOINTEE REBECCA O'DAY DUE TO
MARRIAGE.
If there would be a second for the amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you're, you're going to--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: --her name. Is that what you said?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Alright. Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Kama.
Discussion? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you very much. Madam Chair.
AND THIS MOTION IS TO AMEND EXHIBIT "A" TO READ AS
FOLLOWS: TO STRIKE THE NAME "REBECCA O'DAY" AND
INSERT THE NAME "REBECCA LOPEZ".
At the time, as soon as we had pretty much completed the process of approving
Ms. O'Day in Committee, she got married. So, she's now Rebecca Lopez, and all of
our congratulations to her. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. All those in favor of the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 128
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries; nine "ayes zero noes .
The motion as amended. Any more discussion? The main motion as amended.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Just again, thanks to Member Molina for
adding, for, who worked in tandem on these two advisory committees. And it was
really great to get two more going at once. But also, I was a little remiss in mine, in the
previous one in not thanking the, the community members who came out. So, for both
the South Maui and the Paia-Haiku, many thanks to all of you who are willing to put
the hard work in because, you know, there's a lot of reading and research that goes
into this Committee, you know, to make these recommendations to the Planning
Commission. So, I just want to make sure that, that I gave my thanks. And Member
Molina is really good about that, but sometimes I've, I'm, I might have been looking
forward to Christmas too soon, too.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I have something to discuss. I just wanted to thank you both for the good
food that you had at your, it's not the, it's not the advisory committees, but I just thought
of it. The food was delicious. Thank you.
Okay, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye". The main motion
as amended.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Members.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-210.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 129
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-140NO. HUMAN CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 21-211 . entitled "AUTHORIZING A GRANT OF A LEASE OF
COUNTY RECREATIONAL SPACE TO PAIA YOUTH COUNCIL, INC.," be
ADOPTED: and
1.
That County Communication 20-559, from the Director of Parks and Recreation
be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-140.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Kama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve
the, let me see, is it is a resolution? A resolution. So, adopt the resolution in Committee
Report 21-140.
Discussion, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Your Human Concerns and Parks Committee,
having met on March 18, 2021, August 16, 2021, and December 2, 2021, makes
reference to County Communication 20-559, from the Director of Parks and
Recreation, transmitting a proposed resolution entitled, "AUTHORIZING A GRANT OF
LEASE OF COUNTY RECREATIONAL SPACE TO PAIA YOUTH COUNCIL, INC.",
with an attached lease agreement.
The purpose of the proposed resolution is to authorize, oops, sorry, I went off my page,
was to authorize the grant of a 50-year lease for 3.39 acres of County recreational
space, identified as tax map keys (2) 2-5-005 - what do you call those two dots in the
middle - 015 [sic], portion and (2) 2-6-001 - quotation, not quotation, those little two
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 130
period guys - 001, portion, located at Paia, Maui, Hawaii, to Pa‘ia Youth Council, Inc.
at a rental rate of one dollar per year for the period ending April 30, 2071.
By correspondence dated 20, November 24, 2021, the Director of Parks and
Recreation transmitted a revised resolution, approved as to form and legality by the
Department of the Corporation Counsel, with revisions to the lease agreement as
follows; to reduce the lease area to 1.46 acres; and to extend the duration of the lease
to expire on January 31, 2072, unless terminated earlier; and require Pa‘ia Youth
Council, inc. to complete a mitigation plan no later than six months after the lease is
executed.
Your Committee notes Pa'ia Youth Council, Inc. operates Pa‘ia Youth and Cultural
Center, PYCC, as a nonprofit organization, whose mission is to provide drop-in
activities and life skills program that encompass recreational, social, educational,
vocational, and cultural experiences for the youth of Paia and surrounding
communities.
A representative from the PYCC said the lease area was reduced to address concerns
with potential sea-level rise hazards and community concerns over beach access.
The PYCC representative said the current lease expires on April 30, 2051. The lease
extension to January 31, 2072, would allow time for a successful capital campaign to
construct a new facility.
Your Committee supported PYCC's involvement with the community and voted 5-0 to
recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolution and filing of the
communication. I ask for the Members full support.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any further discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Member Kama. I speak in
support of the motion. I just, you know, ask that Pa'ia Youth Council continue to reach
out to the community, especially the detractors, and embrace them into their vision.
And, you know. I'm really excited that this can serve as a example of strategic
relocation/managed retreat for the entire County. And I look forward to hearing more,
and being involved in the design, and everything that follows. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 131
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I, too, want to lend my support to this
resolution. And I want to commend, because I've been in all the meetings from last
term to this term, I just want to commend Susun White and her board for taking the
steps to bring the community together. It took a lot of work. And, and I've been in
communication with her, or talking to her and they've already, you know, reached out
to the Legislature in, in light of trying to find additional funding. So, 1 commend them.
You know, they're on the move forward. And I, too, as Member Paltin is saying, that,
you know, they embrace everybody. And I think they, they have, and they will along
the way. I think it's important.
And the mitigation plan, it was nice to have Tara Owens there and, you know,
educating us about, you know, her knowledge and expertise in this journey that we all
are in with sea-level rise and buildings that get affected by it.
In this case, it's great to be able to have space to do that, you know. And that’s what
they are doing. They're looking at the available, availability of space and land in this
area and making the motion, making the movement forward. So, I commend all of that.
But thank you very much, Member Kama, for doing this. You did a great job in all the
Committee meetings. Appreciate it. And I totally support this resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Yeah, I, too, want to
express my mahalos to Committee Vice-Chair Kama. And, and I think at one point.
Committee Vice-Chair Sugimura also help shepherd discussions on this very important
matter. And mahalos to Director White, and also to her board, and the, and staff for,
you know, providing a safe venue for our kids in the north shore community, a place
for education, and life skill learning.
And please, like Member Paltin said, keep the lines of communication open with the
greater community for future expansion. Because you know, we live in a time now
where more and more people are getting involved with government and, and wanting
a bigger say in what occurs in their communities, and especially in a sensitive area like
the north shore. So, keep those lines of communications open. And hopefully. I'm
happy, you know, whateverthe outcome of this new building, everyone can be satisfied
with whatever will occur down the road as it relates to construction. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 132
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
three, four, five, six, seven, eight. I have eight, nine, alright.Sold.CHAIR LEE: One, two
Motion passes.
JustAlright, I guess we, we can skip Bill 149, right. Member Paltin? Just kidding
kidding.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-211.
Proceeding with ordinances at second and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 149 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.SOB.070, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
CHAIR, I MOVE TO PASS BILL 149 (2021) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 133
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to pass Bill 149 on second
and final reading.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. At this time, I would like to introduce two
Amendment Summary Forms that will be distributed by the Clerk. Both are fairly
nonsubstantive things that we've discussed prior in Committee, on the Council floor,
but it just, you know, needs to be fixed.
CHAIR LEE: Do we need to take a short recess. Member Paltin, or is it short?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's pretty short.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: For some reason, it has your name as the proposer, but I'll be
the proposer.
CHAIR LEE: They always throw my name on things that they can't find the other people.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
SO, MY FIRST MOTION WOULD BE TO AMEND EXHIBIT "1"
TO BILL 149 (2021), AT PAGE 173, BY REPLACING
APPENDIX G: COMMUNITY PLAN DESIGNATIONS AND
ZONING DISTRICTS WITH AN UPDATED TABLE PROVIDED
BY THE DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING.
And if I get a second. I'll explain more.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Explain. Okay, Member Paltin, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member
Johnson, on this first amendment proposal.
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 134
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. So, what this does is it provides a higher-
HD2", and "NBCID",
which is indicating possible community plan designation alignments for Lahaina
Historic District 1 and 2 and the Napili Bay Civic Improvement District.
resolution version of the table that includes references to "HD1
These are only found in West Maui, and so it's appropriate to be on this table, which is
on the, the second page of the ASF. And I guess, you know, the original table was
very blurry, so we're providing a clear one that has, reflects Historic District 1 and 2,
which are only found in Lahaina, as well as, or only found in the West Maui Community
Plan Area, as well as Napili Bay Civic Improvement District, which is only found in the
West Maui community. So, just clearer, more high-resolution table with those districts
that are only found in the West Maui Community Plan. And that's ail.
CHAIR LEE; Any questions or further, oh, did you have a second to that amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Member Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Second by Member Johnson, that's right. Okay, anymore discussion or
questions on this? If not, all those in favor of the proposed amendment, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: So, I see eight "ayes". Michigan. Alright, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion
carries. We got you. We got you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
(Councilmember Kama was excused from the meeting at 3:25 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you.
MY SECOND MOTION WOULD BE TO. I MOVE TO AMEND
EXHIBIT "1" AT PAGE 52 BY STRIKING THE CURRENT
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 135
LANGUAGE IN SECTION 2.4.2 AND INSERTING THE
FOLLOWING:
2.4.2 DEVELOPERS OF TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION
UNITS MUST COMPLY WITH THE COUNTY'S AFFORDABLE
HOUSING REQUIREMENTS AND PRIORITIZE FULFILLMENT
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING OBLIGATIONS WITHIN THE
BOUNDARIES OF THE WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN
AREA.
And if I get a second, I'll explain.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. This was one of the amendments that we had
done last Council meeting. And the purpose was, you know, at the direction of Corp.
Counsel, that this is better reflected in, I mean, the original wording that came out of
the CPAC that we wanted in there would be better done as a amendment to the Code
rather than in the Community Plan. So, once this passes, I'll propose an amendment
to the Code, specifically for West Maui district, per the advice of Corp. Counsel to
accomplish what the CPAC wanted, because they said that's the way to do it. And
they'll sign off if I do it that way on this portion of it. I hope that's . . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more, any more discussion? Okay, the second amendment, all those
in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 136
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes" [sic], zero "noes"; motion carries.
Do you have any more, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Sure.
CHAIR LEE: You do?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
1 MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF A DEU\Y
BETWEEN AMENDMENT AND FINAL READING OF A BILL IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 19.C. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I don't understand that. But moved by Member Paltin, seconded by
Member Johnson, to waive the Rules of the Council for what now?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of the entire
membership of the Council will enable the Council to take action on the proposed bill,
as amended, today.
CHAIR LEE: I see. I see. So, this will, that'll be your last amendment. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I don't know if that one was an amendment. It was a motion to
waive the Rules of the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Before we go there, are there any other amendments?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies to interrupt. On the amendmentthat was just passed,
Councilmember Paltin's second amendment, we did not see Presiding Officer Pro
Tempore Kama in that vote. We're not sure if she participated.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I don't see her now either.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 137
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, she lost connection?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's, let's vote one more time.
Okay, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I, I can send some staff dov^n. She’s in the, she's in
the office, so I can go find out. . . sorry. I can go find out. . .
CHAIR LEE: That’s alright. That's alright, you know. I know she had to go to the doctor at
4:00, but I didn't realize she was leaving already. Okay, so we'll take another vote.
We'll take another. So, the motion is, the motion as amended, yeah, the main motion
as amended.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: That was your last one.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: --the amendment. You want me to read it again?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, this is on the second amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No, I think we got it. Everybody got it. The second, the second
amendment, raise your hand and say "aye" if you were in support.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused"; motion carries.Okay, eight "ayes"
CHAIR LEE: Now, Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 138
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I thought you went with Member Kama. So, anyway, Mr. Clerk, I should
ask for other amendments before she makes this other in, evokes, invokes certain
Rules of the Council?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, 1 believe the body has the option to waive Rule 19.C. at
anytime. So, the body can take up--
CHAIR LEE: But shouldn't we take all amendments first, rather than--
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The body can-
CHAIRLEE: -go back and forth? Huh?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, so the body can do that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's cleaner to me. Let's see if there's anybody else wanting to make an
amendment, okay?
Anybody else wanting to make an amendment?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry. Sorry, we have a motion on the floor, yeah?
CHAIR LEE: Well, we're, we're still, we voted on her amendment. So, we're not going to vote
on the main motion as amended-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: -until we're finished with all the amendments.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, the motion to waive was not recognized, and so
it's not on the floor?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 139
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, it's not on the floor, because--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Just double-checking.
CHAIR LEE; -I was asking for all additional amendments. Let's get all the amendments out
of the way before we go to that motion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Member Sugimura, you said you had an amendmentto propose?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. So, before I make the amendment, I just want to
say, Keani, my dad graduated from University of Michigan; Ann Arbor, Michigan. So,
every time I look at you, I think about my dad going to med school during the winter. I
don't know how cold it is, but must be super, super cold.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; It's right down the road.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's right down the road from where I am.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Cool. Yay. Buff and blue or whatever the colors are.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Point of personal privilege.  Ihave to leave in a couple minutes.
I've got someone coming to interview.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, I guess we. Member King doesn't want to hear the chit chat about
Michigan, okay. Let's get this train on the road. Moving forward.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Sorry, sorry.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE PROPOSED BILL ENTITLED "A BILL
FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.80B.070, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI
COMMUNITY PLAN" AS FOLLOWS:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 140
AMEND EXHIBIT "1" PAGE 96. BY DELETING THE
SECOND PARAGRAPH. WHICH READS: "FOR THE AREA
BETWEEN FRONT STREET AND HONOAPllLANI HIGHWAY
FROM KAHOMA STREAM TO KENUI STREET. THE
FOLLOWING POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES FROM THE 1996
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN CONTINUE TO APPLY" AND
SECTIONS (A) THROUGH (F) THAT FOLLOW.
1.
ALSO, TO AMEND "SECTION 5" TO READ AS FOLLOW;
"THIS ORDINANCE TAKES EFFECT ON APPROVAL. THIS
ORDINANCE DOES NOT CHANGE THE LEGAL RIGHTS AND
RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES IN ANY CIVIL LITIGATION
FILED BEFORE THE UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY
PLAN (2021) TAKES EFFECT."
And what this does is, well, that’s my motion. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Is there a second? Is there a second? I'm afraid there's no second.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so anymore amendments proposed?
Okay. Back to you, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF A DELAY
BETWEEN AMENDMENT AND FINAL READING OF A BILL IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 19.C. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Johnson.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 141
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Approval of my motion by a t\A/o-thirds vote of the entire
membership of the Council will enable the Council to take action on the proposed bill
as amended today. And the amendments are fairly nonsubstantive. It was just, you
know, clerical kind of errors and making it more clear, things that we had previously
discussed. Nothing new.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, what is her, what does her motion do? Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, can you repeat your motion please?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Waive the Rules of the Council, that we can take action on the
final reading today, instead of delay for another Council meeting, because the
amendments were nonsubstantive. It was all things that we had previously discussed.
It wasn't, like, life changing. It was things.
CHAIR LEE; Everybody understand the motion? Any further discussion? All those in favor
say "aye", raise your hand.
Okay. Member Sugimura, did you raise your hand? Yeah?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes". Eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries. Okay.
Now, the motion as amended. The main motion as amended. Any more discussion?
Yes, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to add, throughout this entire
process, I think the overwhelming sentiment I heard was although the plan isn’t perfect,
it is a great start and a great success in conducting multiple community meetings and
getting consensus on community plan.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 142
Lahaina is one of two of our County's largest tourism areas. So, we're also reminded
how culturally significant West Maui is for our host culture. And I'm proud that we
expanded the historical districts and perpetuated cultural preserves.
I'm particularly proud that we preserved the southern regions of the plan for areas of
stability. We already live on an island with limited resources and limited aina. In fact,
we're losing it at a greater pace to climate change. So Chair, I do speak in support of
not building out every open space in one lifetime on this island. And to, to save some
of our coastal areas, ancient reef systems for Kanaloa for future generations.
I also wanted to mahalo Member Paltin, her staff, Planning Department, the CPAC
board, all the residents who participated in this process. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. For me, this work on the West Maui Community
Plan really began in 2006. When our community found out about the plans of
development in Honolua area by Maui Land and Pineapple, it was probably, you know,
one of my first times testifying. It was my first time, like, even knowing what a
Councilmember was, or who they were. And, you know, before that, really, it was just
about, like, surfing, paddling, living it up.
And in, in the process of looking forward to the Community Plan, getting involved with
the General Plan, testifying at the Maui Island Plan, and all of that, you know,
somehow, I ended up here in this seat, you know. And although it's difficult, and it's,
it's a lot of work, and it's not the same as going to work at the beach every day. I’m so
thankful that 1 got involved in the community planning process.
And I hope that through this effort, from coming through the working groups, to the
Community Plan Advisory Committee, to the Maui Planning Commission, to the
Council, that our West Maui Community Plan and Advisory Committee and future
advisory committees see our commitment to try and keep the words that they wanted
in the plan, in the plan. And so, they don't feel that all those long nights away from
their families, the Planning Department's long nights away from their families, and is,
is not worth it, because we heard what they said and we did our best to keep it in the
plan. And, and it is a lot of work. I did see some buyers' remorse, you know, from the
Advisory Committee members when they had to sit through hours and hours of
testimony after a long day of work, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 143
And I just want to echo Member SInenci's mahalo to all the people that contributed to
this plan, you know. My staff Angela, who stepped in when, when somebody resigned,
because she had already gone to all the meetings. You know, my, the rest of my staff
that went to all the meetings, the Planning Department. I mean, I could stay long past
Member King wants to, if, if I mentioned everyone by name. But, you know, this is the
culmination of like a 15-year commitment for me and, and ready to do South Maui next.
Thank you, guys.
CHAIR LEE: Any, anybody else, comments?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you. Madam Chair. First of all, let me state, it is my
hope that my colleague from West Maui can finally get a good night's sleep after going
through this real, real difficult and challenging process. And I want to thank you for
your, your efforts to spearhead this through your Committee, and also to everyone
involved, the staff, the Planning Department, and the, the greater community as a
whole.
What was really, I found very fascinating about this process, was to see the amount of
younger generations of folks wanting to participate. Because that was so important,
because the whole landscape has changed from one time, as you had mentioned
Member Paltin, West Maui being viewed as a recreational area that promoted tourism.
And it's now. the mindset has changed to more of let's look at the quality-of-life
concerns that's really reflected in this West Maui Community Plan, as well as cultural
preservation for an area that was once the seat of the royal kingdom. So, the paradigm
has certainly shifted.
And, you know, no one’s ever going to be completely satisfied with this Community
Plan or any community plan for, for the, for matters, you know, of conversation. But it
is what it is. And certainly, everybody had their say in the process. And, you know,
everybody's comments were certainly well-respected. And just want to thank
everybody in West Maui, and that the community can come together, and move
forward. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I'd like to see that Member King has
to leave in ten minutes, so I'm going to keep it very short. I'm going to try one minute.
I just want to really thank Member Paltin. You know, from 2006 to now, full circle, your
commitment has been so admirable, you and your office. My mahalo to the CPAC,
CPAC Chair, the Planning Department, ail of the community.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 144
And I think what's beautiful about this is that we've learned from past community plans.
And we’re, this isn't going to be a plan that sits on the shelf and collects dust. This is
going to be a living document. And you know, with the kind of commitment that I've
witnessed, you know, firsthand, you know, that, that’s what this, this community plan,
the West Maui Community Plan is going to be. It’s going to be a living document. And
a lot of bold steps and statements were made that  Iwhole-heartedly support. So,
mahalo again, Member Paltin, and to all of the committee. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh, thank you. Chair. Yeah, I have to, I have .. . The only thing
I want to say is, i mean, I think we all said stuff last time and I don't, I don't want to
repeat everything. But thank you, again, Member Paltin, forgoing through this process.
I know what it's like. And Keani kind of knows what it's like too, because she went
through the process with me as a constituent last time.
But one of the things I wanted to say was I’m really glad that we have a Council who
sees this document, not only as a living document, but as the law. Because that was
the, the fight when I first got on the Council, was to have it recognized as this is the
law, this is not a guidebook. This is the law. So, going forward and going into the next
community plans, that’s going to be the mantra. My mantra anyway. Thank you. And,
and thank you for getting us to this point.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else real quick?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. So, you know,  Inever got to make my motion.
And my motion would have tried to correct the last-minute amendment that was made,
at the first reading, which Lance Collins, I think, interjected, or that group. And my
question to Corp. Counsel is are they going to sign this Community Plan?
CHAIR LEE; Corp. Counsel? Corp. Counsel? Richelle Thomson? Or Mike Hopper?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON; Thank you, Chair.
Mike is on.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 145
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNCIL MICHAEL HOPPER: 1 think I said at the last meeting,
based on the same language, we will not be able to approve this to form and legality
based on-
CHAIR LEE: Can you speak a little louder, please?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: Okay. I'm sorry. We did say at the last
meeting that based on language on page 96, we would not be able to approve the
ordinance as to form and legality.
CHAIR LEE: The answer was no.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, and then I just want to let you know that I have serious reservations about
this certain aspects of this plan. 1 will vote in favor of it, cause generally, I support it.
But that, that's one of them, the idea of designating a property that's already in
existence as park is to me a taking. So, is everybody ready to vote?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So-
CHAIR LEE: Last. Last, um, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I have, I have grave reservations about that. And I
also have reservations about not recognizing the Maui Island Plan and all the people
who worked and put that together through testimony that we received from the
community. That they're saying this is the plan, and not necessarily looking at what
was said before by, and I have a grave concern about Ka'anapali 2020 and what they
were trying to do in terms of affordable housing and planning for the, for the West Maui
community. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all those in favor of the main motion as amended raise your hand and
say "aye"
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Those opposed say "no".
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 146
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have seven "ayes'one "no", and one "excused": motion carries.
Alright, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with unfinished business.
(Councilmember King was excused from the meeting at 3:46 p.m.)
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 147 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.06.020, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, ADOPTING DIGITAL ZONING MAP (3) AS THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
FOR THE ISLAND OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Oh, is this the Dragon Fruit one? Nah, just kidding.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
CHAIR, I BELIEVE THE UA HAS NOT BEEN CONFIRMED TO
BE RECORDED, SO I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO HAVE THIS
ITEM CONTINUE TO REMAIN ON THE CLERK'S TABLE UNTIL
THE NEXT MEETING, OR UNTIL THE FIRST AMENDMENT TO
UNILATERAL AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION FOR
CONDITIONAL ZONING, DATED JULY 31, 2020 IS
RECORDED AND RECEIVED.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Molina to table this item
till the next Council meeting. Any further discussion? All those in favor of the motion,
say "aye", raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 147
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND KING.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE: So, now we have one, two, seven "ayes", zero "noes", and two "excused":
motion carries.
This brings us to the very end of the calendar. Members, do you have any parting
remarks? We're not going to see each other for like two weeks.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I want to see. . .
CHAIR LEE: I'm going to start to have withdrawals.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah, just a great opportunity
to wish everybody a happy and safe holiday season. And thank you to you, my
colleagues. Working with you gives me purpose to move on with my life, you know, in
a positive way. And also, to the Mayor and his Administration, thank you for all of your
hard work. I know at times it gets a little contentious, but, you know, it's, it's just
business, and I want to wish them a very happy and safe holiday season. And to, of
course, all of our citizens who participate through public testimony. Thank you so
much, because we, we learn from you, and hopefully you can learn from us. But
certainly, your input helps us with our decision-making. So, Happy Holidays and a safe
one to everyone. And also to OCS, of course, our hard-working staff as well, so.
CHAIR LEE: And OCC.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: And OCC, yes, yes. County Clerk's Office, yes, of course.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And of course, our Auditor. Yeah, everybody.
Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, did you have your hand up?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 148
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sure, Chair. I'll, I ,I did have my hand up. But since
you called on me. I'll just make it quick and share the same sentiments as Member
Molina. Lono i ka makahiki to all my colleagues, to Administration, OCC, OCS, and
everyone out there in the community. Please be safe. I understand there may be a
flashflood warning, there's a flashflood warning today at 6:09. So, just be careful out
there. It is the time of Lono. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: And you take care.
Member Sugimura, I know you're dying to go see your son.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: He just, he just arrived. So, I know, my son is home, I can
hardly wait to give him a hug. But thank you everybody for your hard work. And it is a
pleasure working with you. And every day on this, on this Council, it's a lot of work that
each of you give to the community. And it surely shows with the outcomes that we
have had as a body. So, thank you very much. Merry Christmas to all of you. Be very
safe.
And I want to also give a shout-out to Emergency Management, because they have a
group of 10, sorry 20 retired military who are here to help with cleaning Upcountry, the
debris, and all gulches that got washed down, and the people that were having
problems with their homes. They're here to volunteer and they'll be here for three
weeks. So, I think it's called Team Rubicon, or whatever their name was. I'm sorry.
Yeah, so sorry about that. But anyway, thank you and Merry Christmas to everybody.
Happy New Year and be safe.
CHAIR LEE: And to you as well and your family.
Member Paltin. I'm just going down the line, okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Be safe. Don't drink and drive. I'll see you tomorrow at the
County's drive-thru Christmas celebration. And mahalo everyone, from West Maui.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
Member Sinenci and then Member Johnson .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 149
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Thank you, Chair. I also wanted to extend a Mele Kalikimaka,
Hauoli makahiki hou, lono i ka makahiki, to everyone. Thank you. Chair, for summing
up the year in your opening comments this morning. And, and also to our staff at OCS,
OCC, and also to the, all the different County employees at the Departments, the
Administration, and all those that are extending their humanitarian aid to those less
fortunate during this Christmas. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair. Of course, I'd like to wish everyone
Happy Holidays, Merry Christmas, Happy New Year. This has been one heck of a
year for me. It's my first year on the Council and boy have I learned a lot. It's been a
pleasure to work with you folks, a pleasure to work in the County, with all the staff, all
of the folks who work there doing the good work that needs to be done for the folks in
our community. So, I'm getting back on the ferry tomorrow. Hopefully, it's a safe
crossing and we're going to get, do a bunch of Christmas stuff and give away some
things. So, looking forward to go back to country living, even though 1 love the city.
And everybody have a good evening. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Johnson. Yes, we wish you safe travels.
And to you, my dear friends, as Member Molina said it so well, and he covered not only
our section, the Legislative Branch, OCS, OCC, OCA, all the EA's, everybody who
helps us, you know, accomplish our work. But it's also the Administration, too, that we
have to, you know, say thank you, because they, they do work very hard.
And especially Public Works, Highways, this past, this past week and a half. They
have been working overtime almost every day trying to clean up the streets for us. So,
I want a shout-out to them, and to the Emergency Management Division agency, and
everybody else who's been working really hard, trying to clean up after the storm, and
probably prepare for the next one.
So, again, everybody, stay safe. And we'll hopefully see most of you tomorrow at 4:30,
yeah, at the County building below where we park our cars. And our County Clerk is
going to be our DJ. And he's going to bring his boombox. And we're going to have
really hot music tomorrow, dancing music. So, invite the public to come and say hello
to all of us, and so we can see them, and wish everybody a Merry Christmas.
So, with that, Mr. Clerk, did I miss anything?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
December 17, 2021
Page 150
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, Chair, there's no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. This meeting of the Maui County Council of December 17, 2021 is
adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of December 17, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 3:54 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
211217/lks:]m
Count^^lerk
*
Jessica Rosado <jessicarosado@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, December 15, 2021 12:40 PM
County Clerk; Jadda Miller
Bill 135
From:
Sent: m\ DEC 15 PHI2*-^4
To:
Subject: THEOfFiCE r-
v»/r
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email fromJessicarosado@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council,
I am writing to you today to initiate my support for Bill 135.1 support Bill 135, for the reason
that sunscreen has many harmful ingredients such as Octisalate and Octinoxate. it's important that
we keep our coral and health safe. Our community's health impacts everyone, including the
government. In order to help ban non-reef-safe sunscreen, we must spread the word. Our health.
coral, and community are in danger. By banning the use of non-reef-safe sunscreen, we can change
many things that are negatively affecting and impacting our society, coral reefs, and health, this Bill
will do just that.
Mahalo for your time.
Jessica Rosado 7A, Kihei Charter
1
CountyCleHc
Scott Crawford <scott@aloha.net>
Friday, December 17, 2021 8:24 AM
Robin Rayner
County Clerk
Re: submitted for council meeting on Friday 12.17.2021, item J.1, NO 21-560
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
You don't often get email from scott@aloha.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha County Clerk's Office,
I just wanted to note that in the spreadsheet "Masterplan parcel groups Nov. 2021- county.xlsx" Sheet 1 is  avery
outdated version that should be ignored, only the updated sheet 2 needs to be provided to the Council members.
Mahalo,
Scott
On Dec 15, 2021, at 5:12 PM, <robin(5)hanahawaii.net> <robin@hanahawaii.net> wrote:
Please provide Council members with the written testimony attached here.
I also would like to testify at the meeting.
Mahalo,
Robin Rayner
808-248-4950
<Masterplan parcel groups Nov. 2021- county.xlsxxMokae & Makaalae Aquisition-November
2021_edited-7.]pgxletter to County Council 12.17.2021.docx>
<=3
OC3
O
Cj]
H
C=3
CO
Dni
Oo
rnm g?
awt: m
1
County Clerk
Bagshaw, Jeff W <jeff.w.bagshaw@hawaii.gov>
Wednesday, December 15, 2021 2:26 PM
county.clerk@mauicounty.legistar.com
County Clerk
Please find attached written testimony and supportive documents for Dec 17th 2021
Council meeting
testimony 17 Dec 2020.docx; Science of the Total Environment 647() 1305-1313 [2019]
cone tissue fish org UV filters wild fish.pdf; EST_UVF-Dolphins _es400675y 2013 -
Copy.pdf; Marine Pollution Bulletin 153() 111012 [2020] Cocci sunscreen ingred in
loggerhead turtles molecular markers.pdf; Avobenzone vs Oxybenzone comparison.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
IYou don't often get email fromjeff.w.bagshaw@hawaii.gov. Learn why this is important
Please submit my testimony for item 21-5567 for December 17‘^ 2021. Also find three supporting scientific publications
and a pdf I created to provide a basic explanation of how two of the chemical compounds in question work.
Mahalo
Jeff Bagshaw
Communications and Outreach Specialist
State of Hawaii
DLNR/DOFAW Maui Nui Branch
Jeff.w.bagshawOhawaii.gov 73v.y
cr?
m(808)264-7891c
(808)873-39860
r~57 n-Hrn-< Ln :ti
n ~n
●jm m
o\jj
1
No. 21-557
Aloha Mayor Victorino and Maui County Council members:
I urge you to not delay, alter or make amendments to Ordinance 5306 (Bill 135) banning the sale of
petrochemical sunscreen products in Maui County. We all remember the awful bleaching event of
September/October 2015 when average sea water temperatures held steady at 88 degrees F for eight
weeks. We lost an average of 30% of all our reefs across the state in just two months. Two or three
more such events and our reefs will be largely gone. Some areas fared better than others, some will
never look the same again. No one argues that our reefs face numerous problems, many we can't solve
in Hawaii alone. But delaying actions we can take now and here is like telling a heart patient to do
nothing to change their lifestyle because they have some genetic markers against them. We know
future bleaching events are coming, it's a matter of when, not if. And we know from past events that
reefs that are healthiest to begin with have better chances of some recovery. Preparing for the next
event begins today, not months from now.
I grew up in "tornado-alley." Ask people there today if they think it was wise for their local governments
to delay enacting stricter building codes because they thought they didn't have adequate data, that
stronger storms were coming and they didn't want to increase short-term building costs.
This isn't Just about reefs for pretty fish to see when snorkeling. Its also about our food resources, its a
matter of environmental justice.
Testing chemical toxicity in a lab setting is the only way to accurately assess effects on some marine
organisms. But for skeptics that doubt that time-tested method, here are three studies of data taken
from wild animals that show these compounds bioaccumulate, they move up the food chain and are
stored in the liver and other organs:
● A 2020 study published in the journal Elsevier showed four common sunscreen agents in blood
samples from juvenile Loggerhead sea turtles caught off the coast of Italy. Loggerheads eat
invertebrates. Humans in Hawai'i eat invertebrates such as crab, lobster, tako, and opihi.
● A 2018 study published in Elsevier showed several fish species form a freshwater lake in China
had high concentrations of these compounds in liver and gill tissues. Fish eat algae,
invertebrates and smaller fish. Humans in Hawai'i eat iimu, invertebrates and fish.
● A 2013 study published in Environmental Science and Technology showed that petrochemical
sunscreen compounds were present in liver samples from 70% of wild Francisana dolphins off
the coast of Brazil, showing that these compounds bioaccumulate through the food web.
Dolphin species everywhere eat fish. Humans in Hawai'i eat fish.
People who make the choice to not wear sun-protective clothing, who demand to recreate between
10AM and 2PM, who don't like the mineral sun-blocks and choose petrochemical sunscreens instead are
imposing their health choices on the rest of us, people who eat from the ocean in Hawai'i. Our society
chose to eliminate the effects of second-hand smoke by banning smoking in shared public spaces, in
many locations long before the FDA and Surgeon's General said there was data to do so.
The NAS is not a regulatory agency, it will only make recommendations to the EPA. We don't need to
wait because a dermatologist on Maui has a storeroom full of products being sold through his office and
on-line. Mineral sun-blocks cannot be patented, so they're not as profitable as lab-produced chemical
products. We already have generations of data from credible dermatologists that the most effective sun
protection remains clothing or mineral sun-blocks. Luckily, chemistry and biology work the same
whether its Brazil, Italy, China or Hawai'i. The beauty of science is that researchers elsewhere can give
us information, today.
The US Virgin Islands banned these products in 2019. They didn't wait for more and more reports. Bill
135/Ordinance 5306 corrects loopholes created by the weak state-wide ban of only two compounds.
Petrochemical sunscreen ingredients bioaccumulate. We don't know the long-term health impacts and
medical costs for people who eat from the ocean and accumulate these compounds in their tissues,
even if they never applied petrochemical sunscreens to their own skins. But just like mask-mandates,
we know enough to ere on the side of caution. So the question becomes why and who are we waiting
for, the people who sell these products, so they don't lose money in the short-term, or the people who
get their food from our island shores every day?
Mahalo,
Jeff Bagshaw
Volunteer Coordinator, Information and Education Associate
'Ahihi-Kina'u Natural Area Reserve (DLNR/DOFAW)
(808)264-7891 work-cell
ieff.w.baeshaw@Hawai'i .eov
Science of the Total Environment 647 (2019) 1305-1313
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Science . .
loJsj£n^gnmeni
Science of the Total Environment
3ift f■k
C- r V >journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/scitotenv
H)Concentrations and tissue-specific distributions of organic ultraviolet
absorbents in wild fish from a large subtropical lake in China
Zhenwu Tang Fuyong Zhong ^ Jiali Cheng ^ Zhiqiang Nie Xue Han ^ Yu Han Yufei Yang
Ch^ck for
up^M
d,*
* College of Life and Environmental Sciences, Minzu University o/Chtnfl.Bei/ing 100081, China
College of Environmental Science and Engineering, North C/iino E/ectric RjwerUniversiO', Beijing J02206, Chino
' Key Laboratory of Trace Element Nutrition of National Health and Family Planning CommissiorK National Institute for Nutrition and Health. Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention,
Beijing 100021. China
State Key Loborototy of Environmental Criteria and Risk Assessment. Chinese Reseaxh Academy of Environmental Sciences, Beijing 100012, China
GRAPHICAL ABSTRACTHIGHLIGHTS
♦ Accumulation ofl2 UVAs were investi
gated in freshwater fish from China.
♦ Tissue-specific UVA distribution was
discussed in wild fish.
● Field-based log BAF^uscie values were
lower than those predicted by model-
12 orgiinic U\' ubsorbenLs Lake( I
jd
350
i 3110
C 250
●m
mg. 200● High liver accumulation capacity of
UVAs was observed in fish. ec 150e ●● -100
50> itv
Masclc pais—ta^r...
ARTICLE INFO ABSTRACT
Organic ultraviolet absorbents (UVAs) have been detected in various materials and biota, but little is known
about the distributions of UVAs in the tissues of biota. In this study, tissue-specific UVA accumulation in six
fish species from Lake Chaohu, China, was investigated. The sums of 12 UVA concentrations in muscles, gills,
and livers were 7.65-120.10.1-281, and 26.4-359 ng/g dry weight, respectively. Ethyl hexyl methoxycinnamate,
4-methylbenzylidene-camphor, and 2-(2’-hydroxy-3'.5'-di-fert-but y!phenyl)-5-chlorobenzotriazole were the
dominant UVAs. Ethylhexyl salicylate and homosalate have been found in the aquatic species firstly. UVAs
were taken up to different degrees by different fish species. The UVA muscle bioconcentration factors were
lower than predicted by the Estimation Programs Interface Suite model, suggesting that such models may over
estimate UVA accumulation in fish. The tissue distribution patterns indicated that UVAs are easily transferred to
the muscles after being absorbed through the gills. The liver was found to preferentially accumulate UVAs and
have a high UVA accumulation capacity, implying liver damage may be caused by UVAs. This is the first time
the partitioning of UVAs between the liver, muscle, and gills of freshwater fish has been studied. The data ac
quired will improve our understanding of the pharmacokinetics and toxicides of UVAs in aquatic organisms.
® 2018 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Article history,'
Received2June2018
Received in revised form 8 August 2018
Accepted 8 August 2018
Available online 9 August 2018
Editor: Yolanda Pico
Keywords:
Organic ultraviolet absorbents
Bioconcentration
Tissue distribution
Fish
Lake
1. Introduction
* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: zwtang@>ncepuedu.cn (Z. Tang). niezq@Vraes.org.cn (Z. Nie),
cqyyf@163.com (Y.Yang).
Organic ultraviolet absorbents (UVAs) are used in personal care
products such as sunscreens and cosmetics to protect skin from the
https;//doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv2018.08.1l7
0048-9697/© 2018 Published by Elsevier B.V.
1306 Z Tang el al. / Science ofthe Total Environment 647 (2019) 1305-1313
harmful effects of sunlight (Pent et al.. 2010; Liao and Kannan, 2014;
Sharifan and Ma. 2017). UVAs are also added to products such as paints,
plastics, and textiles to prevent light-induced aging and degradation (Lu
et al., 2016). High UVA concentrations have been found in aquatic envi
ronments (Bratkovics et al.. 2015; Gago-Ferrero et al.. 2015; Huang
et al., 2016) because UVAs enter natural water directly when people
are involved in aquatic recreation and indirectly via wastewater. Some
UVAs are lipophilic, i.e., have high octanol-water partition coefficients
(KowS) (Peng et al., 2017). suggesting that they may accumulate in biota.
It has recently been found that UVAs can bioaccumulate in various
aquatic organisms. Benzophenone-3 (BP-3), octocrylene (OC).
ethylhexylmethoxycinnamate (EHMC), and octyidimethyl p-
aminobenzoic acid (OD-PABA) have been detected in marine organisms
such as cod, mussels, and shrimp from the coasts of France, Norway, and
Portugal (Bachelot et al.. 2012; Groz et al.. 2014; Ungford et al., 2015).
UVA components of sunscreen have also been detected in Franciscana
dolphin tissues (Gago-Ferrero et al.. 2013). EHMC, OC, BP-3, and 4-
methylbenzylidene-camphor (4-MBC) have been found in aquatic or
ganisms from lakes and rivers in Germany, Spain, and Switzerland
(Baimer et al.. 2005; Buseret al.. 2006; Fent etal., 2010; Gago-Ferrero
et al.. 2015; Wick et al., 2016). UVAs have also been found in clams, mul
let, and mussels from the Ebro River (Spain) and Tagus Delta (Portugal)
(Cunha et al., 2015). 4-MBC has been found frequently and at a high
mean concentration of 103 ng/g dry weight (dw) in seafood from the
European Union (Cunha et al., 2018). However, little information is
available on UVAs in biota outside Europe. UVAs have been found in
urban creek from Canada (Lu et al., 2016, 2017) and Guanabara Bay.
Brazil (Molins-Delgado et al., 2018). UVA accumulation in aquatic spe
cies in Asia has been investigated in only a few studies (Kim et al..
2011; Nakata et al., 2009,2012; Peng et al.. 2015,2017). To date, studies
of only a small number of UVAs in a small number of animal species
have been performed, so the data available are insufficient for us to un
derstand the global distributions of UVAs and the negative effects of
UVAs on ecosystems. >20 organic UVAs may be added to cosmetics in
China, and cosmetics may contain 4%-10% UVAs by weight (NHFPC,
2015). Little information on UVA accumulation in aquatic species in
China is available. UVAs have been found in marine organisms from
the South China Sea (Peng et al., 2015,2017; Sang and Leung. 2016).
However, to the best of our knowledge, no previous study has been fo
cused on UVA accumulation in freshwater organisms in natural aquatic
systems in China or on the potential risks posed by UVAs in natural
aquatic ecosystems.
The UVAs show different bioaccumulation potency in aquatic spe
cies. Bioconcentration factors (BCFs) of 67-1500 and 700-2300 have
been found for EHMC and 4-MBC. respectively (Baimer et al., 2005;
Fent et al., 2010; Lu et al.. 2016). Bioaccumulation factors of 10
have been found for 2-(2H-Benzotriazol-2-yl)-4,6-bis(l-
methyl-l-phenylethyl)phenol (UV-234), and different bioaccumulation
factors were found for different conditions and species (Lu et al., 2016).
Various factors such as the species, body size, lipid content, and sam
pling location may affect UVA bioaccumulation (Gago-Ferrero et al..
2015). The trophic level of a species may affect the UVA bioaccumula
tion factor under field conditions because of UVA biomagnification
(Fent et al., 2010; Peng et al., 2017). It has been confirmed in several
studies that UVA accumulation is compound- and species-specific (Lu
etal., 2016, 2017; Nakata et al.. 2009; Vidal-Linan et al.. 2018). Field-
based BCFs for UVAs are not available for Chinese aquatic species, espe
cially freshwater fish.
The distributions of UVAs in different tissues in an animal can pro
vide information about UVA metabolism and toxicity (Gago-Ferrero
et al.. 2012). After accumulating within the body, UVAs may enter the
blood, enterohepatic. and/or lymphatic circulation systems and be dis
tributed to various tissues (Lu et al., 2017). Endogenous partitioning
and elimination processes will be affected by many factors, such as the
metabolic potency of the target tissue, the exposure route, and the phys
icochemical properties of the target compound (Chen et al.. 2017;
4.01
6.7210
Tanoue et al., 2015). UVAs may be metabolized, excreted, or remain at
high concentrations in tissues. Some fish organs are of particular inter
est The gills are important because they are key entry points for xeno-
biotic compounds, the liver is of interest because of its role in
xenobiotic metabolism, and muscles are of interest because humans
can be negatively affected by consuming contaminated fish muscle tis
sues. UVA bioaccumulation has previously been found to be congener
specific (Gago-Ferrero et al., 2015; Lu et al., 2017; Molins-Delgado
et al., 2018). However, the selective bioaccumulation of UVAs in differ
ent organs and the tissue-specific distributions of UVAs remain poorly
understood.
In this study, we investigated the distributions of 12 commonly used
UVAs in six species of freshwater fish from Lake Chaohu, a large sub
tropical lake in China. To the best of our knowledge, UVAs in freshwater
fish from natural aquatic systems in China have not previously been
studied. This is the first time the partitioning of 12 UVAs between the
gills, liver, and muscle of wild fish has been quantitatively investigated.
2. Materials and methods
2.J. Study area and sample collection
Lake Chaohu is the fifth largest freshwater lake in China, and has a
surface area of -760 km^ and a capacity of between 1.72 x 10^ and
3.23 X 10® m^ Lake Chaohu is on the flood plain between the Yangtze
River and the Huaihe River in the center of Anhui Province in eastern
China. A total of 54 species of fish from 16 families (significantly fewer
than the historical record of 90 fish species) were found in Lake Chaohu
in a survey conducted between 2002 and 2004 (Guo, 2005), It was esti
mated from the results of a survey performed between 2007 and 2010
that 14 X 10^-14.5 x 10^ t of fish biomass is produced in the lake each
year (Zhao and Xi. 2015). More than 9.1 x 10® people live in the Lake
Chaohu Basin, which is rapidly developing economically and contains
many important industrial plants, including chemical, plastic, and tex
tile plants. Lake Chaohu suffers from serious pollution (Wang et al.,
2013; Yang et a!., 2012). The polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE)
concentration (mean (sum of eight PBDE) 43 ng/L and mean
decabromodiphenyl ether concentration 42 ng/L) and
tetrabromobisphenol A concentrations (maximum 4.87 pg/L) in water
in Lake Chaohu have been found to be at the high end of concentrations
found in aquatic environments around the world and are likely to pose
great ecological risks to aquatic organisms in Lake Chaohu (Wang et al..
2013; Yang etal., 2012).
We collected samples of six fish species with large biomass yields
from Lake Chaohu and determined the UVA concentrations in the sam
ples. The fish species that were collected were bighead carp (Arisric/ir/iys
nobi7is), black carp (Mylopharyngodon piceus), common carp (Cyprinus
carpio), grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idellus), silver carp
(Hypophthalmichtliys molitrix), and snakehead (Ophiocephalus argus
Cantor). The fish samples were collected from the center of the western
half of Lake Chaohu in September 2016. The length and weight of each
fish was determined, then the fish was wrapped in aluminum foil and fro
zen before being transported to the laboratory. In the laboratory, the fish
were allowed to thaw naturally, then each fish was carefully skinned with
a stainless-steel scalpel. The gills were removed, rinsed three times with
Milli-Q water, then dried with filter paper. The gills, livers, and muscle tis
sues from 2 to 3 individuals were separately pooled to provide composite
single-tissue samples for each species, to provide sufficient of each tissue
for analysis. The numbers of composite samples produced are shown in
Table 1. Each sample was freeze-dried, ground, homogenized, and then
stored at —20 °C until further analysis was performed.
22. Sample preparation and instrumental analysis
A total of 12 UVAs was analyzed. The selected UVAs are permitted to
be used in China by the NHFPC (2015) and have previously been found
1307Z TangetaL/Science ofthe Total Environment 647 (2019) 1305-1313
Table t
Frequencies of detection, concentration ranges (means ± standard deviation} oforganic ultraviolet absorbents (ng/gdty weight) in muscle of wild fish from LakeChaoha
Detection frequency in all speciesBighead carp
n = 8
Snakehead
n = 8
Grass carp
n = 6
Silver carp
n = 8
Black carp
n = 8
Common carp
n = 5
35.2-48.5
804-2400
32.4-35.2
808-970
Body length (cm)
Body weight (g)
Lipid content (%)
46.0-49.0
1251-1380
34.1-37.4
875-1090
57.0-68.0
2562-5450
24.6-38.2
321-1528
7.60 9.208.4018.0 10.8 14.0
<1.23
1.14-8.87
(4.10 ±4.99)
0.98-2.97
(1.67 ±0.94)
0.37-3.19
(1.94 ±0.15)
3.04-16.2
(9.41 ±4.45)
<0.08-0.77
(0.34 ± 0.55)
<0.14-3.85
(0.75 ± 0.47)
<0.17
1.38-13.8
(6.23 ± 8.54)
1.37-13.0
(3.57 ± 0.37)
4.07-13.7
(8.43 ±3.19)
<0.23-4.01
(1.61 ±2.30)
24.3-52.0
(38.0 ± 19.6)
<1.23
<0.46-1.24
(0.46 ± 0.23)
1.09-2.04
(1.69 ±0.25)
<0.25-100
(19.6± 11.3)
0.95-3.77
(2.39 ± 1.20)
<0.08-12.2
(2.18 ±2.62)
<0.14-14.8
(2.54 ± 10.4)
<0.17
<0.10-14.6
(2.87 ± 9.74)
0.75-2.05
(1.22 ±0.34)
<0.73-2.93
(1.25 ± 1.51)
2.62-5.14
(3.75 ± 1.45)
7.78-120
(38.0 ± 19.6)
0BP <1.23
<0.46-2.85
(0.49 ±0.10)
0.84-2.68
(1.43 ±0.65)
<0.25-7.12
(2.96 ± 5.03)
<0.09-4.96
(2.23 ±3.51)
<0.08-3.12
(2.01 ± 2.05)
<0.14-41.2
(18.0 ±29.2)
<0.17
0.69-12.1
(535 ± 1.32)
6-15.86
(5.38 ±0.76)
0.73-3.84
(1.04 ±0.83)
<0.23-10.43
(4.78 ±0.11)
13.8-59.3
(43.7 ± 30.7)
<1.23
<0.46-4.00
(1.97 ±0.01)
1.46-3.70
(2.41 ± 0.57)
<0.25
<1.23
<0.46-2.60
(0.86 ± 0.59)
1.06-11.0
(2.55 ±0.31)
<0.25-1.63
(0.64 ±0.67)
0.54-6.83
(2.13 ± 0.94)
<0.08-0.97
(0.22 ± 0.59)
<0.14-9.94
(1.60±0.21)
<0.17
<0.10-3.76
(1.48 ± 5.51)
0.67-0.78
(0.73 ± 0.02)
<0.73-2.88
(1.95 ±2.08)
1.93-4.20
(3.07 ±0.10)
7.65-24.8
(15.2 ±7.15)
<1.23
<0.46 58%EHS
HMS 95%<0.13-1.04
(0.56 ± 0.74)
<0.25 53%BP-3
91%4-MBC 1.10-10.8
(4.08 ±1.53)
<0.08-0.13
(<0.08)
<0.14-4.14
(0.98 ± 0.56)
<0.17
<0.10-2.15
(0.93 ±0.13)
0.78-2.73
(1.49 ±0.56)
<0.73-8.95
(2.54 ± 1.50)
1.08-3.03
(2.16 ±0.31)
11.3-26.6
(16.6±2.01)
<0.09-1.55
(0.70 ± 0.76)
<0.08-4.12
(1.38 ±0.08)
<0.14-38.4
(10.2 ±27.2)
<0.17
<0.10-2.39
(1.35 ±0.56)
<0.19
OD-PABA 231%
EHMC 53%
UV-320
UV-326
0
79%
UV-329 88%
OC <0.73-5.27
(2.50 ± 2.05)
1.43-4.52
(2.82 ± 1.38)
8.66-50.7
(19.5 ± 29.7)
70%
UV-327 91%
2,2 UVAs
Concentration of individual chemical less than method detection limit was calculated using 0 when calculating the 2,2 UVAs, mean, standard deviation, respectively.
in environmental media in China. The selected UVAs had log Ko^s of
3.15-6.91 {Table SI). The selected UVAs can interact with hormone re
ceptors and therefore have hormonal activities. Information on the 12
UVAs is presented in Table SI. The standards and other materials are de
scribed in the Supplementary Data. Each gill, liver, or muscle sample
was extracted by ultrasonicating it with a 1:1 v/v mixture of acetone
and n-hexane. The UVA concentrations in the extracts were determined
using an Agilent 7890 gas chromatograph coupled to an Agilent 5975
mass spectrometer (AgilentTechnologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA). The ex
traction and analysis methods are described in detail in the Supplemen
tary data.
2.4. Data analysis
The BCF (L/kg) for a UVA was calculated using the equation BCFmuscio
= Cmuscie/Cwaier. whcte Cmuscie is the Concentration (in ng/kg wet
weight) in fish muscle and C
water from Lake Chaohu. The UVA concentrations are shown in Fig. SI
in the Supplementary data. The mean concentration of each UVA in
lake water was used. Each concentration in fish muscle below the LOD
was replaced with 0.5 x LOD when calculating the BCF, although this
could have caused bias in the BCF. The log BCF values for the UVAs
were predicted using the Estimation Programs Interface Suite (V4.11)
(USEPA, 2017).
Preferential accumulation of UVAs in the gills was assessed by divid
ing the total UVA concentration in the gills by the total UVA concentra
tion in the gills and muscle tissue. A ratio of 0.5 indicated that no
preferential accumulation occurred, and a higher or lower ratio indi
cated preferential accumulation in the gills or muscle, respectively
(Voorspoels et al., 2003). Comparable methods were used to assess
preferential accumulation in the liver and muscle. Each UVA concentra
tion below the LOD was replaced with 0.5 x LOD in the preferential ac
cumulation calculations.
The data were processed using SPSS 18.0 software (SPSS, Chicago, IL,
USA). Groups were compared using a nonparametric test because the
data did not consistently follow normal distributions. Correlation hy
potheses were tested using two-tailed Pearson's correlation analyses.
Differences were considered significant at p < 0.05.
(ng/L) is the mean concentration inwater
23. Quality assurance/quality control
Each target compound was identified if the ion abundance ratio of
a peak at the correct retention time in a sample chromatogram
matched the ion abundance ratio of the relevant peak in the standard
chromatograms. The UVA concentrations were determined using an
internal standard method. The linearity for each UVA over the
concentration range 10-400 pg/L was investigated by analyzing rep
licate standards at seven different concentrations in the concentra
tion range tested. The reproducibility of the method and the
relative recoveries of the analytes were determined by analyzing
five fish muscle samples that had been spiked with the target com
pounds at two levels, respectively. The recoveries were 71.2%-108%
and the relative standard deviations were <8.25%. The limit of detec
tion (LOD) was defined as the concentration giving a signal-to-noise
ratio of 3. The UVA LODs were 0.08-1.23 ng/g dw. The quality assur
ance/control parameters for each UVA are shown in Table S2 in the
Supplementary Data. A procedural blank extract and an extract of a
sample spiked with UVA standards were injected after every 8-10
samples to assess contamination during the sample preparation pro
cess and to monitor the instrument performance, respectively. All
analyses were performed in duplicate. The analyte concentrations
were not corrected for the recoveries.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. UVAs in muscle
The UVA distributions and concentrations in the wild fish samples
are shown in Table 1 and Fig. S2. Benzophenone (BP) was not detected
out in any of the fish muscle samples even though BP has previously
been found at high concentrations in water and sediment from Lake
1308 Z. Tang et al./Science ofIhe Total Environment 647 (2019) 1305-1313
Chaohu (Han. 2018). BP has a relatively low log Kow of 3.15, and may be
metabolized easily (Jeon et ai.. 2008). The 2-(2'-hydroxy-3'.5'-di-rerf-
butylphenyl)benzotriazole (UV-320) concentrations in the muscle tis
sues were <LOD. UV-320 was also not detected in mussel samples
from the Chinese coast (Nakata et al.. 2012). In previous studies, UV-
320 was not detected in many Chinese industrial products such as plas
tics and textiles (Wang et al., 2015,2016). suggesting that UV-320 is not
widely used in China. The most frequently detected UVAs were
homosalate (HMS). 4-MBC, and 2-(2'-hydroxy-3',5'-di-fert-
butylphenyl)-5-chlorobenzotriazo!e (UV-327), and the next most fre
quently detected UVAs were octrizole (UV-329). bumetrizole (UV-
326), and OC. indicating that these UVAs are found widely in wild fish
in Lake Chaohu. The most frequently detected UVAs in freshwater and
marine organisms in previous studies were BP-3, 4-MBC, EHMC, and
benzotriazole UV stabilizers (BZT-UVAs) (Alonso et al., 2015; Bachelot
et al.. 2012; Balmer et al., 2005; Buser et al., 2006; Langford et al.,
2015; Nakata et al.. 2009).
The total concentrations of 10 UVAs (IioUVAs) in the six fish species
samples were 7.65-120 ng/gdw. As shown in Fig. 1, the EHMC, 4-MBC,
and OC concentrations were relatively high and contributed, on average,
19.8%, 13.1%, and 11.5%, respectively, of the SioUVA concentration. The
BP-3, 4-MBC. EHMC, and OC concentrations were comparable to con
centrations previously found in freshwater fish from the Llobregat,
Ebro, and Jucar rivers in Spain but lower than found in fish from the
Guadalquivir River Basin, also in Spain (Gago-Ferrero et al., 2015).
Langford et al. (2015) found BP-3, EHMC, and OC at concentrations of
6.5, 36, and 2.1 ng/g wet weight, respectively, in perch from Lake
MJosa, Norway. The EHMC and OC concentrations in fish from Lake
Chaohu were 3-13 times higher than concentrations found in fish
from Swiss lakes but lower than concentrations found in fish from
Swiss rivers (Balmer et al., 2005: Buser et al., 2006). The BP-3,4-MBC,
EHMC, and OC concentrations in fish from Lake Chaohu were compara
ble to concentrations found in Mugil liza from Guanabara Bay, Brazil, but
higher than concentrations found in wild biota from the Pearl River Es
tuary and from the Hong Kong coast (Molins-Delgado et al., 2018; Peng
et al., 2017; Sang and Leung, 2016). OD-PABA has been detected in
many organisms from the Brazilian coast but not in wild mussels from
the Pearl River Estuary, the French coast, or Guanabara Bay (Bachelot
et al.. 2012; Molins-Delgado et al., 2018; Peng et al., 2017). The OD-
PABA concentrations in many of our samples were < LOD. Little informa
tion is available on ethylhexyl salicylate (EHS) and HMS concentrations
in wild organisms. We detected EHS and HMS in 58% and 95%, respec
tively, of the total fish samples but at concentrations in the low nano
grams per gram dw.
The dominant BZT-UVA was UV-327, which contributed 4.24%-
20.1% of the SioUVA concentrations in the six fish species. BZT-UVAs
have previously been detected in many aquatic species from other
parts of the worid. The UV-326, UV-327. and UV-329 concentrations
were all <LOD in fish from Lake Mjosa, Norway, and from an urban
creek in Canada (Langford et al.. 2015; Lu et al., 2016). Consistent with
our results, UV-326, UV-327, and UV-329 concentrations of <LOD-71,
<LOS-221, and <LOD-97 ng/g lipid weight, respectively, were found in
wild fish from Manila Bay (Kim et al.. 2011). UV-326 and UV-327 con
centrations of <LOD-5.6 and <LOD-9.6 ng/g wet weight, respectively,
have been found in various species from the Ariake Sea, japan, and com
parable concentrations have been found in biota from the Pearl River Es
tuary. and these concentrations were generally lower than the
concentrations in the fish samples we analyzed (Nakata et al.. 2009;
Peng et al.. 2017). UVA concentrations may be different in different
aquatic organisms because of different UVA use patterns and back
ground BZT-UVA contamination levels being different in different envi
ronments but may also be related to compound- and species-specific
differences in UVA bioaccumulation (Lu et al., 2016, 2017; Kim et al.,
2011; Nakata etal., 2009).
Independent-sample statistical tests (Kruskal-Wallis H tests) indi
cated that the SioUVA concentrations in the sb( fish species were signif
icantly different (p < 0.01), suggesting that the different fish species
accumulate UVAs to different degrees. Snakehead and black carp had
the highest and lowest XioUVA concentrations, respectively. This may
be because different species have different habitats and feeding habits.
Peng et al. (2017) found significantly higher BP-3 and 2-(2H-
benzotriazol-2-yl)-4.6-bis(l-methyI-l-phenylethyl)phenol concentra
tions in detritus-feeding fish than in carnivorous and planktivorous
fish from the South China Sea. Gago-Ferrero et al. (2015) also found dif
ferent UVA concentrations in fish species with different dietary and
stratum preferences. Fent et ai. (2010) found a trend in EHMC
biomagnification for selected predator-prey relationships. In another
study, UV-329 and octocrylene were found to biomagnify through the
marine food web (Peng etal., 2017). The highest EHMC concentration
in our samples was in snakehead, which is carnivorous. However, only
the BP-3 concentrations in our samples significantly correlated (p =
0.014) with the 6’^N %o values (indicating the trophic level) found in a
previous study (Zhong, 2018). It is therefore unclear whether
biomagnification contributed to the differences in the UVA concentra
tions in the muscle samples.
No significant correlations were found between the UVA concentra
tions in the fish samples and the lipid contents of the fish samples. The
fish size (body weight and length) was not related to the UVA concen
tration. Similar results have been found for other fish species from the
Pearl River Estuary and Iberian River Basins (Gago-Ferrero et al., 2015:
Peng et al., 2017). The 4-MBC. OC, and EHS concentrations positively
correlated with each other (p < 0.05), indicating these UVAs had similar
accumulation patterns or similar sources (commercial and/or industrial
products). No significant relationships were found between the other
BZT-UVA concentrations except for the UV-326 and UV-329 concentra
tions in the fish samples. In contrast, the concentrations of several BZT-
UVAs in organisms from the Ariake Sea and Manila Bay significantly
180
n (X EHMC'
OD-P.\B.' 4MBC BP-.4 HMSI EHS
A. In gills
■3
X'
160^
liil20-
LI0
0
iTinc●3
lOO-SIJ
B. In livers
150
EHMC200-
HMS
250-
Fig. I.Total concentrations of UVAs in gills (A) and livers (B) of the investigated fish from
LakeChaoha
1309Z. ronget ol./5dence ofthe Total Environment 647 f20I9^ 1305-1313
low BP-3 and OD-PABA concentrations in mussels, and they found max
imum concentrations 1-2 d after exposure and that the concentrations
then decreased. This accumulation pattern indicates that BP-3 and OD-
PABA can be biotransformed in mussels. Most UVAs are very lipophilic,
so they will be absorbed by the excreta in fish. The apparent bioavail
abilities of UVAs may therefore be low, and they may not bioaccumulate
in fish as much as theoretically expected (Kaiser et al., 2012).
The characteristics of ambient water (e.g., the pH and dissolved or
ganic matter concentration) may also have contributed to the differ
ences between the measured and predicted BCFmuscie values. BZT-
UVAs are very weak acids with pKa values of 7-10, so their uptake and
bioconcentration potentials will increase as the pH increases (Tanoue
et al., 2015). The dissolved organic matter concentration was found to
affect OD-PABA bioconcentration in crucian carp (Ma et al.. 2017). Dif
ferent mean log BCF values were found for different UVAs (Table 2),
and this may be related to different UVAs having different uptake and
biotransformation rates and/or the UVA concentrations in the water
phase and organism phase not being in equilibrium (Tanoue et al..
2015).
correlated (Kimet al.,2011: Nakataet al., 2009). UVAs may have differ
ent excretion rates, uptake rates, and metabolism in different fish spe
cies, and these may all contribute to there being different UVA
distributions in different fish species. No correlations were found be
tween the UVA concentrations and the log /Cow values for the UVAs.
These results suggest that UVA bioaccumulation and elimination may
be both compound- and species-specific.
32. BCFs
Muscle BCFs (BCF,n„scie) were calculated to allow the abilities of the
fish to take up UVAs to be assessed, and the results are shown in Table 2.
There were significant interspecies differences (p < 0.05) in the log
values for the target UVAs except for OD-PABA, EHMC, and
UV327. However, no relationships were found between the UVA log
BCFmuscie values and the body weights and lengths. UV-327 had the
highest mean log BCFmuscie value, UV-326 the next highest, and 4-MBC
the next. UVA BCFmuscie values have been determined under field condi
tions in few studies. 4-MBC was found to have log BCFs of 3.99-4.36 in
fish from Swiss lakes (Balmer et al., 2005). UV-327 and UV-320 were
found to have log BCFs of -3.78 and -4.52, respectively, in finless por
poises from the Ariake Sea (Nakata et al., 2010). Pent et al. (2010)
found log BCFmuscie values of 2.12-3.18 (mean 2.88) for EHMC in fresh
water fish. The different log BCFmuscie values we found may have been
caused by interspecies differences in UVA uptake, elimination, and me
tabolism. Temporal variations in UVA concentrations and variations in
UVA bioavailability in water also probably contributed to the different
log BCFmuscie values.
No significant relationships were found between the UVA log
BCFmuscie values and log Kqw values. Significant parabolic relationships
were found in some previous studies between log BCF and log K,
values for chemicals with high log Kow values, such as polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCBs) (log Kow 4.7-8.S), short-chain chlorinated paraffins
(log /Cow 5.1-6.6). and BZT-UVAs (log /Cow 5.3-12.2) (Zhu et al., 2015;
Lu et al., 2016; Sun et al.. 2017). This was attributed to the poor bioavail
abilities of such hydrophobic chemicals (Buckman et al., 2006; Kelly
et al.. 2011; Lu et al.. 2016). The lack of a relationship between log
BCFmuscie 3nd log /Cow fot the UVAs in our study indicated that UVA up
take and elimination in fish are affected by many factors in addition to
the log /Cow values. These results indicate that selective bioaccumulation
of UVAs cannot be predicted from the UVA log /Cow values.
We compared the measured log BCFmuscie values with log BCFmuscie
values calculated using the Estimation Programs Interface Suite
(V4.11). As shown in Table 2, the measured log BCFmuscie values were
generally lower than the predicted values except for UV-326. Lower
measured BCFs than calculated BCFs have previously been found for
OD-PABA. BP-3, and OC (Bluthgen et al.. 2012, 2014; Ma et al.. 2017).
This may be because these chemicals can be metabolized by fish. For ex
ample, BP-3 can be transformed into benzophenone-1 by adult
zebrafish (Bluthgen et al.. 2012). Vidal-Linan et al. (2018) found very
BCFmuscle
ow
33. Distributions in gills
The UVA concentrations in the gills of the six fish species were deter
mined (Fig. 1(A)). BP and UV-320 were not detected in the gill samples.
The SioUVA concentrations in the gill samples were 12.5-166 ng/g dw
(mean 43.0 ng/g dw). EHMC, UV-329, and HMS made the largest contri
butions to the XioUVA concentrations. However, BP-3 and EHS were the
dominant UVAs in snakehead and bighead carp, respectively. The gills
are some of the most exposed organs of a fish to pollutants in the envi
ronment. and are in continuous contact with the water. Xenobiotic com
pounds in the water are taken up through the gills and can accumulate
in the gill tissue. UVA concentrations in fish gills have been little studied.
The BP-3, OC, 4-MBC, and EHMC concentrations found in the gills of
Mugil liza in a previous study (Molins-Delgado et al., 2018) were com
parable to the concentrations found in our samples.
No relationships were found between the UVA concentrations in the
gill samples and the body weights and lengths of the fish or the lipid
contents of the gill samples, and no significant relationships were
found between the UVA concentrations in the gill samples and the
UVA log/Cow values. BCFmuscie values under field conditions are normally
controlled by uptake from both the diet and through the gills
(Kobayashi et al., 2013). In a previous study, wild fish in streams were
found to take up and eliminate pharmaceutical and personal care prod
ucts predominantly through the gill membranes, ft was proposed that
uptake and elimination through the gills contributed more to the
BCFpiasma valucs than did dietary exposure (Tanoue et al.. 2015). We ex
plored the relationships between the UVA concentrations in the gill
samples and the log BCFmuscie values. The concentrations of 10 UVAs
in the gill samples (on a dw or lipid weight basis) increased as the log
BCFmuscie values decreased, but none of the correlations were
Table 2
The log values of observed and predicted bioconcentration factors (BCFs. L/kg) of organic ultraviolet absorbents in wild fish from Lake Chaohu.
Mean of observed values Predicted valuesBighead carp
n = 8
Black carp
n = 8
Snakehead
n = 8
Grass carp
n = 6
Silver carp
n = 8
Common carp
n = 5
1.18BP
3.611.77 ± 0.36
1.21 ±0.19
0,96 ± 0.36
3.13 ±0.26
2.29 ± 0.38
0.66 ± 0.60
1.50 ± 0.33
1.38 ± 0.15
0.17 ± 0,00
2.72 ± 0.33
1.78 ± 0.07
0.89 ± 0.55
0.92 ± 0.28
1.24 ±0.10
1.11 ± 1.11
2.56 ±0.19
2,35 ± 0.95
0.78 ± 0.84
1.21EHS 1.13 ±034
1.25 ± 0.34
0.51 ± 0.36
2.39 ± 0.37
1.99 ±0.44
0.87 ± 0,64
0.98 0.98 ±035
1.13 ± 0.22
0.92 ± 0.70
2.27 ± 0.71
2.95 ± 0,61
1,92 ± 1.03
3.731.14HMS 0.65 ± 0.47
1.580.64BP-3 0.17
2.48 3.574-MBC
OD-PABA
EHMC
UV-320
UV-326
UV-329
1.83 ±0,61
2.40 ± 0.89
1.45 ±1.10
3.472.29
3.691.09
3.58
3.12 3.113.69 ± 0.40
232 ± 037
2.10 ± 0.19
2.71 ± 0.63
2.86 ± 0.43
2.08 ± 0.21
1.46 ±0.41
3.09 ±0.14
3.06 ± 0.65
2.02 ± 0.15
1.24 ±033
333 ± 0.13
2.52 ± 0.79
1.82 ± 0.02
1.26 ±0.65
3.25 ± 0.11
3.01 ± 0.55 3.60 ±0.43
2,42 ± 0.54
1.21 ±033
3.24 ±0.56
1.98 3.771.23
4.211.46OC 1.51 ±0.42
3.19 ±0.21 4.013.13UV-327
1310 Z Tang et aL/Science ofthe Total Environment 647 (2019) /30S-J3 J3
statistically significant. This suggested that UVA uptake through the gills
affected UVA accumulation in fish muscle.
It is generally more difficult for large molecules than small molecules
to cross a membrane, so the accumulation of large molecules in gills will
be limited (Kierkegaard et al.. 1999). However, we did not find a signif
icant relationship between UVA accumulation in gills and UVA molecu
lar weight. This suggested that the UVA molecular weight is not related
to the ability of the UVA to cross membranes. In previous studies of the
permeabilities of lipid bilayers to small molecules it was found that the
abilities of many drugs to cross membranes are not related to the molec
ular weights of the drugs (Bemporad et al.. 2004; Orsi et al., 2009).
The gill accumulation ratios for seven UVAs (excluding UVAs found
in few gill samples) were determined from the UVA concentrations in
the gill and muscle samples. The mean gill accumulation ratios for the
seven chemicals in the six fish species that were studied were
0.357-0.602. As shown in Fig. 2, slight preferential gill storage of a
small number of chemicals was found, implying that UVAs tend to be
transferred to fish muscle tissues after being absorbed through the
gills. Significant negative correlations (p < 0.05) were found between
the gill accumulation ratios and field-based and wet-weight-based log
BCFs for seven UVAs (Fig. 2), indicating that intake through the gills
and subsequent transfer to other tissues are important contributors to
UVA accumulation in muscle tissue. The ratios for the different UVAs
varied widely, suggesting that different UVAs are taken up at different
rates by fish and that UVAs are accumulated to different degrees by dif
ferent fish tissues.
The total UVA concentrations in the livers from the six different fish
species were significantly different (p < 0.05). The highest UVA concen
trations were found in bighead carp livers and the next highest in
snakehead livers. The differences will have reflected differences in
UVA accumulation and elimination in the livers of different species.
UVA distributions in different tissues from each of the six fish species
were assessed. The total UVA concentrations in the different snakehead
tissues were not significantly different (p = 0.17). The total UVA con
centrations in the different tissues were different for the other species.
The UVA concentrations decreased in the order gill > liver > muscle for
bighead carp (p = 0.008) and liver > muscle > gill for black carp (p =
0.004), common carp (p = 0.013), grass carp (p = 0.013), and silver
carp (p = 0.006). The differences were probably related to the
snakehead. bighead carp, and other fish species being exposed to differ
ent UVA concentrations and interspecies variability in UVA elimination
and biotransformation. Brominated flame retardants, organochlorine
chemicals, short-chain chlorinated paraffins, and BZT-UVAs have been
found to preferentially accumulate in the liver relative to muscle in
many marine and terrestrial organisms, including fish, in previous stud
ies (Bodiguel et al., 2009; Brazova et al.. 2012; Lu et al.. 2017; Sun et al..
2017; Wu et al., 2009). This is probably related to the strong affinity of
the phase-I biotransformation enzyme cytochrome P450 for such li
pophilic compounds (Lu et al.. 2017; Sun et a!.. 2017; Wu et al.,
2009). The xenobiotic contaminant OD-PABA has been found to in
duce cytochrome P-450 activity in Carossius auratus (Lu et al.,
2017), but other enzymes, such as esterases, can also modify UVAs
(Liang et al., 2017). Differences in detoxifying activities in the liver
could therefore cause some UVAs (the less easily detoxified UVAs)
to accumulate more than other UVAs (the more easily detoxified
UVAs) in the liver.
No significant positive correlations were found between the UVA
concentrations in the liver samples and the fish body weights and
lengths (p > 0.05). The UVA concentrations in the liver samples in
creased as the UVA log /Cow values increased, although the correlation
was not statistically significant (r = 0.515). Lipophilic compounds
have been found to accumulate in liver in many previous studies (Lu
et al., 2017; Sun et al., 2017; Wu et al., 2009). In our samples the lipid
contents of the liver samples (means 16.8%-30.4%) were significantly
higher than the lipid contents of the muscle samples (means 7.60%-
18.1 %). The relatively high lipid content of the liver may favor lipophilic
UVAs being deposited in the liver, decreasing the abilities of the UVAs to
cross the liver membranes and be released from the liver (Tanoue et al.,
2015). UVAs may also be transported to the liver, which is a xenobiotic-
metabolizing organ, and be metabolized in the liver before being able to
be transported to other tissues. It is important to note that UVA accumu
lation in the liver will be a complex process. For example, BZT-UVAs
may bind to serum albumin through hydrogen bonds or electrostatic in
teractions. suggesting that there may be special bioaccumulation mech
anisms in hepatic tissues in addition to hydrophobicity-driven
partitioning (Zhuang et al., 2016). A significant positive linear correla
tion (p = 0.014) was found between the total UVA concentrations in
the liver samples and the 6’®N %„ values for the fish (Fig. S3), suggesting
that the trophic level of an organism may affect the UVA concentration
in the liver.
Preferential accumulation ratios were calculated for eight of the
UVAs (Fig. 3). Preferential accumulation ratios were not calculated for
BP and UV-320 because they were detected in few liver and muscle
samples. The preferential accumulation ratios of the eight UVAs were
0.414-0.896, indicating that the UVAs were preferentially stored in
the liver. The different ratios for different UVAs indicated that different
UVAs are accumulated to different degrees in the liver. No significant
correlation was found between the log /Cow values and the preferential
accumulation ratios, implying that UVA accumulation in the liver is
governed by active hepatic accumulation processes in addition to pas
sive redistribution governed by the lipid contents of the tissues
(Voorspoels et al., 2003).
3.4. Accumulation in liver
UV-320 was not detected out in any of the liver samples, and BP was
detected in only snakehead liver. The total UVA concentrations and con
centration profiles are shown in Fig. 1(B). The most abundant UVAs
were 4-MBC, HMS, and UV-327. UVA concentrations in wild fish liver
have been determined in few previous studies. BP-3, EHMC, and OC
were found at concentrations of <20-1037, <30-36.9, and
<20-11,875 ng/gdw, respectively, in cod livers (Langford etal., 2015).
Those concentrations were higher than the concentrations in our sam
ples. UVA concentrations previously found in Mugil liza livers (Molins-
Delgado et al.. 2018) were also higher than the concentrations found
in our samples. However, the UV-327 and UV-329 concentrations in
our samples were comparable to concentrations found in livers from
fish from an urban creek in Canada (Lu et al., 2016).
l.(H)
.V - -0.0952.V ● 0.6922
R- = 0.12. P=0.0160.80
i
0.60
0.40
0.20
0.00
0.00 1.00 2.00 .3.00 4.00
I.og ncFs
Fig. 2. Relationship of UVA accumulation ratios in fish gills versus logarithm of muscle
bioconcentration factors (BCFs) field based wet-weight. The other UVAs were not
included in the fitted line due to their lower detection frequencies in gills or muscles of
the investigated fish.
13112. Tang el aL / Science ofthe Total Environment 647 (2019) 1305-1313
BCFfnuscie values were generally lower than predicted using a model,
suggesting the toxicological risks posed by UVAs to wild fish may be
overestimated in risk assessments based only on model predictions. He
patic sequestration of UVAs was found, and the accumulation capacity
of the liver for UVAs was found to be similar to the accumulation capac
ities of the liver previously found for PAHs, PCBs, and PBDEs. The toxic
effects that could be caused by UVAs retained in the liver should be of
great concern. Our results indicate that determining UVA concentra
tions in target organs provides information that may improve our un
derstanding of UVA uptake, accumulation, and elimination in wild fish
and the risks posed by UVAs to wild fish. Future studies focused on
UVA hepatotoxicities and biotransformation will further improve our
understanding of the risks posed by UVAs to organisms.
1.2-
a aa aa aKM
(j
1,
0.8-^ e
1 n
u□ □
□0.5
0.4-
TV
0.0
Acknowledgments
BPs BTAs Others PAHs PCBs PBDEs This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foun
dation of China (grant no. 41571445). We thank Prof. Chuanyong Qi of
Hefei Agricultural Economic and Technical Supervision and Manage
ment Station for help collecting samples.
Fig. 3. Liver accumulation ratios of different chemicals observed in wild fish. BPs only
refers to BP-3; BTAs including UV-326, UV-27 and UV-329; Others including EHS, HMS,
4-MBC. OD-PABA. EHMC and OC; PAHs including fluorine, pyrene, anthracene, chrysene
and phenanthrene. and the data from references (Sol^et al„ 2001; Xu et at. 2011; Zhao
et al„ 2014); PCBs including PCB52, 101,138, 153 and PCB 180, and the data from
references (Bodiguel et al.. 2009; Brazova et al.. 2012; Xian et al., 2008); PBDEs
including PBDE99,100,153,154 and PBDE183, and the data from references (Carlsson
etal., 2011; Wu etal, 2009; Xian et al„ 2008). Boxplots are defined as follows: center
line, median; hollow block, mean; boxplot edges, 25th and 75th percentiles: whiskers,
10th and 90th percentiles of distribution.
Appendix A. Supplementary data
Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.08.117.
References
A better understanding of the accumulation of UVAs in fish livers
was gained by comparing the preferential accumulation ratios with
preferential accumulation ratios previously found for polycyclic aro
matic hydrocarbons (PAHs), PBDEs. and PCBs in other parts of the
world (Fig. 3). It was difficult to make comparisons because different
aquatic species were used in different studies, so simple comparisons
were made where possible using fish species with similar habitats, feed
ing habits, and trophic levels. The BP-3, BZT-UVA, and other UVA prefer
ential accumulation ratios were not significantly different from the PAH,
PCB, and PBDE preferential accumulation ratios (p  >0.05), suggesting
that the liver may have similar UVA accumulation capacities and PAH,
PCB, and PBDE accumulation capacities, although our data were limited.
As mentioned in other publications, hepatic sequestration is an impor
tant pharmacokinetic property when quantifying the toxic equivalen
cies of chemicals (Van den Berg etal., 1998).
The liver accumulation ratios significantly and negatively correlated
with the log BCFmuscie values for EHS (p = 0.002), OC (p = 0.007), and
UV-329 (p = 0.013), implying that preferential liver accumulation may
mitigate the distributions of these UVAs into muscle tissues. Wan et al.
(2006) found that polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin and dibenzofuran
trophic magnification factors are strongly affected by tissue selectivity
for the more-chlorinated isomers. In previous studies, HMS, UV-329
and UV-531 trophic magnification factors of 1.52,1.61, and 1.70, respec
tively, have been found, and some UVAs (e.g., 2-(2H-benzotriazol -2-yl)-
4,6-bis(l-methyl-l-phenylethyl)phenol and BP-3) have been found to
undergo trophic dilution in aquatic food webs (Peng et al., 2017;
Zhong, 2018). It is therefore still unclear how hepatic sequestration of
UVAs affects the trophic transfer of UVAs. This will need to be studied
in more detail in future studies.
Alonso, M.B.. Feo. M.L, Corcetlas, C, Cago-Ferrero. P., Beitozzi, C.P., Marigo, J.. Flach. L.
Melrelles, A.C. Carvalho, V.L, Azevedo. A.F., Torres, J.P., Lailson-Brito. J„ Malm, O..
Diaz-Cruz. M5., Eljarrat, E.. Barcelo, D., 2015. Toxic heritage: maternal transferor py-
rethroid insecticides and sunscreen agents in dolphins from Brazil. Environ. Pollut.
207,391-402. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.envpol.2015.09.039.
Bachelor, M., Li, Z. Munaron, D„ Le Call, P., Casellas, C, Fenet, H., Gomez, E., 2012. Organic
UV filter concentrations in marine mussels from French coastal regions. Sci. Total En
viron. 420.273-279. https://doix)rg/10.1016/j.scitotenv2011.12.051.
Balmer, M.E., Buser, H.R., Muller. M.D., Poiger.T., 2005. Occurrence ofsome organic UV fil
ters in wastewater, in surface waters, and in fish from Swiss Lakes. Environ. Sci.
Technol. 39,953-962. https://doi.org/10.1021/es040055r.
Bemporad, D.. Luttmann, C, Essex. J.W., 2004. Computer simulation of small molecule
permeation across a lipid bilayer: dependence on bilayer properties and solute vol
ume. size, and cross-sectional area. Biophys.J. 87,1-13. https;//doi,org/10.1529/
biophysj.103.030601.
Bliithgen, N., Zucchi, S.. Pent, K., 2012. Effects of the UV filter benzophenone-3
(oxybenzone) at low concentrations in zebrafish (Danio rerio). Toxicol. Appl.
Pharmacol. 263,184-194. https://doi.Org/10.1016/J.taap.2012.06.008.
Bliithgen, N., Meili, N., Chew, G., Odermatt, A., Pent, K, 2014. Accumulation and effects of
theUV-filteroctoctylene in adult and embryonic zebrafish (Danio rerio). Sci.Total En
viron. 476-477, 207-217. https://doi.Org/10.1016/J.scitotenv.2014.01.015.
Bodiguel, X.. Loizeau, V., Le Guellec, A.M.. Roupsard, F.. Philippon, X., Mellon-DI, C.. 2009.
Influence of sex. maturity and reproduction on PCB and p,p'-DDE concentrations
and repartitions in the European hake (Meriucrius mer/ucdus, L) from the Gulf of
Lions (N.W. Mediterranean). Sci. Total Environ. 408, 304-311. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j5citotenv2009.10.004.
Bratkovics, S.. Wirth, E, Sapozhnikova, Y., Pennington, P.. Sanger, D., 2015. Baseline mon
itoring of organic sunscreen compounds along South Carolina's coastal marine envi
ronment. Mar. Pollut. Bull. 101, 370-377. https://doi.Org/10.1016/J.
marpolbu1.2015.10.015.
Brazova, T.. Hanzelova, V, Miklisova, D, 2012. Bioaccumulation of six PCB indicator con
geners in a heavily polluted water reservoir in eastern Slovakia: tissue-specific distri
bution in fish and their parasites. Parasitol. Res. Ill, 779-786. https://doi.org/
10.1007/S00436-012-2900-3.
Buckman, A.H.. Wong, C.S.. Chow, E.A., Brown. S.B., Solomon. K.R., Fisk. A.T., 2006. Bio
transformation of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and bioformation of hydroxyl-
ated PCBs in fish. Aquat, Toxicol. 78, 176-185. https://doi.0rg/ lO.IOl6/J.
aquatox.2006.02,033.
Buser, H.R., Balmer, M.E.. Schmid. P„ Kohler. M.. 2006. Occurrence of UV filters 4-
methylbenzylidene camphor and octociylene in fish from various Swiss rivers with
inputs from wastewater treatment plants. Environ. Sci. Technol. 40, 1427-1231.
hnps://doi.org/10.1021/es052088s.
Carlsson, P„ Herzke, D„ Wedborg, M.. Gabrielsen, G.W., 2011. Environmental pollutants in
the Swedish marine ecosystem, with special emphasis on polybrominated diphenyl
ethers (PBDE). Chemosphere 82, 1286-1292. https://doi.0rg/lO.IOl 6/J.
chemosphere.2010.12.029.
Chen. F,.Gong.Z.. Kelly. B.C., 2017. Bioaccumulation behavior of pharmaceuticals and per
sonal care products in adult zebrafish (danio rerio): influence of physical-chemical
properties and biotransformation. Environ. Sci. Technol. 51.11085-11095. https://
doi,org/10.1021/acs.est.7b02918.
4. Conclusions
Our results confirmed that fish in Lake Chaohu are moderately to
highly contaminated with UVAs except for BP and UV-320. We detected
EHS and HMS in a wide range of wild fish species. UVA bioaccumulation
data are provided in this paper, and UVA concentrations found in fish in
Lake Chaohu are compared with UVA concentrations found in other or
ganisms in other areas. Our results indicated that UVAs are selectively
taken up by various fish species at different trophic levels. The log
1312 Z. Tang ef all Science ofihe Total Environment 647 (20J9) J305-J313
Cunha, S.C.. Fernandes, J.O., Vallecillos, L. Cano-Sancho, C., Domingo. J.L, Pocurull, E.,
Borrull, F„ Maulvault, A.L, Ferrari. F„ Fernandez-Tejedor. M„ Van den Heuvel. F..
Kotterman. M.. 2015. Co-occurrence of musk fragrances and UV-filters in seafood
and macroaigae collected in European hotspots. Environ. Res. 143 (Pt B), 65-71.
https://doi.Org/10.1016/jenvres.2015.05.003.
Cunha. S.C.. Trabaldn. L, Jacobs. S.. Castro. M.. Fernandez-Tejedor. M., Granby. K.. Verbeke.
W-, Kwadijk. C. Ferrari. F,. Robbens, J., Sioen,!.. Pocurull. E, Marques, A.. Fernandes.
J.O.. Domingo, J,L. 2018. UV-filters and musk fragrances in seafood commercialized
in Europe union: occurrence, risk and exposure assessment. Environ. Res. 161.
399-408. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.envres.2017.l 1.015.
Pent, K.. Zenker, A., Rapp. M.. 2010. Widespread occurrence of estrogenic UV-filters in
aquatic ecosystems in Switzerland. Environ. Pollut. 158,1817-1824. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.envpol.2009.11,005.
Cago-Ferrero, P.. Diaz-Cruz, M5., Barceld. D.. 2012. An overview of UV-absorbing com
pounds (organic UV filters) in aquatic biota. Anal. Bioanal. Chem. 404, 2597-2610.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00216-012-6067-7.
Cago-Ferrero. P.. Alonso, M.B., Bertozzi, C.P.. Marigo,]., Barbosa, L.Cremer. M.. Secchi, E.R.,
Domit, C, Azevedo, A.. Lailson-Brito Jr.J., Torres, J.P.. Malm, 0.. Eljarrat. E.. D'laz-Cruz,
M.S.. Barceld, D., 2013. First determination of UV fillers in marine mammals.
Octocrylene levels in Franciscana dolphins. Environ. Sci. Technol. 47, 5619-5625.
https://doi.org/10.1021/es400675y.
Cago-Ferrero, P., Diaz-Cruz, M5, Barceld, D.. 2015. UV filters bioaccumulation in fish from
Iberian river basins. Sci. Total Environ. 518-519, 518-525. https://doi.org/10.1021/
10.1016/jicitotenv.2015.03.02a
Groz, M„ Martinez Bueno, M.J., Rosain. D., Fenet, H., Casellas, C. Pereira, C., Maria, V..
Bebianno, M.J.. Gomez, E„ 2014. Detection of emerging contaminants (UV filters.
UV stabilizers and musks) in marine mussels from Portuguese coast by QuEChERS ex
traction and GC-MS/MS. Sci. Total Environ. 493,162-169, https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.
scitotenv2014.05.062.
Guo, L, 2005. Studies on Fisheries Ecology in a Large Eutrophic Shallow Lake. Lake
Chaohu. Institute ofHydrobiology. Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, China (Doc
toral Dissertation, in Chinese).
Han, X, 2018, Contamination and Environmental Risk of UV Filters in Road Dust and Typ
ical Water in Hefei. North China Electric Power University. Beijing, China (Master's
Dissertation, in Chinese).
Huang, W.,Xie,Z„ Yan, W„ Mi, W„ Xu, W., 2016. Occurrence and distribution of synthetic
musks and organic UV filters from riverine and coastal sediments in the Pearl River
estuary of China. Mar. Pollut. Bull. Ill, 153-159. https://doi.0rg/lO.lOI6/j.
marpolbul2016.07.018.
Jeon. H.K., Sarma, S.N., Kim, Y.J., Ryu. J.C., 2008. Toxicokinetics and metabolisms of
benzophenone-type UV filters in rats. Toxicology 248, 89-95. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.tox.2008.02.009.
Kaiser. D.,Sieratowicz. A„ Zielke, R. Oetken. M.. Hollert, H., OehImann.J.. 2012. Ecotoxico-
logical effect characterisation of widely used organic UV filters. Environ. Pollut 163.
84-90. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.envpol.2011.12.014,
Kelly. B.C., Ikonomou, M.G., Higgs, DA. Oakes, J., Dubetz, C. 2011. Flesh residue concen
trations of organochlorine pesticides in farmed and wild salmon from British Colum
bia, Canada. Environ.Toxicol. Chem. 30.2456-2564. https://doi.org/10.1002/etc.66Z
Kierkegaard. A., Balk. L. Tjamiund. U.. de Wit, CA„ Jansson, B.. 1999. Dietary uptake and
biological effects of decabromodiphenyl ether in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus
myh'ss). Environ. Sci. Technol. 33,1612-1617. https://doi.org/10.1021/es9807082.
Kim. J.W., Isobe, T.. Ramaswamy. B.R., Chang, K.H„ Amano, A.. Miller. T.M.. Siringan, F.P..
Tanabe.S.. 2011. Contamination and bioaccumulation of benzotriazole ultraviolet sta
bilizers in fish from Manila Bay, the Philippines using an ultra-fast liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Chemosphere 85, 751-758. https://
doi.0rg/lO.lOl6/lO.IOl6/j.chemosphere.2Ol 1.06,054.
Kobayashi.J.. Sakurai, T.. Mizukawa, K„ Kinoshita, K., ito. N.. Hashimoto, S.. Nakajima.
D.. Kawai, T„ Imaizumi, Y.,Takada, H.. Suzuki, N., 2013. Respiratory uptake kinet
ics of neutral hydrophobic organic chemicals in a marine benthic fish,
Pseudopleuronecles yokohamae. Chemosphere 93.1479-1486. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.chemosphere,2013.07.031.
Langford. K.H., Reid. M.J., Fjeld, E„ 0xnevad, S„ Thomas, K.V., 2015. Environmental occur
rence and risk of organic UV filters and stabilizers in multiple matrices in Norway. En
viron. Int. 80, 1-7. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envint,2015.03.012.
Liang. Y.. Zhan, J., Liu, X., Zhou. Z, Zhu. W., Liu, D„ Wang, P, 2017. Stereoselective metab
olism of the UV-filter 2-ethylhexyl 4-dimethylaminobenzoate and its metabolites in
rabbits in vivo and vitro. RSC Adv. 7, 16991-16996. https://doi.org/10.1039/
C7RA00431A
Liao. C„ Kannan, K.. 2014. Widespread occurrence of benzophenone-type UV light filters in
personal care produas from China and the United States: an assessment of human ex
posure. Environ. Sci. Technol, 48.4103-4109. https://doi.org/10.1021/es405450n.
Lu. Z„ De Silva, A.O.. Peart, T.E., Cook. C.J, Tetreault, C,R., Servos, M.R.. Muir, D.C. 2016. Dis
tribution, partitioning and bioaccumulation of substituted diphenylamine antioxi
dants and benzotriazole UV stabilizers in an urban creek in Canada. Environ. Sci.
Technol. 50,9089-9097. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est6b01796.
Lu, Z, De Silva. A.O.. Peart, T.E., Cook, C.J.. Tetreault C.R.. 2017. Tissue distribution of
substituted diphenylamine antioxidants and benzotriazole ultraviolet stabilizers in
white sucker (catostomus commersonii) from an urban creek in Canada. Environ.
Sci. Technol. Lett. 4,433-438. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.estlett.7b00355.
Ma, B.. Lu, G., Liu.J., Yan, Z„ Yang, H„ Pan. T., 2017. Bioconcentration and multi-biomarkers
of organic UV filters (BM-DBM and OD-PABA) in crucian carp. Ecotoxicol. Environ,
Saf. 141,178-187. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.ecoenvZ017.03.034.
Molins-Delgado, D„ Muftoz, R., Nogueira. S, Alonso, M.B.. Torres. J.P.. Malm. 0.,Ziolli. R.L.
Hauser-Davis, RA, Eljarrat E.. Barcelo, D., Diaz-Cruz. M3.. 2018, Occurrence of or
ganic UV filters and metabolites in lebranche mullet (Mugil liza) from Brazil. Sci.
Total Environ. 618.451-459. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.sdtotenv.2017.11.033.
Nakata, R. Murata. S„ Filatreau.J., 2009. Occurrence and concentrations of benzotriazole
UV stabilizers in marine organisms and sediments from the Ariake Sea, Japan. Envi
ron. Sd. Technol, 43.6920-6926. https://doi.org/10.1021/es900939j.
Nakata, R, Shinohara, R., Murata, S, Watanabe, M.. 2010. Detection of benzotriazole UV
stabilizers in the blubber of marine mammals by gas chromatography-high resolu
tion mass spectrometry (GC-HRMS). J. Environ. Monit. 12.2088-2092. https://doi.
org/10.1039/c0em00170h.
Nakata, R. Shinohara, R.. Nakazawa. Y.. Isobe. T.. Sudaryanto, A, Subramanian. A.. Tanabe,
S„ Zakaria. M.P.. Zheng, C.J., Lam, P.K.. Kim. E.Y., Min. B.Y., We. S.U., Viet, P.H., Tana,
T.S., Prudente, M„ Frank, D., Lauenstein. C., Kannan. K., 2012. Asia-Pacific mussel
watch for emerging pollutants: distribution of synthetic musks and benzotriazole
UV stabilizers in Asian and US coastal waters. Mar. Pollut. Bull. 64. 2211-2218.
https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.marpolbul.2012.07.049.
NHFPC (National Health and Family Planning Commission of the People's Republic of
China). 2015. Safety and Technical Standards for Cosmetics. 2015 Edition, (Beijing.
China, in Chinese).
Orst, M.. Sanderson. W.E., Essex, J.W., 2009. Permeability of small molecules through a
lipid bilayer: a multiscale simulation study, J, Phys. Chem. B 113.12019-12029.
https://doi.org/10.1021/jp903248s.
Peng, X., Jin.J,, Wang, C, Ou. W„Tang, C.. 2015. Multi-target determination of organic
ultraviolet absorbents in organism tissues by ultrasonic assisted extraction and
ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.
J. Chromatogr. A 1384. 97-106. https://doi.0rg/lO.lOI6/IO.lOI6/j.
chroma.2015.01,051.
Peng. X., Fan, Y„ Jin. J., Xiong, S„ Liu, J., Tang. C, 2017. Bioaccumulation and
biomagnification of ultraviolet absorbents in marine wildlife of the Pearl River estu
arine, South China Sea. Environ. Pollut. 225. 55-65. https://doi.0rg/lO.lOl6/j.
envpol.2017.03.035.
Sang, Z, Leung, K3.. 2016. Environmental occurrence and ecological risk assessment of or
ganic UV filters in marine organisms from Hong Kong coastal waters. Sci. Total Envi
ron. 566-567,489-498. https://doi.org/10.1016/jsdtotenvZ016.05.120.
Sharifan, R, Ma,X„ 2017. Potential photochemical interactionsofuv filter molecules with
multi-chlorinated structure of prymnesins in harmful algal bloom events. Mini-Rev.
Org. Chem. 14,391-399. https://d0i.0rg/l 0,2174/1570193X14666170518124658.
Sole. M„ Porte, C. Albaig^s. J„ 2001. Hydrocarbons. PCBs and DDT in the NW Mediterra
nean deep-sea fish Mora moro. Deep-Sea Res. 148,495-513.
Sun, R.. Luo. X.. Tang. B., Chen. L. Liu, Y„ Mai, B.. 2017, Bioaccumulation of short chain
chlorinated paraffins in a typical freshwater food web contaminated by e-waste in
south China: bioaccumulation factors, tissue distribution, and trophic transfer. Envi
ron. Pollut. 222.165-174. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.envpolZ016.12.060.
Tanoue, R.. Nomiyama. K., Nakamura, R. Kim.J.W., Isobe, T., Shinohara. R.. Kunisue.T..
Tanabe, S., 2015. Uptake and tissue distribution of pharmaceuticals and personal
care products in wild fish from treated-wastewater-impacted streams. Environ. Sci.
Technol. 49, 11649-11658. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.5b02478.
USEPA (U3. Environmental Protection Agency). 2017. Estimation Program Interface (EPI)
Suite (V4.11). https://www.epa.gov/tsca-screening-tools/download-cpi-suitetm-es-
timation-program-interface-v411.
Van den Berg. M„ Birnbaum, L. Bosveld, A.T.. Brunstrdm. B, Cook. P„ Feeley, M.. Giesy.J.P.,
Hanberg. A, Hasegawa, R„ Kennedy, S.W.. Kubiak, T., Larsen, J.C, van Leeuwen, FA.
Liem. AK.. Nolt, C. Peterson, R.E., Poellinger, L. Safe. S.. Schrenk. D,. Tiliitt, D,.
Tysklind. M.. Younes, M„ Waem. F., Zacharewski, T.. 1998. Toxic equivalency factors
(TEFs) for PCBs, PCDDs. PCDFs for humans and wildlife. Environ. Health Perspect.
106,75-792. https://doi.org/10.2307/3434121.
Vidal-Lifian, L. Villaverde-de-Saa. E.. Rodil. R., Quintana, J.B., Beiras. R„ 2018. Bioaccumu
lation of UV filters in Mytilusgol/oprovindalis mussel. Chemosphere 190, 267-271.
https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.chemosphere.2017.09.144.
Voorspocis. S.. Covad, A., Schepens, P.. 2003. Polybrominated diphenyl ethers in marine
species from the Belgian North Sea and the Western Scheldt Estuary: levels, profiles,
and distribution. Environ. Sci. Technol. 37. 4348-4357. https://doi.org/10.1021/esO34503r.
Wan, Y., Hu,J., An, W„ Zhang, Z. An. L. Hattori, T„ Itoh, M.. Masunaga,S., 2006. Congener-
specific tissue distribution and hepatic sequestration of PCDD/Fs in wild herring gulls
from Bohai Bay. North China: comparison to coplanarPCBs. Environ. Sci. Technol. 40,
1462-1468. https://doi.org/10.1021/es052249s.
Wang. X.. Xi, B,. Huo. S„ Deng. L, Pan, H„ Xia. X., Zhang. J.. Ren, Y.. Liu. R, 2013.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers occurrence in major inflowing rivers of Lake Chaohu
(China): characteristics, potential sources and inputs to lake. Chemosphere 93.
1624-1631. https://doi.0rg/lO.lOl6/j.chemosphere.2Oi3.O8.O24.
Wang, C. Lin, J., Wu. X.. Shen. Y„ Lin. Y., Xie.T.. 2015. Determination of benzotriazole ul
traviolet absorbers in plastics components of electrical and electronic products.
Shanghai Plast, 171,49-54 (in Chinese).
Wang.C, Liao, W., Shi. Q,, Bai, S.. Xie.T, 2016. Determination of seven benzotriazole ultra
violet absorbers in textiles.). Shenzhen Univ. Sd. Eng. 33.324-330 (in Chinese).
Wick. A Jacobs, B.. Kunkel. U.. Heininger, P.. Ternes.TA. 2016. Benzotriazole UV stabi
lizers in sediments, suspended particulate matter and fish of German rivers: new in
sights into occurrence, time trends and persistency. Environ. Pollut. 212.401-412.
https://doi.0rg/IO.IOI6/j.envpol.2OI6.Ol.024.
Wu, J.P., Luo, X.J., Zhang, Y., Chen. S.J.. Mai. B.X., Guan, Y.T., Yang. ZY„ 2009, Residues of
polybrominated diphenyl ethers in frogs (Rana limnocharis) from a contaminated
site. South China: tissue distribution, biomagnification, and maternal transfer. Envi
ron. Sd. Technol. 43. 5212-5217. https://doi.org/10.1021/es901103y.
Xian. Q., Ramu. K.. Isobe, T„ Sudaryanto. A. Liu. X., Gao. Z.. Takahashi. S.. Yu. H.,
Tanabe. S.. 2008. Levels and body distribution of polybrominated diphenyl ethers
(PBDEs) and hexabromocyclododecanes (HBCDs) in freshwater fishes from the
Yangtze River. China. Chemosphere 71, 268-276. https://doi.0rg/lO.lOl6/j.
chemosphere.2007.09.032.
Z Tang et aL / Science ofthe Total Environment 647 (2019) 1305-1313 1313
Zhong, F„ 2018. Bioaccumulaeion and Trophic Transfer of Organic Ultraviolet Filters in
Aquatic Organisms From Chaohu Lake. North China Electric Power University, Beijing,
China (Master’s Dissertation, in Chinese).
Zhu, C.. Wang, P„ Li. Y., Chen. Z.. Li. W„ Ssebugere. P.. Zhang. Q,, Jiang. G.. 2015.
Bioconcentration and trophic transfer of polychlorinated biphenyls and
polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans in aquatic animals from an e-
waste dismantling area in East China. Environ. Sci.: Processes Impacts 17.693-699.
https://doi.org/10.1039/c5em00028a.
Zhuang. S.. Wang, H„ Ding. K., Wang, ]., Pan, L. Lu, Y., Liu, Q,. Zhang, C.. 2016. Interactions
ofbenzotriazole UV stabilizers with human serum albumin: atomic insights revealed
by biosensors, spectroscopies and molecular dynamics simulations. Chemosphere
144.1050-1059. https://doi.Org/l0.1016/j.chemosphere.2015.09.085.
Xu, F.L, Wu. W.J., Wang, J.J., Qin, N.. Wang, Y.. He, QS, He. W., Tao, S., 2011. Residual levels
and health risk of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in freshwater fishes from Lake
small Bai-Yang-Dian, northern China. Ecol. Model. 222. 275-286. https://doi.org/
10.1O16/j,ecolmodelZ010.iaO01.
Yang. S.. Wang, S., Liu, H., Yan.Z. 2012.Tetrabromobisphenol a: tissue distribution in fish,
and seasonal variation in water and sediment of Lake Chaohu. China. Environ. Sci.
Pollut. Res. 19.4090-4096. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-012-1023-9.
Zhao. LB., Xi, Y.W., 2015. Analysis of the relationship between fishery ecological environ
ment quality and fish yield in Lake Chaohu. Mod. Agrtc. Sci.Tcchnol. 12,216-225 (in
Chinese).
Zhao, Z„ Zhang, L, Cai, Y.. Chen, Y., 2014. Distribution of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon
(PAH) residues in several tissues of edible fishes from the largest freshwater lake in
China. Poyang Lake, and associated human health risk assessment. Ecotoxicol. Envi
ron. Saf. 104.323-331. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.ecoenv.2014.01.037,
fPiDlfllflLLscience&Tecnnoogy
Article
pubs.acs.org/est
First Determination of UV Filters in Marine Mammals. Octocrylene
Levels in Franciscana Dolphins
Pablo Gago-Ferrero/ Mariana B. Alonso, Carolina P. Bertozzi,^ Juliana Marigo,^ Lupercio Barbosa^
Marta Cremer,^ Eduardo R. Secchi,'^ Alexandre Azevedo,** Jose Lailson-Brito Jr.,'' Joao P. M. Torres,^
Olaf Malm,^ Ethel Eljarrat,^ M. Silvia Diaz-Cruz,*’^ and Damia Barcelo^'*^
^Department of Environmental Chemistry, Water and Soil Quality Research Group, IDAEA-CSIC, Jordi Girona 18-26, 08034
Barcelona, Spain
*Projeto BioPesca, R Paraguai, 241. Praia Grande, SP, Brasil, 11702-070.
Laboratory of Radioisotopes - Biophysics Institute (UFRJ), Av. Carlos Chagas Filho, 373 CCS - Bl. G, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil,
21941-902
'^Laboratory of Aquatic Mammals and Bioindicators (UERJ), R. Sao Francisco Xavier, 524 - S.4018 - Bl. E, Rio dejaneiro, RJ, Brasil,
20550-013
■'■Institute ORCA, Vila Velha, ES, Brasil
Universidade de Joinvile (Univille), Joinvile, SC, Brasil
Laboratory of Turtles and Marine Mammals (FURG), Rio Grande, RS, Brasil
Catalan Institute for Water Research (ICRA), Scientific and Technological Parc of the University of Girona, Emili Grahit, 101 Edifici
H20, 17003 Girona, Spain
§
#
V
o
ABSTRACT: Most current bioexposure assessments for UV
filters focus on contaminants concentrations in fish from river
and lake. To date there is not information available on the
occurrence of UV filters in marine mammals. This is the first
study to investigate the presence of sunscreen agents in tissue
liver of Franciscana dolphin (Pontoporia blaitivillei), a species
under special measures for conservation. Fifty six liver tissue
samples were taken from dead individuals accidentally caught
or found stranded along the Brazilian coastal area (six states).
The extensively used octocrylene (2-ethylhexyl-2-cyano-3,3-
diphenyl-2-propenoate, OCT) was frequently found in the
samples investigated (21 out of 56) at concentrations in the
range 89-782 ng-g“^ lipid weight. Sao Paulo was found to be
the most polluted area (70% frequency of detection). Nevertheless, the highest concentration was observed in the dolphins from
Rio Grande do Sul (42% frequency of detection within that area). These findings constitute the first data reported on the
occurrence of UV filters in marine mammals worldwide.
■ INTRODUCTION bioaccumulation and biomagnification in aquatic ecosystems
through the trophic chain.^ Works on biota were mainly
focused on fish,
well, such as fish eating birds and aquatic invertebrates.^ Several
UV filters are known to have toxic effects on both aquatic and
terrestrial organisms. Although the studies dealing with
ecotoxicity of these compounds is scarce, they have been
shovm to act as environmental estrogens and antiandrogens,
cause reproductive disruption and affect the thyroid axis.^’*° So
far, there is still even more limited information available about
23,7,8
but other organisms have been studied as
UV filters (UV F)
for which there is currently a lack of knowledge about their
occurrence, fate, and effects on the ecosystems.' UV F
constitutes a large and heterogeneous group of chemicals that
are ingredients in personal care products to protect skin and
hair fr om the sunlight, and in other industrial goods such as
paint, wax, plastic, or textile to prevent photodegradation of
polymers and pigments.^
These chemicals enter the aquatic environment either
indirectly, via wastewater treatment plant effluents (urban and
industrial) or directly, through human aquatic recreational
activities. Previous studies have demonstrated the occurrence of
UV F in water, sewage sludge, sediment, and biota.^"^ Many
UV F are lipophilic compounds, therefore have the potential for
emerging environmental contaminantsare
Received: February 14, 2013
Revised:
Accepted: April 29, 2013
Published: April 29, 2013
April 19, 2013
ACS Publications 5619C 2013 American Chemical Society dx.doi.org/10.1021/es400675yifnvimn. Scr. Technol. 2013, 47, S619-S62S
Environmental Science & Technology Article
syringe and the pressurized liquid extraction (PLE) cellulose
filters used were purchased from Whatman (London, U.K.) and
from Dionex Corporation (Sunnyvale, CA), respectively.
Isolute Alumina Cartridges used for solid phase extraction
(SPE) were obtained from Biotage (Uppsala, Sweden).
The OCT and BP-d|o stock standard solutions were prepared
in methanol at 200 mg L“*. The solutions were stored in the
dark at —20 °C. A diluted 20 mg L”* stock standard solution
was prepared weekly. Working solutions were prepared daily by
appropriate dilution of the diluted stock standard solution.
Sampling Area and Sample Collection. The Brazilian
coastline has around 8500 km of length. The Southeast
Brazilian region, historically, had turned into an important
industrial center of Brazil. Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo States
are the most anthropogenically disturbed areas along the
country shoreline. Massive metropolitan complex surrounds the
estuaries and bays, which have been receiving discharges of
chemical contaminants from domestic, industrial and agricul
tural wastewaters besides also they are impacted by overfishing,
harbor activities, and solid trash.
Paulo coast, is the most important Brazilian example of
environmental degradation from aquatic and atmospheric
pollution by industrial origin. The largest harbor in Latin
America (the Port of Santos) and the largest industrial complex
in Brazil are located in this area. Industrial activities began in
the 1950s with the establishment of diverse factories (steel, oil,
and agribusiness) and have turned this estuary into the final
destination for toxic waste and contaminated effluents since
then.^^ See Figure 1 for a map of the study areas.
23,24
Santos estuary, in Sao
the fate and effects of these chemicals in marine ecosystems.
High levels of multiclass UV F in seawater have been reported,
with concentrations up to 799 ngL"* of 4-methylbenzylidene
camphor (4MBC).^*’*^ Recently, it has been documented that
UV F caused harmful effects on coral reefs (coral bleaching) by
promoting viral infections.*^ As regards marine biota, the
analysis of four benzotriazole UV stabilizers, namely UV-320,
UV-326, UV-327, and UV-328, and the UV filter 4MBC in
marine organisms from the Ariake Sea (Japan) revealed that the
three benzotriazole stabilizers investigated bioaccumulated in all
the species analyzed, from benthic invertebrates to several fish
species, including the hammerhead shark.
Among UV filters, octocrylene (2-ethylhexyl-2-cyano-3,3-
diphenyl-2-propenoate, OCT) is of great concern since it is a
highly lipophilic compound (log 6.88), stable, and resistant
to sunlight degradation, but there is evidence that it can trigger
the production of potentially harmful free radicals (reactive
oxygen species) when it releases the absorbed energy. The
widespread occurrence of this compound, as well as its hi|h
concentrations found in sewage sludge and sediments’*’^
appears to be associated with its extensive use in formulations,
especially personal care products, because both protects in
UVA and UVB regions, and augments the absorbing capacity of
other organic UV filters, such as ethylhexylmethoxycinnamate
(EHMC), avobenzone (AVB), and benzophenone-3 (BP3).*^
Since maintaining the absorption capacity is important to
prevent erythema and to reduce the subsequent risk of
melanoma development, formulations containing OCT had
superior performance compared to other formulations that did
not contain OCT, and therefore, preferably used.
The goal of the present study was to contribute for a better
understanding of the impact of the increasing use of UV filters
in densely populated coastal areas on marine organisms. The
study aimed at demonstrating the potential for biomagnification
of the extensively used sunscreen agent OCT on marine
mammals, specifically on dolphin, since they occupy a higher
trophic level in the marine food chain, and have relatively low
metabolic activity, thus accumulating high levels of organic
pollutants in their body.*^ For this study Franciscana dolphin
{Pontoporia blainvillei) was the selected species. It is a small
cetacean with a distribution restricted to the southwest Atlantic
Ocean. This is the most impacted cetacean off the eastern coast
of South America*^ and is listed as “vulnerable” in the Red
Book of the International Union for Conservation of the
Nature (lUCN). Franciscana was considered a species that
needs particularly measures of conservation*® and is also
included in the Index II of the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, that
Argentina, Uruguay, and Brazil are undersigned. Their coastal
distribution makes it particularly vulnerable to human activities
such as incidental capture in fisheries and habitat degradation
by anthropic contaminants. Evidences suggest that the
mortality rates are excessive and unsustainable.^
14
Figure 1. Study area map, Southeaster and Southern coast of Brazil.
Brazilian States sampled: ES, Espirito Santo; RJ, Rio de Janeiro; SP,
Sao Paulo PR, Parana; SC, Santa Catarina; RS, Rio Grande do Sul;
FMA, Franciscana Management Areas (I—IV).
■ EXPERIMENTAL SECTION Collected samples were taken firom individual dolphins found
stranded dead at the beaches or incidental caught in fishing nets
along the Brazilian coast. Southwestern Atlantic, firom 1994 to
2009. Available information on the samples is given in Table 1.
Sexual maturity is known to occur at different length depending
on the coastal area. The individuals considered in this study
included males and females, adult (sexually matured), juvenile
(sexually immature >100 cm length) and calves (sexually
immature <100 cm length) specimens.
dx.doi.org/10,1021/e5400675y I Environ. Sci. Technol. 2013, 47, S619—S62S
Chemicals and Reagents. OCT (>98% purity), and the
isotopically labeled compound benzophenone-d]o (BP-d[o 99%
purity), used as internal standard .(IS), were obtained from
Sigma-Aldrich (Steinheim, Germany). Organic solvents and
HPLC grade water (Lichrosolv), as well as H2SO4, formic acid
(98% purity) and hydromatrix were provided by Merck
(Darmstad, Germany). Nitrogen and argon (purchased from
Air Liquid, Barcelona, Spain) were of 99.995% purity. The
5620
Environmental Science & Technology Article
Table 1. Sampling Locations and Dates, Biological Information on the Dolphins Collected along the Brazilian Coast, And
Concentrations of OCT in the Liver Samples'*
sample code sex length sexual maturity physical maturity sampling date (year) concentration OCT (ng g“'Iw)
PON 08
PON 12
PON 11
PON 02
PON 13
PON 06
PON 14
PON 09
PON 07
PON IS
PON 03
PON 10
location Brazilian State
Espirito Santo (12) FT: 25% nd2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003 -2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003 -2006
Im CaM 70
Im Ca 129M 73
ndIm JuM 100
ndImM 112 Ju
ndM 113 Im Ju
ndIm JuM 114
ndAdM US Ma
ndAdMaM 117
ndImF 109 Ju
ndImF ns Ju
F Im Ju 89118
Ma AdF 136 712
Rio de Janeiro (l) FT: 0% FT: 0% nduk 2003-2006RJ 46 nana na
Sao Paulo (lO) FT: 70% 2006BP 125
BP 120
BP 133
BP 149
BP 176
BP no
BP 108
BP 113
BP 151
BP 140
M 100 Im Ju 100
ndM 103 Im Ju 2005
AdMa 2006M 112 380
116 Ma AdM 2007 144
Ma AdM 122 2008 141
Ad ndM 124 Ma 2006
F Im Ca 200694 524
Im 2006F no Ju 269
AdF Ma138 2007 130
ndF no Im Ju 2006
Parana (3) FT: 33% 56.5 Im 2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
PR 50
PR 53
PR 01
F Ca 129
ndF Im Ca98
Ad ndF Ma140
Santa Catarina (11) FT: 18% ndPB 221
PB 23
PB 22
PB 53
PB 62
PB 56
PB 222
PB 30
PB 37
PB 162
PB 44
M Im Ca 2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
2003-2006
83.5
ndImM 102 Ju
Im ndM 107 Ju
Im CaM 87.3 345
ImM 102 Ju 401
ndImM 109 Ju
ndMa AdF 129
Ad ndF 133 Ma
Ad ndF Ma133.5
127.5 nduk Ma Ad
nduk Ma Ad145
Rio Grande do Sul (19) FT: 42% ndCA 143
CA 32
CA 142
CA 36
CA 156
CA 172
CA 152
CA 63
CA 124
CA 153
CA 33
CA 108
CA 173
CA 179
CA 193
CA 194
CA 234
CA 237
M 125.5
129.5
133.7
1997na na
Ad ndM Ma 1994
Ad ndM Ma 1997
AdM Ma 153137 1994
Ad ndMaM 137 1998
ndMa AdM 143 1999
ImF 107.5
135,5
Ju 1998 142
ndF Im Ju 1994
ndF 137 Im Ju 1997
ndF 1998na na na
AdM Ma131 1994 473
ndF Ma Ad157 1995
161 Ma AdF 1999 493
M no Im Ju 1999 107
F 116 Im Ju 1291999
F 123 Im Ju 1999 782
M 103 Im Ju 2000 103
ndM Im132 Ju 2000
5621 dx.doi.org/10.1021/es40067Sy I Cnvilon. Sci. Technol. 2013, 47, 5619-5625
Environmental Science & Technology Article
Table 1. continued
sample code sex length sexual maturity physical maturity sampling date (year) concentration OCT (ng g”' Iw)
CA 255 M 106
''In parentheses, the number of samples analyzed, nd: not detected, uk: unknown, na: not available, FT: percentage of positive samples within the
area, Ca: Calves, Im: immature, Ma: mature, Ju: juvenile. Ad: adult. Method limit of detection (MLOD) and method limit of quantification (MLOQ)
are 23 and 75 ng g”' Iw, respectively. Total frequency: 100 X 21/56 = 38%, Calves: 100 X 4/7 = 57%
location Brazilian State
Im ndJu 2001
Fifty six individual were analyzed, belonging to many States
of Brazil: Espirito Santo (n = 12), Rio de Janeiro (« = l), Sao
Paulo (« = lO), Parana (n = 3), Santa Catarina (m  =li) and
Rio Grande do Sul {n = 19). Liver samples collected were
placed in aluminum foil, frozen, and further lyophilized. Freeze-
dried liver tissue was ground, homogenized and stored in
brown glass sealed containers at —20 °C until analysis.
Analytical Methods. In order to prevent contamination
and photodegradation of samples and standard solutions all
glassware used was previously washed and heated overnight at
380 °C, and further sequentially rinsed with different organic
solvents and HPLC grade water. Separate solvents and only
previously unopened packages of solvents, chemicals and other
supplies were used. In addition, a set of at least two operational
blanks were processed together with each batch of samples.
Standard solutions and samples were always covered with
aluminum foil and stored in the dark. Furthermore, gloves were
worn during the sample preparation process.
Sample Preparation. Ssamples were extracted by PLE using
an automatic extractor ASE 200 (Dionex Corporation,
Sunnyvale, CA, USA). One gram dry weight of freeze-dried
dolphin liver tissue was mbced in the extraction cells with
hydromatrix. The PLE optimized parameters were as follows:
preheating of 5 min, heating of 5 min, two extraction cycles of
10 min using dichloromethane/hexane as extraction solvent (1/
1) v/v), temperature of 100 °C, pressure of 10 000 kPa, flush
volume of 80% of cell and 90 s of nitrogen purge. The PLE
extract obtained was concentrated to 3 mL and then subjected
to a purification step via acid attack with concentrated H2SO4
(95—97% purity) (4X2 mL). The extract was purified by SPE
with alumina cartridges (5 g/20 mL), using 40 mL of
hexane:dichloromethane (1/2). Finally, the extract was
evaporated to dryness. The residue was further reconstituted
with 0.1 mL of acetonitrile and the IS was added before LC-MS
analysis.
Lipid Confenf Determination. The lipid content determi
nation was performed by gravimetric analysis. After the
extraction, the extracts were concentrated to incipient dryness,
each vial was weighed and the difference between the initial
weighing and weighing after the addition and evaporation rate
was used to calculate the percentage of lipids.
Percentage lipid content was determined for each individual.
Mean values were calculated for those specimens sampled in
the same geographical area, which were in the range 4% - 7%.
UPLC-ESI(+)-MS/MS Anaiysis. Target analysis of OCT was
performed by ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography
(UPLC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) using an
Acquity UPLC chromatograph attached to a triple quadrupole
detector (TQD) mass spectrometer (Waters). A Hibar
Purospher STAR HR R-18 ec. (50 mm X 2.0 mm, 2 pm)
column (Merck) was used. The solvent flow rate was set to 0.4
mL min“* and the column temperature was kept at 50 °C. The
sample volume injected was 10 pL. The chromatographic
separation was performed by using as mobile phase HPLC
grade water (A) and acetonitrile (B), both with 0.3% formic
acid. The adopted elution gradient started with 5% of eluent B,
increasing to 95% in 1.20 min, kept constant for 2.30 min, and
rising to 100% in the following 0.5 min. During the next 2.5
min the elution gradient was kept constant, and then back to
initial conditions in 3 min.
MS/MS was operated in selected reaction monitoring
(SRM) and positive electrospray ionization mode (ESI-1-).
The optimized parameters were as follows: desolvation gas
(nitrogen), 750 L h“'; collision gas (argon), 0.19 mL min'S
nebulization gas (nitrogen), 90 L h“'; ion spray voltage 3.35
kV; source temperature, 130 ®C and desolvation temperature,
450 °C. Two characteristic transitions of the protonated
molecular ion [M-i-H]''^ (precursor ion) were recorded.
For the positive confirmation of OCT in liver tissue samples,
strict criteria had to be met in order to avoid false positives.
Following the European Commission Decision 2002/657/
EC,^*^ that although it was initially conceived for food residue
analysis, it has been accepted by the scientific community for
environmental analysis, a minimum of three identification
points (IPs) is required for this purpose. In our case, these 3
IPs corresponded to the precursor ion (m/z 362 amu) and to
the two transitions recorded from the precursor ion ([M-l-H]*)
to the product ions [M-f-H—CgHj^]* and [M-fH—CgHjg—
H2O]* at m/z 250 and 232
chromatographic retention time of the analyte in the sample
should not vary more than 2.5% in comparison to the
calibration standards’, and the relative abundance of the two
SRM transitions monitored must also be compared to the
standards’ corresponding values, and range about ±20%. Figure
2 represents the chromatograms for OC corresponding to a
standard solution at 40 ng mL“', and to a dolphin liver sample
from an adult male from Sao Paulo. In this case, retention times
were exacdy the same and the difference in SRM ratios was
solely 6%, and thus, confirming the identification
The described methodology probed to be precise and
sensitive for the quantification of OCT in dolphin liver samples
affording method limits of detection (LOD) and quantification
(LOQ) of 23 and 75 ng g”^ lipid weight (Iw), respectively, and
a relative standard deviation of 9%.
respectively. Besides, theamu.
■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
OCT Concentration in Liver Tissue. The analysis of the
samples revealed that OCT was present in 21 out of the 56
samples analyzed (38% fi-equency of detection) with concen
trations in the range 89—782 ng g“‘ Iw (see Table l). These
concentrations are notoriously higher than that reported by
Balmer et al.^ for OCT in lake fish (25 ng g“' Iw). This
outcome was expected, as with other organic pollutants that
bioaccumulate and biomagnify along the food chain, given the
higher trophic level occupied by dolphins.
From the six sampling areas selected, Rio de Janeiro was one
of the areas where we expected to find residues of the sunscreen
because of its beach area with very active aquatic activities.
However, in the only sample taken OCT was not detected.
Despite that, we cannot rule out its presence in the area since
dx.dol.org/10.1021/es40067Syl fnv/con. Sci. Technol. 2013, 47, S619-56255622
Environmental Science & Technology Article
evidenced a different source for OCT and PBDEs anthro
pogenic emissions. The geographical distribution of mean
concentrations (ng g“* Iw) for OCT was: 373 (SC)  >310 (ES)
> 298 (RS) > 241 (SP) >129 (PR); whereas for the group of
congeners of PBDEs it was: 432 (SC) > 329 (SP) > 156 (PR)
> 144 (ES) >37 (RJ) > 34 (RS).
From 1994 to 2009 there has been a steady growing use of
UV filters as society has become aware of the dangerous effects
of sunlight. These currently popular chemicals have shown to
have a protective role against photoaging, photocarcinogenesis
and photoimmunosuppression promoted by UV sun radia
tion,
lation behavior of OCT were also assessed taking into account
the increasing use of sunscreen products. However, a direct
correlation could not be identified.
Relationships Between OCT Concentration and Bio
logical Characteristics. The inclusion of individuals with
varying biological characteristics in this study provided an
opportunity to examine contaminant liver tissue concentrations
in relation to lipid content, sex, and physical and sexual
maturity.
The trend of increased concentration in biota samples with
increasing lipid content may be observed for a number of
organic pollutants.^*^ In an attempt to assess the behavior of the
lipophilic UV filter, the correlation between liver lipid content
and OCT concentration was evaluated, however, no correlation
could be established based on these parameters (linear least-
squares regression coefficient of 0.371). The reason for this
differential behavior remains unclear.
27-29
Thus, potential temporal changes in the bioaccumu-
4C0Q
BPin
40C0 7 SAM 2 362 >250SRU 1 362 > 250
b) d)
■ so
I so
UX ^ R, (imn) R,(inn|
200 300 200 300
BR170
40CO 7
SRU 1 362 >232 SRU 1 362 >2324CC0
a) c)
■ 90 90
Ai*«SRJ4l Ac* SRM 1
● 1 064● 1024
A;c«SRM2 A«aSRM2
Rf (mn)
200 300
n, (mnl 04
200 300
Figure 2. Reconstructed SRM reference chromatogram for OCT
corresponding to a standard solution at 40 ng mL“' (a and b), and a
chromatogram corresponding to a dolphin liver sample from an adult
male (sample code BP 176) from Sao Paulo (c and d).
we were only able to analyze one sample. In contrast, the most
contaminated zone was Sao Paulo, where OCT was most
frequently detected (70%), followed by Rio Grande do Sul,
where the UV filter was observed in 8 out of the 19 dolphins
sampled, and at the highest concentration, 782 ng g“' Iw.
Nevertheless, the geographical distribution of positive samples,
as depicted in Figure 3, indicated that the highest mean
Many studies have reported gender-specific differences in the
concentrations of persistent organic pollutants in marine
mammals, showing the well-known high variation in the
burden of lipophilic pollutants of females due to reproductive
Therefore, the potential correlation between sex and
20,31
stage.
OCT concentration was also assessed. Different statistical tests
were carried out, Pearson, Kendall, and Spearman. All they
showed no statistical differences among OCT concentrations
and gender. Significance values were: Pearson, 0.225; Kendall,
0.397; Spearman, 0.411.
Nevertheless, potential maternal transfer cannot be ruled out.
In order to assess the mother-to-calf transfer of OCT, a sample
of placenta from one pregnant female dolphin was collected
and analyzed, revealing that OCT was present in both the
placenta and the liver tissue at concentrations below LOQ_(6l
Lw semiquantitative analysis) and 130 ng g“‘ Iw,
respectively (liver sample reference BP151 in Table l) being
indicative of gestational transfer. This hypothesis, however,
cannot be fiilly confirmed without data on a higher sample size
of pregnant female dolphins. However, it must be taken into
account the great difficulty in obtaining this kind of samples.
On the other hand, contamination data on breast milk could
also support the maternal transfer, specifically lactation transfer,
of the bioaccumulated OCT. This fact recently has already been
characterized in humans. Reported levels of OCT in women
breast milk were in the range 4.70—135 ng g
frequency of detection.^^ This transfer was consistent with the
OCT accumulation data obtained in the present study, where
OCT was found in four out of the seven analyzed calves (57%
frequency of detection) higher than the frequency estimated
considering the complete set of individuals (38%), and at
increasing concentrations (129—524 ng g“* Iw) as their length
was greater. Nevertheless, it has to be highlighted that.
-1
g
-1
lw, with 67%
600
0900 ●O.
i o9 400
i.ll ie 300
J® 200e
I 100 '
0 '
SantaCalaira E>p>itoSw<(o RndeJinsio noG>«nd«doSao(^uk> FVana
Sul
Sampling 4r»a
Figure 3. Distribution of OCT mean concentrations in dolphin’s liver
(ng g“‘ Lw) and standard error, along the Brazilian coast sampling
areas.
concentration (373 ng g“' lw) was determined in the samples
from Santa Catarina State. This sampling area is  a partially
enclosed estuarine receiving industrial and urban wastewater
discharge, which could act as a sink for anthropogenic
pollutants. In a recent study with polybrominated diphenyl
ethers (PBDEs) in the same samples from this work, it was
observed also the higher levels in the dolphins from this
disturbed bay, in Santa Catarina.^^ Similar mean concentrations
were reported for OCT and for the group of PBDEs. The
comparison of the concentrations observed in the rest of areas
5623 dx-doi.org/10-1021/es400675y I fnWron. Sci. Technol, 2013, 47, S619-S62S
Environmental Science & Technology Article
by the Generalitat de Catalunya (Consolidated Research
Group: Water and Soil Quality Group 2009-SGR-965). Gago-
Ferrero acknowledges his fellowship to Junta para la
Ampliacion de Estudios (JAE). This research was also funded
by the Ministry of Education of Brazil e CAPES (fellowship to
M.B. Alonso “Sandwich Programme” e PDEE; “Ciencias do
Mar” e Proc. 23038.051661/2009-18), Brazilian Research
Council e CNPq (Grant No. 304826/2008- l), FAPERJ
(Jovem Cientista do Nosso Estado No. 101.449/2010), Mount
Sinai School of Medicine (NY/USA), Fogarty International
Center NIH/USA (grant 1D43TW0640). We
the fishermen and cetacean research group staffs for the
assistance in fieldwork, as well as Cetacean Society Interna
tional (CSI), Society for Marine Mammalogy (SMM) and Yaqu
Pacha. A.F.A. and J.L.-B. have research grant from CNPq (PQ;
2) and FAPERJ (JCNE). We give special thanks to students
from Environmental Chemistry Lab (IDAEA-CSIC, Spain),
Radioisotope Lab (UFRJ e Brazil) and Aquatic Mammal and
Bioindicator Lab (UERJ e Brazil).
grateful toare
obviously, the exposure pathways of human and dolphins are
clearly different.
Biomagnification. Several studies have probed that
biomagnification can occur for lipophilic organic contaminants.
In addition to high concentration levels, the process that
produce biomagnification also results in age (or length)-specific
patterns for adult male marine mammal. A different pattern has
been reported for adult female mammals despite being exposed
to contamination similarly to males. During gestation and
lactation contaminant body burden deceased by transfer to
calves.
In order to probe the potential biomagnification of OCT, a
full trophic analysis of this compound must be accomplished.
However, as lower trophic level organisms on these areas were
not available, we tried to provide preliminary evidence by
comparing our results with published data on the terrestrial
food chain. To date solely one study reported data on UV filter
biomagnifications. Pent et al.^ recently investigated the
accumulation in the terrestrial food chain of EHMC, an UV
filter, having a similar lipophilicity (log 6.1) to that of
OCT. The differences in EHMC concentrations in cormorant,
fish and macroinvertebrates suggested a trend for biomagnifi
cation. Cormorants are migratory fish eating birds, representing
a high terrestrial trophic level. Average concentrations of
EHMC in five of these birds was 341 ng g“‘ Iw, with values in
the range 16—701 ng g~* Iw, whereas decreased average
concentrations were observed in lower trophic levels. This
concentration range was comparable to that obtained for OCT
in the present study (89—782 ng g'* Iw). It must be pointed
out that cormorants are migratory birds with high metabolic
capacity and whose exposure routes in the terrestrial environ
ment are different from that of the dolphins of the present
study, which are coastal and nonmigratory. Therefore, we
cannot perform an accurate comparison between these two
species.
In summary, these findings demonstrate for the first time that
the extensively used sunscreen agent OCT accumulates in liver
of dolphins at high concentration levels (up to 782 ng g“' Iw)
similar to those of anthropogenic organic persistent pollutants.
This study also provides evidence that maternal transfer may
occurs trough placenta and likely also through breast milk.
The results presented herein suggest that OCT biomagnifies
through the marine food web. In order to probe the
biomagnification of this UV filter a full trophic level analysis
of OCT will be further performed. The present study
establishes the baseline levels for OCT in dolphins from
Brazilian coastal waters. Efforts should be directed toward the
analysis of other marine organisms to assess the impact of OCT
as well as other extensively used UV filters and their
transformation products on marine ecosystems.
20,33
■ REFERENCES
(l) Richardson, S. D. Environmental mass spectrometry: Emerging
contaminants and current issues. Anal. Chem. 2010, 82, 4742—4774.
(2) Zenker, A.; Schmulz, H.j Pent, K. Simultaneous trace
determination of nine organic UV-absorbing compounds (UV filters)
in environmental samples. /. Chromatogr., A 2008, 1202, 64—74.
(3) Pent, K.; Zenker, A; Rapp, M. Widespread occurrence of
estrogenic UV filters in aquatic ecosystems in Switzerland. Environ.
Pollut. 2010, 1S8, 1817-1824.
(4) Gago-Perrero, P.; Diaz-Cruz, M. S.; Barcel6, D. Occurrence of
multiciass UV filters in treated sewage sludge from wastewater
treatment plants. Chemosphere 201 la, 84 (8), 795—806.
(5) Gago-Perrero, P.; Diaz-Cruz, M. S.; Barcelo, D. Past pressurized
liquid extraction with in-cell purification and analysis by liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry for the determination of
UV filters and their degradation products in sediments. Anal. Bioanal.
Chem. 2011b, 400, 2195-2204.
(6) Gago-Perrero, P.; Diaz-Cruz, M. S.; Barcelo, D. An overview of
UV-absorbing compounds (organic UV filters) in aquatic biota. Anal.
Bioanal. Chem. 2012, 404, 2597-2610.
(7) Balmer, M. E.; Buser, H. R; Muller, M. D.; Poiger, P. Occurrence
of some organic UV filters in wastewater, in sur&ce waters, and in fish
from Swiss lakes. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2005, 39 (2), 953—962.
(8) Buser, H. R.; Balmer, M. E.; Schmid, P.; Kohler, M. Occurrence
of UV filters 4-methy!benzyIidene camphor and octocrylene in fish
from various Swiss rivers with inputs from wastewater treatment
plants. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2006, 40 (5), 1427—1431.
(9) Pent, K.J Kunz, P.; Gomez, E. UV filters in the aquatic
environment induce hormonal effects and affect fertility and
reproduction in fish. Chimia 2008, 62, 1—8.
(10) Brausch, J. M.; Rand, G. M. A review of personal care products
in the aquatic environment: Environmental concentrations and
toxicity. Chemosphere 2011, 82, 1518—1532.
(11) Langford, K. H.; Thomas, K. V. Imputs of chemicals from
recreational activities into the Norwegian coastal zone. /. Environ.
Monil. 2008, 10, 894-898.
(12) Tarazona, I.j Chisvert, A; Leon, Z.j Salvador, A Determination
of hydroxylated benzophenone UV filters in sea water samples by
dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction followed by gas chromatog
raphy-mass spectrometry. /. Chromatogr., A 2010, 1217, 4771—4778.
(13) Danovaro, R.; Bongiorni, L.; Corinaldese, C.; Giovannelli, D.;
Damiani, E.j Astofi, P.; Greci, L.; Pusceddu, A Sunscreens cause coral
bleaching by promoting viral infections. Environ. Health Perspect. 2008,
116, 441-447.
(14) Nakata, H.; Murata, S.; Filatreau, S. Occurence and
concentrations of benzotriazole UV stabilizers in marine organisms
■ AUTHOR INFORMATION
Corresponding Author
♦Phone: -1-34 93 400 6100; fax +34 93 204 59 04; e-mail:
sdcqam(®cid.csic.es.
Notes
The authors declare no competing fi nancial interest.
■ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research was funded by the Spanish Ministry of Economy
and Competitiveness through the Project CEMAGUA
(CGL2007-64551/HID). This work was also partly supported
5624 dx.doi.org/10,1021/es400675ylfnwron. Sci. Technol. 2013, 47, S619-562S
Environmental Science & Technology Article
(31) Weijs, L.J Dirtu, A. C.j Das, K.; Gheorghe, A.; Reijnders, P. J. H.j
Neels, H.J Dlust, R.j Covaci, A. Inter-species differences for
polychlorinated biphenyls and polybrominateddiphenyl ethers in
marine top predators from the Southern North Sea. Part 2.
Biomagnification in harbor seals and harbor porpoises. £nviro«. Pollut.
2009, 157, 445-45.
(32) Schlumpf, M.j Kypke, K.j Wittassek, M.j Angerer, J.j Mascher,
D.j Vbkt, C.j Birchler, M.j Lichtensteiger, W. Exposure patterns of UV
filters, fragances, parabens, phthalates, organochlor pesticides, PBDEs,
and PCBs in human milk: Correlation of UV filters with use of
cosmetics. Chemosphere 2010, 81 (lO), 1171 — 1183.
(33) Wolkers, H.j Hammill, M. O.j van Bavel, B. Tissue-specific
accumulation and lactational transfer of polychlorinatedbiphenyls,
chlorinated pesticides, and brominated flame retardants in hooded
seals (Cistophora cristata) from the Gulf of St. Lawrence: Application
for monitoring. Environ. Pollut. 2006, 142, 476-486.
and sediments from the Ariake Sea, Japan. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2009,
15, 43 (18), 6920-6926.
(15) Caspar, L. R; Campos, Maia PMBG. Evaluation of the
photostability of different UV filter combinations in sunscreens. Int. J.
Pharm. 2006, 307, 123-128.
(I6) Tanabe, S. Contamination and toxic effects of persistent
endocrine disrupters in marine mammals and birds. Mar. Po//»f. Bull.
2002, 45, 69-77.
(17) Secchi, E. Review on the threats and conservation status of
Franciscana, Pontoporia blainvillei (Cetacea, Pontoporiidae). In
Biology, Evolution and Conservation 0/ River Dolphins Within South
America and Asia, Wildlife Protection, Destruction and Extinction
Series; Ruiz-Garcia, M., Shostell, J., Eds.; Nova Publishers: New York,
2010.
(18) Reeves, R. R.; Smith, B. D.; Crespo, E. A.; Nortabartolo, G. D.
Dolphins, Whales and Porpoises: 2004—2010 Conservation Action Plan
for the World's Cetaceans; Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, 2008.
(19) Ott, P. H. S.; E., R; Moreno, 1. B.; Danilewicz, D.j Crespo, E. A.;
Bordino, P.; Ramos, R; Di Beneditto, A. P.j Bertozzi, C. P.; Bastida,
R; Zanelatto, R; Perez, J. E.; Kinas, P. G. Report of the working group
on fishery interactions. Latin Am. J. Aquat. Mammals 2002, J, 55—64.
(20) Alonso, M. B.; Eljarrat, E.; Gorga, M.; Secchi, E. R; Bassoi, M.;
Barbosa, L.; Bertozzi, C. P.; Marigo, J.; Cremer, M.; Domit, C.j
Azevedo, A F.; Domeles, P. R; Torres, J. P. M.; Lailson-Brito, J.;
Malm, O.; Barcelo, D. Natural and anthropogenically-produced
brominated compounds in endemic dolphins from Western South
Atlantic: Another risk to a vulnerable species. Environ. Pollut. 2012a,
J70, 152-160.
(21) Alonso, M. B.; Feo, M. L.; Corcellas, C.; Vidal, L. G.; Bertozzi,
C. P.J Marigo, J.; Secchi, E. R; Bassoi, M.; Azevedo, A F.; Dorneles, P.
R; Torres, J. P. M.; Lailson-Brito, J.; Malm, O.; Eljarrat, E.; Barcelo, D.
Pyrethroids: A new threat to marine mammals? Environ. Int. 2012b,
47, 99-106.
(22) Secchi E. R; Wang J. Y. Pontoporia blainvillei (Rio Grande do
Sul/Uruguay Subpopulation), lUCN Red List of Threatened Species;
International Union for Conservation of Nature: Gland, Switzer-
Iand2003.
(23) Bicego, M. C.; Taniguchi, S.; Yogui, G. T.; Montone, R C.j
Silva, D. A M.J Louren^o, R A; Martins, C. S. D. C.j Sasaki, S. T.j
Pellizari, V. H.j Weber, R R Assessment of contamination by
polychlorinated biphenyls and aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons in
sediments of the Santos and Sao Vicente Estuary System, Sao Paulo,
Brazil. Mar. Pollut. Bull. 2006, 52, 1804-1816.
(24) Domeles, P. Rj Lailson-Brito, J.j Dirtu, A C.j Weijs, L.j
Azevedo, A F.j Torres, J. P. M.j Malm, O.j Neels, H.j Blust, R; Das,
K.J Covaci, A Anthropogenic and naturally-produced organobromi-
nated compounds in marine mammals from Brazil. Environ. Int. 2010,
36, 60-66.
(25) Lamparelli, M. L.j Costa, M. P.j Prosper!, V. Aj Bevilacqua, J. E.j
Aaujo, R P. Aj Eysink, G. G. L.j Pompeia, S. Sistema Estuarino de
Santos e Sao Vicente; CETESB: Relatorio Tecnico. Sao Paulo, 2001.
(26) European Commission. Commission Decision, 2002/657/EC of
12 August, Off. J. European Communities, Belgium, L221/ 8, 2002.
(27) Whitmore, S. E.j Morison, W. L. Prevention of UVB-induced
immunosuppression in humans by a high sun protection factor
sunscreen. Arch. Dermatol. 1995, 131, 1128—33.
(28) Seite, S.j Colige, Aj Piquemal-Vivenot, P. A flill-UV spectrum
absorbing daily use cream protects human skin against biological
changes occurring in photoaging. Photodermatol. Photoimmunol.
Photomed. 2000, J6, 147-55.
(29) Liardet, S.j Scaletta, C.j Panizzon, R Protection against
pyrimidine dimers, p 53, and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine expression
in ultraviolet-irradiated human skin by sunscreens: Difference between
UVB + UVAand UVB alone sunscreens./. Invest. Dermatol. 2001, 117,
1437-41.
(30) Coat, S.J Monti, D.j Legendre, P.j Bouchon, C.j Massat, F.j
Lepoint, G. Organoclorine pollution in tropical rivers (Guadeloupe):
Role of ecological factors in food web bioaccumulation. Environ. Pollut.
2011, 159, 1692-1701.
5625 dx.doi.org/10.1021/es400675y I fnWron. Sci. Technol. 2013, 47. S619-S625
Testimony of
Pacific Resource Partnership
^''EDR£
im DEC 16 AH 9: 37City Council
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice L Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Of'FiCE Or THic
COUNTY CLERK
County Communication No. 21-556—Mayor, notifying of his veto of Bill 111 (2021), Draft 1
Friday, December 17, 2021
9:00 A.M.
City Council Chamber
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council.
Pacific Resource Partnership (PRP) is a non-profit market recovery trust fund which represents approximately
7,000 men and women union carpenters and 240 large and small contractors. V^ith our expertise in research,
compliance, marketing, and project advocacy, we are committed to building a stronger, more sustainable
Hawaii in a way that promotes a vibrant economy, creates jobs, and enhances the quality of life for all
residents of Hawaii.
PRP writes in strong opposition of Bill 11, Draft 1, and respectfully requests this Council uphold the Mayor's
veto of this bill.
The proposed bill will further complicate and prolong the process of getting Maui's residents into affordable
housing and likely increase the overall cost of housing units.
Affordable housing projects using government subsidies, including but not limited to Low Income Housing
Tax Credits (LIHTC), are highly regulated by County, State, and Federal agencies. Agencies have specific
requirements regarding tenant selection, financial qualifications, fair housing and accessibility. Adding an
additional layer of regulation to the selection process and taking away the developer, its partners, or its
management company's ability to establish a wait list is unnecessary and equates to more risk for the
developer, tax credit investors, debt financiers, and private equity investors. This risk alone may deter
developers from building affordable housing in Maui.
Moreover, the proposed amendments will put a heavy burden on the Department of Housing and Human
Concerns (DHHC) to ensure that all County, State, and Federal regulations are followed in a timely manner.
This will likely require DHHC to hire and retain more staff with experience in developing affordable housing,
and require DHHC to invest in additional resources to deliver these new responsibilities. Furthermore, DHHC
or its designee will likely be held liable for any errors occurring during the qualification process.
PRPr>AC)FiC R£»MPCr
THC POWER OF PARTNERS 1-1 IP WWW,PRP-HAWAM.COM
PHONE -> 808.528.55571100 AUKEA STREET / 4TH FLOOR
HONOLULU/HI 96813
rj WVWV.FACESOOK.COM/^ PACIFICRESOURCEPARTNERSHIP
TWIHER-
aPRPHAWAII©
(Continued From Page 1)
We are also concerned that changing the sales period from 90 days to 120 days will create additional
carrying costs for projects thereby making housing more expensive.
We have witnessed and continue to see how Maui's overregulation of affordable housing projects have kept
this county in its current housing crisis. We need to find new ways to incentivize developers to build more
affordable housing before the problem gets worse. Given the above, we respectfully recommend that this
Council uphold the Mayor's veto of this bill and consider policies that encourage the construction of more
affordable housing.
Thank you for this opportunity to submit written testimony.
THE POWER OF PARTNERSHIP
County Clerk
Rachel Albright - TTA <rachel@tarranttransitalliance.org>
Thursday, December 16, 2021 5:02 AM
County Clerk
Letter of Support for Rainey Dock Matthews
From:
Sent:
To;
Subject:
You don't often get email from rachel@tarranttransitalliance.org. Learn why this is important
Honorable Michael J. Molina, Committee Chair
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair Molina:
I am writing today to give my overwhelming support on behalf of Rainey Matthews, serving as a commissioner on the
Maui County Commission on Persons with Disabilities.
I met Rainey when the Tarrant Transit Alliance -  acoalition focused on improving transit access in Tarrant County, Texas
- began. Since then, she has been my mentor and greatest spokesperson for people with disabilities. She would give her
time to speak in educational outreach programs about the relationship between transit and the differently-able and her
time spent on our Board of Directors shaped our organization's focus and policies. I can not emphasize enough what an
incredible asset she would be to the Maui community in serving this role.
Please do not hesitate to contact me with you would like additional information about Rainey. My information is in my
signature below.
Sincerely,
OO
50—i
73C3
mo oRachel Albright r'io
OPresident
The Tarrant Transit Alliance
She ● Her ● Hers
O -n -n
:nx7;
GO
aPO
i>o
8179950374
rachel@tarranttransitalliance.orQ
TarrantTransitAlliance.org
PO Box 470474, Fort Worth, TX 76147
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Marty Baker <mbaker@hccmail.org>
Wednesday, December 15, 2021 5:19 PM
County Clerk
Written Testimony for Ms. Rainey Matthews
OQ
o-t 73To: C3C
Subject: 2;oH om O'<
O
[You don't often get email from mbaker@hccmail.org. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
n 3C
rrrn o? ;  I
tor -
ro
To whom it may concern,
I am writing on behalf of Ms. Rainey Matthews, who has informed me of her nomination to be a Commissioner on the
Maui County Commission on Persons with Disabilities. Ms. Rainey was a staple in our community and with our church.
She is an incredibly humble, personable, and knowledgeable advocate for persons with disability. She lovingly helped to
educate, inform, and challenge those around her in ways that made us all desire to know better and do better. If you
were to grant her the honor of this position, ail those associated with her would only be grateful for the opportunity.
She is a wonderful human being, and she makes the world around her better as well.
Please do not hesitate to reach out with any questions.
Marty Baker
Student/Family Minister
Heritage Church of Christ
C: (214) 232-6526
1
Count^^Jet^
Lisa Bishop <lisa.fohb@gmail.com>
Thursday, December 16, 2021 2:32 PM
County Clerk
Kelly King; Ellen B. McKinley; Axel I. Beers
Testimony for 17 December 2021 Maui County Council Meeting
Maui Council Bill 21-135 12.16.21.pdf; NAS-EPA.pdf; NAS Kahele 3.15.21 short.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from lisa.fohb@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
Please include the attached testimony and two additional attached letters in tomorrow's discussion of Agenda Item CC
21-557.
90O  *nC T1 C3
rno m2:5—i rm oOv rr;ooMahalo, *TJ
m rn2:Lisa Bishop
President
Friends of Hanauma Bay
(808) 748-1819
Qo
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is for the sole use of the intended
recipient(s) and may contain confidential, proprietary, and/or privileged information protected by law. If you are
not the intended recipient, you may not use, copy, or distribute this e-mail message or its attachments. If you
believe you have received this e-mail message in error, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and telephone
immediately and destroy all copies of the original message.
1
9^
'AUMA’
Dedicated to the conservation ofcoastal and marine environments,
emphasizing stewardship ofthe natural resources of Hanauma Bay
Council of the County of Maui
Regular Meeting of December 17, 2021 9:00 a.m.
Meeting Site: Online Only
via BlueJeans link https://maui.blueieans.com/29523567Q
December 16, 2021
Re: CC 21-557 MAYOR comments relating to Bill 135 (2021) entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 20.42, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO PROHIBIT THE
SALE, USE, OR DISTRIBUTION OF NON-MINERAL SUNSCREENS".
Aloha Maui County Council,
Mahalo for the opportunity to testify on agenda item CC 21-557.
The Mayor’s comments on Bill 135 (2021) signal that his “administration is prepared to
reevaluate the ordinance and if applicable, propose changes to the Council following the
findings of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine in the Spring of
2022,” prior to the effective date of the law.
He states that “coral reefs face graver dangers through increasing ocean temperatures and
levels of carbon dioxide in seawater, and increasing levels of trash and micro-plastics from
improper disposal and stormwater runoff. Without addressing these types of global threats to
coral reefs, our marine ecosystems will still continue to face an uphill battle.”
We agree that coral reefs face multiple threats that Councilmember King and others are also
working to address, but it is difficult to understand the Mayor’s logic that because “coral reefs
face graver dangers...” there is no reason to enact this “first step” to remove toxic substances
like organic sunscreens from Hawaii’s waters to protect coral and all that live within the reef.
That’s like telling a cancer patient that there is no point in setting a broken arm because (s)he is
undegoing long-term chemotherapy... Complications from an untreated bone fracture will
adversely affect a patient's ability to fight the cancer. You fix the broken arm because the whole
person deserves and benefits from a holistic approach to health management. Similarly, our
fragile marine ecosystems will not survive to thrive under climate change or vast marine debris
accumulations unless we eliminate toxic substances like non-mineral sunscreens from the
water. It all begins with the water. If the water is toxic, marine environments cannot
survive. And unlike stopping climate change, eliminating toxic substances like non-mineral
sunscreens from the water is an immediateoy achievable goal with no cost to the State of
Hawai’i. All it takes is the dedicated leadership that passed Bill 135 (2021).
PO BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 * wcbsilc; www fricndsQfhanaumabay.org * email: info@fricndsofhanaumabay.org
Friends ofHanauma Bay is a Section 501 (c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
Op
AUMA
Dedicated to the conservation of coastal and marine environments,
emphasizing stewardship of the natural resources of Hanauma Bay
The FDA is responsible for Human Health and Safety, and NOAA is responsible for U.S.
National Marine Sanctuaries. The NAS has absolutely no jurisdiction over sunscreen
regulations for people or environmental impacts to coral reefs.
The FDA has determined only zinc oxide and titanium dioxide are Generally Recognized as
Safe and Effective (GRASE) for use in sunscreens. All other non-mineral organic active
ingredients in sunscreens are Not GRASE. https://www.fda.gov/druQs/understanding-over-
counter-medicines/questions-and-answers-fda-posts-deemed-final-order-and-proposed-order-
over-counter-sunscreen
Q. What is FDA proposing for sunscreen active
ingredients in the proposed order?
A. To establish a final order for sunscreens, FDA is reviewing the active
ingredients in these products to determine whether sunscreens with such
ingredients are generally recognized as safe and effective (GRASE) for OTC
sunscreen use. This proposed order applies only to sunscreen active ingredients
listed in the 1999 stayed (not in effect) final monograph. FDA is proposing the
following categories of sunscreen ingredients:
GRASE* for Not GRASE for use (n
UMln
sunscreens safety coflcems
sunscreens because of
Not GRASE for use in sunscreens because additional data needed
Zinc oxide Aminobenzolc acid CInoxate, dtoxybenzone, ensulizole, homosalate, meradimate,
octinoxate, octisalate, octocrylene, padimate 0. sullsobenzone,
oxybenzone, avobenzone
and titanium (PABA) and Irolamine
dioxide salicylate
*GRASE= Generally Recognized as Safe and Effective, when also in conformity
with all other applicable requirements.
Q: Why are titanium dioxide and zinc oxide the only
proposed GRASE ingredients?
A. FDA's review of publicly available evidence has found sufficient safety data
on both zinc oxide and titanium dioxide to support a proposal that sunscreen
products containing these ingredients (at concentrations of up to 25%) are
GRASE. Top
PO BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 * website: www.fricndsonianaumahay.nrg ‘ email: info@fricndsofhanaumabay.org
Friends of Hanauma Bay is a Section 501 (c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
Dedicated to the conservation ofcoastal and marine environments,
emphasizing stewardship of the natural resources of Hanauma Bay
NOAA has determined that common chemicals used in thousands of products to protect against
harmful effects of ultraviolet light threaten corals and other marine life:
https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/news/sunscreen-corals.html
SUNSCREEN CHEMICALS AND MARINE LIFE
How sunscreen chemicals enter our environment:
● when ive swm or shower, sunscreen mayThe sunscreen you apply may not stay
wash off and enter our waterways.on your skin.
1
How sunscreen chemicals can affect marine life:r»<
t.
0
o
0
Accumulates in tissues.
Can induce bleaching, damage
DNA. larval defects and even kill.
2 Can induce larval deformities.Can impair
growth and photosynthesis.
●r* ■
,d‘ ;o"?£>.
A
Can accumulate in tissues and
be transferred to young.
Can decrease fertility and
reproduction, and cause female
characteristics in male fish.
Can damage
Immune and reproductive
systems, and deform larvae.
How we can protect ourselves and marine life:
Seek shade between 10 am & 2 pm, use Ultraviolet Protection Factor fUPF) sunwear, and choose sunscreens with chemicals that don't harm marine life.
Leggings
●'/sunscreen-cor.^i': I t
Sun hat UV Sun glasses Sun shirtSeek shade: 10am to 2pm Umbrella
The on-going NAS ad hoc committee reviewing the state of science on use of sunscreen
ingredients currently marketed in the US is reviewing the same studies that underpin the official
positions the FDA and NOAA have already taken on the issue: only zinc oxide and titanium
dioxide are GRASE.
However, Industry lobbied for this NAS review, and has used waiting for the NAS review as a
means of stopping any further sunscreen legislation in Hawai’i and elsewhere.
https://www.happi.eom//issues/2021-04-04/view sunscreen-fiiter/t he-politics-of-sunscreens-
are-heatina-up/
PC BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 ‘ website: www.friendsolbanaumabay.org * email: info@fricndsoflianaumabay.o rg
Friends of Hanauma Bay is a Section 501(c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
AUMA
Dedicated to the conservation ofcoastal and marine environments,
emphasizing stewardship of the natural resources of Hanaiima Bay
An astounding 75% of the panelists selected for this committee have deep and public financial
ties with Industry. Concern over this clear conflict of interest was outlined in letters to members
of Hawaii’s US Congressional Delegation and the ERA by Hawaii organizations representing
thousands of residents. We urge the Maui Council to enter these attached letters into the public
record for the 17 December 2021 Council meeting.
In summary, the NAS has no jurisdiction on sunscreens, so any comments NAS makes on the
state of the science on sunscreens is purely advisory. Only the FDA’s determination on
sunscreens is binding, which coincides with NOAA’s findings: only zinc oxide and titanium
dioxide are Generally Recognized as Safe and Effective (GRASE) for use in sunscreens, and
common chemicals usedJn thousands of products to protect against harmful effects of
uJtcaviolet light threaten corals and other marine life.
Maui’s Bill 135 (2021), Ordinance 5306, supports the official position of the FDA and NOAA, and
provides important and much needed public health and environmental protection.
Mahalo for considering our testimony on CC 21 -557 MAYOR comments relating to Bill 135
(2021^nd hope the attached letters provide additional insight into our testimony.
Sin^t^ly,
Lisa Bishop
President
(808) 748-1819
PO BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 * website: www.fricndsnfbanaumabay.firg * email: info@fricndsofbanauinabay.org
I'rienJs of Hamuma Bay is a Seclion 501(c)(3) not-for-profn charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
On Behalf of the Hawai’i Coral Reef Stakeholders Hui
Michael S. Regan 29 March 2021
Administrator
Environmental Protection Agency
Mail Code 1101A
1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Washington, DC 20460
Aloha Administrator Regan,
The Hawaii Coral Reef Stakeholders Hui includes over 50 organizations, businesses,
individuals and eminent scientists from around the world including Canada, France,
Israel, Iran, and China. Collectively, the Hui speaks for more than one thousand citizens
from Hawai’i and across the country.
We are deeply concerned about the bias of the participants selected by the National
Academy of Sciences (NAS) for the recently convened study on the Environmental
Impact of Currently Marketed Sunscreens and Potential Human Impacts of Changes in
Sunscreen Usage sponsored by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
https://www.nationalacademies.org/our-work/environmental-impact-of-currentlv-
marketed-sunscreens-and-potential-human-impacts-of-changes-in-sunscreen-usage
In this study, the EPA has tasked the NAS to review the environmental harms of
chemical sunscreens and balance them against the products ’benefits. This process will
take the place of a risk assessment which EPA lacks authority to conduct because the
products are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
Although the study is supposed to be conducted by unbiased experts, nine out of twelve
of the participants selected by the NAS have a financial conflict of interest and are
propagandists for the Personal Care Products Council and associated corporations
(collectively, the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry). The Petrochemical Sunscreen
Industry directly funds their research, pays them consulting fees, and funds their
employers.
Founded in 1863 as a result of an Act of Congress, the NAS is charged with providing
independent, objective advice to the nation on matters related to science and technology.
NAS’s selection of these panelists with clear conflicts of interest puts in doubt the
integrity and the outcome of this important consensus report to Congress. Stacking the
deck with paid Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry scientists and propagandists also
significantly undermines public confidence in the integrity of the scientific process used
by the NAS, and the judgment of the EPA.
The following publicly available information shows that nine of the twelve panelists NAS
selected for the study have clear ties to the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry which
compromises the legitimacy and integrity of the study:
1. Charles Menzie (Chair) - currently works for Exponent, Inc., a leader in litigation
defense and regulatory science. It is a go-to destination for major industries with liability
problems which accepts money from the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry, including
members of the American Chemistry Council.
https://www.exponent.eom/professionals/m/menzie-charles-a
https ://business-ethics. com/2016/12/13/1724-big-companies-in-legal-scrapes-turn-to-
scicnce-for-hire-giant-exponent/
2. Scott Belanger - recently retired from the "Global Product Stewardship Global
Capability Organization (Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability) of the Procter &
Gamble Company". He has long argued that the volume-use of surfactants has no
environmental impact.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC413Q171/pdf/best44_1893.pdf
3. Karen Glanz - appears to have already determined the impact of sunscreens on coral
before the NAS panel discussions even started. She co-authored an Op-Ed for the
Honolulu Star Advertiser with Kevin Cassel (also appointed to the Study) titled
“Sunscreens save lives, have limited impact on coral reefs”
(https://www.staradvertiser.eom/2018/03/29/editorial/island-voices/sunscreens-save-
lives-have-limited-impact-on-coral-reefs/#storv-section) whereby she and Cassel lobby
against Hawaii’s 2018 ban on sale of sunscreens containing the petrochemicals
oxybenzone and octinoxate. Additionally, “Sunscreens Save Lives” is a J&J tag line that
was used for promoting inappropriate information on High SPF sunscreens to Florida
citizens via the Sun Safe Florida web site. The site “sunsafeflorida.com” is no longer on
line, and nothing has been posted on their Twitter page
(https://twitter.com/SunSafcFlorida) since October 2019.
4. Kevin Cassel - is not an expert on sunscreens but has received funding from the
Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry. He co-authored an Op-Ed for the Honolulu’s Star
Advertiser with Karen Glanz titled “Sunscreens save lives, have limited impact on coral
reefs” (https://www.staradvertiser.eom/2018/03/29/editorial/island-voices/sunscreens-
save-lives-have-limited-impact-on-coral-reefs/#storv-section') that claims sunscreens
prevent skin cancer and have limited impacts on coral reefs.
5. Carys Mitchelmore - has recently written two papers: one sponsored by, and one co
authored by, the Personal Care Products Council that tries to argue that coral is not
negatively impacted by petrochemical sunscreens. Her recent endeavor outlines what she
perceives as the problems with the existing nine coral papers currently in the scientific
literature. Again, it appears that she determined the outcome of the NAS panel before it
convened.
6. Paul K. Westerhoff- between 2010 and 2020, he published 19 nano titanium dioxide
papers mostly demonstrating negative impacts to the environment. Although nano-
particle minerals have been repeatedly noted as not being healthy for the environment by
many, and remain an issue for human safety by the FDA, the concern is that he may be
more in favor of the petrochemical sunscreen additives currently under review.
7. Rebecca D. Klaper - in 2006 and 2017, Ms Klaper published three papers on the
negative effects of nano-particle sized titanium dioxide, again which is being questioned
for human safety by the FDA. The concern is that she would be inclined to promote the
petrochemical sunscreens in question and inappropriately concluded their safety before
the NAS Panel started.
8. Dirk Elston - a credentialed author of many topics, he has co-authored a response to a
sunscreen paper in the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology (AAD). The
paper states, “The hypothesis that a component of sunscreens may promote frontal
fibrosing alopecia remains unproven”. Again, this reviewer is prone to conclude that
petrochemical sunscreens do not have a negative impact based on AAD propaganda. The
AAD strongly promotes the use of petrochemical sunscreens, and he has remained
indifferent to the current literature demonstrating the environmental and human impacts
of these chemicals.
9. Kanade Shinkai - a respected dermatologist from the University of San Francisco,
California who has co-authored two papers in JAMA Dermatology (she is the editor)
addressing the FDA Matta et al publications demonstrating the significant absorption
levels of sunscreen into the blood via whole body application. The review of the data is
well done. However, her bottom line to dermatologists is that the presence of these
materials in the blood at levels significantly above the concern for systemic toxicity is
still considered safe, regardless of the significant body of scientific data published in the
literature, as noted by the FDA.
It bears repeating: nine of the twelve panelists  -75% - have a financial conflict of
interest and are propagandists for the Personal Care Products Council and the
Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry.
NAS has stipulated that members of the study cannot be compensated by the
Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry during the study. However, the panelists have
accepted compensation from the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry to promote Industry
narratives before their selection to the panel, thereby delaying legislative decisions about
petrochemical UV filters in sunscreens, and manufacturing doubt about the hundreds of
peer-reviewed studies documenting the threats of these UV filters to public and
environmental health.
A recent study published March 8, 2021
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/pdf/10.102 l/acs.chemrcstox.QcQ0461 confirms that the
petrochemical octocrylene in sunscreens degrades into benzophenone, a known mutagen,
carcinogen, and endocrine disruptor. Its presence in food products or food packaging is
already banned in the United States. Under California’s Proposition 65, there is no
safe harbor for benzophenone in any
personal care products, including sunscreens, anti-aging creams, and moisturizers.
Congress failed to act on the dangers of tobacco, glyphosate, neonicotinoids, and PFAS
(poly and perfluoroalkyl substances) - the “forever chemicals” that contaminate our
drinking water and almost everything we touch, wear, and use. If the NAS study
continues with so many participants with ties to the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry,
this most recent study, and hundreds of other important studies over the last 20 years,
may be ignored because they do not support the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry
narratives. If Congress informs policy with the results of such a compromised study, it
will once again allow endangerment of societal and environmental health for generations.
Our country’s public health, as well as our nation’s fragile marine ecosystems, are
depending on impartial professionalism from this panel.
There are too many alarming similarities between this panel and the International
Wildlife Conservation Council (IWCC), a committee that was similarly stacked with
biased members, that drew public outrage, and ultimately a lawsuit. Like the IWCC, this
NAS sunscreen panel embodies the “fox in the henhouse” scenario, endangering the very
public and environmental health it is supposed to be protecting.
https://blog.humanesocictv.org/2Q 19/1 Q/illegal-govcrnment-advisorv-panel-touts-
bcncfits-of-trophv-hunting.html?credit^blog post_021Q2Q_idl 1194
https://blog.humanesocietv.org/202Q/Q2/breaking-news-lawsuit-prompts-shutdown-of-
trophv-hunters-panel-in-trump-administration.html
We therefore respectfiilly request that the current study be paused, and the panel
dissolved. We ask that the EPA require the NAS to select a new panel of participants
with no financial ties to the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry, and who do not otherwise
serve as propagandists for the Personal Care Products Council and associated
corporations.
Furthermore, we have requested Congressional oversight over this consensus study to
ensure its legitimacy and unbiased rigor. Our country’s public health and marine
ecosystems deserve an impartial study from our premier scientific body, and the NAS and
EPA should want to ensure the integrity of its scientific process.
We have shared these concerns and recommendations with US Senators and
Representatives across the country, and our concerns have gained Congressional
attention.
Mahalo nui loa for your assistance with this very important issue!
On behalf of the Hawai’i Coral Reef Stakeholders Hui,
'Efs?Bishop
President
Friends of Hanauma Bay
(808) 748-1819
NAPIUHaerericus
^ Environmental
' Laboratory
Say Ofui^Seach/ fouiHcLatU>t\/
Environmental Caucus of
The Democratic Party of Hawaii
FISHES
●●oko Beach Rentals
\ /
r A
LEGACY REEFFOUNDATION
(.jicn Locliel'l'ricd
SURFRIDERLL .
FOUNDATION
^^i^lNSPIRRTIOFofmsrly known aa PlonSEA-ory
KONA
COASTREALTY HAWAI I REGIONN COXrOMIIOM
ISLAND DIVERSHAWAII
4i
N U D I WEARlln»nil Fishiiiii& llontliiit \ss>K'inUi>ii
Waitea Property Owners Association
KALANIHALE
m lh*lfk Kjti yini* RAW ELEMENTS
AMWx^
5“’’^ malama maunalua
HONOLULUSCUBA COMPANYwBat
\
UUMA
The Honorable KaialiT Kahele
1205 Longworth HOB
Washington, DC 20515
99 Aupuni St
Suite 118
Hilo, HI 96720
15 March 2021
Aloha Congressman Kahele,
Founded in 1990, Friends of Hanauma Bay is a 501(c)(3) non-profit dedicated to the
conservation of coastal and marine environments, emphasizing stewardship of the natural
resources of Hanauma Bay.
We are deeply concerned about the bias of the participants selected by the National
Academy of Sciences (NAS) for the recently convened study on the Environmental
Impact of Currently Marketed Sunscreens and Potential Human Impacts of Changes in
Sunscreen Usage.
https://www.nationalacademies.org/our-work/environmental-impact-of-currentlv-
marketed-sunscreens-and-potential-human-impacts-of-changes-in-sunscreen-usage
Although the study is supposed to be conducted by unbiased experts, nine out of twelve
of the participants selected by the NAS have a financial conflict of interest and are
propagandists for the Personal Care Products Council and associated corporations
(collectively, the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry). The Petrochemical Sunscreen
Industry directly funds their research, pays them consulting fees, and funds their
employers.
Founded in 1863 as a result of an Act of Congress, the NAS is charged with providing
independent, objective advice to the nation on matters related to science and technology.
PO BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 * website: www friciidsoniatiaumabay.org * email: info@fricndsofhanaumabay.org
Friends ofHanauma Bay is a Section 501(c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
,N'iAUMA
NAS’s selection of these panelists with clear conflicts of interest puts in doubt the
integrity and the outcome of this important consensus report to Congress. Stacking the
deck with paid Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry scientists and propagandists also
significantly undermines public confidence in the integrity of the scientific process used
by the NAS.
The following publicly available information shows that nine of the twelve panelists NAS
selected for the study have clear ties to the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry which
compromises the legitimacy and integrity of the study:
1. Charles Menzie (Chair) - currently works for Exponent, Inc., a leader in litigation
defense and regulatory science. It is a go-to destination for major industries with liability
problems which accepts money from the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry, including
members of the American Chemistry Council.
hUps://www.exponcnt.com/profcssionals/m/mcn/ic-chaiics-a
https://business-ethics.com/2Q 16/12/13/1724-big-companies-in-legal-scrapes-tum-to-
science-for-hire-giant-exponent/
2. Scott Belanger - recently retired from the "Global Product Stewardship Global
Capability Organization (Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability) of the Procter &
Gamble Company". He has long argued that the volume-use of surfactants has no
environmental impact.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articlcs/PMC4130171 /pdf/bcst44 1893.pdf
3. Karen Glanz - appears to have already determined the impact of sunscreens on coral
before the NAS panel discussions even started. She co-authored an Op-Ed for the
Honolulu Star Advertiser with Kevin Cassel (also appointed to the Study) titled
“Sunscreens save lives, have limited impact on coral reefs” (https://
www.staradvertiser.eom/2018/03/29/cditorial/island-voices/sunscreens-save-lives-have-
limited-impact-on-coral-reefs/#storv-section~l whereby she and Cassel lobby against
Hawaii’s 2018 ban on sale of sunscreens containing the petrochemicals oxybenzone and
PO BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 * website: www.fncndsQfh^naiiniahay nrg * email: info@fricndsofhanaumabay.org
FrienJs ofHanauma Bay is a Section 501(c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
octinoxate. Additionally, “Sunscreens Save Lives” is a J&J tag line that was used for
promoting inappropriate information on High SPF sunscreens to Florida citizens via the
Sun Safe Florida web site. The site “sunsafeflorida.com” is no longer on-line, and
nothing has been posted on their Twitter page (https://twitter.com/SunSafeFlorida'l since
October 2019.
4. Kevin Cassel - is not an expert on sunscreens but has received funding from the
Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry. He co-authored an Op-Ed for the Honolulu’s Star
Advertiser with Karen Glanz titled “Sunscreens save lives, have limited impact on coral
reefs” (https://www.staradvertiser.eom/2018/03/29/editorial/island-voices/sunscreens-
save-lives-havc-limitcd-impact-on-coral-reeFs/#story-section'l that claims sunscreens
prevent skin cancer and have limited impacts on coral reefs.
5. Carys Mitchelmore - has recently written two papers: one sponsored by, and one co
authored by, the Personal Care Products Council that tries to argue that coral is not
negatively impacted by petrochemical sunscreens. Her recent endeavor outlines what she
perceives as the problems with the existing nine coral papers currently in the scientific
literature. Again, it appears that she determined the outcome of the NAS panel before it
convened.
6. Paul K. Westerhoff- between 2010 and 2020, he published 19 nano titanium dioxide
papers mostly demonstrating negative impacts to the environment. Although nano-
particle minerals have been repeatedly noted as not being healthy for the environment by
many, and remain an issue for human safety by the FDA, the concern is that he may be
more in favor of the petrochemical sunscreen additives currently under review.
7. Rebecca D. Klaper- in 2006 and 2017, Ms Klaper published three papers on the
negative effects of nano-particle sized titanium dioxide, again which is being questioned
for human safety by the FDA. The concern is that she would be inclined to promote the
petrochemical sunscreens in question and inappropriately concluded their safety before
the NAS Panel started.
8. Dirk Elston - a credentialed author of many topics, he has co-authored a response to a
sunscreen paper in the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology (AAD). The
PO BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 * website: wwwJricndsoflianaiimabay.Qrg * email: info@fricndsofhanaumabay.org
Friends ofHanauma Bay is a Section 501(c)(3) not-for-prqfn charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
^AUMA‘
paper states, “The hypothesis that a component of sunscreens may promote frontal
fibrosing alopecia remains unproven”. Again, this reviewer is prone to conclude that
petrochemical sunscreens do not have a negative impact based on AAD propaganda. The
AAD strongly promotes the use of petrochemical sunscreens, and he has remained
indifferent to the current literature demonstrating the environmental and human impacts
of these chemicals.
9. Kanade Shinkai - a respected dermatologist from the University of San Francisco,
California who has co-authored two papers in JAMA Dermatology (she is the editor)
addressing the FDA Matta et al publications demonstrating the significant absorption
levels of sunscreen into the blood via whole body application. The review of the data is
well done. However, her bottom line to dermatologists is that the presence of these
materials in the blood at levels significantly above the concern for systemic toxicity is
still considered safe, regardless of the significant body of scientific data published in the
literature, as noted by the FDA.
It bears repeating: nine of the twelve panelists  -75% - have a financial conflict of
interest and are propagandists for the Personal Care Products Council and the
Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry.
NAS has stipulated that members of the study cannot be compensated by the
Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry during the study. However, the panelists have
accepted compensation from the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry to promote Industry
narratives before their selection to the panel, thereby delaying legislative decisions about
petrochemical UV filters in sunscreens, and manufacturing doubt about the hundreds of
peer-reviewed studies documenting the threats of these UV filters to public and
environmental health.
A recent study published March 8, 2021 https://pubs.acs.0rg/d0i/pdf/l 0,1021/
acs.chemrestox.0c00461 confirms that the petrochemical octocrylene in sunscreens
degrades into benzophenone, a known mutagen, carcinogen, and endocrine disruptor. Its
presence in food products or food packaging is already banned in the United States.
Under California’s Proposition 65, there is no safe harbor for benzophenone in any
personal care products, including sunscreens, anti-aging creams, and moisturizers.
PO BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 * website: www.friendsofhannumabay.org * email: intb@rricndsolhanaiimabay.org
hriends of Hanauma Bay is a Section 501 (c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
Congress failed to act on the dangers of tobacco, glyphosate, neonicotinoids, and PFAS
(poly and perfluoroalkyl substances) - the “forever chemicals” that contaminate our
drinking water and almost everything we touch, wear, and use. If the NAS study
continues with so many participants with ties to the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry,
this most recent study, and hundreds of other important studies over the last 20 years,
may be ignored because they do not support the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry
narratives. Congress will once again allow endangerment of societal and environmental
health for generations if it accepts the results of such a compromised study. Our
country’s public health, as well as our nation’s fragile marine ecosystems, are depending
on impartial professionalism from this panel.
There are too many alarming similarities between this panel and the International
Wildlife Conservation Council (IWCC), a committee that was similarly stacked with
biased members, that drew public outrage, and ultimately a lawsuit. Like the IWCC, this
NAS sunscreen panel embodies the “fox in the henhouse” scenario, endangering the very
public and environmental health it is supposed to be protecting.
https://blog.humanesociety.org/2019/10/illcgal-government-advisorv-panel-touts-
bcncfits-of-trophy-hunting.html?credit=blog post_Q21020_id 11194
https://blog.humancsocietv.org/202Q/02/breaking-ncws-lawsuit-prompts-shutdown-of-
trophy-huntcrs-panel-in-trump-administration.html
We therefore respectfully request that the current study be paused, and the panel
dissolved. We ask that the NAS select a new panel of participants with no financial ties
to the Petrochemical Sunscreen Industry, and who do not otherwise serve as
propagandists for the Personal Care Products Council and associated corporations.
Further, we request Congressional oversight over this consensus study to ensure its
legitimacy and unbiased rigor. Our country’s public health and marine ecosystems
deserve an impartial study from our premier scientific body, and the NAS should want to
ensure the integrity of its scientific process.
PO BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 * website; www.fricntlsQthanaumabay.org * email: info@friendsolhanaumabay.org
Friends ofHanauma Bay is a Section 501(c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
Op
Mai "b nui for your assistance in this matter!
Lisa Bishop
President
Friends of Hanauma Bay
(808) 748-1819
PO BOX 25761, Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0761 * website: www.fricnHsofhanaiimnhay org * email; info@fricndsofhanaumabay.org
FrienJs of Hanauma Bay is a Section 501(c)(3) not-for-profit charitable organization
Federal Tax Identification Number 99-0285649
Count^£leH<
From;
Sent:
Patricia Cadiz <pbc5@mac.com>
Friday, December 10, 2021 8:08 PM
County Clerk
Mike J. Molina; Yuki Lei Sugimura; Tamara A. Paltin; Alice Lee
Bill #136
To;
Cc:
Subject;
[You don't often get email from pbc5@mac.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Kathy,
Please direct me to a link where I can read the full text of bill #136, relating to TVRs in the Apartment District, or tell me
how I can see it.
I asked four council members a question about it on Nov 3rd. The only reply I received was that it was deferred and
more work was needed. Now I read that it was passed on second reading on Nov 19.
Thank you in advance,
Patti Cadiz
Sent from my iPhone
O 73c:jrn i  i I
oH m U/
COi:r;I I
m -i rri9?73 o4=:l
●O
1
Count^^lerk
VINCENT J CARR <fishnirish@bellsouth.net>
Thursday, December 16, 2021 10:36 AM
County Clerk
Ordinance 5306
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from fishnirish@bellsouth.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council Members,,
I strongly support Sunscreen Ordinance 5306. Of course there are many stressors that threaten the marine ecosystem.
This measure is but one step that is needed to avoid future damage. The non-mineral sunscreen threat can easily be
addressed right now by this ordinance.
I am a volunteer on a beach where we interact with visitors daily that are interested in lessening their impact on the
marine environment while they enjoy the beauty of our Hawaiian waters and marine life. Whenever we discuss sunscreen
I hear a common refrain; “Oh yes, we have "reef-friendly” sunscreen. 1 waited until we got to Hawaii to purchase
sunscreen because I knew that they would only be selling the proper products". Unfortunately, that is not the current
reality. Ordinance 5306 will help these people accomplish their goal of minimizing their impact on the marine environment.
Please enact and enforce Ordinance 5306.
Mahalo,
Vince Carr
ooC -n
C“n
H
::uC3
mom O' rnco 3s-~n <m m
X ni DhO
1
Count^£|erk
Kathleen Clark <kciark@kohalacenter.org>
Monday, December 13, 2021 3:21 PM
County Clerk
Mineral Sunscreen Ordinance SUPPORT
From:
Sent: 20ZI DEC 13 PH > 53
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLEF^K
IYou don't often get email from kclark@kohalacenter.org. Learn why this is important
Aloha mai kakou.
I strongly support Ordinance 5306. While we are keenly aware that multiple stressors threaten the marine ecosystem,
but it is essential that we take all sensible steps to reduce the local stressors that we can. Sunscreen pollution is
something we can address immediately unlike other issues that take more time. A healthy ocean is essential to life as we
know it. The benefits it provides our communities, coastlines and economies are priceless. This ordinance moves in a
positive direction and says that we understand the value of the healthy marine systems and we will do what we can to
protect them so that future generations can still know their benefits.
Additionally, the FDA has placed chemical sunscreen products in Non-GRASE until the sunscreen industry can prove their
products are safe and effective. Non-Mineral sunscreen products have questionable effects on the health of humans and
marine life. The Precautionary Principle states that the burden of proof for potentially harmful actions by industry or
government rests on the assurance of safety and that when there are threats of serious damage, scientific uncertainty
must be resolved in favor of prevention. Finally, there are many safe options that are widely available including mineral
sunscreens and sun protective clothing.
Mahalo for your time and consideration.
Kathleen
Kathleen Clark
Marine Stewardship and Education Specialist
The Kohala Center
808-887-6411 office
808-885-6707 fax
P.O. Box 437462
Kamuela, Hawai'i 96743
kohalacenter.oro | Facebook | Instaaram
The Kohala Center is an independent, commun/fy-based center focused on research, education, and 'aina stewardship for healthier ecosystems. By
turning ancestral knowledge and research into action, we cultivate conditions that reconnect us with our place, water, food, and people, so that
communities in Hawai'i and around the world can thrive-ecologically. economically, culturally, and socially.
1
RECEIVEDCount^£lerJ<
20?! DEC 14 AH 7‘- 58John Cranshaw <johncranshaw@gmail.com>
Tuesday, December 14, 2021 6:14 AM
County Clerk
New Sunscreen Ordinance
From:
Sent:
To:
FICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
IYou don't often get email fromjohncranshaw@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To: Maui Council County Members
I strongly support Sunscreen Ordinance 5306. We are aware that multiple stressors threaten the
marine ecosystem, but this non-mineral sunscreen threat is something we can address immediately
unlike other issues that take time.
The FDA has placed these products in Non-GRASE until the sunscreen industry can prove their
products are safe and effective. Non-Mineral sunscreen products have questionable effects on the
health of humans and marine life. The Precautionary Principle states that the burden of proof for
potentially harmful actions by industry or government rests on the assurance of safety and that when
there are threats of serious damage, scientific uncertainty must be resolved in favor of prevention.
Mahalo nui loa
John Cranshaw
1
Countj/^lerk PE.-7-c:'.v/Fn
m\ DEC 11| AM 7= 58From;
Sent:
Robert Culbertson <dancingcloudrefuge@gmail.com>
Tuesday, December 14, 2021 12:00 AM
County Clerk
Sunscreen legislation - support for Ordinance 5306
To:
Subject: -TICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
r\!.
IYou don't often get email from dancingcloudrefuge@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Coundknembers!
I strongly support Sunscreen Ordinance 5306.1 am aware that multiple stressors threaten the marine
ecosystem, bu^ this non-mineral sunscreen threat is something we can address immediately unlike otlier issues that
take time. Non-Ivlineral sunscreen products have questionable effects on die health of humans and
marine life. The Precautionary Principle states tliat the burden of proof for potentially harmful actions
by industry or government rests on the assurance of safety and that when tliere are threats of serious
damage, scientific uncertainty must be resolved in favor of prevention.
Let's turn the tables on industrial policy while we keep our reefs and keiki safe!
Sincerely,
R.A. Culbertson
1
RECEIVED
2021 DEC 17 AH 8: 11Pu ama Lana‘i
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKDecember 16, 2021
By eComment
CC 21-556 Mayor notifying of his veto of Bill No. Ill (2021), "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE
HOUSING POLICY APPLICANT SELECTION PRIORITY."
Re:
Maui County Council Meeting December 17, 2021, 9:00 AM, via BlueJeans
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers:
Mahalo for allowing me the opportunity to share our thoughts with you on County Communication 21-
556: Mayor notifying of his veto of Bill No. Ill (2021), "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING POLICY
APPLICANT SELECTION PRIORITY."
Pulama Lana'i is in support of the Mayor's veto of Bill No. Ill (2021), as written. In particular the
elimination of the specific adjustment of the County's area median income (AMI) as established by HUD,
or adjusted by the department, for Hana, Lana'i, and Moloka'i (see Maui County Code 2.96.090 (B)(3)
and (4)).
Lack of community outreach
Community outreach and participation in these types of changes are paramount to the process. Pulama
Lana'i and affiliated companies employ the majority of the residents on Lana'i. To our knowledge, there
was no outreach conducted on Lana'i regarding this change.
Unintended consequences on volatility by eliminating the specific adjustment for Lana'i
Eliminating the specific adjustment by the department for the AMI for Lana'i families is significant. In
the bar graph below, you can see how different the AMI levels are between Lana'i and Maui. The
difference ranges each year. For example in 2014, the Lana'i AMI level was 12 percent less than Maui;
however, in 2020 it was 45 percent less than Maui. There could be unintended consequences by
eliminating the language. Take the example we just provided. In 2014, a Lana'i resident earning 100%
AMI according to DHHC would be would be considered in the Below Moderate income category if the
proposed bill was in effect; however in 2020, this same resident would be in the Very Low income
category.
FAX 808.566.6927HONOLULU OFFICE 733 Bishop Street, Suite 1500, Honolulu. Hawaii 96813 ● TEL 808.237.2001
LANA'I office 1311 Fraser Avenue, PO Box 630310, Lana'i City, Hawaii 96763 ● TEL 808.565.3000 ● FAX 808.565.3881
CC 21-556
Testimony from Putama Lana'i
Area Median Income for Maul County set by HUD and adjusted by DHHC (department) for Hana, Lana'i, and Molokai
●42%
$AMI
100,000 -
30,000 ●●
80,000 ●●
70,000 -
60,000 ●'
50,000 -
40,000 ●
30,000 -
20,000 ●
10,000 ●
●23%^2V●34% ●37%
●12% ●20% -20%' '21%'●42% -4S%
-11% '23%'
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2019 2020 2021
Maui,«xceptHana(DHHC) ■ Hina (OHHC) ■ Una'I (OHHC) Meloka'i (OHHC)
We appreciate the collective efforts of the Council in addressing the housing crisis in our community.
However, we would request a more deliberate authentic effort to gather community input when
considering such changes to those most affected.
Mahalo for your service to our community and for consideration of our testimony,
K,&iki-?ida Damil
Keiki-Pua S. Dancil, Ph.D.
Senior Vice President, Government Affairs & Strategic Planning
Page 2 of 2
Count^^lei^
Stan Franco <stanfranco9114@gmail.com>
Thursday, December 16, 2021 3:06 PM
County Clerk
Maui County Council Meeting
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
1 will not be able to give oral testimony at your meeting tomorro\A/ so these are my thoughts on Mayor Victorino's veto
of Bill No. Ill:
1. On the transfer of the eligibility list from developers to the County, 1 say that this makes the list accountable to the
public. Where private developers are interested in profitability, the County must represent the interest of the public.
Therefore, it is logical the County should maintain the eligibility list in the public's interest.
2. Concerning the change from 90 days to 120 days for housing built for a particular income group, I see this as a way to
assure that homes go to those with the most need. If the County will be subsidizing these homes, we should make every
effort to assure that the housing needs of folks in each income group are met. Therefore, we have to prepare our people
to be ready to take title to the homes that they need and at incomes they earn. Also, on upcoming housing projects, I
suggest that how to sign up for them should be the responsibility of the County of Maui or its designee.
3. In my involvement with the public meetings held by Hawaiian Community Assets in the development of the CAHP, 1
heard over and over again that our people wanted homes to be built for local residents. 1 believe that the new
durational residency preference is a way to accomplish what the public asked for from the CAHP. The current language
was discussed over and over again before the current language was agreed upon. Why do we need to discuss this again?
In general. Mayor Victorino claimed that the current bill may put the County of Maui in a legally challenged position. If
we are going to worry about potential legal action, we would not take any action. We should be smart when we are
creating legislation, but it should not freeze us from acting. Our community is calling us to act and indeed we must act.
Therefore, I ask the Maui County Council to override Mayor Victorino's veto.
Thank you so much for your foresight in moving our community to action in our housing crisis.
Stan Franco
214-3575
oo 730"i c=> m
m o-
Oo -oTl <n:
mm -3 wZ)X a
1
£ount^Oerk RecS.iVED-
Zl)?l DEC 16 AH 9: 37Wendy Galasso <galwen53@gmail.com>
Thursday, December 16, 2021 9;17 AM
County Clerk
Sunscreen Ordinance Support
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from galwen53@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council members,
I am in total support of Sunscreen Ordinance 5306 and the placement of unsafe products on the FDA Non-GRASE list.
I am a "Reef Teach" volunteer on Hawaii Island through the Kohala Center and feel that binding ordinances banning
unsafe sunscreen products should be enacted to help our marine and other ecosystems become healthy again and
maintain such health into the future.
I am so glad that Maui is leading the way on this issue and hope that your actions will show the rest of the state and
country that we are all united in the protection of our ecosystems and the health of our residents and visitors.
Mahalo,
Wendy Galasso
1
Countj^leH<
Patti Henry <patticns@charter.net>
Wednesday, December 15, 2021 10:33 AM
County Clerk
Sunscreen Ordinance 5306
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from patticns@charter.net. Learn whv this is important
I strongly support Sunscreen Ordinance 5306. We are aware that multiple stressors threaten the marine ecosystem, but this
non-mineral sunscreen threat is something we can address immediately unlike other issues that take time. FDA has placed
these products in Non-GRASE until the sunscreen industry can prove their products are safe and effective. Non-Mineral
sunscreen products have questionable effects on the health of humans and marine life. The Precautionary Principle states
that the burden of proof for potentially harmful actions by industry or government rests on the assurance of safety and that
when there are threats of serious damage, scientific uncertainty must be resolved in favor of prevention.
Patti Henry
oo 73CD
mCD
o-<
Oo:;nr" mm -H
:x):zni Ors>
1
HEARING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ATTN; CHAIR ALICE L. LEE & VICE-CHAIR
KEANI RAWLINS-FERNANDEZH AWAMLAND TRUST
Testimony in Strong Support of Communication No 21-560
Board of Directors
2021
Dec. 17, 2021, 9:00am
Aloha mai kakoku Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fcmandcz & Members of the
Council of the County of Maui,Board Chair
Mar)' Charles
Hawaiian Islands Land Trust, d/b/a HawaiT Land Trust (“HILT”) is Hawaii’s
islands-wide land trust that is both a Hawai‘i 501(c)3 nonprofit, and a nationally
accredited land trust. HILT’S mission is to protect and steward the lands that
sustain Hawai‘i, and to perpetuate Hawaiian values by connecting people to ‘aina.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony in strong support of
Communication No. 21-560 and its accompanying resolution.
Vice Chair
lisa Grove
Treasurer
Keith Ogata
Secretary
Jennifer Luck HILT is working to support the successful close of the final phases of the Save
Hana Coast joint land protection effort lead by Hana based non-profit
organization, Ke Ao Halii. With the successful partnership between Ke Ao Halii,
HILT, the County of Maui, and the State Legacy Land Conservation Program
(LLCP), we were able to permanently protect 27 acres of the Mokae I lands in
March 2020 and 30.34 acres of the Makaalac lands in November 2021. Now,
project partners arc working to close the final phases of this effort to protect the
entire stretch from Hamoa Beach to Waioka Pond.
Past Chair
Jonathan Scheuer
Neil Hannahs
Matt Beall
HILT strongly supports Communication No. 21-2560, which will allow project
partners to close the funding gap to complete this landscape level protection
effort.
Le‘ahi Hall
Larry Stevens
Jody Kaulukukui To date, HILT recently secured an additional $100,000.00 in private funding
support from a foundation supporting shared values of protecting Hawaii’s
agricultural lands. This amount will be used to directly lessen and leverage the
County’s contribution.
Marissa Harman
Randy Vitousek
We mahalo the County Council for its consideration of this request and are
humbled and equally emboldened in how our shared values and partnerships
provide direct reprieve to address the complex environmental and community
resilience issues that we colleetively face statewide. Mahalo nui loa for your
public service and for the opportunity to submit testimony. We look forward to
working collaboratively to protect our most special places throughout the County
of Maui.
Jocelyn Herbert
Theresa Young
President & CEO
Laura H. E. Kaakua OC
0-1
C "n 73Malama pono. cr
rnm
“^mph: 808.791.0729
126 Queen St., Ste. 306
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
www.hilt.org
■<
Shac Kamakaala
Director of ‘Aina Protection, shac@hilt.org, 808-940-0639r^
o O ^ 39»-
!':1m -H
7j X
7^ n w
Count^Cierk
Cindi Punihaole <cpunihaole@koha!acenter.org>
Wednesday, December 15, 2021 8:28 AM
County Clerk
Testimony CC21-557
From:
Sent: 2021 DEC 15 AH 9:07
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from cpunihaole@kohalacenter.org. Learn why this is important
Aloha Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair, Keani Rawlins-Fernandez Vice Chair, and Councilmembers
We on Hawai'i Island are so proud of you. Historic Ordinance 5306 shows us that Maui County continues to lead in efforts
to protect the environment and our keiki. It is troubling that this Ordinance may be amended before its effective date by
the Mayor. We are in complete support of Ordinance 5306 without modifications.
On September 24, 2021, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a proposed order concerning nonprescription
sunscreen drug products. In the proposed order, two mineral products zinc oxide and titanium dioxide are deemed
generally recognized as safe and effective (GRASE), and fourteen products are deemed NOT GRASE. Of the fourteen
products, twelve products do not currently contain sufficient data to support positive GRASE classification. The twelve
products that require additional data are avobenzone, cinoxate, dioxybenzone, ensulizole, homosalate, meradimate,
octinoxate, octisalate, octocrylene, oxybenzone, padimate 0, and sulisobenzone.
The Maui County Council shouldered the responsibility to prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens
(nonprescription drugs) that have questionable effects on the health of humans and marine life based on scientific
data. As with any other drug, the Precautionary Principle should apply.
Sincerely,
Cynthia Punihaole Kennedy
Director
Kahalu'u Bay Education Center
The Kohala Center
P.O Box 437462
Kamuela, HI 96743
808 895-1010 mobile
808 887-6411 office
Facebook.com/kahaluubay
www.kohalacenter.ore/kbec
1
CountyClet^
From:
Sent:
Ron Lucey <Ron.Lucey@gov.texas.gov>
Thursday, December 16, 2021 10:32 AM
County Clerk
■Rainey Dock Matthews'
Agenda Item # - CR 21-137Support for Appointment of Ms. Rainey Dock Matthews to
serve as the mayoral nominee for the Maui Commission on Persons with Disabilities
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I You don't often get email from ron.lucey@gov.texas.gov. Learn why this is important
Chair Molina and Committee Members:
My name is Ron Lucey. I serve as the Executive Director of the Texas Governor's Committee on
People with Disabilities (GCPD) in Austin Texas. Last month I wrote in support of the
appointment of Ms. Rainey Dock Matthews to serve as the mayoral nominee for the Maui
Commission on Persons with Disabilities. I understand a final confirmation vote is scheduied for
December 17^^. I highly recommend Ms. Mathews confirmation for your committee's vacancy.
Ms. Matthews formerly served as the Chair of the Fort Worth Mayors Committee on Persons with
Disabilities. In her role as chair the GCPD had an excellent working relationship with her and we
found the Fort Worth Mayor's Committee on People with Disabilities to be among the most active
and successful committees across our state. The success of the committee was due in large part
to Ms. Rainy Matthew's outstanding leadership of this committee. Her passionate support of
people with disabilities is balanced by her pragmatic and respectful approach to public service.
Her lived experience as a woman with a disability and professional knowledge of public
accommodations, including accessible transportation, voting, pedestrian infrastructure, and
accessible recreation programs and facilities wil  lserve your community well as you work towards
the full inclusion of individuals with disabilities in the economic and social life of Maui. Please
contact me if I can answer any additional questions about this outstanding nominee.
Respectful ly,
Ron Lucey
Executive Director
Texas Governor's Committee on People with Disabilities
P.O. Box 12428
Austin TX 78711
(512) 463-5742
(737) 701-6976 Cell
ron.lucey@Qov.texas.QOV
http://gQv.texas.aov/disabilities/
Sign up for our Gov Delivery Bulletins on Disability Issues:
https://public.qovdeliverv.com/accounts/TXGOV/subscriber/new
ocO m
rri
73c=»m mC~5
oO--<
oo Tl :3c
mm
oN.5
1
Coiuit^£lerk
2021 DEC 16 AH 9:37MICHAEL McGUIRE <mikemcguire87@msn.com>
Thursday, December 16, 2021 8:49 AM
County Clerk
Sunscreen Ordinance 5306
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: Qrt'lCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from mikemcguire87@msn.com. Learn why this is important
We strongly support Sunscreen Ordinance 5306. There are multiple stressors threatening the marine
ecosystem, but this non-mineral sunscreen threat is something we can address immediately. FDA has
placed these products in Non-GRASE until the sunscreen industry can prove their products are safe and
effective. Non-Mineral sunscreen products have questionable effects on the health of humans and marine
life.
The Precautionary Principle states that the burden of proof for potentially harmful actions by industry or
government rests on the assurance of safety and that when there are threats of serious damage, scientific
uncertainty must be resolved in favor of prevention.
Let me know if you have any questions.
Mahalo
Michael and Deborah McGuire
1
Count^^ierk
From:
Sent:
Ellen B. McKinley
Friday, December 17, 2021 7:55 AM
County Clerk
CC 21-557
Hawaii NAS Protest.pdf
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
OQ
O-r.
~i. m
73C3
mc~>
om-<
co *n
mm <?? OEllen McKinley, Executive Assistant
Office of Councilmember Kelly T. King
South Maui Residency
Office: 808.270.7108
200 South High Street, 8'^ Floor, Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicountv.us/
Now is the time to provide input to update the South Maui Community Plan! httD5://50uthmaui.wearemaui.ora/aet-
involved/
SOUTH MAUI
1
NAP!UH^cfrtMrt
Say amt SeacK foiMuiaCUyn'
Environmental Caucus of
The Democratic Party of Hawaii
V
oko Beach Rentals
(3l!lHawaii
SURFRIDER:9:C^ien Loebel-Pried
LEGACY REEF FOUNDATIONFOUNDATION
HAWAI'l REGIONKONACOASTREALTYPIRRTIONFormarty known m PlanSCA.ort COtrokAliOM
N U D 1 WEAR
Waltea Pro, Owners AtsodetionIlnxtnH rUiiliiu <V llonlliiu is\iM-inll
ISLAND DIVERS ^
 HAWAII
^ HONOLULUV SCUBA COMPANV
●A
>>aJ:I
WAIKOLOA
FOTiKCnONitOMA (OAH
KALANtHALE
Intilfk f-imtii KMt J-Ufi
RAW ELEMENTS
CoUffti $Kx;e/N>t
' -WflWAVV- '
malama maunalua
The National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
500 Fifth St, NW
Washington. DC 20001
(202) 334-2351
Attention:
Dr. Elizabeth A. Hide, Ph.D.
Executive Director
Division on Earth and Life Studies
Emily Twigg
Program Officer
Ocean Studies Board
March 3, 2021
Aloha Dr. Eide and Ms. Twigg,
The noted members of the Hawai’i Coral Reef Stakeholders Hui submit this letter of
protest about the participants selected for the National Academy of Sciences (NAS)
Study Environmental Impact of Currently Marketed Sunscreens and Potential Human
Impacts of Changes in Sunscreen Usage.
https://www.nationalacademies.org/our-work/environmental-impact-of-currentlv-
marketed-sunscreens-and-potential-human-impacts-of-changes-in-sunscreen-usage
Since this study is supposed to be conducted by unbiased experts, we are concerned that
the panel is heavily weighted to assure the Personal Healthcare Product Industry a
consensus that will allow it to continue using petrochemical active ingredients while
bypassing FDA regulations requiring safety testing of the ingredients.
For example:
1) Karen Glanz - Ms Glanz appears to have already determined the impact of sunscreen
on coral before the NAS panel discussions even started. She wrote and article in the
Hawaii Star Advertiser titled “Sunscreens save lives, have limited impact on coral reefs”
(https://www.staradvertiser.eom/2018/03/29/editorial/island-voices/sunscrecns-save-
lives-have-limited“impact-on-coral-reefs/#storv-section) whereby, she advocates against
the sunscreen ban of Hawaii. Additionally, “Sunscreens Save Lives” is a J&J tag line that
was used for promoting inappropriate information on High SPF sunscreens to Florida
citizens via the Sun Safe Florida web site .... the site “sunsafeflorida.com” is no longer
on-line and appears to be available for sale by GoDaddy! Nothing has been posted on
their Twitter page (https://twitter.com/SunSafeFlorida) since October 2019.
2) Carys Mitchelmore - has recently written two papers: one sponsored by, and one co
authored by, the Personal Care Products Council that tries to debunk that coral is
negatively impacted by sunscreens. Her recent endeavor outlines the problems with the
existing 9 coral papers currently in the scientific literature. Again, it appears that she has
already determined the outcome of the NAS panel before it convened.
3) Paul K. Westerhoff- between 2010 and 2020, he published 19 nano titanium dioxide
papers mostly demonstrating negative impacts to the environment. Although nano
particle minerals have been repeatedly noted as not being healthy for the environment by
many, and remains an issue for human safety by the FDA, the concern would be that he
may be more in favor of the petrochemical (organic) sunscreen actives currently under
review.
4) Rebecca D. Klaper- In 2006 and 2017, Ms Klaper published 3 papers on the negative
effects of nano-particle sized titanium dioxide, again which is being questioned for
human safety by FDA. The concern is that she would be inclined to promote the
petrochemical (organic) sunscreens in question and inappropriately conclude their safety
before the NAS Panel started.
5) Dirk Elston (dermatologist) - a very credentialed author of many topics, he has co
authored a response to a sunscreen paper in the Journal of the American Academy of
Dermatology (AAD). The paper states, “The hypothesis that a component of sunscreens
may promote frontal fibrosing alopecia remains unproven”. Again, this reviewer is prone
to not believe that petrochemical (organic) sunscreens have a negative impact based on
the various AAD propaganda. The AAD strongly promotes the use of sunscreens and has
remained indifferent to the current literature demonstrating environmental and human
impacts of these chemicals.
6) Kanade Shinkai (dermatologist) - a respected dermatologist from the University of San
Francisco California who has co-authored 2 papers in JAMA Dermatology (she is the
editor) addressing the FDA Matta et al publications demonstrating the significant
absorption levels of sunscreen into the blood via whole body application. The review of
the data is well done. However, again, her bottom line to dermatologists is that the
presence of these materials in the blood at levels significantly above the concern for
systemic toxicity are still considered safe, regardless of the significant body of scientific
data published in the literature, as noted by the FDA.
In contrast, an NGO and three Hawai’i State Legislators - Senator Mike Gabbard, Senator
Gil Riviere, and Representative Gene Ward - wrote to the NAS nominating Dr. Craig A.
Downs for selection to the panel. According to the panel selection committee. Dr.
Downs was the most nominated expert in the committee’s history, yet he was passed over
in favor of panelists with strong ties to the Personal Flealthcare Product Industry.
How can the American public have faith in the results of such an important study when
the NAS selected so many panelists with clear documented industry bias, while
dismissing others like Dr. Downs, one of the world’s leading forensic ecotoxicologists
with a stellar resume, who has independently championed public and environmental
health throughout his career?
There are too many alarming similarities between this panel and the International
Wildlife Conservation Council (IWCC), a committee that was similarly stacked with
biased members, that drew public outrage, and ultimately a lawsuit. Like the IWCC, this
NAS panel embodies the “fox in the henhouse” scenario, endangering the very public and
environmental health it is supposed to be protecting.
https://blog.humanesocietv.org/2Q2Q/Q2/breaking-news-lawsuit-prompts-shutdown-of-
trophv-hunters-panel-in-trump-administration.html
Below are a dozen scientific references, recently published, relating to the negative
impact to the aquatic environment focusing solely on avobenzone and octocrylene (Note:
other chemicals of concern may have also been tested concurrently in the papers
referenced below).
1) Irrigation with water containing avobenzone and octocrylene significantly inhibit the
aboveground growth of cucumber plants by interfering with photosynthesis. (Zhong et al
Sci Total Environ. 2020 Apr 20;714:136879). These findings should cause great concern
since aquatic plants (currently growing in sunscreen contaminated waters) also use
photosynthesis to grow that feed a variety of aquatic species.
2) Octocrylene was the most toxic UV filter tested in brine shrimp followed by
avobenzone (Thorel et al Toxics. 2020 Apr 10;8(2):29).
3) Octocrylene was considered to be a great threat to Japanese medaka (Oryzias latipes)
based on its reproductive toxicity (Yan Environ Pollut. 2020 Jun;261:l 14104)
4) Both avobenzone and octocrylene induced behavioral and physiological disruption at
environmentally realistic concentrations in Daphnia magna (Boyd et al Sci Total Environ.
2021 Jan 1;750:141707).
5) Long-term exposure to avobenzone and octocrylene was lethal for some organisms
living in freshwater environments and were considered dangerous for freshwater
ecosystems (University of Alberta - Sept 1,2020
https://www.enn.com/articles/65243-common-sunscreen-ingredients-dangerous-for-
freshwater-ecosystemsT
6) Octocrylene was reported to alter in a negative manner mitochondrial function of
hexacoral Pocillopora damicornis (Stien et al Sci Rep. 2020 Jun 15;10(1):9601).
7) Octocrylene accumulates in Pocillopora damicornis tissues as fatty acid conjugates and
triggers coral cell mitochondrial dysfunction (Stien et al Anal Chem. 2019 Jan
2;9I(l):990-995).
8) Octocrylene and avobenzone were found in multiple species of fish from markets in
the Canary Islands and Catalonia (Spain) with Thunnus thynnus being the most heavily
polluted species (Gimeno-Monforte et al Foods. 2020 Dec 9;9(12):1827). This finding
continues to demonstrate the growing concern of bioaccumulation/biomagnification of
organic sunscreen actives in the contamination of our food chain.
9) Octocrylene may pose high risk to aquatic organisms in the riverine and estuarine
environment in Thailand (Juksu et al Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 2020 Nov;204:l 10952).
10) In the Enoggera Reservoir (Australia), seven UV filters were detected, of which the
most prevalent were octocrylene and avobenzone (O Malley et al Sci Total Environ. 2021
Febl;754:142373).
11) Octocrylene was one of three chemicals mixed together that modified genes related to
the endocrine system, detoxification mechanisms, and the stress response in Chironomus
riparius (Muniz-Gonzalez Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 2020 Dec 15;206:111199).
12) Over 60 disinfection by-products were identified as transformation products of
avobenzone in different disinfection reactions of chlorination and bromination of fresh or
seawater ... increasing its toxicity (Lebedev et al Environment International Volume 137,
April 2020, 105495).
Published Research Reviewing Whether Sunscreens Prevent Skin Cancer
Statement Citation
"The preparations are all designed to protect against the
acute effects of ultraviolet, namely sunburn. Because of their
effectiveness in this regard, they are often assumed to protect
against ultraviolet carcinogenesis. In most cases, however,
there is little or no published evidence that they do so and the
relationship is inferential."
Emmett. Ultraviolet radiation as a
cause of skin tumors. CRC Crit Rev
Toxicol. 1973;2(2):211-55.
"in summary, the results of this study indicate that
inflammation and enhanced melanoma growth are different
effects of UV radiation involving different mechanisms and
have different sensitivities for sunscreen protection.
Furthermore, protection against sunburn does not necessarily
imply prevention of other possible UV radiation effects, such
as enhanced melanoma growth. In fact, sunscreen protection
against UV radiation-induced inflammation may actually
encourage prolonged exposure to UV radiation and thereby
increase the risk of development of cutaneous melanoma."
Wolf et al. Effect of sunscreens on UV
radiation-induced enhancement of
melanoma growth in mice. J Natl
Cancer Inst. 1994;86(2):99-105.
"... the topical use of sunscreens reduces the risk of sunburn
in humans and that sunscreens probably prevent squamous
cell carcinoma of the skin when used mainly during
unintentional sun exposure. No conclusion can be drawn
about the cancer-preventive activity of topical use of
sunscreens against basal-cell carcinoma and cutaneous
melanoma
World Health Organization - Vainio et
al. An international evaluation of the
cancer-preventive potential of
sunscreens. Int J Cancer.
2000;88(5):838-42.
Environmental Protection Agency:
Sunscreen the burning facts 2006.
Is sunscreen fail-safe (pg6).
www.epa.gov
"Although a sunscreen with an SPF of 15 or higher offers
protection from sunburn, it does not block all of the
sun's damaging rays. In fact, there is no evidence that
sunscreens protect you from malignant melanoma, the
deadliest form of skin cancer, even though sunburns
have been linked with the development of melanoma."
Planta. Sunscreen and melanoma: is
our prevention message correct?
J Am Board Fam Med. 2011;24(6):735-
"Desplte the availability and promotion of sunscreen for
decades, the incidence of CMM {cutaneous malignant
melanoma) continues to increase in the U.S. at a rate of
3% per year. There currently is little evidence that
sunscreens are protective against CMM."
9.
"The strength of the association between risk of skin cancer
and sunscreen use has constantly decreased since the early
1980s, and the association was no longer statistically
significant from the early 1990s. While the current evidence
suggests no increased risk of skin cancer related to sunscreen
use, this systematic review does not confirm the expected
protective benefits of sunscreen against skin cancer in the
general population."
Saes da Silva et al. Use of sunscreen
and risk of melanoma and non
melanoma skin cancer: a systematic
review and meta-analysis. Eur J
Dermatol. 2018;28:186-201.
"Could it be that the nearly universal recommendation of
dermatologists and professional societies to use sunscreen to
prevent skin cancer Is unfounded?"
Waldman et al. The role of sunscreen
in the prevention of cutaneous
melanoma and nonmelanoma skin
cancer. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2019
Feb;80(2):574-576.
We therefore request that the industry bias on this panel be measurably reduced by the
inclusion of independent experts like Dr. Downs whose studies are not biased by industry
funding or influence. Our country’s public health, as well as Hawaii’s fragile marine
ecosystems that are so vital to Hawaiian culture, our communities, and our future, are
depending on impartial professionalism from this panel.
Sincerely,
The Hawai’i Coral Reef Stakeholders Hui:
Melodic R. Aduja
Alan B. Burdick
Co-chairs
Environmental Caucus of the
Democratic Party of Hawaii
Maxx Phillips
Hawai’i Director
Center for Biological Diversity
William T. White, III
President, Wailea Property Owners
Association
Ted Bohlen
Hawaii Reef and Ocean Coalition
Bill Coney
Dr. Susanne Otero
Co-Founders
Legacy Reef Foundation
Cindi Punihaole
Director Kahalu'u Bay Education Center
The Kohala Center
Mendy Dant
Executive Vice President
Fair Wind Cruises
Pat B. Lindquist
President
Napili Bay and Beach Foundation
Lisa Bishop
President
Friends of Hanauma Bay
Rene Umberger
Executive Director
For the Fishes
Craig Downs, Ph.D.
Executive Director
Haereticus Environmental Laboratory
Jamie Lung Ka’eo
General Manager
Hale Napili
Iris Rahaulelio
Aloha Surfing Ghana
Kealoha Pisciotta
Founder
tCai Palaoa
Ken Staples
Director of Hawai’i Operations
Ocean Defenders Alliance
Ryan Scalf and Christy Johnson
Co-Owners
Nudi Wear
Ka'imi Kaiipiko
Executive Director
Kalanihale
Ray Hollowell
Founder
Sea Inspiration
Christine Zalewski, Ph.D.
Founder
Silver Spiral Seas, LLC
Mike Nakachi
President
Moana Ohana
Caren Loebel-Fried
Artist, Illustrator, Author
Matt Zimmerman
Owner
Island Divers Hawaii and Honolulu Scuba
Company
Caroline Duell
CEO
All Good
Jeannie Jewell
President
Destination Kona Coast
Brian A. Guadagno
Founder
Raw Elements USA
Scott Head
Vice President of Resort Operations
Waikoloa Beach Resort
Elizabeth Reilly
Founder/President
Livable Hawaii Kai Hui
Marcio Lira
Florin Mosanica
Co-Founders
Koko Beach Rentals
Wilkie McClaren
Safe Sunscreen Coalition
Lauren Blickley
Hawaii Regional Manager
Surfrider Foundation
Marcio Lira
Owner
Kaimana Tours
Rick Gaffney
President
Hawaii Fishing & Boating Association
Florin Nica
Owner
Hanauma Bay Snorkel AdventuresSue Aronson
Owner
Kona Coast Realty Corp. Doug Harper
Executive Director
Malama Maunalua
County Clerk
Ellen B. McKinley
Thursday, December 16, 2021 1:15 PM
County Clerk
Kelly King; Axel I. Beers
CC 21-557
Reef-Safe Sunscreen Report.pdf; Bill 135 Comments December 16 2021.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
O-n C=JC ‘r\
mn
oH m-< o. I : J
Ellen McKinley, Executive Assistant
Office of Coundimember Kelly T. King
South Maui Residency
Office: 808.270.7108
200 South High Street, 8'^ Floor, Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicountv.us/
OO TI
m -H mrs>
oX m ow
Now is the time to provide input to update the South Maui Community Plan! httos://southmaui.wearemaui.ora/aet-
involved/
SOUTH MAUI
1
In support of New Sunscreen Law: Bill 135 (2021)/Ordinance 5306
As noted by Mayor VIctorino in his comments to the Council of the County of Maui (paragraph
below), removing toxic sunscreens from the environment (aquatic and terrestrial) is merely the
"first step" in the process to address the global threats to coral reefs. Increases in the amounts
and/or even maintaining the existing levels of ocean temperatures, carbon dioxide, plastics,
stormwater runoff and in general "chemical pollution" from sunscreens and other toxic
chemicals will only continue to have disastrous effects to Hawaii's and the World's marine
ecosystems.
"Finally^ while I applaud the Council's efforts in attempting to
reduce threats to our marine ecosystems, coral reefs face graver
dangers through increasing ocean temperatures and levels of
carbon dioxide in seawater^ and increasing levels of trash and
micro-plastics from improper disposal and stormwater runoff.
Without addressing these types of global threats to coral reefs,
our marine ecosystems will still continue to face an uphill
battle."
So, with that said I applaud you and the Mayor for recognizing that coral reefs are endangered
and for taking the "first step" to remove toxic substances like organic sunscreens from Hawaii's
waters protecting coral and all that live within the reef. Additionally, I want to encourage you to
continue to remove/remediate other toxic chemicals/environmental conditions that exist in
order to bring back Hawaii's natural resources and return these precious assets back to the
people.
National Academy of Sciences "Expert Panel" Sunscreen Review:
Industry has been telling the American people - for at least the last 100 years - that there is no
impact of toxic chemicals to humans and/or the environment despite the thousands of
scientific papers published demonstrating that this is untrue. Industry has always claimed that
the chemical(s) in question only benefit us, making our lives better! Based on the state of our
environment and the trail of dead bodies (human and non-human alike), it is obvious that
"industries benefits" of a better life are unseen.
Case in point would be the lobbyist group Public Access to SunScreens (PASS) Coalition. This
group boosts of successfully lobbying the Congress of the United States to fund the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to fund the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) - who
has been known to take "Millions in Gifts From Drugmakers" (sunscreens are classified as
drugs) (https://khn.org/news/article/national-academies-big-pharma-support-drug-waste-
report/) to put together a panel of "biased" experts (see attached letter sent to NAS as well as
several US government representatives) to come to  aconclusion that the Food & Drug
Administration (FDA) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has
already made relating to the human and environmental toxicity of organic sunscreen chemicals
(see official views below). Therefore, it is unclear what benefit the NAS panel's version of
science has on anything when it is announced in September 2022.
FYI... FDA is responsible for Human Health & Safety and NOAA Is responsible for U.S. National
Marine Sanctuaries; the EPA and/or NAS have no jurisdiction directly related to sunscreen
regulations for humans or environmental impact to coral reefs. Therefore, whatever conclusion
this bogus panel concludes has little to no legal impact on what has already been determined
by the responsible agencies - the NAS is simply a pawn used by industry lobbyists - like the
PASS Coalition and others - to prolong the removal of toxic sunscreen chemicals from our
bodies and the environment - to maintain billions in profits from sunscreen and anti-aging
product sales.
FDA's Official View - https://www.fda.gov/media/124655/download: On February 21, 2019,
FDA issued a proposed rule describing the conditions under which FDA proposes that OTC
sunscreen monograph products ore generally recognized as safe and effective (GRASE) and not
misbranded.
This action is an important example of FDA's ongoing efforts to ensure that sunscreens are safe
and effective for regular, life-long use. The agency anticipates these changes will improve the
quality, safety, and efficacy of sunscreens Americans use every day. FDA will continue to work
with industry and public health stakeholders to make sure that consumers have access to safe
and effective sunscreens.
1. Proposed GRASE Status of Active Ingredients Listed in the Stayed 1999 Final Monograph
FDA has proposed the following categories for the 16 sunscreen monograph ingredients.
GRASE* for use in sunscreens Not GRASE** for use in sunscreens ***insufficient data for use in
sunscreens
Aminobenzoic acid (PABA) and
trolamine salicylate
Zinc oxide and titanium dioxide Cinoxate, dioxybenzone,
ensulizole, homosaiate,
meradimate, octinoxate,
octisalate, octocrylene, padimate
O, sulisobenzone, oxybenzone,
avobenzone
'GRASE== Generally Recognized as Safe and Effective *'These ingredients are not currently marketed,
the “insufficient data" category. FDA proposes that it needs additional data to determine that sunscreens with these ingredients
would be GRASE.
'For those ingredients in
NOAA's Official View - https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/news/sunscreen-corals.html: Common
chemicals used in thousands of products to protect against harmful effects of ultraviolet light
threaten corals and other marine life.
SUNSCREEN CHEMICALS AND MARINE LIFE
How sunscreen chemicals enter our environment:
\\/ /
'  i''■k
5] m
€ I .a
CllXtiirrt to umt wruOTwu
thol im hmm markit aft: '."TS551S: iitiTUO ItlT li
[u*  camphor
* 4-Methvtboftfyt*d»ftO
camphor
● OctooTfooa
● ●OAlOphOAOAO'l
● ftoruephonono^
●00-MSA
● nano-TItarUum dKocidt
» nan^fliK outdo
● OcUAosato
» 0*vhoAoono
BiE
HE T
V j
The above comments are based on my experience with product development, regulatory
compliance as well as pre-clinical and clinical safety testing with some environmental testing of
OTC sunscreen actives and formulations dating back to 1976.
Mahalo,
Joe DiNardo-Toxicologist
December 16, 2021
Reef-Friendly or Reef-Safe?An Assessment of the Availability and Use of Reef-Safe
Sunscreen on the Island of Maui, Hawaii
December 2021
●i ■» 4. ■■
--4i W,.. ;
i i:ei'
f
K4 '■I
/
%r
. \f
*»
V
' ■ ■
4>.4
vC'
4
\ ■ ■/-
ft
)V. k '
-t
. ■ :.i>V ,
,j
(s ● *
'V I
f
I f
' y 9
a;; ■/
»
< I t ●'
]/
A! -1.'.'
.  ■ i ' . I tt ●  I
K,
'.y.f ;^,7.V
I
■  '■ f
♦
I
Contents
BACKGROUND
4FREQUENTLY USED TERMS
PURPOSE 3
Student Learning Objectives 5
6PROJECT TEAM
8METHODS
10INTERVIEW RESULTS
IN-STORE SURVEYS
Supermarkets / Groceiy Stores
Convenience Stores
Pharmacies
Recreational Sports Stores
Big Box Stores
14
20
24
27
33
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES 36
STUDENT QUOTES 37
DISCUSSION 38
LITERATURE CITED 39
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Sunscreen Data Collection Form
Appendix B: In-Person Sunscreen Survey Form
Appendix C: In-Store Sunscreen Data
Appendix D: Examples of Product Marketing and Branding
Appendix E: Reef-Safe / Mineral-Based Sunscreen Pricing
Appendix F: Reef-Friendly / Chemical-Based Sunscreen Pricing
40
41
42
75
76
78
Background Information
Sunscreen Assessment
I
II
MARINE INSTITUTEKiheiCharter.crg MAUI OCEAN CENTER
BACKGROUND
In 2018, Governor of Hawai‘i, David Ige, signed Senate Bill 2571 into law, making Hawai‘i
the first state to ban the sale and distribution of sunscreens containing oxybenzone octinoxate
(Speight, 2020).
The Food and Drug Administration considers the only active ingredients in sunscreen to be
safe and effective are zinc oxide and titanium dioxide, two of the main ingredients in mineral-
based sunscreen. Laboratory trials found that zinc oxide and titanium dioxide do not cause
coral bleaching or toxicity (Adler, et al., 2020). However, environmental scientists and health
experts are concerned about chemicals like avobenzone, octocrylene, homosalate, and
octisalate that are often used to substitute oxybenzone and octinoxate. Danovaro et al. (2008)
found that sunscreens containing these ingredients cause the rapid and complete bleaching of
hard corals, even at extremely low concentrations.
Research demonstrates that octocrylene can disrupt human hormones and have toxic impacts
on the brain and reproductive health of a variety of aquatic organisms. Downs et al., (2021)
show that octocrylene bioaccumulates in fish species and degrades into benzophenone, a
powerful carcinogen, reproductive disrupter, and herbicide.
Avobenzone is also an endocrine disrupter and can reduce coral resilience against the high
ocean temperatures that are threatening corals worldwide due to global warming (Downs,
2021).
The Maui County Council unanimously passed Bill 135 on November 19, 2021, to prohibit
the sale, distribution, or use of non-mineral sunscreens. Bill 135 recognizes that a number of
non-mineral sunscreens have recently been demonstrated to pose a threat to the health of
coastal ecosystems, coral reefs, and other marine species.
All members involved in this study submitted written testimony in support of Bill 135. Once
signed into law, Bill 135 will take effect on October 1, 2022.
One limitation to legislation is enforcement since visitors to Maui often bring non-mineral-
based sunscreens from other states or countries. Therefore, education and outreach will be
vital to reducing the use of non-mineral-based sunscreens.
All sunscreen products surveyed met Hawaii's legislative standards; however, just 82, out of
the 210 sunscreen products surveyed, are reef safe.
Background InformationSunscreen AssessmentII
4
MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHAHTER.ORG
FREQUENTLY USED TERMS
Table 1. Sunscreen categories and descriptions, November 2021.
DescriptionSunscreen
Contains only mineral UV-blocking ingredientsReef-Safe
Does not contain oxybenzone or octinoxate (does contain other
chemical-based ingredients)
Reef-Friendly
Does not contain oxybenzone or octinoxate (does contain other
chemical-based ingredients)
Reef-Conscious
*Toxic Contains oxybenzone or octinoxate (identified as *Toxic)
Figure 1. Coral fragments, MOC Marine Institute coral lab, Maui, Hawai‘i. November 2021.
Photo: MOC Marine Institute
Project Purpose
Sunscreen AssessmentII
// MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERk>heiCharter.orc
PURPOSE
This report is the result of an independent investigation to serve the community of Maui,
Hawaii, to protect coral reefs and marine ecosystems, and inspire the next generation of
environmental stewards. We intend for this report to remain free and accessible.
The purpose of the project was to:
Gain insight into the public’s current understanding and awareness of the non-regulated
terms, reef-safe and reef-friendly
Increase public awareness of the critical distinction between the terms reef-safe and reef-
friendly
Investigate the accessibility of reef-safe sunscreen products available to consumers in
Maui, Hawaii
To engage 7th-grade students in hands-on research related to an environmental issue
impacting local coastal ecosystems.
1.
2.
3.
4.
STUDENT LEARNING OBJECTIVES
Using quantitative and qualitative methods, students learn how to conduct in-the-field
research focused on the impacts of human behavior on Hawaii’s fragile coastal ecosystems.
This project centers on the question, how does engaging youth in place-based science focused
on a local ecological issue shape their attitudes, behaviors, and beliefs about these topics?
Figure 2. 7‘^-grade students from Kihei Charter School learn how to measure and monitor
water quality at MOC Marine Institute, November 2021. Maui, Hawaii.
Photo: MOC Marine Institute
m Project Team
Sunscreen AssessmentMARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKiheiCharter.orq
■PROJECT TEAM
Klhei Charter School
Jadda Miller, 7th-grade Science Teacher
MOC Marine Institute
Thomas Cutt, Executive Director
Chanel Browne, Sea Turtle Program Coordinator
Stanford University
Dr. BJ Fogg
Behavior Design Lab
Klhei Charter School
Student Participants:
Aiden Acerador, Chase Amouyal, Jia Ray Li Angel, Luz Arnal, Slade Auffhammer, Derek
‘Kaikea’ Barona, Evan Bearden, Conner Beaver, Noa Clayton, Lee Cowles, Andre Cerezo,
Makani Cogliandro, Brodrick Craig, Jayden Craig, Nicole Critchlow, Jordyn Diego, Sedona
Dressier, Annalise Eller, August Eyerman, Noa Fleming, Arayanna Foster, Hana Freet, Miri
Glickman, William Greenleaf, Maxwell Gregory, Madilyn Hays, Eli Hazlet, Ava Herren.
Brayden Hill, Mason Hu, Cross Huey, Jacob James, Liliu Kaahumanu, Tanya Kari, Parker
Kahoohanohano, Austin Kriegh, Andrew Kohl, Isabella Kusch, Ava Larson, Ethan Luckau,
Myer Madaus, Ciro Martin, Yona Martin, Fayez Menasra, Noa Moscovich, Lillian Murta,
Nainoa Obrochta, Austin Olson, Kingston Palebianco, Hope Patterson, Justin Pe Benito,
Sophia Peterson, Mikaela Petrilli, Vienna Phillips, Mason Pinheiro, Gershon Portillo, Mia
Rafael, Brandon Ramirez, Adam Ramos, Brandon Ramos, Peytin Robinson, Kevin Rodriguez
Velador, Jessica Rosado, Isabella Shiffler, Waiaulia Smith, Miranda Somers, Kaitlyn Tiwari,
Wyatt Van der Lee, Desmond Wallace, Maia West, Hannah Wick, Bodhi Williams
MOC Marine Institute
Student Participant:
Harley-Ann Smith
Special Recognition
Jessica Rosado is one of the 7th-grade students that attends KThei Charter School who
participated in this research project. We give special recognition to Jessica as she went
beyond the expectations of a student participant on numerous occasions. Jessica consistently
achieves excellence in her work and her support throughout this project was invaluable.
Has this project inspired you to learn more and do more to protect coral reefs?
‘ ‘ Yes, it has. I want to make a difference and help our planet. I care so much about
animals and saving the planet, so I'm really glad that I got to learn about how the
sunscreen that we use can impact future generations. I want to continue making this
place better. ” - Lilian Kaahumaiiu, 7^'^ grade
MethodsMARINE INSTITUTEKlHElCHARTERORG MAUI OCEAN CENTER Sunscreen Assessment
METHODS
Beachgoer Interviews
The project team surveyed one-hundred beachgoers to learn about sunscreen use and the
factors that influence purchasing decisions. We asked the following questions;
1) What type of sunscreen are you using today?
2) Where did you purchase your sunscreen?
3) What factors influenced your purchasing decision?
(See full list of interview questions in appendix B).
Each student interviewer was paired with one adult researcher. Students asked beachgoers the
survey questions and completed the digital data collection form. Having the students
complete the form made the interview process less demanding for beachgoers and possibly
increased the participation rate.
Retail Store Surveys
Students surveyed 17 stores and 210 different sunscreen products across the island of Maui
from September to October 2021. The students collected in-store data on available sunscreen
products. They noted if products met Hawaii's legislative designation and if the products
were reef-safe (mineral-based). The team selected the surveyed stores due to their high
visitation rate, accessibility, and proximity to the ocean. The project team analyzed each store
based on the number and percent of sunscreen products sold that 1) Met Hawaii legislation
guidelines and 2) Are considered reef-safe (mineral-based).
Figure 3. Students from Kihei Charter School interview beachgoers about
November, 2021. Maui, Hawaii. Photo: MOC Marine Institute
sunscreen use,
Ho>v did you feel when you found out that the Maui County Council passed Bill 135?
"Ifelt very rewarded and very happy. It is one of those feelings when you 're proud to be
part ofsomething, ” — Jessica Rosado, 7^^' grade
iJ3 Interview Results
November 2021MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER-ORQ
■■■■■■● beachgoers interviewed
%
using reef-safe sunscreen
96% of interviewees were visitors to the island of Maui
^ 1 '
YT NT
9 ■
r,'-.
Canadar-
●1'.-
■M.
Mexico.-w.
■ y
■I-'HI ' ■ ., Puerto Rico
Figure 4. Map displaying home zip codes and postal codes of beach goers interviewed,
November 2021.
45% did not purchase their sunscreen on Maui
r t ^45% 1 52%
LlJ
■ Sunscreen purchased on Maui
■ Sunscreen not purchased on Maui
■ Unknown
Figure 5. 45% of beachgoers interviewed did not purchase their sunscreen products on Maui,
November 2021.
1 n
Interview Results
November 2021II
:  MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTERCRG
35% of the beachgoers interviewed purchased their
sunscreen because they believed it was reef-safe
Table 2. Sunscreen categories and descriptions, November 2021.
Sunscreen Description
Reef-Safe Contains only mineral UV-blocking ingredients
Does not contain oxybenzone or octinoxate (does contain other
chemical-based ingredients)
Reef-Friendly
Does not contain oxybenzone or octinoxate (does contain other
chemical-based ingredients)
Reef-Conscious
*Toxic Contains oxybenzone or octinoxate (identified as *Toxic)
*Toxic: Does not meet Hawaii’s 2021 Legislation (contains oxybenzone or octinoxate).
70%
62%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
20%
I8% 8%10%
2%
0%
Reef-SafeRee f-Consc ious Ree f-Fri endlyToxicNone
Figure 6. Percent usage of sunscreen products by interviewees, Maui, Hawai‘i. November
2021.
1 1
Interview Results
November 2021MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTER
IkKlHElCHARTERORG
I
19 1920
18 16
16 15
14
12 1110
10
8
6 4 4
4
I I2
2
0
Under 18 18-22 22-26 26-30 30-40 40-50 50-60 60-70 Over 70
Figure 7. Age range of beachgoers interviewed, November 2021. Maui, Hawai‘i.
Table 3. Age range of beachgoers interviewed and type of sunscreen, November 2021. Maui
Hawaii.
Age Range Reef-Safe Reef-Friendly Reef-Conscious * Toxic None
Underl8 1 2 1
18-22 2
22-26 2 1 1
26-30 1 9
30-40 5 10 2 2
40-50 4 14 1
50-60 4 9 2 1
60-70 2 8 2 3
Over 70 3 6 2
1 o
How did you feel when you found out that the Maui County Council passed Bill 135?
''I felt proud that we did something that could help preserve the coral reefs around
Maui and hopefully lead other islands and cities to do the same.
— Hana Freet, 7**' grade
T
w In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
0r,
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
SUPERMARKETS / GROCERY STORES
ri
> ?(30 . ■ai i ti.i
Kapalua Safeway.340, Jr-y.
Napilij^iokowai
Kaanapallf
I A,"
T-f!
Whole Foods*Haiku-PauwelaWaihee-Wai^j
fLahSna
X Lf ^
,360 ^^ Paia
Foodland37
9kawao K(Launiupoko'
^Olowalu^-^ Maalaea
^8
■tM
0)
(3^-xHi. Times%
Koolau F
ResetMaui\ k
Hawaiian Moons :.30)3
pi■
Wry-i- V 9Red Hill,
Haleakala Haleakala
National Park
I Waile’a-Makena w
Kl ....ml
Li;
Kaupp'fa
i A .
via
U'ohrt'rxl 7' r"OI*>A
Figure 8. Map of supermarkets/grocery stores surveyed, November 2021. Maui, Hawai‘i.
SAFEWAY
There are 4 Safeway locations on the island of Maui, Hawai‘i. At the time of this
Safeway sold 45 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at
Safeway meet 2021 HawaiT Legislation. 15.5% (n=7) of the sunscreen products sold at
Safeway are rccf-safe.
survey ,
Safeway, Maui Locations:
277 Pi‘ikea Avenue
Kihei, Hawai‘i 9675358 Maui Lani Parkway Suite 5000
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
1090 Ho‘okele Street
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
1221 Honopiilani Highway
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
1 A
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
a
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKIHEICHAPTER.CRG
ISAFEWAY
Figure 9. Safeway locations on Maui sell 45
different sunscreen products. 15.5% (n=7) of
the sunscreen products sold at Safeway Maui
locations are reef-safe.
84.5%
Are reef-friendly
SportA9
Ultra
Sport 6R0A0 iPiCViVU SPfiO»
'CL/NfCAUV
t Ultraultra
*»«19 ftitSoKf' ’
m PROVEN
tclinically uvA/uv8Pwrrcr/(Wclinically..Ui●'BPWuaKm SUPERtORfiNPUBAfrf*PROVENPDnuPN
I-f? I>0fL0Z,(?9»*taFL0Z.(U6vU V  :
/t
J:n.
Figure 10. Sunscreen option available for sale at Safeway stores, November, 2021. Maui,
Hawai‘i. Photo: Kihei Charter School
1 c
T
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
i
II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTERORG
WHOLE FOODS MARKET
There is one Whole Foods Market location on the island of Maui, Hawaii. At the time of this
survey, Whole Foods Market sold 31 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen
products sold at Whole Foods Market meet 2021 Hawaii Legislation. 83.9% (n=26) of the
sunscreen products sold at Whole Foods Market are reef-safe.
Whole Foods Market, Maui Locations:
70 E Maui Kaahumanu Ave
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
83.9% of the sunscreen products sold at Whole Foods Market
reef-safeare
16.1%/
Are reef-friendly Figure 11. Whole Foods Market locations on
Maui sell 31 different sunscreen products.
83.9% (n=26) of the sunscreen products sold
at Whole Foods Market are reef-safe.
83.9%
Are reef-safe
1 c
tvi'
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTER
V .
KlHElCHARTER.ORG
I
HAWAIIAN MOONS
There is one Hawaiian Moons location on the island of Maui, Hawaii. At the time of this
survey, Hawaiian Moons sold 19 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen
products sold at Hawaiian Moons meet 2021 Hawaii Legislation. 78.9% (n=15) of the
sunscreen products sold at Hawaiian Moons are reef-safe.
Hawaiian Moons, Maui Locations:
2411 S. Kihei Rd.
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
78.9% of the sunscreen products sold at Hawaiian Moons are
reef-safe
21.1% Figure 12. Hawaiian Moons on Maui sells
19 different sunscreen products. More than
78.9% (n=15) of the sunscreen products sold
at Hawaiian Moons are reef-safe.
Are reef-friendly
78.9%
Are reef-safe
1 n
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 20211I
4
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
TIMES SUPERMARKET
There are 2 Times Supermarket locations on the island of Maui, HawaiT. At the time of this
survey, Times Supermarket sold 43 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen
products sold at Times Supermarket meet 2021 HawaiT Legislation. 27.9% (n=12) of the
sunscreen products sold at Times Supermarket are reef-safe.
Times Supermarket, Maui Locations:
1310S. Kihei Rd.
Kihei, Hawafi 96753
3350 Lower Honoapiilani Rd.
Lahaina, Hawai‘i 96761
27.9% of the sunscreen products sold at Times Market are
reef-safe
Figure 13. Times Market on Maui sells 43
different sunscreen products. 27.9% (n=12)
of the sunscreen products sold at Times
Supermarket are reef-safe.
72.1%
Are reef-friendly
1 o
● \\
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHBCHARTER.ORG
FOODLAND
There are 6 Foodland locations on the island of Maui, Hawai‘i. At the time of this survey,
Foodland sold 58 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at
Foodland meet 2021 Hawaii Legislation. 22.4% (n=13) of the sunscreen products sold at
Foodland are reef-safe.
Foodland Maui Locations:
878 Front St #6B
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
1881 SKihei Rd
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
345 Keawe St Suite 304
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
370 Kehalani Village Dr
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
55 Pukalani St
Pukalani, Hawaii 96768
90 Kane St
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
224% of the sunscreen products sold at Foodland are reef-
safe
Figure 14. Foodland on Maui sells 58
different sunscreen products. 22.4% (n=13)
of the sunscreen products sold at Foodland
are reef-safe.
77.6%
Are reef-friendly
1 O
Wi//
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
//
II^  MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
CONVENIENCE STORES
'I ti.●9f
■ U30f 1 ●
Zack’s Delir  s^apalua
okowaim 4'
1
●rI',
Napili^^
<a^f
ABC Storesy-yrigg
Haiku-Pauwela^'-'.c^
,-Waihee-Waiehu ■ 1
i
36 Paia Whalers
General Store
Kahiilui r C ''●* r. t
17
Makawao *:
■ Launiupoko'^
oiowaluv Koolau Forest
ReserveMaui^ Maalaea ■n
4(30
Hana
9Red Hill,
Maleakala
«-»* >●
Haleakala \National Park ’
■V
;.v*-● .-. ^V,.‘
Wailea-Makena ● ’-’.b
● V-
● H
*/
-rV ●1/ A
Figure 15. Map of convenience stores surveyed, November 2021. Maui, Hawai‘i.
ABC STORE
There are 10 ABC Store locations on the island of Maui, Hawai‘i. At the time of this survey,
ABC Stores sold 48 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at ABC
Stores meet 2021 Hawai‘i Legislation. 27.08% (n=13) of the sunscreen products sold at ABC
Store are rcef-safc.
ABC Store Maui Locations:
3511 Lower HonopiTlani Rd
Lahaina, Hawai‘i 96761
1221 HI-30 STEA-100
Lahaina, HawaiT 96761247 PiTkea Ave #104
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
724 Front St
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
900 Front St
Lahaina, Hawaii 967612349 S Kihei Rd
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
666 Front St.
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
2435 Kaanapali Pkwy
Lahaina, Hawaii 9676161 S Kihei Rd #2
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
3750 Wailea Alanui Dr A-53
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
-T A
T
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021MARINE INSTITUTEKiheiCharter.org MAUI OCEAN CENTER
I
i-
Figure 16. ABC Store locations on Maui sell
48 different sunscreen products. 27.08%
(n=13) of the sunscreen products sold at ABC
Store Maui locations are reef-safe.
72.9%
Are reef-friendly
27.08% of the sunscreen products sold at ABC Store are
reef-safe
3
^1
7I
1ilAVf !hJ|'7jiftW \\\jr
s.
Iw, uttTQ
r} yBANANA yBANAMA ● rv-i» -nf
r'mgy r Acrivf ACTIVEsporr ■ Sporf
■asr i
] spoil I£iL5mfj
I
tSport 1 Spoki Sport^ulcra K F uluo uitm
' 'W ■^l
!
I3A,
IT 501?®J 1 ●
?●
● W-
((i'NIUUI P UIHICAU.Yu,miAu pRovjii,
■m feii. ●●J
comcuif●fROVIL,ILY 'h«ENIKIW
\
r
BB SIS55 w
«*pa?o^S: r35
I  ■ i
iiawaiiah
yurt fe!-
osarB-
Tropic->
IT.
SP
— 1^,- —si-Vive
nerat -3
,1
Mi '50iBAMAlJAf sev\srt‘v'
$POKT $poKfm inefS^ I niH'i”
Figure 17. Sunscreen options available for sale at ABC Stores, November, 2021. Maui, Hawai‘i.
Photo: MOC Marine Institute
li ■ 15 ISpon^ 4(nirtWc
rwi«ral
-T 1
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
I.
II
MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTER
\\\\
KiheiChahter.org
ZACK’S DELI
There is one Zack’s Deli on the island of Maui, Hawaii. At the time of this survey, Zack’s
Deli sold 20 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at Zack’s Deli
meet 2021 Hawaii Legislation. 10% (n=2) of the sunscreen products sold at Zack’s Deli are
reef-safe.
Zack’s Deli Locations:
2960 S Kihei Rd B.
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
10% of the sunscreen products sold at Zack’s Deli are
reef-safe
Figure 18. Zack’s Deli on Maui sell 20
different sunscreen products. 10% of the
sunscreen products sold at Zack’s Deli are
reef-safe.
//
/t
I
Are reef-friendly\
\
'SO
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
V,
II
^  MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTERKiheiChartehorg
WHALERS GENERAL
There are 4 Whalers General locations on the island of Maui, Hawai‘i. At the time of this
survey, Whalers General sold 35 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen
products sold at Whalers General meet 2021 Hawai‘i Legislation. 11.4% (n=4) of the
sunscreen products sold at Whalers General are reef-safe.
Whalers General Locations:
3750 Wailea Alanui Dr
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
2580 Kekaa Dr space no m-1
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
2463 S Kihei Rd
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
816 Front St #A
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
11.4% of the sunscreen products sold at Whalers General are
reef-safe
Figure 19. Whalers General locations on
Maui sell 35 different sunscreen products.
11.4% (n=4) of the sunscreen products sold
at Whalers General Maui locations are reef-
safe.
88.6%
Are reef-friendly
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
A.
4
II
/ .\;;
w MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTER
/
KlHElCHAWTER.ORG
PHARMACIES
I n>-*r ■' »■.Sf'f-.. ● V
30 '5-
Kapalua ^
Napili-Honokowai]?'
' Kaanapali
Longs11
rr
^ Walgreens'Haiku-Pauwela' «
Waihee^^igfej
.36 Paia
Lahaina 37
Ke'Anae,Wj
9awao
Launiupoko .380.
Olbwalu'^‘5;:' ‘ Koolau Forest
ReserveMauiMaalaeatr.>' 'A.- ' ^ .
lei Hana i
9 . *
Red Hill.
Haleakala Haleakala
National Park
●^. ● - ■*
Wailea-Makena
Figure 20. Map of pharmacies surveyed, November 2021. Maui, Hawai‘i.
LONGS DRUGS
There are 8 Longs Drugs locations on the island of Maui, Hawai‘i. At the time of this survey,
Longs Drugs sold 82 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at
Longs Drugs meet 2021 HawaiT Legislation. 30.4% of the sunscreen products sold at Longs
Drugs are reef-safe.
Longs Drugs Maui Locations:
55 Kiopaa St
Makawao, Hawai‘i 96768
41 E Lipoa St
Kihei, Hawai‘i 96753
1215SKihei Rd
Kihei, HawaiT 96753
1221 HI-30
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
70 E Kaahumanu Ave
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
135 Kehalani Village Dr
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
1900 Main St
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
275 W Kaahumanu Ave
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
n A
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
' ^
II
. ^l',
MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTER
*'/KlHElCHARTER.ORG
30.4% Figure 21. Longs Drugs locations on Maui
sell 82 different sunscreen products. 30.4%
percent (n=25) of the sunscreen products sold
at Longs Drugs Maui locations are reef-safe.
Aref reef-safe
69.6%
\ Are reef-frifflffly
\ *v
30.4% of the sunscreen products sold at Longs Drugs are
reef-safe
'Tropic
EFFECT
HAWAIlAi,jropic
'  EFFECT
^  Tropic H^AIIAk;Tropic
HYDRATION
AnliOxidam+AnUO,ddaJJt+ nuiciiin'jj>«JiilniOtiO«^f
1  I
$uri«t
^ Jus(V».^
V.-CIGIITI
f  « >V«ly
+
VT10.MCHOTC)n«<
C ●*! V»e««rrc'* ●
mV5*CC»V»
■c? <& 6H.I
iFUtfttrial' 5R.Q21im.’ i-
■1111
I
HTSLKHDL^jj^JJ-IS .
HT MATTE EFFECTS?#S?
u
htuatteeffktm
h*m;SMS
HT ANTIOX LTN 50“u
KS31ANTIOX ITN 30
T, .11.49 s11.49,=„,*jyigg
Figure 22. Sunscreen options available for sale at Longs Drugs stores, November, 2021.
Maui, Hawai‘i. Photo: Kihei Charter School
►112SMt 'M r»u>W00*
^ C
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
A
II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTER
r:^//.KlHElCHARTER.ORG
\\
WALGREENS
There are 4 Walgreens locations on the island of Maui, Hawai‘i. At the time of this survey,
Walgreens sold 41 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at
Walgreens meet 2021 Hawai‘i Legislation. 29.3% (n=12) of the sunscreen products sold at
Walgreens are reef-safe.
Walgreens Maui Locations:
10 E Kamehameha Ave
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
342 Keawe St
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
700 Waiale Rd
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
2180 Main St Ste 102
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
29.3% of the sunscreen products sold at Walgreens are
reef-safe
Figure 23. Walgreens locations on Maui sell
41 different sunscreen products. 29.3%
(n=12) of the sunscreen products sold at
Walgreens Maui locations are reef-safe.
November 2021.
T
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
A\\
II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTERORG
RECREATIONAL SPORTS STORES
kI^IuT \ ^ Honolua Surf Co.VV.r'fiT
● NapiibMonokowaii^ sta●^«s'●a^wacraaa;5e'.y
'Hail^-PauweU-ifWaihee-Waiebu. Hi-TechSi'
360.3^ PaiaKahulci ‘<bi-37
Ke^naefast UMakawao ●ri
(38^■^^9LauniuDQkQ
Koolau Forest
Reserve
^Olowalo
MauiMaalaea
9Red Hill, HaieakalaHaleakala National Park
Wailea-Makena
Figure 24. Map of recreational stores surveyed, November 2021. Maui, HawaiT.
HONOLUA SURF CO.
There are 7 Honolua Surf co. locations on the island of Maui, Hawaii. At the time of this
survey, Honolua Surf co. sold 18 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen
products sold at Honolua Surf co. meet 2021 Hawaii Legislation. 38.8% (n=7) of the
sunscreen products sold at Honolua Surf co. are reef-safe.
Honolua Surf co. Maui Locations:
115 Hana Hwy
Paia, Hawaii 96779
845 Front St
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
2411 SKihei Rd
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
42 Ulupono St# 107
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
3750 Wailea Alanui Dr B47
Wailea, Hawaii 96753
754 Front St
Lahaina, Hawaii 967612435 Kaanapali Pkwy El
Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAK!HElCHARTeR.ORG ER
Figure 25. Honolua Surf co. locations on
Maui sells 18 different sunscreen products.
38.8% (n=7) of the sunscreen products sold
at Honolua Surf co. Maui locations are reef-
safe.
38.8% of the sunscreen products sold at Honolua Surf co. are
reef-safe
Figure 26. Sunscreen options available for sale at Honolua Surf co. stores, November, 2021.
Maui, Hawai‘i. Photo: Kihei Charter School.
-so
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
A
II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCKARTERORG
HI-TECH
There are 3 Hi-Tech locations on the island of Maui, Hawaii. At the time of this survey,
Hi-Tech sold 11 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at Hi
Tech meet 2021 Hawai‘1 Legislation. 81.8% percent (n=9) of the sunscreen products sold
at Hi-Tech are reef-safe.
Hi-Tech Maui Locations:
58 Baldwin Ave
Paia, Hawai‘i 96779
2021 SKihei Rd
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
425 Koloa St Shop
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
81.8% of the sunscreen products sold at Hi-Tech are reef-safe
18.2%
Are reif-friendly
Figure 27. Hi-Tech locations on Maui sells
11 different sunscreen products. 81.8% (n=9)
of the sunscreen products sold at Hi-Tech
Maui locations are reef-safe.
81.8%
Ai*e reef-safe
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021II
MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTERORG
MAUI DIVE SHOP
There are 2 Maui Dive Shop locations on the island of Maui, Hawai‘i. At the time of this
survey, Maui Dive Shop sold 9 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen
products sold at Maui Dive Shop meet 2021 Hawaii Legislation. 77.7% (n=7) of the
sunscreen products sold at Maui Dive Shop are reef-safe.
Maui Dive Shop Maui Locations:
1455 SKihei Rd
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
101 Maalaea Rd SLIP 74
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
77.7% of the sunscreen products sold at Maui Dive Shop are
reef-safe
Figure 28. Maui Dive Shop locations on sell
9 different sunscreen products. 77.7% (n=7)
of the sunscreen products sold at Maui Dive
Shop locations are reef-safe.
22.3%
Are reef-friendly
'yr>
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
A
A
II
MARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTERKiheiCharterorq
AUNTIE SNORKEL
There is one Auntie Snorkel location on the island of Maui, HawaiT. At the time of this survey,
Auntie Snorkel sold 3 different sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at Auntie
Snorkel meet HawaiT Legislation. All products, or 100% (n=3) of the sunscreen sold at Auntie
Snorkel are reef-safe.
Auntie Snorkel Maui Locations:
The Rainbow Mall, 2439 S Kihei Rd #101a
Kihei. Hawaii 96753
100% of the sunscreen products sold at Auntie Snorkel are
reef-safe
Figure 29. Auntie Snorkel locations on Maui
sells 3 different sunscreen products. All
products, or 100% (n=3) of the sunscreen
sold at Auntie Snorkel are reef-safe.
100% tsif-
;'Are reef-safe
1
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
//.
II
● ^ MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTER
\\
KIHBCHARTER.ORG
BOSS FROG’S
There are 7 Boss Frog’s locations on the island of Maui, Hawaii. At the time of this survey,
Boss Frog’s sold 1 sunscreen product. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at Boss Frog’s meet
2021 Hawaii Legislation. All products, or 100% (n=l) of the sunscreen sold at Boss Frog’s
reef-safe.
are
Boss Frog’s Maui Locations:
300 Ma’alaea Rd (Building 2, Shop #2N
Wailuku, Hawaii 967932395 S Kihei Rd
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
150 Lahainaluna Rd
Lahaina, Hawaii 967612463 S Kihei RdA-15
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
156 Lahainaluna Rd
Lahaina, Hawaii 967611770 S Kihei Rd, Kihei
Hawaii 96753
1215 S Kihei Rd, Kihei
Hawaii 96753
100% of thesunscreen products sold at Boss Frog’s are
reef-safe
Figure 30. Boss Frog’s locations on Maui sell
1 sunscreen product. All products, or 100%
(n=l) of the sunscreen sold at Boss Frog’s are
reef-safe.
j:.
100%
Are reef-safe
'X
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
BIG BOX STORES
S; |Si:si
n(30 ■■
■ - -
9 ,v.-Kapaiua'
●if?**
Napili-Honokowai,
-●Tf^-Tv' "*
-  .
i>.-*■
■XHL--
■-»
f*
Kaanapali
●tv. '
i .<● 1
T'~.
4(340 1
.T.~;
I ●
Target;
<a ■'
Waihee-Waiehu Haiku-Pauwela
■  s«r. .
>
9 (360) Walmart- .36 Paia
Kahu
●'K'X'Uiahaina 37
Ke'Anaef _ -n ^Makawao(380)
Launiu^^o
W'OlowalLT'  *40
Koolau Forest
Reservemx->: MauiiMaalaeaI'.v-
30rr"^.
Kiheit-
Hana ●:
‘i V ●
S.
9Red Hill.
Haleakala
r .4
Haleakala
National Park
.t:
 ^ ?6
??r-^ Wailea-MakenaV
KaupoLi.  -●.'1 rrv?J;-
1. .tfS-r-su
-f fe j
-fnf\
Figure 31. Map of big box store surveyed, November 2021. Maui, Hawaii.
WALMART
There is one Walmart on the island of Maui, Hawaii. At the time of this survey, Walmart sold
69 sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at Walmart meet 2021 Hawaii
Legislation. 17.3% (n=12) of the sunscreen products sold at Walmart are reef-safe.
Walmart Maui Location:
101 Pakaula St
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
fmr
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021
//. ●,s
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHEtCHARTEB.ORG |5i?
■
Figure 32. Walmart on Maui sells 69
sunscreen products. 17.3% (n=12) of the
sunscreen products sold at Walmart Maui
locations are reef-safe. November 2021.
82.7%
Are reef-friendly
17.3% of the sunscreen products sold at Walmart are reef-safe
m r'V
4b
'‘-wiSport Sportultrn ● ultfo -  Sportult/a
tJAHA'V
-.m.uv«nR ●
w Lm 4 Sport Sportultraultm ultra
5 n- rrLr
ms.iHICALLY
PBOVEH
(IIHICALLY
PQOVEH
(UNICAUV CLIKKALLY
PROVEN PROVENKiRcntin*
Irirf Fi J ^REEF FRIENDLY ''
Figure 33. Sunscreen options available for sale at Walmart, November, 2021. Maui, Hawaii.
Photo: MOC Marine Institute.
n A
In-Store Survey Results
September - October 2021MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKiheiCharterorg
I
TARGET
There is one Target on the island of Maui, HawaiT. At the time of this survey, Target sold
68 sunscreen products. 100% of the sunscreen products sold at Target meet Hawaii
Legislation. 36.7% (n=25) of the sunscreen products sold at Target are reef-safe.
Target Maui Locations:
100 Ho‘okele St
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
36.7% of the sunscreen products sold at Target are reef-safe
63.3O,'O Figure 34. Target on Maui sells 68 sunscreen
products. 36.7% (n=25) of the sunscreen
products sold at Target Maui locations are
reef-safe.
-friendlyAre
f
'T C
student Learning ResultsSunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTERORG
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES
Through collaborative and community-based approaches to scientific research, we identified
that when big ideas and complex concepts are presented in ways students can relate to
through their lived experiences, they tend to grasp the material more profoundly.
Seventy-one percent of students involved in this project completed a voluntary post-survey.
Below are some of their responses:
55% of students were not aware of the impacts that non-reef-safe sunscreen has on
coral reef ecosystems before this project.
80% responded they plan to either use reef-safe sunscreen, tell people about the
harmful effects of chemical-based sunscreen, or both.
33% of students stated that writing testimony in support of Bill 135 was the most
rewarding aspect of this project.
16% said protecting the coral reefs was the most rewarding aspect of this project.
16% said research and data collection was the most rewarding aspect of this
project.
18% said the entire project was rewarding.
17% said that the most rewarding aspect of this project was learning about coral
reefs
Engaging students in research that serves to protect local ecosystems have the capacity for
increasing students’ overall efficacy towards environmental action. Youth that experience an
increase in efficacy have the potential to become change agents in their communities. These
hands-on learning experiences could also increase the effectiveness of science education as a
whole.
£
■''N
Student Quotes
Sunscreen Assessment
rs
V
yMARINE INSTITUTEKiheiCharter opg MAUI OCEAN CENTER
I
STUDENT QUOTES
QUESTION: Has this project inspired you to learn more and do more to protect coral
reefs?
“Yes, it has. I want to make a difference and help our planet. I care so much about animals
and saving the planet, so I’m really glad that I got to learn about how the sunscreen that we
use can impact future generations. I want to continue making this place better. ”
- Lili‘u Kaahumanu, 7th-grade
“ Yes since I know the huge effect sunscreen has on the coral reefs I want to educate people on
this subject. ” - Madilyn Hays, 7th-grade
“Yes, I will now help inform other people, I will learn more about this issue, and I will do my
best to wear sun shirts and other things so 1 don  7have to wear sunscreen in the ocean, and if
I do it will be reef safe. ” - Hannah Wick, 7th-grade
“Yes it has, before I had a little knowledge about non-reef safe sunscreen, but now I have
learned a lot about this topic. This project has inspired me to show people how bad non-reef
safe sunscreen is and it has also inspired me to safe the reefs. ” - Sophia Peterson, 7th-grade
QUESTION: How did you feel when you found out that the Maui County Council
passed BUI 135?
“I was happy because it helps the environment and hopefully soon the whole world will ban
non-safe sunscreen ingredients. ” - Mason Hu, 7th-grade
“I really liked it and it put it into perspective that we can change things. ”
- Annalise Eller, 7th-grade
“Ifelt proud and like I was a part of history. ”  -Waiaulia Smith, 7th-grade
“Ifelt very rewarded and very happy. It is one of those feelings when you're proud to be part
of something. ” - Jessica Rosado, 7th-grade
“I felt proud that we did something that could help preserve the coral reefs around Maui and
hopefully lead other islands and cities to do the same. ” - Hana Freet, 7th Grade
'in
Discussion
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTERORQ
DISCUSSION
Data collected during the in-store surveys was based on inventory at the time of survey. An
area for further investigation could be collecting data on all products available at the store, in
stock, or not. We have also recognized that surveying stores at hotels and resorts could prove
insightful to understanding the availability and accessibility of reef-safe sunscreen products
and any education and information available to visitors regarding the safety of different
sunscreen products.
The use of non-regulated labels, Reef Friendly, Reef Safe, and Reef Conscious can be a point
of confusion for consumers. Through our research, we identified many sunscreens containing
chemical ingredients labeled reef-friendly and reef-conscious. Reef-safe was most commonly
used to describe mineral-based sunscreen products. An area for further investigation could be
the community’s understanding of these terms.
There is little information about beachgoer's use of sunscreens on Maui, the prevalence of
petrochemicals in sunscreens used by beachgoers, or public awareness of the effects of
petrochemicals. An area of opportunity for further investigation is the development of
effective education and outreach strategies to increase the general public’s awareness of the
impacts of non-reef-safe sunscreen.
Figure 35. Photo of 7'’’-grade students from Kihei Charter School on field trip to MOC
Marine Institute, Maui, HawaiT. November 2021. Photo; MOC Marine Institute.
o o
Literature Cited
Sunscreen Assessment
I■W
II
MARINE INSTITUTEkiheiCharterorg MAUI OCEAN CENTER
LITERATURE CITED
Adler, B.L., DeLeo, V.A. Sunscreen Safety: a Review of Recent Studies on Humans and the
Environment. Curr Derm Rep 9, 1-9 (2020). https://doi.org/10.100 7/sl3671-020-00284-4
Danovaro, R., L. Bongiomi, C. Corinaldesi, D. Giovannelli, E. Damiani, R Astolfi, L. Greci,
and A. Pusceddu. (2008). Sunscreens cause coral bleaching by promoting viral infections.
Environmental health perspectives 116:441-447.
Downs, C. A., DiNardo, J. C., Stien, D., Rodrigues, A.S., and Lebaron, P
Chemical Research in Toxicology 2021 34 (4), 1046-1054
DOI: 10.1021 /acs.chemrestox.0c00461
Hawai‘1 Tourism Authority. (2019). Hawaii Visitor Statistics Released for 2019. Retrieved
from: https://www.hawaiitourismauthority.org/media/4166/2020-01- 29-hawaii-visitor-
statistics-released-for-december-2019.pdf
Speight, J. E. (2020). Petrochemical. Petrochemical - an overview | ScienceDirect Topics.
Retrieved November 15, 2021, from
https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/petrochemical.
TA
Data Collection Form
Sunscreen Assessment
w■1.
II
w MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A: DATA COLLECTION FORM
Reef-Safe
(Y/N)
Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Name and BrandLocationStore
(Y/N)
4f\
\
Sunscreen Survey
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
APPENDIX B: IN-PERSON SUNSCREEN SURVEY
What type of sunscreen are you using today?'
Q Recl-ssfe
Re«(-(rlendly
Re«f-conscious
Q Noneotthesbove
Q Not wearing sunscreen
Sunscreen Survey Did you purchase your sut^reen on Maui? '
jmiller@kiheicharter.org (not shared) Switch account O '***
O
Unknown
What is your home zip code? * If you bought your sunscreen or> Maui, where was it purchased? *
0 Safeway
0 Whole Foods Markei
0 Times Market
Foodland
0 Costco
0 ABC Store
0 Ross
0 Surf shop
0 Snorkst/Onr* Shop
0 Holel/Resort Store
0 Other small convsnienca store
0 N/A
Youf answer
What age range best represents you? *
o Under 18
o 18-22
O 22-26
O 26-30
O 30-40
Why did you purchase this brand of sur^screen? '
o 40-50
0 Price
0 Cood lor the reel
0 It was the only option
0 Thie Is the one that I alweys purchase
0 other
o 50 -60
o 60-70
o 70 +
May we have your email address to share our project report once it it finished?
Your
Clear fen
A 1
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
\
II
A
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERK1HEtCHARreR.ORG
APPENDIX C: IN-STORE SUNSCREEN DATA
Table 4. Sunscreen products available for sale at Safeway stores in Maui, Hawaii, October 2021
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 8 Oz
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
Banana Boat Hair & Scalp Defense Sunscreen Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 6 Oz
No Yes
YesNo
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 100 - 6 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Kids Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
Yes Yes
Banana Boat Kids Sport Tear & Sting Free Sunscreen Lotion
Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
No Yes
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Lotion SPF 50-6 OZ
No YesCoppertone Sport Spray SPF 50
Coppertone Sport Sunscreen High Performance Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
No YesCoppertone Sport Spray Spf 100
Coppertone Sunscreen Lotion Water Babies Pure & Simple
SPF 50
Yes Yes
Coppertone Water Babies Sunscreen Lotion Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
No YesCoppertone Waterbaby Spf 50
No YesCoppertone Kids Spray Spf 50
No YesCoppertone Sport Spray Spf 70
No YesCoppertone Dc Face Ltn Spf 50
Neutrogena Clear Face Liquid-Lotion Sunscreen Break-Out Free
SPF 30
No Yes
Yes YesNeutrogena Pure & Free Sunscreen Baby Spf 50
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 45
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 55
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 30
Neutrogena Sheer Zinc Sunscreen Protection Dry Touch
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
Yes Yes
4^
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
W
MARINE INSTITUTEKiheiCharterorg MAUI OCEAN CENTER
I
Table 4. Continued
Sunscreen Brantl Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Neutrogena Beach Defense Sunscreen Lotion Water + Sun
Protection SPF 70
No Yes
YesNoNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Sunscreen Face & Body Stick SPF 70
Hawaiian Tropic Dark Tanning Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 4
YesNo
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Sunscreen Lotion Ultra
Radiance Broad Spectrum SPF 30
YesNo
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Spray Clear Broad No
Spectrum SPF 30
Yes
YesNoHawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen 50 SPF
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Faces
Weightless SPF 30
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen Ultra
Radiance Broad Spectrum SPF 15
YesNo
YesNo
YesNoHawaiian Tropic Matte Effect Spf 30 Lotion
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
YesNo
Signature Care Sport Sunscreen Lotion Water Resistant Non
Greasy SPF 50
Signature Care Sport Sunscreen Lotion Water Resistant Non
Greasy SPF 30
Signature Care Sunscreen Lotion Ultra Dry Touch Water
Resistant Light SPF 70
Signature Care Sunscreen Lotion Ultra Dry Touch Water
Resistant Light SPF 50
Aveeno Active Naturals Sunscreen Lotion Protect + Hydrate
Broad Spectrum SPF 70
YesNo
YesNo
YesNo
YesNo
YesNo
Aveeno Baby Natural Protection Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
YesYes
YesNoAlba Botanica SPF 70 Clear Sunscreen Spray
Alba Botanica Sunscreen Tropical Fruit Kids Clear Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
YesNo
Alba Botanica Sunscreen Clear Spray Nourishing Coconut
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
YesNo
YesYesALL Good Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
ALL Good Kids Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
YesYes
A-y
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
/,ii
II^;j MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKIHEICHARTER.0R5
Table 5. Sunscreen products available for sale at Whole Foods Market stores in Maui, Hawaii,
October 2021
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
No YesAlba Botanica SPF 50 Clear Sensitive Sunscreen Spray
Alba Botanica Sunscreen Tropical Fruit Kids Clear Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
Alba Botanica Sunscreen Clear Spray Nourishing Coconut Broad No
Spectrum SPF 50
Yes
Yes YesAlba Botanica Sensitive Mineral Sunscreen SPF 33
Yes YesALL Good Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesALL Good Kids Spray Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesSun Bum Mineral SPF 30
Yes YesSun Bum Baby Bum Stick Mineral vSPF 50
Yes YesSun Bum Baby Bum Mineral SPF 50
Yes YesSun Bum Face Mineral SPF 30
Yes YesSun Bum Mineral Spray SPF 30
Yes YesGoddess Garden Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
Yes YesBabo Botanical Sheer Mineral Sunscreen Spray
Yes YesBabo Botanical Clear Zinc Sport Stick Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesPacifica Mineral Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesPacifica Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
No YesThe Seaweed Bath SPF 40 Sport Sunscreen
No YesThe Seaweed Bath SPF 30 Sport Sunscreen
Yes YesMineral Sport Spray SPF 30 365 Whole Foods Market
Yes YesMineral Sunscreen Lotion SPF 30 365 Whole Foods Market
Hydrating Facial Sunscreen Lotion SPF 30 365 Whole Foods
Market
Yes Yes
Yes YesThinkbaby Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50
Yes YesThinksport Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50
A A
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
//.
II
MARINE INSTITUTEV/ .
KlHElCHARTER.ORG MAUI OCEAN CENTER
Table 5. Continued
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
YesYesThink Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesBadger Clear Zinc Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 40
Yes YesMyChelle Solar Defense Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50
YesYesMyChelle Solar Defense Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesMyChelle Solar Defense Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 28
Yes YesCocokind Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 32
YesYesRaw Love All Natural Mineral Sunscreen
Yes YesKokua Sun Care Zinc Sunscreen SPF 50
A C
L2 In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentMARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
Table 6. Sunscreen products available for sale at Hawaiian Moons stores in Maui, Hawai‘i,
October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Alba Botanica Soothing Sunscreen Lavender Broad Spectrum
SPF 45
Alba Botanica Hawaiian Sunscreen green tea Broad Spectrum
SPF 45
No Yes
No Yes
Yes YesAlba Botanica Sensitive Mineral Sunscreen SPF 33
Yes YesGoddess Garden Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
Yes YesBabo Botanical Sheer Mineral Sunscreen Spay
Yes YesBabo Botanical Clear Zinc Sport Stick Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesThiiikbaby Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50
Yes YesThinlcsport Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50
Yes YesThink Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesBadger Clear Zinc Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 40
Yes YesMyChelle Solar Defense Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50
Yes YesRaw Love All Natural Mineral Sunscreen
Yes YesKiss My Face Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Yes YesKiss My Face Kids Spray SPF 30
Yes YesKiss My Face Broad Spectrum Kids SPF 30
Yes YesKiss My Face Broad Spectrum Baby SPF 50
YesYesMaui Surfer Honey Natural Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesDerma-E Sun Defense SPF 30
No YesDerma-E Sun Defense Kids Spray SPF 50
A C
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
A%
IIMARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKIHEICHARTER-CRG
Table 7. Sunscreen products available for sale at Times Supermarket stores in Maui, Hawaii,
October 2021
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 15
YesNo
YesNo
Banana Boat Hair & Scalp Defense Sunscreen Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 6 Oz
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
YesNo
YesNo
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
YesNo
Banana Boat Kids Sport Tear & Sting Free Sunscreen Lotion
Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
YesNo
YesNoBanana Boat Light As Air Lotion Spf 50-6 OZ
YesNoBanana Boat Light As Air Spray Spf 50
Banana Boat Simply Protect Sensitive SPF 50 YesNo
YesYesBanana Boat Simply Protect Baby SPF 50
YesYesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Enriched SPF 50
YesNoBanana Boat Simply Protect Mineral Enriched Sensitive SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
YesYes
YesNo
YesNoCoppertone Sport Spray SPF 50
Coppertone Sunscreen Lotion Water Babies Pure & Simple SPF YesNo
50
Coppertone Water Babies Sunscreen Lotion Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Coppertone Waterbaby SPF 50
YesYes
YesNo
YesNoCoppertone Kids Spray SPF 50
YesNoNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 55
YesNoNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 30
An
4J In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment&
I
I
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKiheiCkarteporg
Table 7. Continued
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Faces
Weightless SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Weightless
SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
No YesHawaiian Tropic Matte Effect Spf30 Lotion
Alba Botanica Soothing Sunscreen Lavender Broad Spectrum
SPF 45
No Yes
Yes YesALL Good Kids Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesALL Good Kids Spray Sunscreen SPF 30
No YesLand Shark SPF 50, 6.5 oz.
Sun Bum Mineral SPF 30 Yes Yes
Sun Bum Baby Bum Stick Mineral SPF 50 Yes Yes
Sun Bum Baby Bum Mineral SPF 50 Yes Yes
Sun Bum Face Mineral SPF 30 Yes Yes
Sun Bum SPF 30 Broad Spectrum No Yes
Sun Bum SPF 50 Broad Spectrum No Yes
Cetaphil Sheer Mineral Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF Yes Yes
30
Cetaphil Sheer Mineral Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF Yes Yes
50
48
-N
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
I■:w
II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKiheiCharter.org
Table 8. Sunscreen products available for sale at Foodland stores in Maui, Hawai‘i, October
2021
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 8 O2
YesNo
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 15
Banana Boat Hair & Scalp Defense Sunscreen Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 6 Oz
YesNo
YesNo
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
YesNo
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 100 - 6 Oz
No Yes
No Yes
Banana Boat Kids Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad YesYes
Spectrum SPF 50-6 Oz
Banana Boat Kids Sport Tear & Sting Free Sunscreen Lotion
Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
No Yes
YesNoBanana Boat Light As Air Lotion Spf 50-6 OZ
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Spray Spf 50
Banana Boat Simply Protect Sensitive SPF 50 YesNo
YesYesBanana Boat Simply Protect Baby SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Enriched SPF 50
YesNoBanana Boat Simply Protect Mineral Enriched Sensitive SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
Yes Yes
YesNo
YesNoCoppertone Sport Spray SPF 50
Coppertone Sport Sunscreen High Performance Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
/in
IMl
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentMARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTERORG
Table 8. Continued
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Coppertone Sunscreen Lotion Water Babies Pure & Simple
SPF 50
Yes Yes
Coppertone Water Babies Sunscreen Lotion Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
No YesCoppertone Kids Spray SpfSO
Ncutrogena Sheer Zinc Sunscreen Protection Dry Touch
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
Yes Yes
Neutrogena Beach Defense Sunscreen Lotion Water + Sun
Protection Spf 30
No Yes
Yes YesNeutrogena Sensitive Skin Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Spf 60+
No YesNeutrogena Sheer Hydro Boost Sunscreen Lotion Spf 30
Hawaiian Tropic Dark Tanning Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 4
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Spray Clear Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
No YesHawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen 50 SPF
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Faces
Weightless SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Weightless
SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
No YesHawaiian Tropic Matte Effect Spf 30 Lotion
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
No Yes
No YesHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Spray SPF 30 No Yes
m In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
Table 8. Continued
Meets HI LegislationReef-SafeSunscreen Brand
YesYesRed Gecko All Natural Sunscreen SPF 30
YesYesSun Bum Mineral SPF 30
YesYesSun Bum Baby Bum Stick Mineral SPF 50
YesYesSun Bum Baby Bum Mineral SPF 50
YesYesSun Bum Face Mineral SPF 30
YesYesSun Bum Mineral SPF 50
YesNoSun Bum SPF 15 Broad Spectrum
YesNoSun Bum SPF 30 Broad Spectrum
YesNoSun Bum SPF 50 Broad Spectrum
YesNoSun Bum SPF 70 Broad Spectrum
YesNoSun Bum SPF 15 Sunscreen Spray
YesNoSun Bum SPF 30 Sunscreen Spray
YesNoSun Bum SPF 50 Sunscreen Spray
YesNoSun Bum SPF 70 Sunscreen Spray
YesYesMaui Vera Mineral Sunscreen SPF 30
YesNoCoola Classic Body Sunscreen SPF 30
YesNoCoola Classic Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
iJ In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentMARINE INSTITUTE IMAUI OCEAN CENTERKiheiCharterorq
Table 9. Sunscreen products available for sale at ABC Stores in Maui, Hawaii, October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
Banana Boat Hair & Scalp Defense Sunscreen Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 6 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 100 - 6 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Kids Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
Yes Yes
Banana Boat Kids Sport Tear & Sting Free Sunscreen Lotion
Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
No Yes
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Lotion Spf 50 - 6 OZ
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Spray Spf 50
Banana Boat Simply Protect Sensitive SPF 50 No Yes
No YesBanana Boat Simply Protect Baby SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Enriched SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Simply Protect Mineral Enriched Sensitive SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
Yes Yes
No Yes
Neutrogena Clear Face Liquid-Lotion Sunscreen Break-Out Free
Spf30
No Yes
YesNeutrogena Pure & Free Sunscreen Baby Spf 50 Yes
NoNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 55 Yes
52
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
●I
II
MARINE INSTITUTE■7
MAUI OCEAN CENTERKIHEICHARTERORG
Table 9. Continued
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 30
Neutrogena Sheer Zinc Sunscreen Protection Dry Touch
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
Yes Yes
YesNoNeutrogena Sheer Zinc Kids Broad Spectrum SPF 50
YesNoNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Sunscreen Face & Body Stick Spf 70
YesNoNeutrogena Sheer Hydro Boost Sunscreen Lotion Spf 50
YesNoNeutrogena Sheer Hydro Boost Sunscreen Lotion Spf 30
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Sunscreen Lotion Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Spray Clear Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
YesNo
No Yes
YesNoHawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen 50 SPF
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
YesNo
YesNoHawiian Tropic Matte Effect Spf 30 Lotion
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 30
YesNo
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
YesNo
YesNoHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
YesNoHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
YesNo
YesNo
YesNoHawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
YesNoAveeno Protect + Hydrate Broad Spectrum SPF 30
YesNoAveeno Protect + Hydrate Broad Spectrum SPF 60
Aveeno Baby Natural Protection Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Aveeno Active Positively Mineral Sensitive Sunscreen Lotion
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
Aveeno Ultra-Calming Daily Moisturizer Mineral Sunscreen
SPF 30
YesNo
Yes Yes
YesYes
53
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentMARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
Table 9. Continued
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Yes YesRed Gecko All Natural Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesRaw Elements Face and Body SPF 30
Yes YesRaw Elements Face Stick SPF 30
Yes YesMaui Vera Mineral Sunscreen SPF 30
^4
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
A
II
\ 7 MARINE INSTITUTE\V.
MAUI OCEAN CENTERKIHEICHARTER.ORS
Table 10. Sunscreen products available for sale at Zack’s Deli stores in Maui, Hawaii, October
2021
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 15
YesNo
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
YesNo
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
YesNo
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
YesNo
Banana Boat Kids Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
Yes Yes
No YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Enriched SPF 50
YesNoBanana Boat Simply Protect Mineral Enriched Sensitive SPF 50
Hawaiian Tropic Dark Tanning Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 4
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Sunscreen Lotion Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Spray Clear Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
YesNo
YesNo
No Yes
YesNoHawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen 50 SPF
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Weightless
SPF 30
YesNo
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
YesNo
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 30
YesNo
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
YesNo
YesNoHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Yes YesRed Gecko All Natural Sunscreen SPF 30
cc
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHART£P.ORG
Table 11. Sunscreen products available for sale at Whalers General stores in Maui, Hawai‘i,
October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
Banana Boat Hair & Scalp Defense Sunscreen Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 6 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
Banana Boat Kids Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
No Yes
Yes Yes
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Lotion Spf 50 - 6 OZ
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Spray Spf 50
Banana Boat Simply Protect Sensitive SPF 50 No Yes
Yes YesBanana Boat Simply Protect Baby SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Enriched SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Simply Protect Mineral Enriched Sensitive SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Yes Yes
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
No Yes
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 45
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 55
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 30
Hawaiian Tropic Dark Tanning Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 4
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Sunscreen Lotion Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Spray Clear Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
No Yes
No Yes
1#* In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTES.ORG
Table 11. Continued
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
YesNoHawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen 50 SPF
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Faces
Weightless SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Weightless
SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
YesNoHawaiian Tropic Matte Effect Spf 30 Lotion
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectmm
SPF 50
YesNo
No YesHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
YesNo
YesNoHawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
Yes YesMaui Vera Mineral Sunscreen SPF 30
cn
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentIIMARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTER
7/.
KlHeiCHART£R.ORG
Table 12. Sunscreen products available for sale at Longs Drugs stores in Maui, Hawaii,
October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Hair & Scalp Defense Sunscreen Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 6 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 100 - 6 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Kids Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
Yes Yes
Banana Boat Kids Sport Tear & Sting Free Sunscreen Lotion
Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
No Yes
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Lotion Spf 50-6 OZ
Banana Boat Simply Protect Sensitive SPF 50 No Yes
Yes YesBanana Boat Simply Protect Baby SPF 50
Yes YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Foam SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Enriched SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Simply Protect Mineral Enriched Sensitive SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
Yes Yes
No Yes
No YesCoppertone Sport Spray SPF 50
Coppertone Sport Sunscreen High Performance Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
No YesCoppertone Sport Spray Spf 100
Coppertone Sunscreen Lotion Water Babies Pure & Simple
SPF 50
Yes Yes
Coppertone Water Babies Sunscreen Lotion Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
No YesCoppertone Waterbaby Spf 50
No YesCoppertone Kids Spray Spf50
CA
//.
//vn
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
A
II
\
mm MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKIHEICHARTER.ORG
Table 12. Continued
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Signature Care Sport Sunscreen Lotion Water Resistant Non
Greasy SPF 50
No Yes
Signature Care Sport Sunscreen Lotion Water Resistant Non
Greasy SPF 30
No Yes
Signature Care Sunscreen Lotion Ultra Dry Touch Water
Resistant Light SPF 70
YesNo
Signature Care Sunscreen Lotion Ultra Dry Touch Water
Resistant Light SPF 50
No Yes
Aveeno Active Naturals Sunscreen Lotion Protect + Hydrate
Broad Spectrum SPF 70
YesNo
No YesAveeno Protect + Hydrate Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Aveeno Baby Natural Protection Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Yes Yes
Aveeno Active Positively Mineral Sensitive Sunscreen Lotion
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
YesYes
Aveeno Ultra-Calming Daily Moisturizer Mineral Sunscreen SPF No Yes
30
Yes YesALL Good Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesALL Good Kids Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesALL Good Kids Spray Sunscreen SPF 30
YesNoAloe Up Kids Sport Spray Sunscreen SPF 50
YesNoAloe Up Spray Sunscreen SPF 30
No YesAloe Up Sport Performance Spray Sunscreen SPF 30
YesYesRaw Elements Face and Body SPF 30
YesYesRaw Elements Face Stick SPF 30
YesNoLand Shark SPF 30, 6.5 oz.
No YesLand Shark SPF 50, 6.5 oz.
YesNoHawaiian Blend Sensitive Skin SPF 50
YesNoHawaiian Blend Essentials SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Blend Extreme Sport SPF 30
Yes YesSun Bum Mineral SPF 30
YesYesSun Bum Baby Bum Stick Mineral SPF 50
cr»
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
Table 12. Continued
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
No YesCoppertone Sport Spray Spf 70
No YesCopperton Dc Face Ltti Spf 50
Neutrogena Clear Face Liquid-Lotion Sunscreen Break-Out Free
Spf3Q
No Yes
Yes YesNeutrogena Pure & Free Sunscreen Baby Spf 50
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunblock Lotion SPF 55
Neutrogena Sheer Zinc Sunscreen Protection Dry Touch
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
Yes Yes
Neutrogena Beach Defense Sunscreen Lotion Water + Sun
Protection Spf 70
No Yes
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Sunscreen Face & Body Stick Spf 70
No YesNeutrogena Invisible Daily Defense Sunscreen Lotion Spf 60
Yes YesNeutrogena Sensitive Skin Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Spf 60+
No YesNeutrogena Sheer Hydro Boost Sunscreen Lotion Spf 50
No YesNeutrogena Sheer Hydro Boost Sunscreen Lotion Spf 30
Hawaiian Tropic Dark Tanning Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 4
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Sunscreen Lotion Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Spray Clear Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
No Yes
NoHawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen 50 SPF Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Flydration Sunscreen Lotion Faces
Weightless SPF 30
No Yes
Flawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
No YesHawaiian Tropic Matte Effect Spf 30 Lotion
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
NoHawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Spray SPF 30 Yes
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHAPTERORG
Table 12. Continued
Reef-Safe Meets Hi LegislationSunscreen Brand
YesYesSun Bum Baby Bum Mineral SPF 50
Yes YesSun Bum Face Mineral SPF 30
YesYesSun Bum Mineral SPF 50
YesNoSun Bum SPF 30 Broad Spectrum
YesNoSun Bum SPF 50 Broad Spectrum
YesNoSun Bum SPF 70 Broad Spectrum
YesNoCoola Classic Body Sunscreen SPF 30
YesNoCoola Classic Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Yes YesCVS Health Zinc Sheer Lotion SPF 30
YesYesCVS Health Baby Broad Spectrum Lotion SPF 50
Yes YesBabyganics Mineral Sunscreen SPF 50
No YesBabyganics Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
YesYesBabyganics Mineral Sunscreen Stick SPF 50
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentMARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTER
\\
KIHEICHARTERDRG
Table 13. Sunscreen products available for sale at Walgreens stores in Maui, Hawai‘i, October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 8 Oz 
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
Banana Boat Hair & Scalp Defense Sunscreen Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 6 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen
Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Yes Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
Banana Boat Kids Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
Yes Yes
Banana Boat Kids Sport Tear & Sting Free Sunscreen Lotion
Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
No Yes
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Lotion Spf 50-6 OZ
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Spray Spf 50
Banana Boat Simply Protect Sensitive SPF 50 No Yes
Yes YesBanana Boat Simply Protect Baby SPF 50
Yes YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Foam SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Enriched SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Simply Protect Mineral Enriched Sensitive SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
Yes Yes
No Yes
Coppertone Sport Sunscreen High Performance Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Coppertone Sport Sunscreen High Performance Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
No Yes
Coppertone Glow Sunscreen SPF 30 No Yes
No YesCoppertone Glow Sunscreen SPF 50
54
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKiheiCharter.org
Table 13. Continued
Meets HI LegislationReef-SafeSunscreen Brand
Yes YesBare Republic Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
Yes YesBare Republic Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Yes YesBare Republic Mineral Face Sunscreen SPF 70
No YesBare Republic Mineral 'Clearscreen' Spray SPF 50
YesYesBare Republic Mineral Baby Sunscreen Lotion SPF 50
YesYesBare Republic Mineral Sunscreen Sheer Zinc Oxide SPF 30
YesNoLa Roche-Posay Face & Body SPF 60
YesYesCera VeHydrating Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Blue Lizard Australian Sunscreen Sensitive Face Mineral-Based
Sunscreen SPF 30
YesNo
Blue Lizard Australian Sunscreen Kids Mineral-Based Sunscreen ]sjo
SPF 30
Yes
Blue Lizard Australian Sunscreen Sport Mineral-Based Sunscreen No
SPF 30
Yes
Blue Lizard Australian Sunscreen Active Mineral-Based
Sunscreen SPF 30
YesNo
Blue Lizard Australian Sunscreen Sensitive Mineral-Based
Sunscreen SPF 30
YesYes
YesNoWalgreens Hydrating Broad-Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 30
YesNoWalgreens Sensitive Skin Broad-Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50
YesNoWalgreens Sport Broad-Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 30
YesNoWalgreens Sport Broad-Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50
YesNoWalgreens Sport Spray Sunscreen SPF 30
YesYesAustralian Gold Botanical Mineral Sunscreen SPF 50
55
iJ In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
\//
MARINE INSTITUTEKlHElCHART6R.ORG IMAUI OCEAN CENTER
Table 14. Sunscreen products available for sale at Honolua Surf co. stores in Maui, Hawaii,
October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Yes YesSun Bum Mineral SPF 30
Yes YesSun Bum Baby Bum Stick Mineral SPF 50
Yes YesSun Bum Baby Bum Mineral SPF 50
Yes YesSun Bum Face Mineral SPF 30
No YesSun Bum Face Broad Spectrum SPF 50
No YesSun Bum Face Mist SPF 45
No YesSun Bum Face Broad Spectrum SPF 70
Yes YesSun Bum Mineral Spray SPF 30
Yes YesSun Bum Mineral SPF 50
No YesSun Bum SPF 15 Broad Spectrum
No YesSun Bum SPF 30 Broad Spectrum
No YesSun Bum SPF 50 Broad Spectrum
No YesSun Bum SPF 70 Broad Spectrum
No YesSun Bum SPF 15 Sunscreen Spray
No YesSun Bum SPF 30 Sunscreen Spray
No YesSun Bum SPF 50 Sunscreen Spray
No YesSun Bum SPF 70 Sunscreen Spray
Yes YesVertra Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50
64
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
A
aI
MARINE INSTITUTEKiheiCharter.org MAUI OCEAN CENTER
Table 15. Sunscreen products available for sale at Hi-Tech stores in Maui, HawaiT, October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
YesYesSun Bum Baby Bum Stick Mineral SPF 50
Yes YesSun Bum Baby Bum Mineral SPF 50
No YesSun Bum Face Broad Spectrum SPF 50
YesYesSun Bum Mineral Spray SPF 30
YesNoSun Bum SPF 15 Broad Spectrum
Yes YesMaui Vera Mineral Sunscreen SPF 30
No YesRaw Love All Natural Mineral Sunscreen
Yes YesSalt and Stone Broad Spectrum Sunscreen
YesYesOne Love Body and Soul Sunscreen
Yes YesTropicSport SPF 30 Mineral Sunscreen
Yes YesMama Kuleana
65
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
A
II. .\\^ -aKlHElCHARTER.ORG
V
■//
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTER
.
Table 16. Sunscreen products available for sale at Maui Dive Shop stores in Maui, Hawai‘i,
October 2021
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Faces
Weightless SPF 30
No Yes
Yes YesRed Gecko All Natural Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesRaw Elements Face and Body SPF 30
Yes YesRaw Elements Face Stick SPF 30
Yes YesRaw Elements Baby + Kids Broad Spectrum
Yes YesRaw Elements Baby + Kids Stick
Yes YesRaw Love All Natural Mineral Sunscreen
Yes YesYea Bah Natural Sunscreen SPF 30
\ 4t\/» \\
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
Table 17. Sunscreen products available for sale at Auntie Snorkel stores in Maui, Hawaii,
October 2021
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
Yes YesMaui Vera Mineral Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesHawaiian Sol Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesMaui Surf and Soul
cn
//-//■
II In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
I
II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKIHEICHARTERORG
Table 18. Sunscreen products available for sale at Boss Frog’s stores in Maui, 1-Iawai‘i,
October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Yes YesHawaiian Sol Sunscreen SPF 30
68
J In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentMARINE INSTITUTE
^3:
I
MAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHBCHARTER.CRG
Table 19. Sunscreen products available for sale at Walmart in Maui, Hawai‘i, October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 15
Banana Boat Hair & Scalp Defense Sunscreen Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 6 Oz
No Yes
No Yes
YesNo
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Perfonuance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
YesNo
Banana Boat Kids Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50-6 Oz
YesYes
Banana Boat Kids Sport Tear & Sting Free Sunscreen Lotion
Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
YesNo
No YesBanana Boat Light As Air Lotion Spf 50-6 OZ
YesNoBanana Boat Light As Air Spray Spf 50
Banana Boat Simply Protect Sensitive SPF 50 YesNo
YesYesBanana Boat Simply Protect Baby SPF 50
Yes YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Foam SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Enriched SPF 50
YesNoBanana Boat Simply Protect Mineral Enriched Sensitive SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
Yes Yes
YesNo
YesNoCoppertone Sport Spray SPF 50
Coppertone Sport Sunscreen High Performance Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Coppertone Sport Sunscreen High Performance Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
Coppertone Sunscreen Lotion Water Babies Pure & Simple
SPF 50
No Yes
No Yes
Yes Yes
69
In-Store Data
Sunscreen AssessmentII
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
Table 19. Continued
Reef-Safe Meets HI LegislationSunscreen Brand
Coppertone Water Babies Sunscreen Lotion Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
No YesCoppertone Waterbaby Spf50
No YesCoppertone Kids Spray Spf50
Coppertone Glow Sunscreen SPF 30 No Yes
No YesCoppertone Glow Sunscreen SPF 50
Neutrogena Clear Face Liquid-Lotion Sunscreen Break-Out Free
Spf30
No Yes
Neutrogena Clear Face Liquid-Lotion Sunscreen Break-Out Free
Spf50
No Yes
Yes YesNeutrogena Sheer Zinc Kids Broad Spectrum SPF 50
Neutrogena Beach Defense Sunscreen Lotion Water + Sun
Protection Spf 70
No Yes
Neutrogena Beach Defense Sunscreen Lotion Water + Sun
Protection Spf 50
No Yes
No YesNeutrogena Invisible Daily Defense Sunscreen Lotion Spf 60
Neutrogena Sheer Hydro Boost Sunscreen Lotion Spf 50 No Yes
No YesNeutrogena Sport Face Sunscreen Lotion Spf 70
Yes YesNeutrogena Pure & Free Baby Sunscreen Stick Spf 50
Hawaiian Tropic Dark Tanning Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 4
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Sunscreen Lotion Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Spray Clear Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
No YesHawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen 50 SPF
Hawaiian Tropic Silk Hydration Sunscreen Lotion Weightless
SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
No YesHawaiian Tropic Matte Effect Spf 30 Lotion
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
No Yes
70
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
A.
II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
Table 19. Continued
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
No YesHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
Hawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
No YesHawaiian Tropic AntiOxidant+ Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
No YesAveeno Protect + Hydrate Broad Spectrum SPF 30
No YesAveeno Protect + Hydrate Broad Spectrum SPF 60
Aveeno Baby Natural Protection Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Yes Yes
Aveeno Kids Natural Protection Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
YesYes
Yes YesAveeno Kids Natural Protection Sunscreen Stick SPF 50
Yes YesALL Good Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesALL Good Kids Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesALL Good Kids Spray Sunscreen SPF 30
No YesLand Shark SPF 50, 6.5 oz.
No YesHawaiian Blend Sensitive Skin SPF 50
No YesHawaiian Blend Essentials SPF 30
Yes YesAustralian Gold Botanical Mineral Sunscreen SPF 50
No YesAustralian Gold Botanical Plant-Based Sunscreen SPF 50
No YesAustralian Gold Botanical Plant-Based Sunscreen SPF 30
No YesAustralian Gold Botanical Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
No YesAustralian Gold Botanical Instant Bronzer Spray SPF 8
No YesAustralian Gold Botanical Instant Bronzer Spray SPF 15
No YesAustralian Gold Botanical Instant Bronzer Spray SPF 30
71
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
4d.
II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHARTER.ORG
Table 20. Sunscreen products available for sale at Target in Maui, HawaiT, October 2021
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30 - 8 Oz
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 30
No Yes
Banana Boat Ultra Sport Performance Clear Sunscreen Spray
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
Banana Boat Kids Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
Yes Yes
Banana Boat Kids Sport Tear & Sting Free Sunscreen Lotion
Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 - 6 Oz
No Yes
Yes YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Foam SPF 50
No YesBanana Boat Kids Mineral Enriched SPF 50
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Yes Yes
Banana Boat Sport Mineral Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum
SPF 50
No Yes
Coppertone Sport Sunscreen High Performance Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
Coppertone Sport Sunscreen High Performance Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 30
Coppertone Sunscreen Lotion Water Babies Pure & Simple
SPF 50
No Yes
Yes Yes
Coppertone Water Babies Sunscreen Lotion Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
Neutrogena Clear Face Liquid-Lotion Sunscreen Break-Out Free
Spf30
Neutrogena Sheer Zinc Sunscreen Protection Dr>' Touch
Broad Spectrum SPF 50
No Yes
No Yes
Yes Yes
Yes YesNeutrogena Sheer Zinc Kids Broad Spectrum SPF 50
Neutrogena Beach Defense Sunscreen Lotion Water + Sun
Protection Spf 70
No Yes
No YesNeutrogena Ultra Sheer Sunscreen Face & Body Stick Spf 70
No YesNeutrogena Invisible Daily Defense Sunscreen Lotion Spf 60
Hawaiian Tropic Sheer Touch Lotion Sunscreen Ultra Radiance
Broad Spectrum SPF 15
No Yes
72
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
A\'I!
II
!
V!, MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKiHElCHARTER.ORG
Table 20. Continued
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
Hawaiian Tropic Island Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum
SPF30
No Yes
Aveeno Baby Natural Protection Sunscreen Lotion Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
YesYes
Alba Botanica Sunscreen Tropical Fruit Kids Clear Spray Broad
Spectrum SPF 50
YesNo
Alba Botanica Hawaiian Sunscreen green tea Broad Spectrum
SPF 45
No Yes
Yes YesALL Good Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesALL Good Kids Mineral Sport Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes YesALL Good Kids Spray Sunscreen SPF 30
YesYesRaw Elements Face and Body SPF 30
Yes YesRaw Elements Face Stick SPF 30
No YesLand Shark SPF 30, 6.5 oz.
No YesLand Shark SPF 20, 6.5 oz.
No YesHawaiian Blend Sensitive Skin SPF 50
YesNoHawaiian Blend Essentials SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Blend Extreme Sport SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Blend Extreme Sport SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Blend Extreme Sport Spray SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Blend Extreme Essentials Spray SPF 30
No YesHawaiian Blend Extreme Sensitive Spray SPF 50
No YesHawaiian Blend Broad Spectrum Lip Protection SPF 45
YesYesSun Bum Mineral SPF 30
Yes YesSun Bum Baby Bum Stick Mineral SPF 50
YesNoSun Bum Face Broad Spectrum SPF 50
No YesSun Bum Face Mist SPF 45
YesNoSun Bum Face Broad Spectrum SPF 70
No YesSun Bum SPF 30 Broad Spectrum
YesNoSun Bum SPF 50 Broad Spectrum
73
In-Store Data
Sunscreen Assessment
A
II
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKIHE1CHARTER,0RG
Table 20. Continued
Sunscreen Brand Reef-Safe Meets HI Legislation
No YesSun Bum SPF 50 Sunscreen Spray
No YesSun Bum SPF 70 Sunscreen Spray
Yes YesBare Republic Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
Yes YesBare Republic Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Blue Lizard Australian Sunscreen Kids Mineral-Based Sunscreen jsjo
SPF 30
Yes
Blue Lizard Australian Sunscreen Active MineraLBased
Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes Yes
Blue Lizard Australian Sunscreen Sensitive Mineral-Based
Sunscreen SPF 30
Yes Yes
Yes YesBabyganics Mineral Sunscreen SPF 50
No YesBabyganics Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Yes YesBabyganics Mineral Sunscreen Stick SPF 50
Pacifica Mineral Sunscreen Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF Yes Yes
50
Yes YesTarget Brand Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 30
Yes YesTarget Brand Mineral Sunscreen Spray SPF 50
Yes YesTarget Brand Mineral Sunscreen Lotion SPF 30
Yes YesTarget Brand Mineral Sunscreen Lotion SPF 50
No YesTarget Brand Sunscreen Sport Spray SPF 15
No YesTarget Brand Sunscreen Sport Spray SPF 30
No YesTarget Brand Sunscreen Sport Spray SPF 50
No YesTarget Brand Sunscreen Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 50
No YesTarget Brand Sunscreen Kids Spray SPF 50
Target Brand Sunscreen Kids Mineral Broad Spectrum SPF Yes Yes
50
n A
Marketing & Branding
Sunscreen AssessmentMARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTERKIHEICKAPTER.ORG
APPENDIX D: EXAMPLES OF MARKETING AND BRANDING
BONUS NoOxyMUon. w OraMUtii  ^5% MORt
Sheer Touch{I*.* ■>*'
Figure 36. (Left) Hawaiian Tropic broad spectrum sunscreen marketed as reef-friendly. Walmart,
Maui, Hawai‘i. (Right) Banana Boat Sport spray sunscreen marketed as reef-friendly. Foodland, Maui,
Hawai‘i.
mineral formula
sunscreen lotion:*»●  ; A :
Compare to Banana Boat* Kids Broad
Spectrum SPF 50 Sunscreen Lotion*
J^^f-conscious formula^ 1
J: resistant (80 minutes)
i ^allergenic
i?9rance.
^Aajvb paraben and PABA free
protection
{
Figure 37. (Left) Hawaiian Tropic broad spray sunscreen marketed as reef-friendly. Times, Maui,
Hawaii. (Right) Target brand broad spectrum sunscreen marketed as reef-conscious. Target, Maui,
Hawai‘i.
nc
f7Cil Reef-Safe Sunscreen
Sunscreen PricingMARINE INSTITUTE
MAUI OCEAN CENTER
'IL.
5KIHEICHARTER.ORG
APPENDIX E: REEF-SAFE / MINERAL-BASED SUNSCREEN PRODUCTS AND
PRICING
Mew AtLbroad SPECTRUM SPF 30
SUNSCREEN goodV.i > -a
130 t\ u. K»(. t Kl( NL'. '
kid ssunscreen
sprayi4FLOZ.(lOOHL)J
sp/solB^.^N I )■>
'P.HL taKfT
J
2F
\[\
I"
OrwFiKti
4riNfcydNrtore
PiKpm
» .murwO^r- r«r
»i«^
Figure 38. (Left) Baby Bum Mineral Sunscreen (~$14.99). (Center) Red Gecko Broad
Spectrum Sunscreen (~$ 16.99). (Right) All Good Kid’s Sunscreen Spray (~$ 16.99).
n/r
Reef-Safe Sunscreen
Sunscreen Pricing
1}
K!HElC HARTER.ORG
I
,7 MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTER
APPENDIX E: CONTINUED
1
^ * ;
●4*# ■
1 ^I RAWI elements ^
\A
ote* '
nriQuiiVERA; .V
3{fcmineral
^stmsc re«n * "W* MCIM m M
● ●flUTAIT (M Al«uTtv
●● i«e OUMminerol
i  sunscreen
|l —
■l^ipKkumS^
tr
JJ
*● «t iMeii
n.02(89mi^.1-3
£  ■. j
● ^
' Ni
—IDnm^fis
iNH«4
:2SS2SS—
I
'll
L"
9t. f
I--.
'r
N. j
Figure 39. (Left) Babyganics Mineral Sunscreen (~$12.99). (Center) Maui Vera Broad
Spectrum Sunscreen (~$14.99). (Right) Raw Elements Broad Spectrum Sunscreen
(~$I8.99).
nn
r
Reef-Friendly Sunscreen
Sunscreen PricingKlHElCHARTERORG
/
MARINE INSTITUTEMAUI OCEAN CENTER
■-
1APPENDIX F: REEF-FRIENDLY SUNSCREEN PRODUCTS AND PRICING
I T":l : 'I : I: i.
IB
Neutrogena*
  inranuMi III III i
i Ultra Sheer
I  dry-touchsimplyprotect 80 T ft N I CA
sensitive3un screen w
sunscreen
IBROAD SPCCTHUM SPf 4:● 4
45
hMoplaii*
c'ftar I*®*
Q>yb«ruon« >r»*
3 0 a OZ (88 frt
V
r?;i;t
IB
r/
U \s 0C5,  i'> to.●*»●«« . n>« ^C#
$13.99t} Idfm
■m JV
I  "
m
%ri
i j
r i: (
*Smi(,it
i i♦*SJ
1,i5
Figure 40. (Left) Banana Boat Simply Protect Spray Sunscreen (~$10). (Center) Alba
Sensitive Spray Sunscreen (-$11.49). (Right) Neutrogena Ultra Sheer Sunscreen (-$13.99).
no
H-'S\
Reef-Friendly Sunscreen
Sunscreen Pricing
\'
MARINE INSTITUTE i:MAUI OCEAN CENTERKlHElCHAHTEROFRG
APPENDIX F: CONTINUED
01
4
Sheer Touch
w T
Spout
6 30S
0
II 50
r I
tt -●
●kaIM. t< M .T*^
\
.u«»^ ,T
^j/r ● «»«» *i»«'ki2-^="ISi—●**«£■’V £[●S',
JSr
'^S> T
Figure 41. (Left) Banana Boat Simply Sport Spray Sunscreen (~$12.29). (Center) Hawaiian
Tropic Broad Sheer Touch Spectrum Sunscreen (-$12.49). (Right) Hawaiian Tropic Island
Sport Sunscreen (-$12.99).
-7A
Count^GeH<
r
From:
Sent:
Jonathan Menton <konamenton@gmail.com>
Monday, December 13, 2021 3:21 PM
County Clerk
Sunscreen Ordinance 5306
20ZI DEC 13 PH 3- 53
To:
OrrICt OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from konamenton@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha!
I believe it is our kuleana to support Sunscreen Ordinance 5306. Non-mineral sunscreen is a threat to the marine
environment, and we should not wait until it's too late to be good stewards of the environment!
Mahalo,
Susan Menton
1
Count^£leH< rco::iVld
jpalmer10@hotmail.com
Monday, December 13, 2021 4:05 PM
County Clerk
Maui Sunscreen Ordinance 5306
From:
Sent: m\ DEC 13 PI*! 4: 28To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from jpalmer10@hotmaii.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Council Members,
I strongly support Sunscreen Ordinance 5306. We are aware that multiple stressors threaten the marine ecosystem, but this non
mineral sunscreen threat is something we can address immediately unlike other issues that take time. FDA has placed these
products in Non-GRASE until the sunscreen industry can prove their products are safe and effective. Non-Mineral sunscreen
products have questionable effects on the health of humans and marine life. The Precautionary Principle states that the burden of
proof for potentially harmful actions by industry or government rests on the assurance of safety and that when there are threats of
serious damage, scientific uncertainty must be resolved in favor of prevention.
Mahalo for your kokua
John Palmer Reef Education Volunteer
Kahalu'u Bay Education Center
Kailua Kona Hawaii
1
rece;ved
im DEC 16 AH 8:24
OFFiCe OF THE
COUNTY CLERKCouncil of the County of Maui
Agenda- Dec. 17, 2021
RE: J.l. County Communications NO. 21-560
Aloha Council Members: December 15, 2021
In 2018 members of the Hana community came together to form Ke Ao HMi‘i (KAH,
“protective blanket of clouds”, save Hana coast) with a goal of establishing conservation
status for the open space lands from Mokae to Maka‘alae. The Hana community and their
supporters are now poised to have established conservancy for over 150 acres of
contiguous, coastal lands.
Phase 1, Ke Ao HaliT’s land conservation efforts started with the purchase of 27 acres at
Mokae, overlooking Hamoa Beach in 2020 with support from the State of Hawaii Legacy
Land Conservation Program and Maui County’s Open Space Fund. The Mokae parcel is
now permanently designated as protected open space under a conservation easement co
held by FlawaiT Island Land Trust (HILT) and Maui County, and managed by KAH.
Phase 2, On November 30, 2021 Ke Ao Hali‘i completed purchase of an additional 30
acres from Hana Ranch Partners, with contributions from the State of Hawaii Legacy
Land Conservation Program ($1.6 million), and Maui County’s Open Space Fund ($1.5
million). Similar to the Mokae property, this land is now permanently protected by a
conservation easement co-held by HILT and Maui County.
Phase 3, Ke Ao HaliT's next goal is acquisition of the 40 additional coastal acres at
Mokae II, located between the Mokae lands acquired in 2020 and the recently acquired
Maka‘alae lands. The State of Hawaii Legacy Land Conservation Program and Maui
County’s Open Space Fund have awarded KAH the funds to complete this purchase,
however, the State budget shortfalls limited the amount the actual funds available to
complete this project by an amount of $669,300. Ke Ao HaliT is working to raise these
remaining funds to complete the purchase in early 2022 and is asking for help from
Mayor Victorino and the Maui County Council.
Phase 4, Upon completion of the third phase, Hana Ranch Partners has committed to
donating 54 acres previously protected with conservation easements at Maka’alae (lands
fronting P5hakuloa and Opau Bays).
This final acquisition will establish over 150 contiguous acres of undeveloped open lands
makai of Hana Highway from Haneo'o Road to Waiohonu Stream. These treasured lands
will be the collective responsibility of Hana residents. The land is to be
Ke Ao Hali'i ● Save Hana Coast ● I’O. l3ox 115* Hana, Hi 96713 ● 808-650-2722 * savchanacoast.t)rg ● contact(g;savehanacoasl.org
managed by Ke Ao Hali‘i with help of the Hana community and supporting partners
through the implementation of a land management plan intended to preserving the
conservation values of the land.
I have included with this letter our Masterplan parcel acquisition spread sheet and a map;
Mokae & Maka’alae Acquisition, indicating parcel groups and funding sources.
We ask that you please support to amend Appendix A, Part II of the FY 2022 budget as
outlined.
Mahalo Nui Loa,
Robin Rayner,
Member
Ke Ao Hali’i Board of Directors
Kc Ao Hali'i ● Save Hana Coast ● I’.O, Box 115* Hiina, HI 96713 ● 80X-650-2722 ♦ savchanacoast.org ● coniact@savehanacoast.org
KeAoHali'i - Save Hana Coast - Land Acquisitions November 15, 2021
Funding
Cycle
Land Appraised
Value
Purchase
Price
Maui County
Open Space FD
State of HI
LLCP
Other
Donors
estimate time
to completion
Land Parcels TMK Numbers Acres Asking PriceUse
$2,800,000
{$103,704}
$726,879 *
match-26%
$2,118,000 Completed
3/20/2020
FY2019 Mokae Parcel I (2) 1-4-010:004 $3,000,00027 $2,800,000AG $0FY19
Completed
2020
Mokae/ Hamoa (2) 1-4-007:001 $01.316 $205,360AG $0 $0 $0 $205,360
(2) 1-4-012:002
(2)1-4-010:030, 032 & 034
$3,081,700
($109,750)
$1,500,000
match-50%
$1,581,700
FY20&21
Completed
11/30/2021
FY2021 Maka'alae Parcel group $4,950,00030.34 AG $3,081,700 $71,000
(2) 1-4-010:008,009
010 & 012
$3,763,300
($115,051)
$3,763,300 $1,900,000
match-50%
$1,194,000 Pending
12/30/2021
FY2021 Mokae II Parcel group $6,426,75032.71 AG $740,000FY21
$200,000
match-59%
Pending
3/30/2022
FY2021 Kaki'o Parcel (2) 1-4-010:014 7.02 $338,500AG $200,000 $0 $138,500na
Maka'alae
Conservation Lands
(2)1-4-010:033, 029,
028, 027 & 017
(2)1-4-012:001, 021 & 022
estimated
$1,735,726
($32,389)
at project
Completion53.59 AG/C $0 $0 $0 $0 $1,735,726
TOTALS Hana Maui $0 $11,924,586151.976 $9,845,000 $4,326,879 $4,893,700 $2,150,586
NOTE: ( } indicate cost per acres
* includes an additions $44,879for closing costs
Mokae II Parcel group;
Full funding for this project; $1,863,300, was awarded by BLNR- LLCP, however
State budget for LLCP FY21 fell short of the necessary funding by $669,300.
Thus, $1,194,000 is all the funding availblefor this project in LLCP FY 21 budget.
Application for LLCP FY22 grant cycle has been submitted and will be reviewed late 2022
includes $669,300 shortfall from LLCP Grant award FY21 + 71,000 due diligence
m**
KAH's fund raising efforts to meet the $669,300 shortfall to purchase the Mokae II Parcel group:
♦ $100,000 grant solicited by HILT and awarded to KAH for the purpose of completing the Mokae II purchase
♦ $18,679 from Legacy Land separate funding source to complete Mokae II
♦ $14,000 from KAH private funding effort, and still ongoing
to Hana Town
TMK(2)l-4-007:001
Mokae Hamoa 1.36A Cdonation)
tide to KAH Sept 2020Hamoa Seocft
Hana, Maui
overview
of land
AcQitisiiions
0^^- .
TMK(2)1>4-010:0041^
27 Acres ,f ^1
Mokae parcel Istate Ll-CP Grant Aware FY19
$2.12M
&
Maui County Open Space Fund
Award FY19 $726,000
Title transfer to Ke Ao Hall'i
March 2020
● 1
* 0Ke Ao Halil
Nov. 2021
TMK(2)l-4-010:008
3.36 A (
Mokae II parcel group32.71 Acres
aate LLCP FY21
Grant Award S1.194M
TMK|2)1-4.010:009
12.5 A
TMK(2)l-4-010:010 ^
8.35 A
TMK(2)l-4-010;012
8.5 A
&Kakro parcel
Maui County
Open Space Fund
award
FY21: $200,000
Maui County C^n Space Furyj
Award FY21 $1.9M
OosinQ pending full funding
TMK(2)l-4-010:014
7.02A TM K(2)1 4-010:034^
10.76 A Maka'alaeparcel group4 Acres
State LLCP FY20/ FY21
grant Award; $1.58M
30.3\^ TMK(2)i 4 02flj
1.18A
&
Maui County Open Space Fund
Award FY 21 $l.5M
Tide transfer to Ke Ao Halil
November 2021
►^.1
MK{2)1 4 010:0;
.8 A:c *
K V
Maka'alae Conservation Lands
to be dontated as part of overall
purchase agreement:
53.59 acres valued at S1.74MilkT'V
TMK{2)1-1 012KH)2
5.6 Acres J Part of Maka'alae parcel groupLLCP grant Award FY2C/FY21
& Maui County Open Space Fund
Award FY 21
-WaMca
Pond ^
Count^£ler^
From:
Sent:
robin@hanahawaii.net
Friday, December 17, 2021 8:39 AM
County Clerk
FW: submitted for council meeting on Friday 12.17.2021, item J.1, NO 21-560
Masterplan parcel groups Nov. 2021- county.xisx; Mokae 8i Makaalae Aquisition-
November 2021_edited-7.jpg; letter to County Council 12.17.2021.docx
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
IYou don't often get email from robin@hanahawaii.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha County Clerk,
I sent this testimony on Wednesday, but just realized the Masterplan parcel document has 2 sheets. Please include only
the second sheet. The first sheet is very out of date now.
Mahalo,
Robin
From: robin@hanahawaii.net <robin@hanahawaii.net>
Sent: Wednesday, December 15, 2021 5:12 PM
To: 'county.clerk@mauicounty.us' <county.clerk@mauicounty.us>
Cc: scott Crawford (scott@aloha.net) <scott@aloha.net>
Subject: submitted for council meeting on Friday 12.17.2021, item J.l, NO 21-560
Please provide Council members with the written testimony attached here.
I also would like to testify at the meeting.
Mahalo,
Robin Rayner
808-248-4950
OC
7)COC mcr>
1H m *vj
Oo :e-T1 2:
mrn -H
XX
X m
CO
oo
1
Council of the County of Maui
Agenda- Dec. 17, 2021
RE: J.l. County Communications NO. 21-560
Aloha Council Members: December 15, 2021
In 2018 members of the Hana community came together to form Ke Ao Hali‘i (KAH,
“protective blanket of clouds”, save Hana coast) with a goal of establishing conservation
status for the open space lands from Mokae to Maka‘alae. The Hana community and their
supporters are now poised to have established conservancy for over 150 acres of
contiguous, coastal lands.
Phase 1, Ke Ao HaliT’s land conservation efforts started with the purchase of 27 acres at
Mokae, overlooking Hamoa Beach in 2020 with support from the State of Hawaii Legacy
Land Conservation Program and Maui County’s Open Space Fund. The Mokae parcel is
now permanently designated as protected open space under a conservation easement co
held by HawaiT Island Land Trust (HILT) and Maui County, and managed by KAH.
Phase 2, On November 30, 2021 Ke Ao Hali‘i completed purchase of an additional 30
acres from Hana Ranch Partners, with contributions from the State of Hawaii Legacy
Land Conservation Program ($1.6 million), and Maui County’s Open Space Fund ($1.5
million). Similar to the Mokae property, this land is now permanently protected by a
conservation easement co-held by HILT and Maui County.
Phase 3, Ke Ao HaliT's next goal is acquisition of the 40 additional coastal acres at
Mokae II, located between the Mokae lands acquired in 2020 and the recently acquired
Maka‘alae lands. The State of Hawaii Legacy Land Conservation Program and Maui
County’s Open Space Fund have awarded KAH the funds to complete this purchase,
however, the State budget shortfalls limited the amount the actual funds available to
complete this project by an amount of $669,300. Ke Ao HaliT is working to raise these
remaining funds to complete the purchase in early 2022 and is asking for help from
Mayor Victorino and the Maui County Council.
Phase 4, Upon completion of the third phase, Hana Ranch Partners has committed to
donating 54 acres previously protected with conservation easements at Maka’alae (lands
fronting Pohakuloa and Opau Bays).
This final acquisition will establish over 150 contiguous acres of undeveloped open lands
makai of Hana Highway from Haneo^o Road to Waiohonu Stream. These treasured lands
will be the collective responsibility of Hana residents. The land is to be
Ke Ao Hali'i ● Save Hana Coast ● P.O. Box 115 ♦ Hana, HI 967 13 ● 80S-650-2722 ● savchanacoast.org ● comact@savchanacoast.org
Ke Ao Hali'iSavt J4>a Coastna
-z*. ym'
managed by Ke Ao Hali‘i with help of the Hana community and supporting partners
through the implementation of a land management plan intended to preserving the
conservation values of the land.
I have included with this letter our Masterplan parcel acquisition spread sheet and a map;
Mokae & Maka’alae Acquisition, indicating parcel groups and funding sources.
We ask that you please support to amend Appendix A, Part II of the FY 2022 budget as
outlined.
Mahalo Nui Loa,
Robin Rayner,
Member
Ke Ao Hali’i Board of Directors
Kc Ao Hali'i ● Save Hiina Coast ● I’O. Box I 15 ● l-Uina. HI 9671.^ ● S08-fi50-2722 ● savchanacoast.org ● coniact@savehunacoast.org
!●
- Save Hana Coast - Land AcquisitionsKe Ao Mali November 15, 2021
State of HI
LLCP
Land Appraised
Value
Purchase
Price
Maui County
Open Space FD
Other
Donors
estimate time
to completion
Funding
Cycle
Land Parcels TMK Numbers Asking PriceAcres
Use
$726,879 *
match-26%
$2,118,000$2,800,000
{$103,704}
Completed
3/20/2020
$2,800,000 $0$3,000,000(2) 1-4-010:004Mokae Parcel 1 27 AGFY2019
FY19
Completed
2020$0 $205,360 $0 $0 $0 $205,360Mokae/ Hamoa (2) 1-4-007:001 1.316 AG
$1,500,000
match-50%
$1,581,700
FY20 & 21
$3,081,700
{$109,750}
Completed
11/30/2021
(2) 1-4-012:002
(2)1-4-010:030,032 & 034
$4,950,000 $3,081,700 $71,000Maka'alae Parcel group 30.34 AGFY2021
$3,763,300
{$115,051}
$3,763,300 $1,900,000
match-50%
$1,194,000 ** Pending
12/30/2021
{2} 1-4-010:008,009
010 & 012 $6,426,750 $740,000Mokae 1! Parcel group 32.71 AGFY2021 FY21
$200,000
match-59%
Pending
3/30/2022
$338,500 $200,000 $0 $138,500(2) 1-4-010:014FY2021 Kaki'o Parcel 7.02 AG na
(2)1-4-010:033,029,
028,027 &017
(2)1-4-012:001, 021 & 022
estimated
$1,735,726
{$32,389}
Maka'alae
Conservation Lands
at project
CompletionSOSo SO SO $1,735,726AG/C53.59
$11,924,586 $9,845,000 $4,326,879 $4,893,700 $2,150,586SO151.976TOTALS Hana Maui
NOTE: { } indicate cost per acres
* includes an additions $44,879for closing costs
Mokae II Parcel group:
Full funding for this project; $1,863,300, was awarded by BLNR- LLCP, however
State budget for LLCP FY21 fell short of the necessary funding by $669,300.
Thus, $1,194,000 is all the funding availblefor this project in LLCP FY 21 budget.
Application for LLCP FY22 grant cycle has been submitted and will be reviewed late 2022
includes $669,300 shortfall from LLCP Grant award FY21 + 71,000 due diligence***
KAH's fund raising efforts to meet the $669,300 shortfall to purchase the Mokae II Parcel group:
* $100,000 grant solicited by HILT and awarded to KAH for the purpose of completing the Mokae II purchase
♦ $18,679 from Legacy Land separate funding source to complete Mokae II
♦ $14,000 from KAH private funding effort, and still ongoing
toHana Town
^ TMK(2)l-4-007:001
MokaeHamoa 1.36A (donation)
titJe to KAH Sept 2020
Hana, MauiI
TMK(2H-4-010:004*
27 Acres
cfioverview
of land
Acquiaitions
<A' Hamoc fieocf?
Mokae parcel Istate LLCP Grant Award FY19
$2.12M
&
Mau! County Open Space Fund
Award FY19 $726,000
Title transfer to Ke Ao Hairi
March 2020
KeAoIlQiri
Nov. 2021
TMK{2)l-4-010:008
3.36 A
Mokae 11 parcel group
32.71 Aa^
State LLCP FY21
Grant Award S1.194M
&
Maui County Open Space Fur^
Award FY21 $1.9M
Cosing pending full funding
TMK{2)l-4-010:009
12.5 A
TMK|2)l-4 010:010 ^
8.35 A
TMK(2)l-4-010;012
8.5 A
Kaki'o parcelMaui County
Open Space Fund
award
FY21; $200,000 TMK{2)l-4-010:014
7.02A TM K(2)1 4 010:03^*
10.76 A Maka'alae parcel group
30.34 Acres
State LLCP FY20 / FY21
grant Award: $1.58M
Sc
Maui Couf>tv Open Space Fund
Award FY 21 $1.5M
\ Title transfer to Ke Ao Haii'i
November 2021r<'
4|1 TMK{2)14 Dies
1.18A
pII '● Te- -,  )
MK( 2) 1 -4 -OIO^OS^J^I .8 A
■ B
Maka'alae Conservation Lands
to be dcntated as part of overall
purchase agreement:
53.59 acres valued at $1.74M
‘l> JA
B
TMK(2)l-4 012.-002^
5.6 Acres
WaioMa
Pona -
Part of Maka'alae parcel groupLLCP grant Award =Y2C/FY21
& Maui County Open Space Fund
Award FY 21
RECEIVEDCount^^lerk
im OEC 14 AH 7: 58Lynn Ryan <Iynnr8@gmail.com>
Tuesday, December 14, 2021 1:25 AM
County Clerk
Support for Ordinance 5306
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
IYou don't often get email from Iynnr8@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
To Maui County Council members
I am writing in support of ordinance 5306. The non mineral sunscreen threat is something we can address
immediately. The assurance of safety for all rests on the industry.
Our coral reefs face Assault thru increasing ocean temperatures, and increasing levels of trash and micro-plastics from
improper disposal and stormwater runoff. Without addressing these types of global threats to coral reefs, our marine
ecosystems will still continue to face peril.
But right now we can do something effective, Yes on ordinance 5306. Until the sunscreen industry can Prove that their
products are safe for humans and Marine life, say no to non mineral sunscreens.
Sincerely,
Lynn Ryan RN
75-6016 Ali'i Dr #134
Kailua KonaHI 96740
Lynnr8@gmail.com
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk
RCCl-VCD
w\ OEC m PH 2= 25
From:
Sent:
Ann and John Seed <annandjohnseed@gmail.com>
Tuesday, December 14, 2021 1:52 PM
County Clerk
Sunscreen Ordinance 5306
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from annandjohnseed@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Maui County Council Members:
We are in favor of passage of Sunscreen Ordinance 5306. Hawaii's coral reefs are a precious resource and it is our (and your)
responsibility to protect them.
Mineral based sunscreens, those with only zinc oxide and/or titanium oxide as active ingredients, have been deemed safe and
effective by the FDA. Sunscreens containing cinoxate, dioxybenzone, ensulizole, homosalate, meradimate, octinoxate,
octisalate, octocrylene, padimate 0, sulisobenzone, oxybenzone, and avobenzone have not been deemed safe and effective
by the FDA because of inadequate data to support safety.
We urge you to act responsibly by voting in favor of Sunscreen Ordinance 5306.
Sincerely,
Ann and John Seed
1
r; MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
ooQ-r\
(Z'2
-im
7^CD
mc~> om-<
o <o -n
mr“
VOICE OF BUSINESS C9 a7;m
CC 21-556
Mayor’s Veto on Residential Workforce Housing Policy
Applicant Selection Priority
Friday, December 16, 2021
Aloha and Happy Holidays Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
And Members of the Maui County Council,
We strongly support Mayor Victorino's veto of Bill 111. We testified throughout the
process and shared the thoughts of our Affordable Housing & Rentals Committee,
comprised of affordable housing developers, nonprofit developers and housing
experts, who said this new list just isn’t the solution.
We testified on another matter before the Affordable Housing Committee on Monday
and our thoughts can be echoed here. It is imperative that Councilmembers work with
for- and non-profit developers, who actually build houses, to get their feedback on
proposed changes to better understand if they are feasible before passing bills, as it is
critically important that we work together to solve our housing crisis. Why waste time
and money on an effort that the builders are saying is redundant to what they are
required to do and therefore unnecessary?
For these reasons, those stated by Mayor Victorino in his veto memo, those in our
previous testimony, and our interest in focusing on getting units built, we support the
Mayor’s veto of Bill 111 and urge you to uphold his decision.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
I808-244^81 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChambencoi62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 I
r ; M AUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
ocO TJ 73C“^
m2:0—I S. r
m-< mcoVOICE OF BUSINESS ■n
mm -( 00
O7^ mBill 149
West Maui Community Plan Update
Friday, December 16, 2021
Aloha and Happy Holidays Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
And Members of the Maui County Council,
Given what we are hearing from members in the West Maui community, we are deeply
concerned with the West Maui Community Plan update being up for second and final
reading today. As we mentioned in our last testimony, we strongly feel it would be
valuable to send this bill back to committee for additional public input to ensure it is the
best version possible before passage. This updated plan is extremely important to the
West Maui community, and we believe it is best not to rush and give the community
more time to ring in on amendments and the final version.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
I62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChambercoih
Count^CleH< R!IO
m\ OEC 15 /IH 8: 14
From:
Sent:
Cynthia Urry <cwurry@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, December 15, 2021 7:00 AM
County Clerk
Sunscreen Ban
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from cwurrv@vahoo.com. Learn why this is important
To the County Clerk of Maui ,
1 strongly support Sunscreen Ordinance 5306. We are aware that multiple stressors threaten the marine ecosystem, but
this non-mineral sunscreen threat is something we can
address immediately unlike other issues that take time. FDA has placed these products in Non-GRASE until the
sunscreen industry can prove their products are safe and effective.
Non-Mineral sunscreen products have questionable effects on the health of humans and marine life. The Precautionary
Principle states that the burden of proof for potentially
harmful actions by industry or government rests on the assurance of safety and that when there are threats of serious
damage, scientific uncertainty must be resolved in favor of
prevention.
It’s bad enough there are so many factors like global warming and our severe storms runoff are damaging our reefs, we
need to do our part.
Please save our reefs now before it's too late!
Mahalo
Cyndy Urry
resident
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
AnnZadeh <annzadeh@gmail.com>
Wednesday, December 15, 2021 7:30 PM
County Clerk
Agenda Item #CR 21 -137 Maui County Commission on Persons with Disabilities- Rainey
Dock Matthews
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from annzadeh@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Council,
Knowing Rainey Dock Matthews personally and having worked with her both in her role as a member of the Mayor's
Committee on Persons with Disabilities and a member of the Tarrant Transit Alliance in Fort Worth Texas, where I served
in elected office as the City Council Representative for District 9 from 2014 until 2021, I can assure you that she will be
an incredible member of the Maui County Commission on Persons with Disabilities. Her passion and dedication are
unparalleled and her lived personal experience has only heightened her dedication to the work to improve the lives of
those living with disabilities. Her experience in Fort Worth serving on the Mayors Committee on Persons with
Disabilities provides her with experience that is aligned with the Mission and Vision of the Maui County Commission on
Persons with Disabilities. You could not find a more perfect candidate for this work and you are lucky to have her. We
truly miss her here in Fort Worth, Texas.
Sincerely,
Ann
ooC "H
50"i m
Ann Zadeh, AlCP 73CD
mExecutive Director, Community Design Fort Worth
http$://www.desiRnfortworth.ore/
tr>
oCN
oornannzadeh@email.com
817 454 2112 (cell)
Ann Zadeh Personal Facebook
DCr~ mm -I C9 ON3
NO
Ann Zadeh Public Facebook
Ann Zadeh Twitter
Ann Zadeh Instaeram
1