MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-10-01
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1403,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

minuies
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
October 1,2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2021,
BEGINNING AT 9:01 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Council meeting of, of October 1, please come to
order.
Alright, Members, the greeting for today is halo toilichte a bhith eolach ort, toilichte a
bhith eolach ort. Happy to see you all.
Roll call, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call. In
accordance with the Governor's most recent emergency proclamation related to the
COVID-19 response. Members should state who, if anyone, is present with them as
part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha kakahiaka and halo ma ka hikina toilichte .... I'm here
at the Hana Cultural Center with my EA Dawn Lono.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and halo toilichte a bhith eolach ort. Madam Chair and
my colleagues. For the record I'm here at my residence in Makawao, and in the other
room Is my spouse. Aloha and hope we have a very productive Council meeting.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 2
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka, everyone. Halo, toilichte a bhith eolach ort.
And I am also here in my same room with no other persons around me.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair. Good morning, Members. Um, oh
that's a, toilichte, dah Ian dah Ian dah Ian. I'm here in the office, at the, at the, with my
staff Kate Griffiths and it's cold in the building, so duly noted. Happy to be here. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Happy to see you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha kakahiaka kakou, from Maluuluolele. I'm here at the
West Maui District Office with my EA Angela. And halo toilichte a bhith dah Ian, dah
Ian. Every time someone makes a comment the, the words move up and I lost it, sorry.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm going to stick to what I know. Ohayo gozaimasu. Good
morning everybody from Kula. Nice to see you all, halo and let's get on with a great
meeting. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR FIAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair, my Maui Nui a kama. I am
here with Sarah Freistat Pajimola and halo toilichte a bhith, toilichte a bhith, oh I lost it,
toilichte a bhith eolach ort.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Halo my dear colleagues. I am here alone and look forward to having a
wonderful meeting with all of you. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 3
PRESENT; COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, KELLY T. KING, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER NATALIE A. KAMA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight Members present, one Member excused.
A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
Forthe record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Deputy
Corporation Counsel Mimi DesJardins.
CHAIR LEE: Opening remarks will be provided by Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Tamara Palin.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Paltin. That was, that was very beautiful.
Now, everyone, I ask you to join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request that everyone
keep their microphones muted unless it is your time to speak. Decorum shall be
maintained at all times.
Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 4
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: This is Kathy. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with presentation of testimony on the ceremonial resolution.
Chair, I have nobody written in to sign up as testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, are there any objections to
ceremonial resolutions?
closing public testimony on
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: We have a question from Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Can we do a, a last call for if anybody didn’t sign up but they
want to, and they're on the line, and they didn't know they were supposed to sign up?
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay. Calling for any individual wanting to provide testimony on the
ceremonial resolution "HONORING THE LIFE OF THE LATE CHAD KALEPA
BAYBAYAN".
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Urn, I did-
CHAIR LEE: Has anyone signed up or called in?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, Elle indicated that she had wanted to sign up.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. We didn't, oh she came back on the call. Former Member
Cochran?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 5
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. ELLE COCHRAN:
Hi.
CHAIR LEE: Are you there?
MS. COCHRAN: Yea, I'm here. Sorry. I unlogged. Hi. I'm back. Hi. Yea, I, good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. COCHRAN: Aloha. I love your morning greetings. It makes me laugh and smile . . . .
That's a good \A/ay to start the full Council. Mahalo for that. But, yes. I just wanted to
briefly share my heartfelt prayers to the ohana of Chad Baybayan, and Aunty Lillian,
and everyone, friends and family. I just want to,  Irecall, and I honor the moment that
I did get a one-on-one meet-and-greet with Chad. It was at a HSAC actually at
Mauna Kea on Hawaii Island. And it was just so enlightening. And so, I will always
cherish that moment with him. He just, Akua took him way too early for us, but thank
god for his presence, for the time he has been on our aina and, you know, for his ‘ike,
and what he shared. He was such a passionate, dedicated waterman, family, and
everything, the Hawaiian culture, you know, possesses. So, mahalo for this resolution
in honoring of Mr. Baybayan. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha and always good to see you, Member Cochran.
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions?
MS. COCHRAN: You said participate more, so got it, Chair Lee. I will.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. COCHRAN: lam. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Good. Any questions for Ms. Cochran? If not, thank you again. Have
a great weekend.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 6
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, we have one more individual, with the last four digits of the
telephone number 4589.
MR. ARCHIE KALEPA:
Aloha. This is Archie Kalepa.
CHAIR LEE: Hi, Archie.
MR. KALEPA: . . . and Councilmembers. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. KALEPA: I, just, I just wanted to say that I wanted to thank you guys for considering this
proclamation, number one. And I think it's well-deserved for Kalepa. He's born and
raised in Lahaina. He spent his youth in Lahaina. He honed his skills canoe paddling
and his beginning of navigation in Lahaina. And then, became part of PVS, the
Polynesia Voyaging Society, and where he became a Pwo. And there is only five Pwo
from Hawaii. And you know, losing a Pwo, we're losing a master. And he was a master
of his trade, navigation, but I think more importantly, his willingness to share, and his
passion for education was beyond most of us as family. He exceeded our expectations
and he set the bar high for a lot of us. And so,  Ijust wanted to say mahalo for, for this
this proclamation. And you know, he's going to be very, very, very missed in the
voyaging world, in the world of navigation, and more importantly, missed by all of his
family members. So, I just wanted to say mahalo and thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Archie. Any questions?
Ms. King? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here, Archie. I just
wanted, for the public, if you could just tell us your relationship?
MR. KALEPA: Oh, so, Chad is my, Kalepa is my first cousin. His mother and my father are
brother and sister, so we grew up together. We grew up fishing in Lahaina with our
grandfather. A lot of the things that we learned early on in our childhood came from
our parents and our grand, our grandfather. And, you know, I just remember him from
small kid days. We grew up together, playing together and, you know, later on,
paddling, and then voyaging. So, I'm going to miss him a lot.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 7
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well-
MR. KALEPA: I miss him a lot.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; --we all... . Thank you so, thank you so much for being here. I
just, I knew you were related. I wasn't sure what the exact relation was, but it's very
interesting, the background. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member King. Any other questions?
Madam Clerk, do we have-
MR. KALEPA: And I just wanted to say thank you to Tamara.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, do we have any other testifiers?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, at this moment, we don't have any other testifiers signed up for
testimony, but we do have the family standing by for when the resolution is being
adopted.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. JOHN HELLER; I'm sorry. My name is John Heller and I signed in trying to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Mr. Heller. Please proceed. Mr. Heller, this is on the condolent
resolution, right? For Mr. Baybayan.
Tamara, is Mr., are you familiar with Mr. Heller? Is he a friend or a family member?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm not familiar with Mr. Heller. I did send notification to the
Polynesia Voyaging Society, i'm not sure if that's who it is though. It wasn't clear that
it was closing testimony for the ceremonial resolution. So, I'm not sure which, what
testimony that he wanted to provide.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Thank you. Madam Clerk, can you announce last call for testimony?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, this is the last call for testimony for the ceremonial resolution. And
nobody else has indicated wanting to testify. Shall we proceed?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, are there any objections to closing public testimony on the
ceremonial resolution? Any objections?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 8
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the ceremonial resolution.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 21-147
HONORING THE LIFE OF THE LATE CHAD KALEPA BAYBAYAN
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ENTITLED "HONORING THE LIFE OF THE LATE CHAD
KALEPA BAYBAYAN".
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
CHAIR LEE: It's been moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to adopt the
resolution "HONORING THE LIFE OF THE LATE CHAD KALEPA BAYBAYAN".
Member Paltin, did you wish to read the resolution in its entirety?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. 1, I would like to.
CHAIR LEE: Please proceed.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 9
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I askforthe Members full support of this resolution.
Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Well read. Any discussion. Members?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo. I too just wanted to share our condolences to the
entire Baybayan Ohana from the East Maui families. . . . Kalepa has been a great
kumu to all navigational students throughout the Pae Aina O Hawaii. And so, we wish,
may the stars always guide his journey home. Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I would just like to thank Member Tamara Paltin for bringing
this forward on such a beautiful man. I've known Archie for a long time. But thank you
very much for sharing this. I just want to add, do we want to send a certified copy, also,
to the Governor, so he can see what a, you know, beautiful legacy he has left and how
proud we are in Maui County to also honor this family. So, I would like to make that
friendly amendment, if I could, Ms. Paltin. To also add. "BE IT RESOLVED by the
Council of the County of Maui" to also include a certified copy to go to Governor,
Governor Ige. Is that alright?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not. Madam Clerk, please be sure to follow up on that.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. All those in favor of adopting the resolution, please--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. I wanted to also lend my full support
for the, this resolution. Mahalo, Member Paltin, for introducing it. And also, extend my
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 10
sincere condolences to the Baybayan Ghana, Baybayan. And I wanted to share the
sentiments that was quoted by master navigator Nainoa Thompson. "To be pwo is to
be light. To be light is to be loved. You heal. You solve conflict, you take care of the
land. It's based on that issue of care." Papa Mau also believed, according to
Thompson, that a person only becomes a true master after they die, and only if they
pass their knowledge to someone else first. "If that's true - if that's what it is to be a
master navigator - well then by that criteria you have to rank Kalepa as one of the
greatest navigators in humankind". He said, "I believe that that voyage that he's taking,
taken now is to be pwo, the beautiful black sky of night. That is his journey. He has to
do on his own". Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for sharing that. Any other comments. Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Just want to echo the condolences to the
family. I didn't know Mr. Baybayan, but, you know, my husband and I have been
working through our company with the Polynesian Voyaging Society on some of their
sustainability issues. And I really, I just wanted to mention how appropriate it was to
hear that poem that we had today, because the idea of building bridges for the people
coming behind you is exactly what this whole organizations, definitely this whole master
navigator is all about. So, thank you for that poem. Member Paltin, and thank you for
bringing this very timely resolution to us. And in full support.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member King.
Any other comments. Members? If not, all those in favor of the motion to adopt the
resolution, please raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SlNENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. Thank you. Members.
Madam Clerk, are we going to invite the family to speak? Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 11
COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. R. Tanaka Family is standing by to address the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Tanaka?
MS. PA'ANAAKALA TANAKA: Aloha. Ke aloha no ia kakou o wau Pa'anaakala Baybayan
Tanaka. I am the hiapo, so the oldest of the three children. Mahalo to each and every
one of you, Councilmember Tamara Paltin, for bringing this forward, as well as each of
you, Councilmember Shane Sinenci, and Yuki Lei Sugimura, and Kelly King for sharing
all of that wonderful mana'o and your sentiment. It is such an honor to him to be
recognized in, we're, you know, this island, this place where he's from, because he was
extremely proud to be from Maui.
1 was not only just his daughter, but also a crewmember. And he was my mentor in
studying navigation. And he always reminded each and every one of us on the canoe
where he came from, West Maui. As well as that he was a proud graduate of
Lahainaluna. He would sport his shirt many, many, many times, never let anyone
forget. So, very beautiful.
I'm just speaking on behalf of my family, and then also as a student of his, that
apprenticed under him to study under navigation. And he was such a great dad.
Education was huge in our household. As a young child growing up, he was going to
college as you know, studying Hawaiian. And so, Olelo Hawaii was definitely a staple
within our household. And so, I’m so thankful for that, as he really and truly inspired
me to choose the path that I did.
And perhaps I can just share one short story, as it connects to my community back
here in Lahaina, Maui. And it was the first time that I've ever sailed with him. He had
finished building Hokualaka'i, which was part of Punana Leo. And they were sailing
that canoe from Oahu to Maui. And I was extremely scared, because I was just
beginning my journey of Olelo Hawaii, and beginning that journey of really wanting to
connect back to my kupuna and my roots of what it is to be Hawaiian and what it is to
be a voyager.
And so, as we were sailing, all of that anxiety of what I didn't know and what I wasn't
able to do really melted away, because I realized that every single person on that canoe
was also just like me, and we were just learning. And we had this tremendous teacher,
who was just openly sharing, you know, without any hesitation at all. And so, I think
really then was really how I got to see, like, him in action, as a teacher, it was so, so
beautiful.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 12
And then, of course, when we got back to Maui I was hooked, and I wanted to do
anything and everything that had to do with canoe, and I wanted to learn navigation.
And what he told me was, you know, he was living on the Big Island at that time, and
he said, "well, you got to go find your canoe". And I was like, oh, how am I going to do
this? You live on the Big Island. And that's how  Icame to connect with Mo'olele and
Mo'okiha, and the Hui o Wa‘a Kaulua.
And I feel like that in itself has a lot to say. Cause like, before you go sailing everywhere
and whatnot, you need to take care your community, you need to find those gems and
... within your community that you can support, and that can feed you that are tangible
and that you can reach. And so, that became my journey. And so, now here I am, the
educational director of the Hui o Wa'a Kaulua. And I think, you know, I didn't realize it
at the time, but he really set things in motion. And now I'm teaching a new generation
of kids, and future voyagers. So, thank you all.
And one of the last things, one of the things that he would always say, too, is when you
leave sight of land, you discover the stars. So, tonight when you go home, step outside.
Go look at the stars. It's so beautiful out there. So. mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo to you. Thank you. Do you have other members of your family who
would like to testify?
Madam Clerk.
MS. TANAKA: They-
CHAIRLEE: Ms. Tanaka?
MS. TANAKA: Oh, they, they asked me to be the speaker.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. TANAKA: So, just me. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Alright, Members, any questions for the, Ms. Tanaka? Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that's RESOLUTION 21-147.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 13
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Proceeding with item F. on the agenda to set the Consent
Calendar.
CHAIR LEE; Members, at this time, we will be, we will set the Consent Calendar. As a
reminder, the calendar can still be adjusted even after it is set. Are there any requested
changes to the Consent Calendar at this time?
Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Just to remove 21-458, the first item, and send it to IT
please. Well, just remove it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; 21-458? Remove. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Any other changes?
Member, oh, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Removing CC 21-462 please.
CHAIR LEE; 46?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; 2.
CHAIR LEE; 2? 2. Okay. Anything else or anyone else? Just these two?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, you have a motion for the entire Consent Calendar?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo. Chair. After public testimony, I'll have your
motion ready for you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright.
Madam Clerk, back to you.
COUNTY CLERK; Item G., presentation of written or oral testimony. Chair, proceeding with
the presentation of testimony on agenda items. Members of the public may testify by
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 14
connecting to the Council's online meeting by phone or video conference through the
information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and m\\ be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their turn to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for
three, up to three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the
name of any organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be
testifying. Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting through BlueJeans. All, ail other individuals
will be disconnected. The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui
Community Media or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be
disconnected from the meeting at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, our first-
CHAIR LEE: Madam Chair. Madam, Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Before you call the first testifier, I have a short announcement. Members, at
11:00, I will ask you if you have any questions for Mr. Spencer Lau, who is a nominee
for one of the boards and commissions. And this is because he wasn't available at the
last meeting, he's making himself available at this meeting. And so, I thought it would
be best that we set a time for him to show up, because I have no idea when we'll get
to his item, which is the last item on the agenda. So, at 11 a.m.. I'm going to stop, well,
after the last testifier. I'm going to call on him. He's supposed to call in. And then, if
you have your questions. By the way, do you have questions? I mean if you don't
have questions, then we can tell him.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I was, I was the one that requested.
CHAIR LEE: So, you do have a question? Okay. Anybody else? Alright. Okay, so at 11:00
we'll, we'll stop and then take your question for Mr., for Mr. Lau.
Madam Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 15
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our first testifier is Angela Vento. To be followed by the telephone
ending in 9460.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. ANGELA VENTO. WAILEA BEACH RESORT MAUI [testifying on Bill No. 101 (2021)1:
Good morning, are you able to hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
It's a delight to be here, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
certainly all the Councilmembers. My name is Angela Vento. I'm the general manager
for the Wailea Beach Resort Maui. I am also a resident of Upcountry Maui. And 1 am
the new Chair for the Maui Hotel and Lodging Association. So, it is wonderful to
address you today. I want to start with really a thank you, a mahalo nui loa. I know
that Maui, certainly, as we navigate the pandemic recovery, has been faced with a
number of issues and your rigor, your conversations, and your inclusion of our industry
and us as individuals has been certainly really supportive. We value that.
In addition, I want to remark relative to Bill 101, the TAT three percent tax. I know you
were faced with certainly an economic shortfall, as revenues from the TAT which
typically came to us through that channel were sent to the State. We needed to find
some solutions to be able to ensure we have funding to take care of our residents,
social services, issues such as sustainable tourism and sustainability itself. So, I know
your work has been tireless, and your thoughtful approach valued.
With that, I certainly wanted to be able to share that, you know, as I look at that in our
perspective of data, I think that the representation of the TAT in past was about over
$20 million, I think $23 million. And I do believe this new tax of three percent is going
to allow us to replace those funds, as well as increase by more than double I think what
we previously got. So, we look forward to your thoughtful approach to being able to
use those funds.
I have over 550 associates that work with me at Wailea Beach Resort. And first and
foremost, I testify today as I think about their livelihoods, taking care of their families,
and others from that end. And I wanted to remind you that while we had a tremendous
summer of occupancies as an industry in the hotels of probably 80 percent, there's an
organization called STR Report. And they represent 81 hotels that are in the Maui
County, and that's nearly 13,000 rooms. And I wanted to share that in 2019,
MS. VENTO:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 16
occupancies for the full year were about 77.8 percent. For the full year for 2021, we're
running at 58. I mean, that is given the fact that we had an amazing and incredible
summer, nearly 81 percent for the Maui hotels from that end.
But I would tell you, with the Governor's announcement, I would tell you with some of
the current restrictions that we have, and then I would say the news of, while it's exciting
for many, volcano erupting on Kilauea, our visitors don't understand that that is not on
Maui. And so, I think we still have tremendous headwinds to recover occupancy--
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Vento, could you please conclude your testimony?
MS. VENTO: Yes, I'd like to ask that you consider... .We know that... in place. I'd like
.  . . consider... by implementation in December of this year, please. Could you hear
me?
CHAIR LEE: No. I, we didn't hear the last sentence.
MS. VENTO: I'm asking that you consider delaying the implementation of this new tax until
December of 2021, if you would? It will allow us to implement, and it will allow us to
effectively communicate with our future visitors. Your consideration is appreciated.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions. Members, for the testifier?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, thank you. Good morning, Ms. Vento. Thank you for
your testimony. I was taking notes and I just wanted to clarify your points. You said in
2019, you had a 77 percent occupancy rate, and then in 2020, it was down by, it was
in the 50 percents.
MS. VENTO: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Can you tell us what that means financially? Like, what is
that number in money?
MS. VENTO: So, so, Gabe, I would. Chair, Councilman Johnson, sorry. I've not done the
video testimony very often. So, the, the numbers that I'm quoting are coming from . . .
travel research. It represents 81 hotels on the, in the County of Maui. Those 81 hotels
represent 12,891 rooms in the destination. That is the entity that ran 77.8 percent in
2019. And in the summer of this year, that same group of hotels ran 81 percent. And
year-to-date they are running 70, or 58 percent. So, I cannot necessarily say to you at
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 17
this moment. I can get that information to you, but I can tell you it's millions of dollars
off of what we did in 2019, that we're seeing in shortfalls.
From my percentage as a hotel, we probably are short $15-20 million of what we did in
2019.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, $15-20 million in losses. What. . .
MS. VENTO; Just for one property. Just for one property.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Alright. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
MS. VENTO: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions, Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Vento.
MS. VENTO: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is calling in on the last, the telephone number with
the last four digits, 9460. To be followed by Mike Moran.
MS. ANNA DOMINSKI (testifying on County Communication No. 21-479):
Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MS. DOMINSKI: Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Can we have your name?
MS. DOMINSKI: I'm not sure.
CHAIR LEE: Your name?
MS. DOMINSKI: Oh, yes. Thank you. My name is Anna Dominski and I live part of the time
on Maalaea Village.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 18
CHAIR LEE; Excuse me, Anna, could you spell, could you spell your last name?
MS. DOMINSKf: Yes. Dominski: D-O-M-l-N-S-K-1.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
MS. DOMINSKI; And, and I'm testifying about the jet noise over Maalaea Village. Is this the
time to do it?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MS. DOMINSKI; Okay. Thank you. So, there is a huge problem with jets flying constantly
over this peaceful Maalaea Village. You know, the jets don't just fly here and there,
they fly every few minutes one after the other. It's almost like as soon as one is flying,
is done flying over your roof, another one is there. And it's not in the morning, or in the
afternoon, or late at night, it's all the time, day and night. So, you can imagine getting
woken up in the middle of the night by a very loud, obnoxious jet flying directly over
your roof at 3 a.m., or 4 a.m.
When you go to Maui, you stay in Maui to get away from all this okay? And people
come to Maalaea or Maui just to get away from all this noise. Now, here's the frustrating
part, is that the FAA is aware of this problem, right? But they choose to ignore it. So,
for years, we've been trying to get them to engage only in the conversation, and they
won't have any of it. I consider that to be a bully. When you harm others through noise
and all this kind of other antics, and you ignore those cries for help, that's like a bully
behavior to me.
And you know what's even worse is that there's a solution to this problem. The solution
is for the jets to fly over the ocean, like they used to many, many years ago. They used
to fly over the ocean and make their turn to head to the OGG Airport. 1 believe it's, the
term is called "over the towers", where there's nobody there. It's unoccupied land all
the way to the airport, so it bothers no one. So, to me, I just don't understand the logic
of not coming to the table and figuring out this problem where both parties are happy.
The FAA get to do what they want to do with the planes, all the people who live in
Maalaea Village, or stay there, get to experience  afull night's rest, if you can imagine,
and to enjoy their vacation and time in Maui.
I mean, I could understand that sometimes jets have to fly over homes, or parks, or
wherever, because they have to get to the airport and there's no, there's nothing that
anybody can do. I understand that, and the jets have to go there, and that's just the
way it is. But if there is a solution, why can't that solution take place? It makes, it's,
it's, it makes no sense to me and it's definitely not in the aloha spirit to not communicate
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 19
and not solve a problem. I just don't understand it. It’s a bully tactic and 1 don't like it.
I appreciate you for listening to me. And 1 know your hands may be tied, but you can
certainly write letters and get the FAA to talk to us. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you for testifying. So, can you give me the name of
who you're trying to communicate with and has not replied? And you can send it to my
office.
MS. DOMINSKI: I don't have names. I don't have names. It's, it's FAA is a huge, huge
Federal department, which is funded partially by taxpayers like me. But there'll be other
testifiers. I'm sure, on this subject that will get, will have answers to this. And if not, I
will, give me a way to contact you, and I will find out a name.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. I was just wondering since you said you've been
trying to contact them and haven't replied. So, 1 thought maybe you--
MS. DOMINSKI: Well, there's a group. There's a group of people, and they have been trying
to deal with the FAA foryears. This isn't something that just happened yesterday. This
is years and years and years, it's, the Maalaea Village Association has been trying to
contact someone from the FAA. But it's, you know, they're, they're not interested, you
know.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
MS. DOMINSKI: Cause they don't have to be interested.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. I think Member Sugimura will be contacting the Maalaea Village
Association.
MS. DOMINSKI: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Any more questions?
MS. DOMINSKI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: If not, thank you.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 20
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Mike Moran. To be followed by Howard Wiig.
MR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION [testifying on County
Communication Nos. 21-474, 21-479, & 21-481; Committee Report Nos. 21-87 &
21-91; and Bill No. 101 [2021)1;
Aloha, Chair Lee, and Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE; Hi, Mike.
MR. MORAN; Mike Moran for the Kihei Community Association. And if I can just squeeze in
one personal sentence. The opening statement that Councilmember Tamara made
certainly touched me. Us old geezers haye to remember that, why are we doing this?
We're doing it not only for the next generation, but as we, we'ye learned from the host
culture, we're doing it for six or seyen generations to come. So, testifying, we haye, I
think six items, we're testifying on, but we'll try to be brief on each one, so we don't take
up a lot of time.
The first one is 21-474, from Councilmember Molina on adding the two alternates. And
we did get yery quick response from his office early this week asking if, if our district
had gotten any more yolunteers to step up. And it looks like we went from a low number
of three up to ten. So, that's progress and that will allow not only the actual members,
but the two alternatiyes, assuming they are all qualified people. So, we are in support
of that, of course.
Moying onto 21-479, the topic just discussed. And we won't go into it because we
realize Councilmember King is just moying this, asking to put it into Committee when
they'll be time for plenty of discussion. But I think the preyious testifier gaye a lot of,
of, the community input that we're getting not only from Maalaea, but the whole South
Maui district. So, we too are in support of that.
21-481, the transient yacation rentals. When this came up originally, we think this is a
yery positiye step to take alt those legal, but unpermitted short-term rentals, that we
haye a ton of them in our district, to just giye them some kind of an identifying number
to help out, to help weed out the illegal guys. That it kind of gets lost, you know. There's
so many of those that don't haye a permit number, and, and, and can get lost in the
weeds, and illegal ones haye an easier way to sneak into ads and so forth. So, we
think this is a yery positiye step to help in that oyerwhelming process that the Council
and the Planning Department is doing as well. So, we are in support of that one.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 21
21-87, the Affordable Housing Committee. While we do support it, as we discussed it,
I think a lot of us don't have much faith in these lists. We've seen lists of community
members for various things, and they don't seem to work out for the intended purpose.
Well it doesn't mean that you don't keep trying, but when the community hears, oh yea,
another list, and then there will be people who object, well, I didn't get on the list cause
nobody told me. So, we're not, we don't have a lot of faith that it can succeed, but we
do have hope. We do have hope that you're trying and going back to the faith. We do
have enormous faith in this present Council, that if anybody can get something like this
done, you are the guys that can get it done. So, we say, imua, go fonward with this,
and we'll hope for a successful outcome this time.
Moving onto 21-91, from the CARE Committee, a first reading of the bill for the, the
oversized homes that some of us are catling them to, we can't stop them from being
built. But what we said when it was in Committee, at least if they are being built, let's
make them as best as we can. Let's make sure that they harm as little as possible
when making them self-sufficient. So, we are in support of that, that as that continues
to move forward.
And then, the last item is Bill 101 on the three percent. Our feeling is that, yes, all
indications are that the community will experience more funding. And we have felt that
have been shorted of funding for all the expenses that were incurred for decades.
So, it's time to make up for that a little bit. And we can get some infrastructure. We
can get some, some more, more, more well-being for the community from putting this
in. And please don't delay it. We think it's well past due. I think you're shooting for
today. If you can pass it, we're in full support of that. So, thank you very much for the
opportunity to testify this morning. Aloha.
we
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mike, as usual.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to mention, although I
neglected to mention you by name, you were definitely in mind when reading that
poem, and it surely does apply to you as well. Thank you.
MR. MORAN: Mahalo, Councilmember. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions. Members? If not, good to see you Mike, have a great weekend.
MR. MORAN: Thank you, all. You too, all.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 22
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Howard Wiig. To be followed by Christopher
Delaunay.
CHAIR LEE; Howard Wiig?
MR. HOWARD WIIG, HAWAII STATE ENERGY OFFICE (testifying on Committee Report
No. 21-91)
There. Now can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. WIIG; Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Council Chair, Vice-Chair, Councilmembers. My
name is Howard Wiig, I'm with the Hawaii State Energy Office. And I'm here on behalf
of Energy Office Manager Scott Glenn. We support the intent of this bill really, really
strongly. This bill is a North Star pointing the way towards zero net energy homes and
buildings. This is part of a nationwide move toward achieving all homes and alt
buildings zero net energy by the year 2030. And we don't need to be told how
necessary this is in order to drastically reduce the amount of CO2 blowing into the
atmosphere. This is, this bill will have ripple effects across the entire nation and across
Hawaii, because it has, it's going in the Code. It has the words "zero net energy" in it.
And we're working with other progressive communities to achieve this. It also will
ensure that there are a lot of PV, photovoltaic panels on the roofs of homes, rather than
taking up our valuable land.
So, one suggestion we have in improving the bill is related to the fact that no man is an
island, and if the bill as written, it would permit these large homes to be self-sufficient
backed up by power generators burning diesel oil. That is not the way we want to go.
We suggest, and I think other testifiers will back this up, that the bill ensures that these
homes are part of the utility grid. Because where we're headed with energy codes is
creating one huge grid. This will encompass, in this case, all of Maui, and every home,
every solar farm will be part of this grid. And the utility will enter into agreement with
these energy producers and be able to get the energy when they need it, and give it
back when they, when it's needed, and to integrate the whole system. And that can
only be done when every new home, especially these big homes, are a part of that
grid. Again, I think the utilities will be speaking to this.
So, we wish to congratulate the author of this bill on it, and very much look forward to
working with the Maui County Council as this bill moves forward. Thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 23
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. you're muted, Chair. I think you called on me.
CHAIR LEE: Member King has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Aloha, Howard. Thank you so much for your
testimony. And thanks for helping track this bill from the State Energy Office. I, we did
have some earlier meetings. I wanted to ask if you were on those meetings, where,
you know, it was stated several times by our local energy experts; people like John
Bendon and Off Grid Sustainable Architect, they did tell us that no, no generate, no
generators, separate generators will be accepted for the level of approval that we're
seeking in this bill.
MR. WIIG: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So. okay.
MR. WIIG: Most excellent. Most excellent.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Just wanted to make sure. But thank you so much for
being here.
MR. WIIG: My, my pleasure. This is a, it's a privilege to be able to testify on this bill.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Wiig, for joining us today.
MR. WIIG: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Christopher Delaunay. To be followed by Lynn
Britton.
MR. CHRISTOPHER DELAUNAY. PACIFIC RESOURCE PARTNERSHIP ftestifying on
Committee Report No. 21-87):
Aloha. Councilmembers. Chris Delaunay with Pacific Resource Partnership. I am a
registered lobbyist. Aloha. So, I'm here to testify on Committee Report No. 21-87,
related to the countywide workforce housing interest list bill. We are in strong
opposition of the bill. We believe that it'll further complicate and prolong the process
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 24
of getting Maui's residents into affordable housing, and likely increase the overall cost
of housing units.
The affordable housing projects using government subsidies, including LIHTC, are
highly regulated by governmental agencies. Agencies have specific requirements
regarding tenant selection, financial qualifications, fair housing, and accessibility. So,
if you're adding additional layer of regulation to the selection process and taking away
the developer or its partners or its management company's ability to establish a waitlist,
we think this is unnecessary and equal, equates to more risk for the developer and
investors. So, I think this risk alone may deter developers from building affordable
housing in Maui.
Also, the proposed amendments will put a heavy burden on the Department of Housing
and Human Concerns to ensure that all of County, State and Federal regulations are
followed in a timely manner. This will likely require the Department to hire and retain
more staff with experience in developing affordable housing and require the
Department to invest in additional resources to deliver these new responsibilities. The
Department, or its designee, will likely be held liable, too, if something were to go wrong
and a project weren't to go through.
We are also concerned that changing the sales period from 90 days to 120 days will
create additional carrying costs for projects, thereby, making housing more expensive.
Another concern, too, was HUD regulations prevents residency preference, where it's
based on how long an applicant has resided or worked in an area. So, that's in violation
of HUD laws.
And also, I think that, you know, we want to build more affordable housing opportunities
and we need to look at ways to incentivize developers to build more affordable housing
before this problem gets worse. And I really think that by taking the, you know, the
authority away from the developer to manage and put these lists together and giving it
to the County, I think it's just going to be more difficult. And developers aren't going to
want to build, and investors are going to be hesitant. They're probably going to go to
another county like Oahu, cause there's less regulation on that, on that level. And also,
they're putting their, their funding sources in jeopardy, too, like LIHTC, etc.
So, anyway, we're opposed to the bill. Thank you for this opportunity to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We have a question from Member Paltin.
MR. DELAUNAY: Sure.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1.2021
Page 25
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to clarify. So, you're a lawyer,
or you consulted with lawyers that LIHTC fund, this list wouldn't be able to be used for
projects using LIHTC funds or Federal monies because of the residency requirement,
or?
MR. DELAUNAY: No, I said it’s a HUD regulation. And it's 24 CFR 982.27{b){1)(iv) [sic]. So,
I'd take a look at that. It says a residency preference must not be based on how long
an applicant has resided or worked. And they call it resident preference areas. So, I
would just take a look at that.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Alright. Thank you.
MR. DELAUNAY: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Chris.
MR. DELAUNAY: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And may we have the next testifier?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is--
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Lynn Britton. To be followed by the last four
digits of telephone number 2700.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Britton.
MS. LYNN BRITTON [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-468, 21-479 and 21-481:
and Bill No. 101 (2021)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee and Members. Thank you. Member Paltin, forthe inspirational poem.
I will follow-up, I'd love to have a copy of it to share with our MVA members.
I did submit written testimony and don't want to take your precious time today. I'll just
try to summarize my personal testimony, although I'm a past president of MVA, this is
my personal input today.
Regarding the HSAC Legislative Package, personally, very supportive of the green fee
for, on accommodations and rental cars. We really need to solve the rental car problem
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 26
on the island. And also, whatever you can do to make sure that the funds that are
raised go back to the individual counties, rather than get lost to the State General Fund,
like we have with the parking and traffic tickets.
Aircraft noise, I thought MVA member Dominski did  agreat job of explaining the
personal impact of the aircraft noise. We have been working on this issue since we
formed MVA three years ago. I would be happy to provide Councilmember Sugimura
with the information, and the person that we contacted at FAA. We've also met with
Kahului Airport manager Marvin Moniz several times, as well as the HOOT Airport head
several years ago. So, we appreciate whatever the Council can do. We know it's not
a County issue, but we just wanted to, and appreciate Councilmember King putting it
on the agenda today.
And when you consider supporting the Haiku efforts, if you would just keep Maalaea in
mind and help us let FAA and Congressman Kahele know that this is a major issue.
They're in the AARP newsletter recently, it said that noise was definitely a health
impact. And it's not just annoyance, it's also a health issue. So, we appreciate
whatever support you can give on that.
Requiring registration numbers for transient rentals, I think most, if not all of our MVA,
Maalaea condo owners that are in vacation rental are legal rentals. I personally am
among them. And I just suggest whatever you can do beyond doing the registration,
which is a great idea, if you can tie in with the real property tax records, because
someone could be paying their taxes, but not be paying the approximate County
property tax rate. So, that, that is an issue.
And then, lastly. Bill 101. You know, my history goes back to when Speaker Souki and
Senator Yamasaki, we lobbied and got the TAT raised from $2 million to $20 million for
Maui. You know, so, I have a lot of history on this issue. I know it's hard to turn, turn
down the three percent, looking at a possible $50 million coming back to Maui. So, I
understand where you're going with that. I also just ask you to consider the little guys,
like myself, and others. I don't manage the condo myself, but a small business does.
And this does add complication to the, to the accounting and bookkeeping. So,
whatever you can do to put it off as long as possible, I think January would be a great
way to do it, because that way all the clean records would be clean for 2021. I just
make a personal plea for you to reconsider the actual starting date on that.
Thank you for listening. Thank you for the inspirational beginning of the meeting today.
And thank you for all you do. We appreciate it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Lynn. Are there any questions?
Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 27
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. And good morning, Lynn. And
thank you for your testimony with regards to the flight concerns over on Maalaea. Just
as an FYI, you know, we, we, for Haiku, we've been working with Congressman Kahele,
and he's been very, very helpful. And of course, he is a pilot as well. And he's, you
know, I guess whatever he's been doing, I think some have gotten a little bit better over
Haiku. So, you know, yourself as well as others working with Councilmember King in
continue to, you know, keep the channels open and work with Congressman Kahele
will, I think it'll certainly help Maalaea. Just wanted to share that with you.
MS. BRITTON: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Lynn. Good to see you.
MS. BRITTON: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is calling from the last four digits of telephone 2700.
2700 will be followed by Nathaniel Kinney.
MS. LISA BRYANT [testifying on Bill No. 101 (20211:
Hi. Good morning. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Hi. Can you state your name for the record, please?
MS. BRYANT; Yes. My name is Lisa Bryant.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Lisa. You may proceed.
MS. BRYANT: Thank you. My name is Lisa, and I live in Wailuku, and I work for a vacation
rental company called Rentals Maui in Kihei, and  1am not a paid lobbyist. Thank you
for this opportunity to provide testimony. I was not present for the previous discussions,
so if my concerns have already been addressed, 1 do apologize.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 28
Regarding the new three percent County TAT, it would be ideal if the start date is
moved to November or December to give companies ample time to adjust, and to give
the County time to set up their payment receiving system. The vacation rental
company that I work for has hundreds, if not thousands, of future reservations on the
books between now and 2022. It is my understanding, and please correct me if I am
wrong, that the new County TAT three percent will be assessed on new reservations
and will not affect reservations already confirmed? If that's so, if the additional
three percent is only charged to new reservations, then that means the TAT payment
made to the County will not match the revenue reported to the State through 2022. So,
there will need to be some way for companies and owners to list the reason for the
difference in the County payment process. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you
Ms. Bryant.
Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier, please.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, your next testifier is Nathaniel Kinney. To be followed by Stacy
Morataya-Pilkington.
MR. NATHANIEL KINNEY. HAWAII REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS (testifying on
Committee Report No. 21-87);
m representing the HawaiiChair, this is Nathaniel Kinney. I am a paid lobbyist.
Regional Council of Carpenters, in strong opposition to CR 21-87, that's the proposed
amendments to Section 2.96.1 [sic]. While well-intended, the measure is going to have
a negative effect on creating more housing opportunities in Maui. Current regulations
already give a preference of affordable rental units to Maui residents. So, the proposed
legislation would only make the process of certifying and qualifying tenants more
difficult and cumbersome.
This bill would also have the effect of punishing affordable housing investors by the
loss of the low-income tax credits on each unit, should the applicant's income be
miscalculated. It has been clear for some time that increasing the amount of rules and
regulations on affordable housing, even if well-intended, has had the effect of
eliminating or delaying the development of affordable housing. People that actually
finance, entitle, and build these units have been consistent and constant in advocating
that we cannot regulate our way out of crisis. What we are doing is we are
disincentivizing building affordable housing and, in effect, incentivizing building market
or luxury housing by overlaying more and more regulations.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 29
And I understand the intent I believe in it, that \A/e should, that housing should be
reserved for the locals, especially affordable housing. But the application of this law or
this proposed law is actually going to do the exact opposite of that. And that's what,
points that we wanted to bring across. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions for Mr., uh, is it Kinney?
MR. KINNEY; Yes. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; If not, thank you very much. No questions.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Stacy Morataya-Pilkington. To be followed by the last
four digits of telephone called 8513.
MS. STACY MORATAYA-PILKINGTON. WAILEA BEACH RESORT [testifying on Bill
No. 101 (2021)1:
Good morning. Chair Lee and Council Vice-Chair, and Council. My name is Stacy
Morataya-Pilkington. I am the resident manager of the Wailea Beach Resort and have
the good fortune of working with Ms. Vento. And I'm coming today to speak with you
in, in a plea to consider delaying the implementation of the transient accommodations
tax.
My perspective is more related to our associates. As Angela mentioned, we have more
than 500 associates that work here at Wailea Beach Resort. And we're very
encouraged to see their growth in returning to work, their, their flexibility in needing to
bring all of this kind of medical knowledge and patience and understanding into these
new times where they're delivering . . . and asking the guests to wear a mask, and
checking vaccination records and, you know, the ever-evolving important critical
components of the way that we do business, and the way that we engage with our
guests.
What my ask is today is to consider the challenge that it will place upon the people
doing the work in a time where our occupancies are reeling from the announcement
that took place on August 23. In our occupancies, we had group cancelations and
thousands of reservations drop off the books. I still have many associates that were
impacted by this in a way that they're not working at all, or they're working dramatically
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 30
reduced hours. Our focus has been over the last month to try and get everybody built
back up. Implementing this new three percent tax immediately before the end of the
year will create an undue hardship in using the systems that we have in place,
communicating with our guests, and trying to maintain that sense of aloha and
connectiveness to the visitors who are coming and looking to do the right thing when
they, when they arrive and visit here.
Think of, please, the associates and allow us just a little bit of time to lay a groundwork
and get this done. As a citizen of Wailuku and a resident there. I’m delighted to, to see
that this revenue is coming. And I feel very hopeful, very optimistic about the changes
and the enhancements that will take place in our community. I'm just asking for a little
bit more time, so that we can thoughtfully craft our plan, and report our earnings and
report the payments, and let our guests know that this is coming, and allow our
associates not to be having those conversation over the front desk as rather a surprise
when they arrive. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you very
much. Appreciate your testimony.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next caller is, our next testifier is calling in on the last four digits
of telephone 8513. To be followed by William Sides.
[testifying onMS. SHANNON VANDERHEUVEL. WlAALAEA VILLAGE ASSOCIATION
County Communication No. 21-479 & 21-481, and Bill No. 101 (2021)]:
Aloha, Council. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Aloha. May we have your name, your full name?
MS. VANDERHEUVEL: Aloha, County Councilmembers. This is Shannon VanderHeuvel, I
am a resident at Maalaea, full-time resident. Live here, have lived here for three years.
And I believe I’ve testified once or twice. So, I'm still nervous with testifying. I'm also
the secretary of the MVA, Maalaea Village Association, have been working closely with
them. And I also Chair the Crime Committee through the Maalaea Village Association.
So, I'm here to testify, I provided written testimony already. But I just wanted to give
some personal testimony that is verbal here at the meeting on two items, well, actually
three. The first one is the phaseout of short-term rentals in apartment zones, followed
by the aircraft noise abatement, and the three percent.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 31
I wanted to say that I've been living in Maui and it is so expensive to live on the water
here in Maalaea. And my husband works, I work. If we were to lose our jobs, we'd
have to move back to the mainland. I know that, I know that if, if, with the increased, if
have to move back to the mainland, and we have to sell our unit. I'd like to be able
to have anybody that's buying our unit be able to do vacation rentals cause that's
basically what everybody has here, is vacation rentals, even though we live here. It
would be very difficult for us to sell our unit if, if the new owners would not be able to
vacation rent. I'd love to vacation rent also, but we just can't afford that with
maintenance fees. They're condos and so there's a lot of high maintenance fees,
they're older buildings. And, you know, with a mortgage and the maintenance fees,
and if you do vacation rentals, there's a lot more fees involved in that, too.
I don't mind the, I'll get. I'll get to the aircraft noise next. The aircraft noise is constant,
as the one testifier already said. Even last night, we've got our TV going, everything is
closed up in our unit, we’ve got the air conditioning on, fans on, and we can still feel
the building rumbling because there's such a low plane. It was like 8:51 at night. And,
you know, we thought was, sounds like thunder, you know. And, and the building
rumbles, you know, because the big planes come over and they're very low. So, I, any
help you could do to help pressure, and write letters, or get them to talk to us, and
include Maalaea in avoiding having the air traffic going over Maalaea would be really
appreciated. And it does happen in the middle of the night, too.
As far as the three percent, 1, I don't mind, 1 wouldn't mind the three percent. And I
know it's, it is generated, but, yes, I would agree that it would do a lot of hardship for
the smaller person that's renting over here, especially in Maalaea. Others, I don t know
if, if it would make any difference or not. But I know that the small owners here have a
lot of, a lot, hard time even keeping up with doing their vacation rentals. But on that
note, if you do implement it, I would ask that you would start on January 1. And that
would really help to do the backlog and future bookings for vacation renters. I know
several of the owners are my neighbors and they vacation rent and that's, they're in a
scramble, because the bill states that it was going to be starting immediately on
October 1.
So, anyway, I appreciate all of your hard work. And being on boards before, I know it
is, it is so difficult, and you have so much work you have to do. And I just appreciate
each and every one of you for doing your job. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Shannon. May we have your, can you spell your last name please?
MS. VANDERHEUVEL: Last name is VanderHeuvel. V as in Victor; A-N-D-E-R-H-E~U-V as
in Victor, E-L.
we
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 32
CHAIR LEE: VanderHeuvel?
MS. VANDERHEUVEL: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, okay. Great.
MS. VANDERHEUVEL: It's a married name.
CHAIR LEE: We have a question for you from Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Shannon, for testifying. So, I think you said in
the opening that you are a secretary for the Maalaea Village Association, is that
correct?
MS. VANDERHEUVEL: That is correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And so has the Maalaea Village Association, we heard
from Lynn Britton and some other members, and talking regarding the TAT, have they
taken a position on that because of the, cause of your members? Or is this a personal?
MS. VANDERHEUVEL: Well, I, I, the item just came up. So, I know, I believe the president,
president's testimony probably would cover that. And I don't remember what exactly
his testimony is. I know there's been so many emails coming in to the Maalaea Village
Association about, about very high concern about this issue.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so-
MS. VANDERHEUVEL: It, It's been quite new. So, we've been trying to scramble to get
information out to, to the, you know, to Maalaea, to our members, yea.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, so you're, you sound like there have been
discussions about starting the three percent TAT surcharge not today October 1, but
possibly a later date. Like you're saying January  1or, but not today, right? That's what
your position is.
MS. VANDERHEUVEL: Well, as far as Maalaea Village Association's position on that, they
haven't taken one on that specific item. That would be my personal. Yea, that would
be my personal.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Just, just people you're talking to. Okay. Thank you very
much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 33
MS. VANDERHEUVEL; Yes
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you, Ms.
MS. VANDERHEUVEL: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: -VanderHeuvel.
And Madam Clerk. Ms. Kaohu.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is William Sides. To be followed by the caller from
telephone 4589.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sides?
MR. WILLIAM SIDES (testifying on County Communication No. 21-478):
Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. SIDES: Hello. Yea, I'm, got So, I think what I'll do is I'm just going to read from my
notes about my, my position on the Parks Department resolution.
Leinaaia Estella and I are co-chairs of the Hana Festivals of Aloha Committee. I've
been involved for over 30 years. Park's regulation currently reads in part "any event
conducted in a recreational facility for more than five consecutive days requires
approval by County Council resolution prior to the issuance of a permit. This
requirement shall not apply to leagues, leases, and licenses." ! believe it was meant
for. . . events and excludes leagues, and I should, and I thought should have excluded
our festival. Hana is the only place in Hawaii, hang on a second, Hana is the only place
in Hawaii that still does a full week of events. We would like to keep this going as long
as we can.
The cost and bureaucracy of Hana's Aloha Week has increased over the years, which
discourages many volunteers including myself. It seems Police, Health, Fire, as well
as Parks permitting becomes more complicated every year. This is one complicated
permitting step that we'd like to eliminate for five years. We've been working around
this rule for several years but would like to go into the next five years without having
the burden of dealing with a County resolution every year and think you'd want, would
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 34
not want to deal with it either. I would hope that you could pass this without delay.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Sides. Any questions, Members? If not. thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier, Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is calling from the telephone with the last four digits 8120.
8120 will be followed by Pamela Tumpap.
MR. SETH WEAVER rtestifvina on Bill No. 99 (202111:
Hi. Hello.
CHAIR LEE: 8120, could you please state your name for the record?
MR. WEAVER: Seth Weaver.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think he said Doug Leavits.
CHAIR LEE: How you spell that? Doug? Doug, are you there?
MR. WEAVER: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. WEAVER: Hi.
CHAIR LEE: Keep talking.
MR. WEAVER: Okay. My name is Seth Weaver. And my Councilwoman is Councilwoman
Sugimura. And I'd like to comment on Bill 99 (2021).
CHAIR LEE: Do you have anything else to say?
MR. WEAVER: Yes. So, I had some written testimony, but I think that I’ll deviate at this point
and just submit it electronically. I'd like to talk about the deer issue, the Axis Deer issue
here. I'm in Kuia, and the deer have been a problem for a long time and they're just
getting worse. And it seems to me that not enough resources have been allocated
appropriately to deal with the mitigation of the deer. And I see in the, in the bill here,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 35
Condition B.6.d(3), letter (a) that $250,000 has been allocated to Maui. And I think
that's a good thing, but I don't think it’s enough,
i think there’s a disproportionate focus between invasive species, specifically deer,
being among the lowest priority. And it really saddens me because they are such a
devastating impact to our environment. I don't understand why $700,000, for instance,
would be allocated to eradication of, pardon if I pronounce this incorrectly, Miconia and
$500,000 for Fire Ants. And there's stipulation in there, for instance, that the funds for
the Miconia cannot be used for deer management. So, it seems to me that the lines
have been drawn and certain species that are considered invasive have been elevated
over the deer for instance.
And I think that the one thing that can help is to find an accurate count of how many
deer are actually on the island. When you look at DLNR, their 2020 . . . aerial study,
they indicated that only 7,575 deer are present on the island of Maui. But there was
an article written a couple of days ago in the Maui News about one of the largest
venison, commercial venison producers on the island. And that company indicated
there's well in excess of 50,000 deer. And so, that disconnect between State data and
private data is astonishing. And I can tell you from personal experience that the
numbers have got to be at least in the 50,000. Hundreds cross through my property
every night and destroy fields. Haleakala Creamery, they can't raise their goats. And
I think that more focus needs to be given to the management of the deer population,
you know.
Last thing I’d like to say, you know, deer are invasive. And we somehow treat them as.
I'll finish up one second, we somehow treat them as more valuable because they can
be consumed. And I think that, that analogy of that, that . . . needs to be adjusted.
Because, you know, just because we eat an animal doesn’t mean that it doesn't have
an impact, a devastating impact on our environment. And so. I'll just finish with that.
And I think that, or I hope that more focus can be given to this severe priority. Thank
you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions, Members?
Member Sugimura, then Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, thank you. Seth, thank you very much for testifying.
And I see your, we have your cell number, also. So, my office will call you, but we did
launch the Axis Deer Task Force, and it's quite not on the agenda today. So, thank
you for contributing what you shared. And I’ll, I'll look up some of the information that
you shared. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 36
MR. WEAVER: Okay. I appreciate it.
CHAIR LEE: I think he saw the Humane Society and thought, well, that includes the deer.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yea, that was the clarification I
wanted to make. Bill 98 and 99 specifically is related to the Maui Humane Society
vehicle. We're, we're giving them, or amending that item in the budget to a grant.
MR. WEAVER: It's, it's the condition-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh. I wasn’t-
MR. WEAVER: What's that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I was just sharing that, so that if anyone, who else,
you know, is waiting to testify don't think that the deer issue is on today's agenda.
MR. WEAVER: Right, I know. It is on the agenda.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm not, I'm not speaking with you. I'm just clarifying
for moving forward. I just-
MR. WEAVER: Okay. But it is on the agenda, Bill 99, Condition B.6.d(3).
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, that's, that's, so if we always allow everyone to
testify on anything that there's a budget amendment on, we'll never ever get through
meetings here. So, I, yea, I just wanted to clarify that because it is a budget
amendment. There are other things in Appendix A. But not everything in Appendix A
is open for testimony, just the Maui Humane Society vehicle grant. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Weaver, thank you for your testimony. And I don't think we have any
questions. But Madam Clerk, can you tell me how many more testifiers we havemore
after Pamela Tumpap?
COUNTY CLERK: We have five more currently signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Great. Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: So, our next, our next testifier is Pamela Tumpap, to be followed by Kevin
Carney.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 37
MS. PAMELATUMPAP, MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE [testifying on Committee Report
Nos. 21-87 & 21-91: and Bill No. 101 (2021)1:
I don't see that my video has been released. But it should be on in the moment it is.
Do I need to un, let's see, you're going to automatically unhook that?
CHAIR LEE: Pam, we can hear you.
MS. TUMPAP: Okay. Well, I’ll testify. I should have video, but it's not, it's not coming up at
the moment. So, I'll be happy to continue with testimony. First, halo toiiichte a bhith
eolach ort and Happy Aloha Friday, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Councilmembers. I thought I'd give it a shot. You all had to, so I thought I'd try.
CHAIR LEE: Good job. Good job.
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you. I'm Pamela Tumpap, President of the Maui Chamber of
Commerce. And first 1 would like to say what an inspirational morning. The poem
shared by Member Paltin was absolutely wonderful today. And I hope you all got to
participate in the Imi Pono Program last night that honors the program you started, and
showing the art, photography, and videography of our middle and high school entrants.
It was really amazing. And I enjoyed learning about Chad Kaiepa Baybayan. Clearly
a passionate voyager, educator, and mentor. And while I didn't have the pleasure of
meeting him, clearly, his legacy makes us all proud. And wanted to send my sincere
condolences to his family, friends, and admirers.
I'm here to testify today on three items: CR21-91, CR 21-87, and Bill 101. So, I wanted
to start with the net zero homes. We support new ideas and pilot projects that help us
move forward with our clean energy goals, and really like this concept. There's one
thing that we're a little concerned about, and that's the range of cost to convert a home
of this size to a verified zero net energy. We feel this should be known before the bill
is enacted. And here's the reason why. We raised this because one of our tools during
this affordable housing and attainable housing crisis is to create multi-generational
homes, and multi-generational homes increase housing sizes. Therefore, we'd like to
know what the cost of conversion, and to be a verified zero net energy home is, so that
we don't hamper multi-generational home housing. But if, you know, and we don't
know if it's prohibitive or not. So, that's our concern with respect to that measure.
You know, first of all, we deeplyOn the CR 21-87, the affordable housing list,
appreciate that the areas of the Hawaiian Community Assets Plan are being reviewed
and discussed. As mentioned before, we've created an attainable housing and rentals
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 38
committee that is comprised of chamber members, which includes some affordable
housing and rentals experts, banking members, construction, development, various
industries, planning, and property management, and more. And so, as we looked at
this list, basically, we see that the list would be maintained by the Department of
Housing and Human Concerns. And we feel that they could then do some subset lists
that would be helpful maybe to the developers. However, our committee members
share, both from the development side, that first of all, they have to maintain their own
waitlist in order to show project lenders. They have to verify that they are qualified
buyers. Oh, is that three minutes on this issue?
CHAIR LEE: No, you can proceed.
MS. TUMPAP; Okay. Thank you so much. So, they must show that they are qualified buyers
to get the lending that's needed. And also, nonprofits have certain Federal
requirements, some of that was mentioned earlier, for financial assistance. And it
mandates, some of the Federal requirements mandate, they can, they control their own
list. So therefore, while we understand the idea and intent, we think it could equate to
considerable time and effort that may not create the anticipated benefits. And while
Kauai maintains their own list, we understand, they also do their own building.
And lastly, the compromise between 90 and 180 days that settled on 120. The
additional 30 days may not seem like a large change, but the home builders have
carrying costs and interests on the property during that time. So, we ask that the
Council reconsider this, or find ways for the County to help subsidize that extra cost so
it doesn't get put into the housing cost. And then, while we like the idea of the County
as a buyer when the homes haven't sold, you know, and sometimes the County has
granted them one off homes that foreclosed to nonprofits .... Thank you. I'll just end
real quick. But that we wonder if the County can do the sales better than the developers
and just have, ask that that be considered and what that process would be.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
MS. TUMPAP: And then, if 1 could go to my last item?
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
MS. TUMPAP: Which is Bill 101. So, we recently conducted a poll of our board of directors
on this matter. And while not all felt that the County should take the full percent, the
majority supported it, since the County, of course, is losing our State TAT revenue.
However, as has been mentioned several times today, we're concerned about it, the
tax being considered levied October 1, which would actually be today, for those who
are a little lost on their dates with COVID. So, many properties have to update their
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1. 2021
Page 39
reservations systems to account for this tax when guests book. And they just need
more time to put this in place. Therefore, we ask that the date be pushed out in terms
of when the tax is collected, so both the counties and properties have time. We've
heard December and January would be appropriate and give people time.
We also, the way we read the language is that any rooms booked and have the contract
paid prior to this passing, then this tax will not apply. We support this language and do
not support the effort to repeal that language. And then, again, as has also been
mentioned, despite the increase in visitors over the last several months, the numbers
dropped significantly in August. We're in the shoulder period of September and
October, which means the numbers are lower. And the Governor's message has
clearly trickled down into many cancellations, which we've been tracking not just in the
accommodations industry, but many other industry. So, this delay in the effective date
will not only help the industry and not burden them at this critical time, as well as give
the County and properties time to create needed systems. And that would conclude
all of my testimony. And I deeply appreciate the opportunity to testify today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Pam. Are there any questions for Ms. Tumpap? Seeing none, thank
you again.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Have a great weekend.
MS. TUMPAP: You too.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, before you go on, we have about five or so left. Members, do you want
to take your ten-minute morning break now? Yes? Okay. Alright.
Madam Clerk, we're going to take a ten-minute break. Okay?
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And we will return at, at 10:55, which is a little over ten minutes. Meeting in
recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:41 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:55 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 40
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of October 1, please reconvene?
Madam Clerk, who do we have next for testimony?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kevin Carney. To be follow by Junya Nakoa.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Can you ask the staff to watch for Mr. Spencer’s call?
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: I mean, Spencer Lau, Mr. Lau's call.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Kevin Carney?
MR. KEVIN CARNEY, EAH HOUSING (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-87):
Aloha kakou.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. CARNEY: Aloha, Council Chair, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the
County Council. My name is Kevin Carney. 1 am Vice President of EAH Housing. We
onprofit developer and manager of low-income rental housing, specifically,
specifically for LIHTC properties. We've been in operation for, as a nonprofit for
53 years, and operating in the islands for 25 years.
I'm testifying in opposition to CR, and I lost the number, 21-87. And particularly as it
applies to our LIHTC industry. You've already received testimony in opposition, so I'm
not going to go through my written testimony. I just wanted to point out that we believe
that, you know, the purpose I see is providing housing for local residents. And I think
that’s already being accomplished.
I attached to my testimony the Kihei work, workforce housing agreement for a property
we manage in Kihei called Kenolio. And that workforce housing agreement lists
preferences, particularly by employment with the County. And from that workforce
housing agreement, we derive our resident selection plan. And I've attached copies of
the pertinent pages of that resident selection plan, which mirror the workforce housing
agreement to provide those preferences.
are a n
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 41
I would also point out that, you know, we, we manage properties for other owners. We
manage for the County of Kauai as well. And on Kauai, we have preferences up in
Princeville for property there that was created, I'm going to say five years ago. And the
pp0f0i-0P0es are by zip code. And if you work or live in certain zip codes, then that
provides you a preference for access to that housing.
So, getting to the bottom line, I think we already have a process in place and there s
. need for the County to get involved on waitlists as it applies to our industry. And
I'm only speaking for our rental industry that is governed by LIHTC primarily. I have no
expertise when it comes to for sale housing, so my expertise is strictly when it comes
to LIHTC rentals. And I'm available for questions. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mr. Carney. Are there questions. Members? If not, thank you very,
oh, we have one question.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Mr. Carney, thank you very much for being here. So. you
basically specialize, if I could use that word, in LIHTC?
MR. CARNEY; That's true, correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; And so. you're saying that the way that we have this set
up will be detrimental for developers to qualify for LIHTC financing?
MR. CARNEY; Not, not detrimental for developers to qualify, no. It's going to complicate the
process, because we already have preferences available. And that could be included
in the workforce housing agreements that we sign with the counties. And from those
workforce house agreements, like I said, we develop our resident selection plan. And
then, we, we have experts, we have a whole, because we've been around for a long,
long time, we have a whole compliance department that is expert in all the regulations
when it comes to the IRS Section 42, which governs LIHTC properties, as well as fair
housing, etc. So, you know, we have a process in place.
I have a feeling that if the County was to get involved, or if they designated another
third-party to get involved, it's going to complicate the process, not only for, for our staff
having to learn a whole new process, but also for applicants. Because they may have
gotten qualified by the County or their designee, but there may have been something
missed when it comes to all the regulations we have on our property. And so, we may
have to turn away an applicant because of that. And also, if there's an error made in
the qualifications, and that applicant is accepted, that could mean a loss of tax credits
no
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 42
for that particular unit, which could be expensive. And I'm talking five-figures for a
single unit, where I pay. So, there's liability involved as well. So, I mean, I could go on
and on. I just don't think it's necessary, because we're already preferencing for Maui
residents.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you very much, Mr. Carney.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Okay. Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank, Mr. Carney. I just was wondering what if you were the
third-party contractor?
MR. CARNEY: Weil, I guess we could be, yea. But we're already doing, you know,
qualifications. So, you know, I guess if the County wanted to pay us to do it, it, that,
that would be fine. We could make some money on the side, so to speak. But I just
don't see it as being a requirement.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Yea, I don't think we were looking at paying
huge sums of money to a third-party, but if you're interested. But what I wanted to ask
you, you said you have your own preference system in place. What do you mean by
that? And how do you do it because, you know, part of the reason for this is we've
heard from a lot of people in the community that they don't find out about these, these
developments and they don't get on the list, so. How do you, how, what's your
preference system?
MR. CARNEY: Well, I, I said we are permitted to provide preferences to certain degrees. So,
you know, in Hilo, we're building a senior housing project, age 62 and up. But we're
doing that as a, the priority is for veterans and their spouses. And that's allowable by
law. So, any veteran and/or their surviving spouse would qualify as a preference to
live in that property.
On Kauai we're, we're following the instructions provided by the County of Kauai, which
is by zip code. You have to live or work in that zip code. And that's allowable by law.
And there is also, you can employ a preference for teachers. That's permitted by law.
But you know, some preferences are not permitted by law, and so you have to be very
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 43
careful where you step and avoid anything that could involve a fair housing violation.
So, that's very critical for our properties.
And it's not only by, you know, to get into a LIHTC property, it’s not only by income.
There’s background checks, there's landlord-tenant, iandlord-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I think you answered my question. I was just trying to figure
out what you were talking about by your preference. But if you're, if you're following
County Code in the different counties, then this would be something we'd follow in Maui
County. And the intention behind it is to try to broaden that list so that more people
have an opportunity.
MR. CARNEY: Again, . . . preference is just that. It doesn't mean that you're, you're going to
get housing. You still have to qualify financially, background check, etc.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, we know that. We understand that.
MR. CARNEY: Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. Okay. One last question, because we have Mr. Lau
standing by.
Mr. Johnson. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I'll be, I'll be quick, just for a clarifying question. So,
you said as long as it's permissible by law and if it violates Federal housing laws, we'd
be, we'd be, have concerns. This, in this bill, it has that clause. It says as long as it's
permissible by law, we can do that. So, I just wanted to clarify that. I know we're
running short on time. So, thank you, Chair.
MR. CARNEY: I understand. I just wanted to further clarify and perhaps get more, a clearer
language that, you know, this, this part of the industry is exempt, rather than have to
go in for each project and argue that we are exempt.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Carney.
MR. CARNEY: Thank you. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 44
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Madam Clerk, could you call Mr. Lau?
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Mr. Spencer Lau, if you can unmute yourself-
MR. SPENCER LAU (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-81):
Good morning
COUNTY CLERK: And testify-
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
COUNTY CLERK: -and I did-
CHAIR LEE: Somebody said good morning.
MR. LAU: Yea, that's me. So, this is Spencer. Good morning, Council Chair and
Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. Okay. We have a Member who has a question for you.
MR. LAU: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Lau, for making yourself
available today for your nomination to the Cost of Government Commission. My
concern was, I mean, I'm sure that you already know about the attendance and the
hard work those folks are doing.
MR. LAU: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: My specific question was, in your resume application it
mentioned that you're an insurance agent and you had worked for Councilmember
Mike White. And the Cost of Government Commission already released a study on
the MVB amounts. And I just was wondering if that had anything to do with your
application, or your nomination being that during that time the Council regularly gave
about $4 million to MVB, and whatnot?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 45
MR. LAD: When I worked for Councilmember White, I actually didn't, I wasn’t part of that
project, so i don't know what happened within that project.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
MR. LAU; .. . yea. it's just I had, I had no part of that.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And did the study released by the Cost of Government
Commission have anything on MVB have anything to do with your nomination or
application?
MR. LAU: No, not at all.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And, and was that your first choice of boards and
commissions?
I just knew that there was availability and it'sMR. LAU: That was my first choice, yes.
hopefully something I can bring to myself, if approved, to make that committee better
with my experience.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Thank you for making yourself available.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. My normal three questions. Aloha,
Mr. Lau. Mahalo for your willingness to serve our County. Three questions. Do you
foresee any concerns with your attendance, and have you been briefed on our
attendance policy? Two. would you share your experience with this board? And then,
three, how do you envision contributing?
MR. LAU: I, I plan to make all the meetings as best as I can.
sometimes difficult, but I will make my best effort in making all meetings. What I bring
forward to the committee is basically my businessowner background. And also, being
born and raised in Hawaii, I have a lot at stake for our community.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Sorry, and what, your experience with the
Cost of Government Commission, you've attended any of the meetings or reviewed the
minutes?
As a businessowner, it is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 46
MR. LAU; I have not. I have reviewed a couple of the minutes, but not thoroughly.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Mr. Lau. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? If not, thank you Mr. Lau, for joining the call. We will be-
MR. LAU: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: -voting on your nomination at the end of the calendar.
MR. LAU: Sure. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: The agenda. Okay. Thank you.
Alright. Shall we proceed, Madam Clerk, with the next testifier? Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk? Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Our next testifier is Junya Nakoa. To be follow by Elle Cochran.
CHAIR LEE: Junya, where are you? Can't hear you. Staff, can you unmute him?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, he's unmuted on our side.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Junya, we can’t hear you. Okay, yea, you'll call us. Okay. He'll call us,
so let's take the next testifier.
Ms. Cochran.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testi, our next testifier is Elle Cochran. To be followed by Cara
Flores.
MS. ELLE COCHRAN (testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-469, 21-477, and
21-479: and Committee Report Nos. 21-87 and 21-92):
Good morning. You got me? Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 47
MS. COCHRAN: Aloha, again. I'm testifying on CC 21-49 [sic], CC 21-477, CC 21-479, CR
21-92, CR 21-87. Alright? Ready?
CHAIR LEE: Ready.
MS. COCHRAN: Okay. CC 21-469, please approve Councilmember Johnson's input into the
2020, 2022 HSAC Package to increase the minimum wage. I proposed it back in the
day, too, so I want to support Councilmember Johnson to move that along again. And
so, thank you for that. Because I think it relates to the, as Paulo Faleafine mentioned
the other day about that circle economy. You know, when you make more, you spend
more, and it'll also give our residents that peace of mind economically to make ends
meet, which has been difficult lately. So, thank you. That's for that.
CC 21-477, the home own, thank you Ms. Sugimura, for introducing this. The
Homeowner's Assistant Fund Program for mortgage relief and this assistance to Maui,
Maui County homeowners that are impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. As a land,
a homeowner, I see the difficulties that people are going through. I mean, I have family
members, you know, running into foreclosure experiences. So, the people, again, are
struggling to make it, we're struggling to make ends meet pre-pandemic. Now, it's just
that much worse. So. this definitely will be so beneficial to everyone across the board.
So, I mean, last thing we need to do is add more to the homeless situation. So, please
support that.
CC 21-479, did I write that right?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. COCHRAN: Relating to aircraft noise and flight paths around Maalaea and South Maui.
This applies to just more than that section for sure. I mean, living in Honolua, if I can
read the aircraft numbers on the bottom of the helicopter, they're flying way too close,
you know. And that's happened. I can read the name of the aircraft, everything. So,
I'm, we get calls from Mr. Pellegrino in Waikapu, the noise factor in Waikapu Valley.
So, it's everywhere. Hana, people are landing in people's back, you know, open
spaces of, of private lands, causing noise and, and commotion for, for you know,
livestock and what have you. So, this goes across countywide. And so, hopefully, we
can expand to that.
And then the, the biggie is Councilmember Johnson's CC 21-87 [sic]. Please pass it
on first reading. You know, I was getting a little hot under the collar with the previous
testifiers, cause I don't, I don't agree. I mean,  Iagree that this, this bill has enhanced,
it has been improved with what work the Committee has done. And I, I, some main
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 48
points that I, that I want to support is the priority for the selection process that is based
the length of residency of the applicant for the interest list and the lottery.
And to address Mr. Moran's comment about waitlists don't work. Let's not think about
the Upcountry water meter list. But I want to look at Napilihau had a list, you know, my
husband was called off this list. So, this, and then as a concierge, we have waitlists
for the luau. Right now, luaus are sold out through November, December. It works.
We get called, the people get into their luau, they're happy, the company's happy, you
know. So, as long as the lists are monitored, right, they're actually looked at, and
they're consistently addressed and followed through with. I mean, I could write to-do
lists all day long, and if I don’t look back at my to-do list, well, guess what? Nothing's
going to get done.
on
And the, in having the lottery done by the County or its designees, I think is, is going to
the confidence of our residents and our, you know, the applicants to, toincrease
looking for a home. The, the lottery, you know, put it in the County's hands for, for
selection, versus the developer's hands, I think for me anyways, will increase the open,
transparent, and honest process. So, I'm happy about that addition in there.
And increasing the marketing period from the 90 to 120,1 think is extremely beneficial.
Ninety days goes by really fast. And it will give, you know, the applicants' opportunity
to get all their ducks in a row, right, and to, to get them, make themselves eligible and
ready to become homeowners. So, I think the develop, on the developer's end, I hear
they're saying all this hardship, but you know what, our people are in a hardship right
now, have been. So, please keep that in.
And then, if it, after the marketing period, the marketing period is over, that 120, then
the County has an option to buy. I think that's, that's helpful, too. I was actually part
of the County Buy-Back Program. My first home was bought from a County home. So
that, that totally works.
And I just want to add in that to please, please, please keep an eye on developers
advertising. That the applicant needs to get their .. . from the developer's choice of
lenders, not the applicant's choice of lender. That's the law. Applicant's choice of
lender, not developers. That's been going on for generations. It's against the law. And
we need to keep an eye on that cause I continue to see those ads in the paper and its
So, I don't know what happened. I tried to deal with this with Pat Wong backwrong,
in the day, and nothing came of it. So, please follow-up. Member Johnson, whoever,
on that, cause it's super important. I think that's why we keep losing our, our homes to
the market rate and then we're back to square one trying to get an affordable home
again on the market. And, and in closing for this item, the, this is, the, this is not an
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1.2021
Page 49
added regulation, it's, as I said, it's enhancing 2.96. And, and to me, it's improving it.
So, that's for that.
And then on CR 21-92, I wholehearted support the appointment of Stacey Lee Vinoray
to the Real Property Tax Review Board. She is awesome. She's got wonderful
background skills and I've had the firsthand opportunity to have her as my lEM
Committee secretary and analyst and she's been just, does outstanding work, very
thorough. So, I'm, and she'll be a huge, great positive asset to the Real Property Tax
Review Board. And I believe I've got through all my agenda items. Members. And
thank you so much for giving me this time and opportunity to testify
CHAIR LEE; Of course. Any questions? Oh, you have  aquestion.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 1 have to tell you when I saw the minimum wage bill from
Mr. Johnson, 1 thought of you. You were the first person I thought of. Thankyou. Nice
to see you back again.
MS. COCHRAN; Thankyou.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? If not, thank you very much, Elie. Have a great weekend.
MS. COCHRAN: Aloha. You too. Members. Take care. Bye-bye.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Cara Flores. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
CHAIR LEE; Cara?
MS. CARA FLORES [testifying on Committee Report No. 21-87 and Bill No. 101 (2021)]:
Hello, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. FLORES: Yay. Steponedone. Alright. I first want to just comment on Bill 101. I support
it. I'm testifying as an individual today.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 50
I also wanted to testify on CR 21-87. I think this is a great idea. It is hard to track down
affordable housing and find them when they come up. I've been working with a family
that’s Native Hawaiian for years now, trying to get them into affordable housing and
they keep trying to get on the lotteries. And it's, you know, we have to go look for them
and find them. And it's a little bit ridiculous how difficult it is.
I do want to share something that 1 didn't see addressed. And this is not against the
law, but it should be. So, and that's where I'd like to see legislation happen. This family
wanted to buy a unit at two different workforce housing situations. And both times they
did not allow FHA financing. And I've been a realtor since 2007, and the majority of
first-time homebuyers use FHA financing. It's one of the most common first-time home-
buyer loan programs out there. So, it's ridiculous that they would make one of the rules
that you cannot use FHA financing. That's a, that's a barrier they put on purpose,
because they don't want those units to sell and then they want to be able to hold them
over for, you know, the 180 days or whatever and sell them at market, cause they sell
for a lot higher.
The other thing that I have seen several developers do now is ask for 20 percent down
payment. And when I tell them that my buyer doesn't have 20 percent down, which is
not standard, most first-time homebuyers, my first home that I bought, I had 3.5 percent
down with the FHA loan. So that's normal. Conventional loans have gone down to
three percent down requirement. So, to ask for 20 percent down is ridiculous. And
they say, well, just tell them to ask their family for it. Not all of us have rich family. If,
if that was a requirement, I would still not be a homeowner today. These programs are
in place for a reason, and it's to help first-time homebuyers buy a home. And they
purposefully put obstacles in place to prevent that. So, I'd like to see the County Code
address that. And with reference to affordable housing, specifically workforce housing,
that those requirements also need to be added in there. But I do support 21-87. And
1 appreciate you guys.
Regarding someone saying we're not running out of affordable housing, we have
plenty. It's not true. I just found out yesterday about Honokowai Kauhale, that’s part
of the low-income housing, affordable housing system from the State. The State
agreed to sell to a developer 1,221 units. They're currently rated low-income. So,
that's 30 percent of the ... . They're, they're upgrading them to moderate income and
they're not replacing that low-income housing. So, this, you know, what do those
people do? They can't make that much more money. And they're going to end up
homeless because there's no units to replace these. That's it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any questions. Members?
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 51
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Flores. Mahalo for your
testimony today. I was hoping you would be able to share what workforce housing
projects, the two that you were speaking of that didn't accept FHA loans. And if you're
not at liberty to say that publicly, if you would contact my office.
MS. FLORES: I will contact your office. I do not want to say publicly, because one of them I
worked for the broker representing the client at the time. And so, I have a obligation to
not speak ill about the client.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Ms. Flores. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ah, thank you. Chair. I, I had a side question about the
3.5 percent down. Is it people can have less than 20 percent down? Do they get forced
to pay that mortgage insurance after? I mean, if it's that low?
MS. FLORES: Yes. So, anything under 20 percent down, there's usually some kind of
insurance payment. It's not always, there's MIP, PMl, the VA has their own, like,
separate thing. So, every, you know, that's the technicalities. But yes, almost every
loan program that takes less than 20 percent down does have an insurance to cover
that 20 percent of some kind. It's either government backed or privately backed. But
the insurance you're talking like $200 a month, or maybe like max like $600 or
whatever. It’s, it's not barrier to homeownership. And so, as soon as people pay down
that 20 percent with some loans, it automatically goes away, and then with other loans,
they can refinance out of it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier. Chair, is Junya Nakoa. To be followed by Tapani Vuori.
CHAIR LEE; Hi, Junya.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-87):
Can you hear me? Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 52
MR. NAKOA; All right. Okay. Yea, I going talk about that 21-87 bill. Yea you know what,
plenty incidents where local families, oh yea and  1am not a paid lobbyist, okay? And
then-
CHAIR LEE; You could have fooled us.
MR. NAKOA; Yea, 1 tell you. But, yea, get plenty guys, they, they go apply for these affordable
homes, yea, and then they tell urn, they, you know, how these, you go for get these
mortgages and . . .loan, you deal with one bank that take care of you for years. You
know, you build one reputation with them, you build trust, you build everything with
them, and then they going take care you cause they going give you your mortgage.
But then when the developers come and tell you, you gotta use their mortgage lenders
or whatever for make the loans, they get control, brah. They the one who going tell,
yes you can, yes you no can.
And like Cara said, yea, then they make um so hard that they cannot qualify, then that
affordable becomes market. That when happen at the Stan Carr, Stanford Carr,
whatever development here in Lahaina. Getting tired hear this stuff happening over
and over again. So, I give you guys so much credit, brah. You guys are badass, like
I said before. You guys the one Council like the guy from Kihei said. You guys is the
one we get confidence in to make it right for us the local people, nuff worrying about
the other people from the mainland that going buy, make median rate $1.1 million, yeah
and us guys we stuck with nothing.
And then, just to let you guys know, I'm work in progress right now with Kaanapali 2020
and KUA, KUA Foundation to, with the Aloha Aina Party, to build affordable, truly
affordable homes that is self-sustainable. That is, we not, we no like make one dollar.
We no like make one dollar profit, zero profit. So, we going sell um, the house for cost.
And then, so, we can get the money back and we can do em all over. And then, I told
Kaanapali 2020, we would, we would, we would use all your affordable housing
liabilities like the 51 percent and us guys going build them all. And hopefully, we can
build um for $300,000 like that.
Okay. With this list, you guys going control em. No let these paid lobbyists tell us, and
tell us kanakas on Maui what to, what is right and what is wrong. I know you guys get
You guys all badass. So, sorry, I stay small kine frustrated. I was piss off too and
I, like Elle Cochran was, was mad too. And eh, Elle Cochran, please keep testifying.
You badass, too. But yea, but like I tell you guys right now, brah, we gotta, we gotta
stop this stuff already. Us locals gotta, we gotta stand up and fight these buggahs. We
have to, you know. We gotta do what we can and you guys are doing a awesome job.
um.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 53
Lucky you guys no can see me, cause my hands stay going crazy. But love you guys
and respect you guys. Have a good one. And yea, on a side note, I when email all
you buggahs. I like talk story with you guys for diversity our economy. Yessah. Have
a good one. Aloha Friday. . . .
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Have a good weekend, Junya.
MR. NAKOA; Will do.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier-
CHAIR LEE: I assume there were no questions, right. Okay.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Tapani Vuori. To be followed by Linda Munsell.
MR. TAPANI VUORl, MAUI OCEAN CENTER (testifying on County Communication
No. 21-473):
Good morning. Council Chair, Vice-Chair, and Councilmembers. My name is Tapani
Vuori. I'm the general manager here at Maui Ocean Center. I'm also the board
member with Maalaea Village Association, with Maalaea Triangle Association, and with
Maui Ocean Center. .. focused on Federal rescues and coral repository.
I wanted to testify as a private citizen on CR 21-473. And . . . couple of short
paragraphs from the press release from University of Hawaii. Earlier last month, they
actually did a survey on all the visitors and . .  .stating the following: visitors to the
State of Hawaii are willing to pay more for Native Hawaiian cultural experiences,
sustainability and local. . . according to the-
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, it's really difficult to hear what he's saying. You're coming
in really fuzzy, Tapani.
MR. VUORI: Can you hear me? Can you hear me now, Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's a little better.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 54
Could you, could you turn your volume up and speak a little slower?CHAIR LEE:
MR. VUORI: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; That might help.
MR. VUORI; Can you hear me better now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, much better.
MR. VUORI; Okay. good. So, I would like to start by reading the press release from the
University of Hawaii. They did a study on, survey on visitors last month. The visitors
to the State of Hawaii are willing to pay more for Native Hawaiian cultural experiences,
sustainability in locally grown food, according to the findings from a new study
conducted by the University of Hawaii, UH at Manoa in West Oahu. With 76 percent,
than a third of the responders were willing to pay 10 percent or more on activities
that are put on by Native Hawaiians and are more respectful of their culture. And nearly
identical results came with the topic of sustainability. So. clearly, the sentiments are
changing with the demographic shift of, we see a lot of the younger generations that
are really super interested and quite concerned about what's going on with the
environment and how they connect with ... so instead of dealing with a lot of these
negative impacts that we see happening.
I believe there is a pretty strong consensus on Maui and Hawaii in general. In 2019,
we had 2.5 million visitors on Maui. I believe it was too much. This may seem a little
bit contradictory coming from a gentleman, or a guy, who is running a, really number
one or two-rated visitor attraction here on Maui. But as a community, we really need
to look at things for a sustainable, and not focus on short term or medium term. We
really, in my opinion, should be thinking about longer-term impacts of what is
happening.
I'm also on the Advisory Council for the Maui Planning Committee and discussions that
are happening right now are looking at the infrastructure and the impact of climate
change and what is happening. So. really, ultimately, it's going to come down to well,
how much money do we have? Who's going to pay for all of this? So, if I may finish
my point?
CHAIR LEE: Sure.
MR. VUORI; I understand three percent, but that to me, that, the danger there, that is it
actually causes a dislocation in the market. I believe, or I would argue that we really
more
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 55
need to set a green fee or environmental sustainable cultural fee for everyone flying to
Hawaii. And that needs to happen in their journey even before they come to Maui or
set their foot in the airport. . . . $100. Ten percent would be $1,000 every visitor stay
Maui. Last time I checked it was 8.32 days per visit. So, clearly the cost for a visit
is much more than $1,000. So, this would be a small fraction of their total expenses
coming to Maui. And it would actually really tremendously help Maui community to
address all these infrastructure issues, like ....
on
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you, Mr. Vuori. Thank you, Mr. Vuori
MR. VUORI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King has a question for you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha, Tapani. You were kind of coming in and out of-
MR. VUORI: Oh, sorry about that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: --in there. But no, I just wanted to clarify your testimony, because
you're testifying on a county communication that has four bills in it. Did you have any
specific concerns with any of these bills, or were you calling in for, I couldnt get the
gist of what, if you were supporting them ail, if you were in opposition, or did, do you
have a concern ...
MR. VUORI: Regarding 21-473, about the sustainability and the green fees. And I would
urge us to, you know, think a little bit bigger in terms of operating from a place of
strength where we actually value our community and our sense of place accordingly.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Vuori.
MR. VUORI: Thank you very much. Have a good day.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Linda Munsell. To be followed by Thomas Croly.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Hello, Linda.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 56
MS. LINDA MUNSELL, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS
(testifying on Committee Report No. 21-87):
Thank you. Good morning, Chair and Councilmembers. My name is Linda Munsell.
I'm the Deputy Director for the Department of Housing and Human Concerns. I'm here
to testify on Committee Report 21-87. We've already submitted written testimony, so
I'm not going to go over that document. You guys, you can read that 1 just wanted to
touch on a couple of things though.
First, the Department supports the idea of developing a central database for residents
who are interested in workforce housing units, as well as a central place for
disseminating information about current and upcoming housing projects. We think that
that, those would be very positive things. We also support encouraging residents to
become better prepared for rental and homeownership opportunities. One of the things
that, in our conversations with the developers, apparently that is a significant burden
and so we really support that idea in this, in this legislation.
However, we are concerned about several aspects of the proposed amendments. And
we're a little bit concerned that there hasn't really been enough adequate consul,
consultation with the developers on the effect that the amendments might have on, on
workforce housing projects. We really would encourage this body to take some time
to discuss those changes with the developers who are going to be affected.
Specifically, we do note that we believe that the responsibility for maintaining the
waitlist and determining eligibility at the project-level should remain with the developers
for various reasons. And I think that you had received some testimony, not only from
Mr. Carney, but also from others on this already.
We've also expressed some concern about the legal implications of the durational
residency. That aside, of course, that's going to be a determination of this body. But
that aside, the logistics of actually determining the length of residency is a significant
concern for us as well. And I can foresee a lot of fights and having to defend our
position on those, on those things if they're fighting for position on a waitlist.
On the requirement to purchase homes before they move to market, we really would
encourage you to change that to a first right of purchase, rather than a requirement to
purchase. We'd like to evaluate the value of that purchase before it's actually made.
Lastly, we'd also like to point out that requiring rental projects to specifically to publish
information in social media outlets may not actually have the intended results that
you're looking for. When we've seen projects advertised in social media, we end up
with a lot of people who are not residents seeking opportunities to be in those projects.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 57
So. just wanted to point that out to you. That you might consider that as an option and
not as a requirement. And those are our comments. And obviously, you can read the
written comments if you'd like. Really appreciate the opportunity to be here and really
appreciate you taking up this bill. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here, Linda. Just a couple
questions. One, on the, you know, I had brought up in Committee about the phrase
that, that required all the social media. And it was actually stated by Corp. Counsel
that that doesn't require each and every single one of those avenues, that it, that it still
leaves that flexibility, so with the way it's worded currently. So, you know, I'm just, I
was just wondering, you don't trust, you know, you're still worried about that wording?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Yea, we're, we're, as long
as it's very clear that they're not required to use all of those media outlets, then I think
that that would be fine. But we would express some concern if it turns into a mandate
to use it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Cause I think that's probably in the committee report. I think that
was stated a couple of times in the committee report.
And then, the other thing I wanted to bring up is, have you ever, you know, I know
you're worried about the, the developers not having control over those waitlists, but
have you gotten any of the types of complaints that Councilmembers get, about people
not finding out about these projects? Because I think that's the root of it, is that there
seems to be a lot of citizens who say I, I didn't know that was up for lottery. And so,
you know, we're trying to take responsibility for getting that broader list out. But do you
get complaints like that? Cause I've gotten a lot of those complaints.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS: Yes. Thank you. Thank
you for the question. We actually do get a lot of inquiries. And so, because, because
of that, and because of this, we're hearing that people aren't hearing about them. We
like the idea of the interest list. We also like the central portal, where we can just, you
know, get information out very early, and so people can start expressing interest. We
also like the idea of forwarding that interest list to the developer, to be the start and the
basis of their, their waitlist. But for us to manage the waitlist and to do the eligibility,
that's where we, we start to have concerns. So, we love a lot of aspects of the interest
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 58
list and the centralized information portal. But when it becomes the waitlist, then we
have concerns.
COUNCILMEMBERKING: Okay. Alright. Thank you. Thank you for being here. I appreciate
your input.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Deputy Director.
Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next and final-
CHAIR LEE: How many more testifiers do we, Madam Clerk, how many more?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our, our next testifier is our last testifier signed up.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: And that’d be Thomas Croly.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Croly.
MR. THOMAS CROLY [testifying on Bill No. 101 (2021)1:
Aloha, Council. Tom Croly, testifying on my own behalf on, with regard to Bill 101, the
transient accommodations tax. I had assumed, as this bill was making its way through
Committee and such, that the October 1 date was simply a placeholder. 1 am stunned
and amazed that anyone would even consider it taking effect today. That just makes
no sense to me. The State's protocol, when they have increased the transient
accommodations tax three or four times over the last several years, has been
six months after the legislation has passed and the Governor has signed it, they have
implemented it. Generally, that has been on a January 1 basis, which makes sense
from an annual standpoint that you do it on, on January 1. But it's, that six months has
allowed people to change their rates that they advertise, and to make sure that the
people who are making reservations are being appropriately taxed and so forth. So, 1,
I can't believe that you would even consider starting it on October 1.
I've heard people say in testimony, December 1. 1 think that would still be too soon. I
think the January 1 would be acceptable provided that the provision that is in the current
bill that says for existing reservations you wouldn't have this tax responsibility. I have
430 room nights right now that are booked throughout this year and the next six months
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 59
next year. So, those folks have paid based on, you know, the taxation that's there. If
they've made a reservation through Airbnb, i haven't received the funds, but Airbnb
has. Airbnb will release the funds to me after the person stays, okay. So, then I would
have this tax liability that would come up that they would not have paid at that point.
I hope that the Council understands there is no shortage in revenues for the County as
a result of the State not giving the $23 million. You guys know. You budgeted without
it. And you also know that you increased the taxes on the short-term rental
classification by $28.5 million last year. That more than made up for the $23 million
that you didn't get from the State. The short-term rental classification is paying
$143 million in tax, versus $113 million that they paid the year before. So, that increase
more than made up. In fact, the County is working with the Federal funds at a windfall
this year. You guys have more money than you could possibly spend this year and I
think, I think you know that.
Finally, I think that it's incumbent upon the County to make sure that the 15,000 TAT
permit holders, thatthey get informed about this before it's imposed. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Tom, can you wrap up please? Please wrap up.
MR. CROLY: 1 have a few more points to make.
CHAIR LEE: Could you conclude your testimony, Tom?
MR. CROLY; Oh, thank you. So, so again, it, it would be incumbent upon the County to
inform these folks as to what this tax liability is, and more importantly, how they should
pay it. I don't think we even have a system set up right now. So, it makes sense to me
that we don't impose this tax until a system has been set up and until notice has been
given, pre-notice has been given, at a reasonable amount of time for people to prepare
for that, and put it in their advertising, and charge the future reservations that they take
the appropriate tax. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Tom. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
MR. CROLY; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Have a great weekend.
Are there any more people signed up to testify, Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have no other-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 60
CHAIR LEE: I want to take care of some business right away. Anybody else?
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. We have no other testifiers noted. If an individual connected to the
meeting has not testified, but would like to do so, please unmute and identify yourself
now. This is the last call for testifiers. Please indicate if you would like to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Members, any objections to closing public testimony and to accepting
any written testimony into the record?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Christopher Delaunay, Pacific Resource Partnership;
Lynn Britton;
Shannon VanderHeuvel.
Kevin Carney; EAH Housing;
Linda Munsell, Deputy Director of Housing and Human Concerns;
Nane Aluli, The Mauian Hotel on Napili Bay;
Noelani Balai;
Patricia Cadiz;
Peter Cannon;
Grant Y.M. Chun, Hale Mahaolu;
Linda A. Clark;
Carol Daum;
Denis Ebrill, Aqua Aston Hospitality, LLC and Marriott Vacations
Worldwide Corporation;
Scott J. Glenn, Hawaii State Energy Office State of Hawaii;
Joel Goldman;
Lora Harbo;
H. William Hawkins, Maalaea Village Association;
Lyndon Ibele, Maalaea Village Association;
Mitchell A. Imanaka, ARDA Hawaii;
Denise Iseri-Matsubara, Hawaii Housing Finance and Development
Corporation;
Ralph and Nancy Overton; and
Linda Schatz, Schatz Collaborative.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 61
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, confirming that written testimony has been received.
And moving forward with minutes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of July 2, 2021 was
presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the minutes as read by the Clerk.
Any discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 62
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused": motion carries.
Now, Members, do, if you have no objections, I would like to take up an item because
Member King has to leave at 12:00 and wouldn't be able to return till after 1:45. So,
any objections to taking up her committee report?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: if not, if not, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you so much. Chair. May  Iask for consideration on
Committee Report 21-91? And, I don’t know, do I have to have the Clerk read it first?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. I need to call it up.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-91NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following;
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING1. That Bill
SECTION 16.16B.R401.2, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO ENERGY
CODE COMPLIANCE FOR LARGE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS", be PASSED
ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT"; and
106
That County Communication 20-570, from Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 63
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you so much, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-91.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-91.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Your CARE Committee met on August 17,
2021, and September 15, 2021, to discuss a proposed bill relating to energy code
compliance for large residential buildings.
Your Committee discussed a revised proposed bill to require new one- or two-family
residential buildings of 5,000 square feet or more of conditioned floor area to be verified
zero net energy homes.
Over the course of those two meetings, your Committee received information and
analysis from the Department of Corporation Counsel; Department of Public Works;
Mayor's Office of Climate Action, Sustainability, and Resilience; State Department of
Business, Economic Development, and Tourism; 3-P Consulting; Hawaii Off-Grid LLC;
Green Building Hawaii; Climate Action Advisory Committee; Boulder County
Community Planning & Permitting Department; and Hawaiian Electric Company.
Boulder County requires homes over 5,000 square feet to be zero net energy. And
this has resulted in their residents actually building smaller homes.
Your Committee learned that many homes in Maui County over 5,000 square feet are
vacation homes that are often left vacant and can more easily achieve the zero net
energy requirement.
This bill will be a great step towards testing out stricter requirements before Maui
County amends and adopts the 2018 International Energy Code no later than
December 15, 2022.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 64
The Director of Public Works agreed the Department can implement the revised
proposed bill as written. And Deputy Corporation Counsel agreed, noting it is not
necessary to move the provisions to another section of the Energy Code.
Your Committee agreed the revised proposed bill will apply to duplex homes, but also
noted very few areas of Maui County are zoned for duplexes. And also, the fact that
most duplexes that are, there haven't been any affordable duplexes built to that size.
Your Committee recommended passage of the revised proposed bill on first reading
and filing of the communication by a 7-0 vote. I ask for the Members full support of
your Committee's recommendations.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? Well, any discussion?
Okay. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Yea. I wanted to speak in support. I know we
had discussed in the Committee about the added cost in, as referenced by one of the
testifiers. And ... the consensus was that if you're building homes at 5,000 square
f00-|;^ you probably already have enough funds to cover any additional costs. And in
the long run, when you're paying those cost savings for, for energy, that'll also help.
Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other?
Yes, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. I think Ms. Paltin was ahead of me. Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. ! missed you. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you. Member Sugimura. Thank you, Chair. I just
had a question for Member King about Mr. Wiig's testimony. Are we amending it to
include hookup to the grid where available?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No. Actually, we're not. We had that discussion in Committee
that that wasn't necessary because there's no, there's no provision in the Code for
having an independent generator qualify under the net zero requirement.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 65
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more ques-
Oh, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, so I’m speaking in favor of this. I heard the testifier
talk about multi-generational. That was my concern when this came up, because I
think 5,000 square feet, when you, when you hear of it, you think of one home. So, my
concern was it would not exclude the possibility for this kind of benefit for multi-
generational families. So, I believe that this will be addressed as things come up. So,
thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anyone else? Alright, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye",
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: I see eight "ayes", zero "noes" one "excused"; motion carries.
So, Ms. King, you want to tell everybody where you're going?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members. Yes, I have a panel discussion that I’m
supposed to be on. I tried to time it during our lunch hour, even knowing that we don't
always take the same lunch hour. But this will be  aprelude to the COP26 International
Climate Change Conference in Glasgow. And it's a panel with the Governor of
Washington and a couple of State Legislators from California. So, I'm, I'm excited to
be representing your, there's a real desire to hear from Hawaii as we go forward into
climate change issues, because we are experiencing sea level rise, of course, and
climate change first before all of our other states in our, in our country. So, anyway,
that's where I'll be for the next hour and a half.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. But we still have four minutes.
So, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, did you want to
request to take up your item?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 66
CHAIR LEE: We do know that Member King is going to be leaving so we may have seven
people, yea?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay. Mahalo, Chair. If there aren't any objections,
I would like to request we take up CC 21-470 and Bill 101. And the reason for this
request is that the intention is to pass this out today and we'll, we would need to get
the review and signature of Corporation Counsel. You see the CC 21-470 is the
amendments to Bill 101, so we would need to get a finalized bill for the Mayor's
signature.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No objections.
Proceed, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. And  Iwill try my best to make it as
quick as possible, Member King.
Madam Clerk, if you could bring up the two items?
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 101 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 3.47
MAUI COUNTY CODE, IMPLEMENTING A COUNTY
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-470
(dated September 24, 2021)
Transmitting proposed amendments to Bill 101 (2021).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 67
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO PASS BILL 101 ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson, to
pass Bill 101 on second and final reading.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, Bill 101 establishes a
three percent County transient accommodations tax on all gross rental, all gross rental
proceeds, and fair market rental value considered taxable under the definitions of
Section 20, uh, 237D-1, Hawaii Revised Statutes.
I'm sure many of you, like myself, has been inundated with questions from those that
would be affected by this bill. Okay. When we amended the clause that was taken
straight from HB862, otherwise Act 1, we created an inconsistency with the State
Statute and with our sister counties. Kauai passed their TAT bill into law last
Wednesday, and they didn't repeat the clause from HB862. So, there's really no
reason we don't, we're not required to do that.
As better explained by the DO tax director, the clause from HB862 is a two-part test.
If a booking or a contract is paid in full and the accommodations contract does not
include a disclaimer or a legal way to add the three percent tax, then it does not have
to. Inversely, if the booking or the contract is not paid in full and the accommodation
has the ability to add the three percent tax, then it must add the three percent tax.
After reading through some of the recently received testimony, I would like to clarify
what I had explained regarding bookings at our last meeting. All new bookings and
bookings not fully paid for, and there is no way for the accommodation to legally add
the tax made from the October 1 start day and moving forward, would be subject to the
new three percent TAT. The contract of, of the existing booking made through a travel
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 68
partner or a booking engine, such as Costco Travel or Expedia, generally would not
allow for any additional taxes. Therefore, this booking would not be subject to the new
tax.
Tourist and visitor accommodations have already been paying TAT to the State and
know that this process is self-reporting. Of course, it is in their best interest to ensure
accuracy in its reporting because they're, they, they'd also be audited. And all these
questions will soon be made available online as a frequently asked questions on our
County website. It's, it's ready and waiting to be launched.
When thinking, okay, and so for this reason, I move to amend the bill to the, to remove
the language to contracts entered into prior to establishment of proposed Maui County
Code Chapter 3.47, I'm sorry.
I MOVE TO AMEND VARIOUS PROPOSED MAUI COUNTY
CODE SECTIONS AS FOLLOWS:
IN SECTION 3.47.010, DELETE THE THIRD SENTENCE
IN ITS ENTIRETY.
1.
IN SECTIONS 3.47.060(A) AND 3.47.070, REPLACE
"COUNTY FINANCE DIRECTOR" WITH DIRECTOR",
AND IN SECTION 3.47.060(C), STRIKE THE WORD
"FINANCE".
2.
And if you check your inbox. I'm sure the Clerks have sent this to you if you would like
to follow along. My apologies.
AND FINALLY. 3. IN SECTION 3.47.150(A)(1), INSERT A
THIRD SENTENCE TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH THE
CHARTER, TO READ AS FOLLOWS;
"FOR PURPOSES OF THIS PARAGRAPH. PENALTIES MAY
NOT EXCEED THE AMOUNT ALLOWED UNDER THE
REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983) AS
AMENDED H .
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-470.
Oh, sorry. Yes. That’s my motion. Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 69
CHAIR LEE: Okay, this is on the amendment.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, any questions on the amendment? Any further dis-
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. When thinking of the TAT, we often
think of large resorts. But this tax would apply to all tourist and visitor accommodations,
including the many vacation rentals and bed and breakfasts we, we have heard from,
as well as the small hotels, like in Hana and on Molokai.
While I have no doubt that the larger resorts, with memberships to the Maui Hotel &
Lodging Association have been following this issue from its inception at the Legislature,
I'm not confident that all accommodations, particularly the smaller ones have had
sufficient notice.
I try my best to put myself in the shoes of every party that would be impacted by this
tax. If I was a guest of accommodation and I was checking out, and I'm told that I must
pay an extra tax, I, I'd be pretty upset, particularly because the accommodation didn't
give me advanced notice. While this disclaimer may be on the website, this specific
tax would not be noticed because it would be premature to since this bill hadn't become
law yet and it won’t be until it's signed by the Mayor.
If every, if someone in this process of checking out today and had not yet fully paid for
the day for October 1, I believe the person would be subject to the three percent tax
for this one day and not for the entirety of their trip. And if that tax is not passed to the
customer, then it would need to be absorbed by the accommodation. I concede that
this is not ideal. That even if we had passed this into law a week prior, like Kauai
Council did, that it would have been enough time.
Since that start date must be the first day of the month to coincide with the State's
collection of the State TAT, we are not able to give a week or two of transition time.
We would need to choose a start date of today, October 1, or consider November 1.
AND SO, I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT
IF MY SECONDER, MEMBER SUGIMURA, WOULD BE OPEN
TO IT TO AMEND THE, THE START DATE, THE ENACTMENT
DATE TO NOVEMBER 1.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 70
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
YES.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; And that's my amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Very good. Thank you.
Anymore, anymore
comments or discussion on this, Members? Cause we're getting ready to vote.
Yes, good thing we have photographic memories.CHAIR LEE;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yea. So, are you speaking on the-
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So. I like the November revised enactment date for
November, which will give people time to plan, as we heard from small businesses that
had been sending us testimony. And I hear them, right? Whereas a lot of them don't
have a whole staff of, you know, accounting departments or whatever.
The other thing is, Keani, thank you very much for making this amendment. Go lady
go, man.
people. And I think it allows businesses to react more in line of a business and not like
crazy October 1, we're going to start, we're going to do this, you know. But they've
been in business this whole time. So, it's not starting a new business. We're, we're
folding ourselves in and putting ourselves into something that's existing and rolling.
So, allowing people to then take control and, and report to us, and do a good job. So,
I support this. Thank you very much for making your amendments.
I love it. I agree with you, 100 percent. I mean, you heard the voices of the
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you very much. Madam Chair. 1 didn't get all of
the proposed. Can the maker repeat the whole amendment again? No, I'm just
kidding. I'm just kidding. I stand in full support. I want to thank Member Rawlins-
Fernandez for this compromise. Back in Committee,  Ithink myself and several others
in favor of this, the December implementation. So, I think November 1 is a verywere
healthy compromise. So, I appreciate Member Rawlins-Fernandez for showing some
compassion for those that will be affected by this proposal. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 71
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anybody else?
Member King. 1 know you have to run.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I was just hoping that we could vote before I have to leave.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Ready to vote. All those in favor of the amendment, raise your hand and
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Now, the main-
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, we made an amendment by
changing the date to November 1 to. which was not posted on the agenda. So, we'll
have to first vote to waive our Council Rule 19.C., so that we can take final action
today.
(King was excused from the meeting at 12:05 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
I MOVE TO, I MOVE TO WAIVE COUNCIL RULE 19.C.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 72
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive Council Rule 19.C.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, any further discussion? Otherwise, all those in favor
of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND KING.
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", zero "noes" two "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And lastly, I just wanted to make note
for the public that as reflected in CC 21-473 the TAT revenue this year would be used
toward affordable housing, open space, cultural programs, and tourism management
and enforcement. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I, I too would like to thank you. This was a tremendous job that you did. And
really appreciate your hard work and the work of your hard staff, the hard work of your
staff, primarily Sarah, and everybody else. Thank you.
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, then Ms. Sugimura.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And  Iwould be remiss if! didn’t also
extend my gratitude to Mayor Victorino, our Finance Director Scott Teruya, and our
Budget Director Michele Yoshimura, and all of their staff.
CHAIR LEE: I love it when we hear about teamwork. Great.
Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That was going to be my question, if we consulted with the
Administration. So, kind of spooky we're reading each other's minds. So, very good.
Thank you. Let's vote.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 73
CHAIR LEE: Very spooky. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That’s spooky.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: The motion
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh look, there's Scott Teruya.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We got, one, your vote, Scott. Thank you. Seven "ayes'
and two "excused"; motion carries. Great, great job.
zero noes
One of the reasons why Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez had to sort of rush this before
lunch, cause she, she's in between events and, and has to get back to something that
she's committed to. And then you'll come back after lunch, right, Vice-Chair? Okay.
Thank you so much. Appreciate it.
Now, this is a good time for us to take lunch. Do you want to take it till 1 or 1:30?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 1:30.
CHAIR LEE: 1:30? 1:30? Okay. Sounds good. We are in recess, lunch recess, until 1:30
okay.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:08 P.M. ,AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:31 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBERS
KAMA AND KING, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of October 1 please reconvene. Welcome
back my chickadees.
So, Madam Clerk, please proceed with the agenda.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 74
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. We left off on item I., action on the Consent Calendar
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: County communications. Proceeding with the, with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- DEAN M. RICKARD, ACTING CHIEF OF POLICE
{dated September 4, 2021)
NO. 21-459
Transmitting a grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of Human
Services, Office of Youth Services for the Positive Outreach Interventions grant, in the
amount of $85,263.
- DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated September 4, 2021)
NO. 21-460
Transmitting a grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of Human
Services, Office of Youth Services for the KALO Program in the amount of $89,000.
(Councilmember King returned to the meeting at 1:32 p.m.)
NO. 21-461 - DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICE,
(dated September 4, 2021)
Informing of the receipt of $11,929.63 in Forfeiture Funds from the State of Hawaii
Department of the Attorney General.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated September 20, 2021)
NO. 21-463
Transmitting Contract Modification No. 10 from the State of Hawaii, Executive Office
on Aging, for Title III Programs in the amount of $926,789.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
Octobers 2021
Page 75
NO. 21-464 - ERIC A. NAKAGAWA, DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT, (dated September 21,2021)
Informing of the re-organization of positions within the Department of Environmental
Management.
NO. 21-465 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated September 22, 2021)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the General Obligation Bonds Series 2022 Fund as of
August 31, 2021.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated September 21, 2021)
NO. 21-466
Informing of a vacancy on the Civil Service Commission due to the resignation of Blake
Takayama, effective September 21, 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Members, anymore changes to the Consent Calendar.
If not, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I, I MOVE TO FILE ALL THE ITEMS ON THE CONSENT
CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Molina,
to file all the items on the Consent Calendar.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No discussion. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 76
CHAIR LEE: No discussion. Any other questions or discussion? If not, all those in favor of
the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, ! don't see you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm here. I'm having technical difficulties, but I'm here.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I saw you. Now, I see you.
zero "noes", one "excused"; motionOne, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight "ayes'
carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with item J. Communications; 1. County Communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 21-458
(dated September 15, 2021)
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for July 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
- ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
(dated September 15, 2021)
NO. 21-462
Informing of the receipt of $11,929.63 in Forfeiture Funds from the State of Hawaii
Department of the Attorney General.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 77
NO. 21-467 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated September 13, 2021)
Transmitting 52 contracts/grants for the month of August 2021.
NO. 21-468 - MICHAEL J. MOLINA. CHAIR. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE,
(dated September 23, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolutions entitled "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE
2022 HAWAII STATE-
COUNTY CLERK: One at a time.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, you want to take it one at a, okay. Alright. Begin, go back with 21-458.
Going back there, is that what you're saying?
Okay. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; 21-458, I've asked for it to be removed from Consent
Calendar and sent to IT please, my Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: To the referral. I thought it was already removed, but okay.
The next one.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: CC 21-462. Who wanted that one?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Request to have it referred to the
BFED Committee please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 78
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; So, ordered.
Okay. Okay, so you can resume.
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. CC 21, oh, 4, 21-467.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-467.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
file County Communication 21-467.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo. Chair. Except for the grants and contracts
any of the Counciimembers would like to remove and have referred to their Committee
or a specific Committee.
CHAIR LEE: So, the motion is to file, right?
Okay. Member Sugimura. Can't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
CAN YOU PLEASE SEND CONTRACT 7445, UPCOUNTRY
MAUI AG PARK, FROM MANAGEMENT, TO MY COMMITTEE,
THIS CONTRACT?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 79
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Any other contracts?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. It's not a contract, but a grant.
G65249-1 [SIC], TIME EXTENSION. OED, MAUI COUNTY
VISITORS ASSOCIATION, DOING BUSINESS AS MVB, MAUI
NUI SUSTAINABLE SAFE TOURISM MANAGEMENT, IF IT, IF
WE CAN MAKE ITS WAY TO OUR TIG VIA THE BUDGET
COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. We're going to, we would refer it to the Budget Committee. Any
objections to that?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. That's two. Everybody all done. Checking. Alright, other than that, the
grant just mentioned, C65249-1 [sic], and the Contract 7445, this item will be filed, and
the other two items referred.
Madam Clerk, next.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I think we need to take a vote on the motion, or did I
miss that?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: To file County Communication 21-46, 467
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I thought we were going to do it all at once, but that's okay. All those in
favor of the motion to file, except for those two items, file County Communication
21-467, raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 80
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes"; that’s eight "ayes", one "excused". Motion carries.
Okay. That takes care of 21-467.
Madam Clerk.
- MICHAEL J. MOLINA, CHAIR. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE,
(dated September 23, 2021)
NO. 21-468
Transmitting the following proposed resolutions entitled:
"APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION
OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO LOWER THE
SIZE THRESHOLD FOR HOMES THAT ARE CONSIDERED A
'DEVELOPMENT’ UNDER THE COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT";
1.
"APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION
OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL RELATING TO THE
USE OF INTOXICANTS WHILE OPERATING A VEHICLE";
2.
"APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION
OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO ASSESS A
CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION IMPACT FEE FOR TOURISM-RELATED
VEHICLES";
3.
"APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION
OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO ESTABLISH A
GREEN FEE SURCHARGE ON TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS; and
4.
"APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION
OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL RELATING TO
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS HOSTING PLATFORMS".
5.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 81
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Mahalo, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSED
RESOLUTIONS ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION
NO. 21-468.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Second? Okay. Moved by Councilmember Molina, seconded by
Councilmember Kelly King, to discharge County Communication 21-468.
Mike, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The Council must
submit its legislative proposals to the HSAC Committee by October 16 of this year to
be included on HSAC's next meeting, which is scheduled for October 26, 2021. In light
of that deadline, the discharge is needed to enable the Council to consider action today
on the proposed resolutions. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? All those in favor of the discharge, please raise
your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 82
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, to waive the
Rules of the Council.
Any discussion, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Approval of this motion by a
two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council will enable the Council to
consider the proposed resolutions for action today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of waiving the Rule, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: We need seven, we have eight. Eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS NO. 21-468,
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-468.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 83
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, to adopt the
recommendations in County Communication 21-468.
CHAIR LEE:
Discussion, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. As you and the
Members recall, these proposal were, were discussed this past Tuesday at the GREAT
Committee meeting on September 28, 2021.
The first legislative proposal, as submitted by Councilmember Paitin, relates to
lowering the size threshold for homes considered  adevelopment under the Coastal
Zone Management Act. The State Bill would amend Section 205A-22 of the Hawaii
Revised Statutes, to amend the definition of "development" by lowering the size
threshold for a single-family residence to 5,000 square feet, under the Coastal Zone
Management Act. And this proposal was spurred after CARE Committee's discussion
on net zero energy homes. I'd like to thank Member Paitin for this consideration.
Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Member Molina. As was
discussed in the Committee on Tuesday by Deputy Director Jordan Hart, I wanted to
amend the proposal to include a definition of how square footage being measured.
And I realize that this would just be a starting point for the Legislature, as all the
counties may not measure square footage the same. But just to bring an effort to alert
the State that there is no standard definition on how to measure square footage. And
I'm hoping that you folks have received my floor ASF.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
1 MOVE TO AMEND THAT NUMBER 1, AS STATED . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 84
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Cool.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Molina, to. for the amendment
and referencing the ASF on the subject of defining the, how to measure square
footage.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Of the floor area.
CHAIR LEE: Of the floor area. Any more discussion on the amendment? All those in, well
did we, I'm sorry, did we have a main motion on this?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, all those in favor of the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", zero "noes
Member Paltin, anything else?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.no. Thank you for your indulgence.
CHAIR LEE: Next.
COUNTY CLERK: The motion-
CHAIRLEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, Madam Chair, I believe the motion, I guess has to do
with all five, to consider all five at one time in the package. So, I'd like to, if, with your
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 85
indulgence, to discuss the next four proposals. And then, once ail that is done, then
we can go ahead and take a vote. And if there's any request for separating any of
these proposals we can do that as well, so.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Thank you. Anyway, continuing on. The next four
legislative proposals were submitted by Councilmember King.
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez was excused from the meeting at 1:48 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Councilmember King's first proposal relates to the use of
intoxicants while operating a vehicle. The State Bill would amend Section 291E-3, of
the HRS, to lower the threshold of blood alcohol content for the offense of operating a
vehicle while under the influence of an intoxicant.
A representative from the Department of Police said the Department fully supports the
bill, which will be a vehicle to save lives. He also stated that police unions and agencies
across the State have also expressed full support. In addition to that, he added that
the proposal does not prohibit the drinking of alcohol but is aimed to prevent driving
after drinking. And if the proposal is approved by the State Legislature, Hawaii will be
the second State in the nation, after Utah, to lower the blood alcohol content to
0.05 percent.
And with that said. Madam Chair, I'll yield the floor to the proposer Member King, if she
has anything else to say.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I have a question. Which is the first State?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Utah.
CHAIR LEE; Utah? Okay, I figured.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And according, and according to Lieutenant Hankins, they, their,
their number of incidences related to impaired driving dropped 40 percent ... So,
that's why he's such an advocate. But I think Mr. Molina pretty much summed it ail up.
So, we've had, we had discussion about it in Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments or discussion on this item? Questions? if not, okay
there's no amendments here, huh?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No amendments.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 86
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, going to the next one.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The next two
legislative proposals, as submitted by the Councilmember King, relates to the
environmental fees. One, assesses a climate change mitigation impact fee for tourism-
related vehicles. The State Bill would amend Chapter 171 HRS. to establish:
1) a climate change mitigation impact fee for persons renting, leasing, or utilizing
tourism-related vehicles in the State to be used toward protecting Hawaii's natural
resources and environment; and 2) a climate change mitigation special fund to deposit
all fees collected in accordance with Section 171-A, and any appropriations made by
the Hawaii State Legislature for deposit into the fund.
And I'll ask Member King if she'd like to make any additional comments on that before
we go onto the next proposal.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I, I'll just comment that, thank you, Member Molina, you did a
great job. But I'll just comment on both of the, the fees. The impact fees are on priority
lists for several of our legislators that, that head of the environmental ag committees in
the Senate and the, and the House. So, I think there's, we're going in with good
support. I expect there'll be several versions of these bills. And so, HSAC is actually
considering, at my urging, to be flexible enough that if our bills dies that we can turn
around and support a similar bill, because a lot of these bills have the same language,
but it may not be our bill that they pick to move forward.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any further comments? If not, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. And continuing on with
the third proposal from Member King. This establishes a green fee surcharge on
transient accommodations. The State Bill would amend Chapter 171, of HRS, to
establish: 1) a conservation workforce special fund to deposit all revenues collected
under Section 237D of the HRS, and any appropriations made by the Hawaii State
Legislature for deposit into the fund; and 2) a conservation advisory committee within
the department and the office of planning; and 3)  avisitor green fee surcharge.
And Councilmember King mentioned to us that these fees would be in addition to the
revenue collected from State TAT and County TAT. And she also mentioned that these
type of green impact fees are considered top priorities at the Legislature next year.
And in addition to that, we had feedback from the Mayor's Office of Climate Change,
Sustainability, and Resilience. And they feel establishing this green impact fees would
be a sensible approach. And this type of funding is necessary towards off, to offsetting
environmental impacts. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 87
CHAIR LEE; Any more comments? And so, we go the next one. The last one.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And the final
legislative proposal as submitted by Member King, relates to transient
accommodations hosting platforms. The proposed State bills, House Bill 504 and
Senate Bill 643 of 2021, would allow counties to regulate transient accommodation
hosting platforms. These bills are currently pending in the State Legislature. However,
adding them to the HSAC Legislative Package would let State Legislators know these
bills are supported by the HSAC Executive Committee as well as the four county
councils. And Councilmember King shared with us that these proposals would allow
counties to find unpermitted transient accommodations hosting platforms.
I ask for the Members full support and thank Member King for these considerations.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more comments or questions? If not--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'll just quickly comment that we did have John Rapacz from the
Planning Department talking about this last bill and saying how this would actually help
them regulate because they're in, they're in talks for, you know, some agreements with
two of the hosting platforms. But those are just basically agreements. There's no
regulation to hold them to it. So, this would help put some meat on, on those
agreements, and also expand our reach to all hosting platforms.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Get ready for the vote. We're voting on the, the main motion as
amended. Okay. All those in favor of the main motion as amended, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 88
CHAIR LEE; One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Now, we're down to seven. I don't see
you Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ithinkshe-
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", two, what's that?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I saw her leave the meeting.
CHAIR LEE: You saw her?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I saw her leave the meeting. So, I haven't seen her come back.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, leave the meeting. Oh. Okay. Seven "ayes", two "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. Those are RESOLUTION NOS. 21-148, 21-149
21-150, 21-151, AND 21-152.
CHAIR LEE: Next communication.
- GABE JOHNSON. COUNCILMEMBER,
(dated September 24, 2021)
NO. 21-469
Transmitting the following proposed resolutions entitled:
"APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION
OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO INCREASE THE
MINIMUM WAGE; and
1.
"APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO INCREASE THE MINIMUM
WAGE".
2.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 89
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL, TO CONSIDER THE TWO
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ATTACHED TO THE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 21-469.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of this entire
membership, oh, I'm sorry.
CHAIR LEE: We needed a second, a second. Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by
Member King, okay, to waive the Rule of the Council.
And now, discussion, Member Johnson.
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez returned to the meeting at 1:55 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Members, this, the time sensitivity is
based on meeting the HSAC Executive Committee's deadline for 2022 HSAC
Legislative Package. And having the Council's Legislative Package move at a similar
pace for the legislative session that begins on January 19.
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion? If not, all those in favor of waiving the Rule 7.G., raise your
hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", two "excused": motion carries.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 90
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. Member, Member Rawlins-Fernandez is back. So, she is
voting "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I just saw her.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: "Aye".
CHAIR LEE: You're voting "aye"? Oh good, I didn't see you. Okay. Now, I see you. Okay.
So, eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
Back to you. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS
ATTACHED TO THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-469, AND
FILE THE COMMUNICATION.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member King, to adopt the
proposed resolutions in County Communication 21-469.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Each resolution attaches a proposed
State Bill to increase the minimum wage. The first resolution is for the HSAC Package.
The second reso, resolution is for the Council's Package. The proposals would
gradually increase the minimum wage to 16 per hour, $16 per hour in 2025 with a self-
sufficiency income standard adopted in succeeding years.
The State Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism, or DBEDT,
calculates the amount adults and families living in Hawaii need to cover the basic
needs. This calculation is called the Self-Sufficiency Income Standard and reflects, at
a minimum, an annual earning that will cover costs related to house and food, which
we know are some of the highest in the nation; and other things such as childcare,
transportation, healthcare, and clothing, household expenses, etc.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 91
DBEDT's latest study found that 2018, a single adult in Hawaii needs a income of
$35,143 to achieve self-sufficiency, or about $16.90 per hour. That's 67.3 percent
above the minimum wage of $10.10. A single parent with one child requires $59,428,
or 45.7 percent of one adult's family in the State earn under the Self-Sufficiency
Standard.
I believe the bills I am proposing are a way to say one job should be enough. It's a
way to say that one adult who works 40 hours a week should earn enough to meet
their basic needs of food, clothing, shelter, transportation, healthcare, clothing, and
household expenses.
I am the Chair of the Affordable Housing Committee. We all know that our community
is being outpriced and working hard on creating housing policies to fix a system that
has not served our most vulnerable and hardworking residents. We also know we
need to take a multiprong approach, we need to look at the root causes. And I strongly
believe that a pervasive, a pervasive low wages for our working poor is one of them.
As Councilmembers, we have long advocated for higher wages for our County workers.
Last year, the County Council supported resolutions unanimously that advocated for a
livable minimum wage. On June 19, 2020, Resolution 20-84 supported a Feminist
Economic Recovery Plan for COVID-19. One of the key recommendations of the plan
is to redress, redress critical economic inequalities to promote women's financial
independence, which is a basic condition for recovery and liberation from a gender-
based ... by raising the minimum wage to a living wage.
On August 10, 2020, the body unanimously passed Resolution 20-113, supporting pay
equity in the County of Maui. Economic Policy institute notes that this year that
minimum wage workers and low-wage workers are disproportionately women, black
and Hispanic men. Due to the impacts of structural racism and sexism, women, and
black and Hispanic men are concentrated on low wages and would see great gains
from increases in the minimum wage. I strongly believe that raising the minimum wage
reduces gender and racial pay gaps and promotes pay equity.
On May 26, 2020, the body passed unanimously Resolution 20-76, supporting Maui
County's healthcare workers, first responders, and other essential workers at the
frontlines of the COVlD-19 pandemic.
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez was excused from the meeting at 2:00 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: These essential workers include grocery store, food
industry workers. The Economic Policy Institute wrote in February, essential and
frontline workers make up a majority, 60 percent of those who would benefit from a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 92
$15 minimum wage. The medium pay is well under $15 an hour, and for many
essentials and frontline jobs. I believe we can even, do even better than $15 by using
the data driven State Self-Sufficiency Standard that would support our lowest earners.
If businesses are not responsible for paying our workers enough to meet their basic
needs, these workers rely on our safety net, and worse, become subject to
homelessness, and the diseases of despair like drug addiction and depression. We
see this crisis growing on our store steps, and the current wage system is not working
for our most vulnerable. And I believe this is one approach we can make to help
support those that need it the most. I humbly ask for your support in this bill and, and
the need to raise up our low-income workers with  alivable wage in a State that has
become too expensive to live. Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: That's alright. I was coughing. Any more discussion?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I don’t know what I could add to that. That was quite a
speech there, Mr. Johnson. But I just wanted to request that, you know, if we get this
passed out, first of ail, I hope that Elle Cochran is watching, because I was on the
Council the first, my first two years when she tried to get this passed and couldn't get
support. But I think you made some excellent points. And I fully support it as, not only
a Councilmember, but also as an employer who, we don't have anybody who makes
less than $15 an hour in our company. But I also wanted to just urge you to, if we do
get this passed out, please come to HSAC and make that same speech, because next
step is to get it passed at HSAC. Okay. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anybody else? Alright, very good. All those in favor of the motion, which
is to adopt the resolutions in County Communication 21-469, please raise your hand
and say "aye".
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez returned to the meeting at 2:02 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 93
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We can hear you all the way from Molokai. Eight "ayes", one "excused";
motion carries.
Alright. Madam Clerk, last CC.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. Those are RESOLUTIONS NO. 21-153 and 21-154.
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. CHAIR. BUDGET. FINANCE.
AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE,
(dated September 23, 2021)
NO. 21-471
Transmitting County Communication 21-435, from the Director of Housing and Human
Concerns, transmitting a proposed resolution, entitled "APPROVING CERTAIN
FINANCING STRUCTURE COMPONENTS RELATING TO THE USE OF FUNDS
RECEIVED THROUGH CHAPTER 3.35, MAUI COUNTY CODE, THE KAlAULU O
HALELE'A APARTMENTS AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE BUDGET, FINANCE, AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER
CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-471.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member, Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez, Member King, seconded by
Member King, to discharge this item.
And do we have discussion, Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. As I explained in the Budget,
Finance, and Economic Development Committee, this item is time sensitive, so that
they can build the houses. So, and I'll say the same thing for the next motion, which
will be to waive the Rules. And then. I'll fully give my explanation when we get to the
main motion. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 94
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the discharge, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Seven, eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
And then, so the next. I'll call on you again for the next vote. Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Hope, hopefully you can hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm going to turn off my video. Can you hear me?
Okay. Okay, great.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
I MOVE TO WAIVE, I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT
OF COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to waive
the Rules of the Council 7.G.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No further discussion, Chair. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 95
CHAIR LEE: No further, okay. All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: One. two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight "ayes".
Vice-Chair, can you say something? So, I can't see you, so, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Now, we can see you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: "Aye".
CHAIR LEE: Oh. now I can see you. Okay. I couldn't a moment ago. Alright. Eight "ayes",
one "excused"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: When you turn off your video, Sarah's picture comes up, just FYl.
CHAIR LEE: And although we appreciate Sarah’s vote, it's yours that we really need, okay?
So, Vice-Chair, next. We discharged the item, we waived the Rule of Council, so now
it's your turn again.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-471 AND 21-435.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King
to adopt the proposed resolution. And is there any discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 96
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'll turn off my video.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, as discussed in the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee meeting on September 29,
2021, the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget appropriated $3,025,442 of the Affordable Housing
Fund to Ikaika Ohana for the Kaiaulu o Halele'a Apartments project.
The first phase of the project is currently underdevelopment, and the developer intends
for the second phase to be constructed at the same time. Restructuring the financing
of this project allows it to qualify for additional tax credits and funding.
Your Committee was informed, by the Department of Housing and Human Concerns,
that they are working with the Department of the Corporation Counsel to come up with
solutions to simplify the financial structure process. Representatives from the
Administration are available to answer any questions the Members may have. I ask
for the Members continued support of this item. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, thank you. Chair. I just wanted to thank Member Rawlins-
Fernandez, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. for pushing this along, because it's very
important. And when the, this same Ikaika Ohana did the Kaiwahine Village in South
Maui, they were asked by the Kihei Community Association to do it in one phase
instead of two phases, because it's less disruptive for the area around. So, this will
help them do that. And appreciate the timeliness of this. And I certainly appreciate
more affordable housing in South Maui.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Great. Any more discussion?
Member King, urn. Member Sugimura, sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 97
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. I support this and the good work of the
developer. And I do want to make note, as it was mentioned in Committee, that this is
a loan, L-O-A-N. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, anybody else? The next spelling word will be, just kidding. All
those in favor, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Aye, aye, aye, aye. Okay, we, you know, I see Sarah. That's what I see.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: How about now? No?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Not yet.
CHAIR LEE: No, but I can hear you. I can hear you, so it's okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
zero, zero "noes", one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Alright. Eight "ayes'
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that is RESOLUTION 21-155.
Proceeding with communications for referral. The following county communications
are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
- JOANN INAMASU. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DIRECTORNO. 21^72
(dated September 13, 2021)
Transmitting the Grant Evaluation Report for FY 2021 for the Office of Economic
Development.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-472 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 98
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR,
(dated September 24, 2021)
Transmitting the following proposed bills entitled;
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TAX, DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM, COUNTYWIDE COSTS; TOTAL OPERATING
APPROPRIATIONS;
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
1.
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING ANDII.
NO. 21-473
'A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX  D-
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE.CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
2.
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM";
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL
YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
PART
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022, OPEN SPACE,
NATURAL RESOURCES. CULTURAL RESOURCES, AND SCENIC VIEW
PRESERVATION FUND. AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND. ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND"; and
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX B, REVENUES
ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES, DEPARTMENT OF
FINANCE. TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TAX".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-473 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Is any action anticipated on this item?
3.
SCHEDULE OFREVENUESSPECIAL PURPOSE
4.
FEES. RATES
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Is Vice-Chair. No, I think, I believe that this is connected
to the TAT tax, and so I spoke briefly to Budget Chair and she wanted this taken up
today to prepare for the TAT tax. Not unless something changed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 99
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can you hear me?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh there. Go for it.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I, l,l've also tried to call in. Oh, sorry. Can
everyone let, can the Clerk's let me in?
CHAIR LEE: Can the Clerk’s let Vice-Chair in?
can
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: You should be able now. Keani.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Can you hear
me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, you can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Stop it. One "can you hear me" is enough. Okay. Proceed please.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright. Consideration on CC 21-473.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: You want to make a motion or what, what do you want to do?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 100
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. I want to make my motion. Sorry. Don't make
me laugh.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO WAIVE. I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT
OF COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 21-473, IN ACCORDANCE WITH
RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci,
in regard to CC 21-473, to waive the Rule of the Council 7.G.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This item is time sensitive, so that
we can recognize the new County TAT revenue that will, will be added to the budget.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez: So, it, yea.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the waiver, please raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 101
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-473.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass the bill in CC 21-473 on first reading, and filing of the communication.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. Okay. Members, these proposed
bills would recognize TAT revenue, operational expenditures for the implementation
and collection of the TAT, transfers to special purpose funds, and recognize the tax
rate in Appendix B.
The first bill amends the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget by: 1) adding estimated revenues
forTransient Accommodations Tax for, for $15,000,000; and 2) appropriating the funds
to the Department of Finance for the following: a) increasing the Administration
Program, Category A - Salaries, by $186,416 and increasing equivalent personnel by
4.0, and increasing Category B - Operating & Equipment by $187,700; b) increasing
Countywide Costs, Fringe Benefits - OPEB by 4,000,000; c) increasing Countywide
Costs, Open Space by 2,000,000, d) increasing Countywide Costs, Affordable Housing
Fund by 4,000,000; e) increasing Economic Development and Cultural Programs
Revolving Fund by 2,625,884; and f) adding a new appropriation for Tourism
management, enforcement and other related costs in the amount of $2,000,000.
The second bill would amend Appendix D, Department of Finance, Administration
Program by increasing the equivalent personnel by 4.0.
The third bill would amend Appendix A - Part II by increasing the Anticipated Revenue
for the Open Space. Natural Resource, Cultural Resources, and Scenic View
Preservation Fund by $2,000,000; Affordable Housing Fund by $4,000,000; and the
Economic Development and Cultural Programs Revolving Fund by $2,625,884.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 102
Finally, the fourth bill would amend Appendix B, Revenues - Fees, Rates,
Assessments and Taxes for the Department of Finance by adding the tax rate for the
Transient Accommodation Tax.
And then, oh yea, so representatives from theRepresentatives, oh sorry.
Administration are available to answer any questions the Members may have.
AND I'D ALSO LIKE TO MOVE TO AMEND ALL FOUR BILLS
ATTACHED TO THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION TO
CHANGE, "THIS ORDINANCE SHALL TAKE EFFECT UPON
ITS APPROVAL", TO "THIS ORDINANCE TAKES EFFECT ON
NOVEMBER 1,2021".
And that's my motion to amend the main motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: He was just seconding the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry.
(Councilmember Molina was excused from the meeting at 2:16 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; On the, on the amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, discussion? Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? 1 thought that
was the discussion. Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. No further discussion.
(Councilmember Molina returned to the meeting at 2:17 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE; Okay. I have a question, a real quick.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, do you want, Chair-
CHAIR LEE: I have a real quick question.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 103
So, I guess I could have a quickOh, Chair.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
discussion. And so, we would start recognizing the funds after November 1, because
changed the dates of the County TAT to start collecting from November 1, instead
of October 1, as, as we had originally had planned.
we
Okay. What was your question, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: All of those appropriations add up to $50 million?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: And when would we have an opportunity to actually discuss the breakdown?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, and I would like to request that the subject matter
be refer, referred to BFED Committee, if there aren't any objections.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: No, I'm sure there are no objections on that one. No. Okay. Okay, now we
have questions.
Member King, then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. Chair. 1 had the same concern as you. And so
if we return the subject matter. Does that give the Council a chance to, to make
decisions on how the money is spent if we disagree with the breakdown?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
ViCE-CHAlR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo. Member King,
for the question. So, this is part of the operating budget. And we, we, so we don't
have the ability to amend the operating budget. Only the Administration has the ability
to amend the operating budget and so, this is an up or down vote.
However, the reason 1 requested to have the subject matter sent to Committee is so
that we can discuss it and try to collaborate with the Administration on how to use the
projected revenue of 15, $15 million that we are projecting from November 1 to the end
of the fiscal year.
And again, you know, it's just, it’s just a projection, because we have no idea how muchwe don't want to overestimate how much wewe're going to generate we. And so
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 104
would generate since we're still In the pandemic and we have no idea what even the
next month will look like.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. But then, Chair just ascertained that there’s $50 million
that we're approving today without having that input. Is that what I m hearing?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; 15. fifteen.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, 15-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 15.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -today. And then-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -we would, we would, we would still have a chance to deliberate
on whatever comes in after that. Is that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Wewould-
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear the question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, yes. So, I'm sorry, your question is to deliberate
on where you would like to put the funding?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right, after this first $15 million is spent the way we’re, we're
asked to approve today. Because we haven't really had any input.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right. And so, in the, in the next five months, we'll
also be going into budget session and then we can allocate the TAT for FY23. But for
FY22, because we're already in the middle of the fiscal year, we as a Council don't
have the power to amend the budget. But we, we can work with the Administration on
where to put the funding as it comes in. So, if you have-
COUNCILMEMBERKING: Right, but-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -you know, specific requests. Member King
discuss it in Committee. I'll, I'll take the item to Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. My concern was that we do, we have the approval
which is what we're doing right now, but we haven't had any input into the
we can
we can
process
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1. 2021
Page 105
proposal. It’s been done. So, that was my main, but it looks like Budget Director
Yoshimura had her hand up.
CHAIR LEE; Do you have a question, Member King, for Budget Director Yoshimura?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just if you want to respond to, you know, when will the Council
have input into this? Because, you know, we do, we do have some control over budget
amendments, because we have to approve them. And so, I think, like the Chair was
hoping to have input how this money was going to be spent.
CHAIR LEE: Budget Director.
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA: Thank you. Councilmember King. So, we
did take a conservative approach on estimating the revenues for the remainder of
Fiscal Year '22. We did try to break it down into different categories to put forth funding
for affordable housing, open space, and economic development and cultural programs.
What we, we are appropriating a lump sum of money into each fund. What we haven't
proposed is what specific projects we want to do with the monies in each fund.
And as Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez mentioned, she will be referring this to
Committee. So, we could actually have a greater discussion as to, for instance, the
monies that is going into the Open Space Fund. We could have that discussion in
Committee.
$15 million,
expenditures. And that's why we are moving, we are proposing
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea. no. I, 1 understand that Director Yoshimura. What I don't
understand is why the Council is never consulted in, you know, these decisions to divvy
this up in certain ways. So that was my main concern, was that 1 thought we were
supposed to be collaborating.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes, we can. We did this because we needed to recognize the
positions that we need. If you would prefer us just recognizing the amount that we
needed for the Department of Finance, which is 300, I think 300, a total of $374,000,
and then have the discussion, we could do that, too.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well, thank, thank you for that. So, you know. Chair, that
would be my preference. But I'll leave it up to the Council, other Councilmembers to
comment on that.
But this is just to allocate the funding, because were recognizing
If we're estimating revenues, we need to have corresponding
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 106
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Weil, did you hear that exchange? Are you open to that? Are you agreeable?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, am, am I open, am I open to just funding the
positions so that we can manage the TAT and leave the other, the funding blank right
now until we go to the Committee and decide together?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I just wanted to make sure that I understood
what was discussed. Okay, yea, that's fine.
CHAIR LEE: That's fine? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so I’ll, I’ll, can I make the motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can you see me?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, we can see you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, you can see me now?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay, there you are. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay. Alright. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: We're still in discussion, actually. You know, we need to have other people
chime in.
Go ahead, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I, I just, i just really quickly. Chair. I just wanted
to ask Director Yoshimura for feedback on what would be the impact of us leaving, not
recognizing additional funds. I guess it would, we would just have to do a budget
amendment as they come in or—
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 107
CHAIR LEE; Director.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Vice-Chair, yes. So, what you would have to do is disapprove the
amendment before you today. And, and we would have to submit a new amendment
for your action at the October 22 meeting, and then November 5. So, it wouldn’t be
effective November 1. That will also delay the timing for Director Teruya to hire
personnel to move this forward.
1 can, when we, when we discussed the breakdown of how we were going to
appropriate the funding, we had gone with the mindset that the Fiscal Year 22 Budget
was already set. So, this was actually additional funding that we could recognize and
could put forward knowing that the Fiscal Year '23 Budget is right around the corner.
And we would have a greater discussion at that time on how the TAT monies should
get appropriated. So, this was our best guess as to, you know, where we could put
money and where in the next eight months, we could actually put projects together and
move forward. And so, that's how we came up with this breakdown.
But then again, if, and like 1 said, no specific projects have been introduced with this
bill. It's just a lump sum of money that's going to go to each fund. So, that discussion
can still be had in the Budget and Finance and Economic Development Committee to
say for that transfer to the Economic Development and Cultural Programs, $2.6 million.
We can discuss or we can have recommendations for that money, and then we would
have to come back in again for another budget amendment to do the appropriations in
the special revolving funds.
CHAIR LEE: Michele?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes. Okay, and, and Member King was going to ask the same
question. You do need. Finance needs the money to hire the personnel, and to, to
upgrade the operations in order to provide the correct mechanism to receive the new
tax revenues.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: We all understand that. And we certainly wouldn't want to slow that down. So,
couldn't we just amend the budget today to make sure that those monies can move
forward, and the rest of the items go, go to Committee, so that we can have, take a
little bit longer to go over how you're proposing to allocate the rest of the money?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 108
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Because this is a budget amendment for the executive branch budget,
and it is proposed by the Mayor, the Council’s option would be to either up or down the
amendment as proposed without making any revisions.
CHAIR LEE: Are you sure about that?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: It's in the Charter. And. Corp. Counsel, I guess, is available if you
want to verify with her.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
One, it, it, it's
underestimated, so, if we bring in more than we anticipate, while we have the subject
matter, subject matter in Committee, we can deliberate on where the future funds in
FY '22 could go. Instead of, you know, estimating $24 million, if, if the tourism, if the
visitors and tourists come back and hotel capacity is, occupancy is a lot higher, we'll,
we'll generate more than $15 million. And so, that'll give us that time to deliberate on
where the money over $15 million can go and then we can decide that together.
And the, the second thing is I was hoping that Budget Director Yoshimura would be
able to also speak to the risks involved for if, if we don't realize the $15 million as well.
Why the strategy of putting it toward these revolving funds is a, is good strategy for us
so that we, it, it gives us that buffer, so that if we don't realize the $15 million, then
we’re, we're not impacting our operating, the core services.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I mean, in my mind, there's, there’s a bigger balance to be dealt with in,
in the upcoming months. It's, it's too bad evei7thing's moving so quickly that we’re,
know, like whew, you know, we're not having ample time to, to really digest, and
think about where some of these monies could be expended.
But, you know, on the other hand. I'm, I'm thinking we really need the funding for
Finance. Because without that, they won't be able to collect the money. So, you know?
They just don't have the resources right now, or the set-up.
Any more discussion on this item? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I support the action today. You know, sometimes you gotta
take a leap of faith and. and believe that trust works faster than holding it up. This is
for, I guess about seven, eight months more of this fiscal year. And you know, we do,
do have an election coming up. So, 1 would trust that, you know, nothing crazy is
going to happen, because not only would the Council call on it, the community would,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Two things.
you
we
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 109
know. I think if, if we're clear in communicating the prioritized needs, and the
money doesn't get put there, then we trust that the community will, will respond. And,
and so, sometimes we just have to, we're put in that position where, you know, we
don't have a lot of options. And my choice would be to trust that the Administration will
do the right thing. And if not, to trust that the community will step up. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. I'm generally supportive. It looks like some of
where some, the monies were quickly put, just clarification. And also, 2 million. Budget
Director, to the Open Space Fund as well?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes. $2 million to the Open Space Fund.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Alright. So, it looks like, and . . . in the chat, 4 million to the
Affordable Housing Fund, 2 million to, to tourism management, another 2.6 rnillion to
Economic Development and Cultural Revolving Funds. So, for the first, in it's really
broad, but I think towards good funding sources, Chair, including the 374,000 for four
more personnel for Budget.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Councilmember Sinenci, it'll be for the Department of Finance.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, Finance, yes. Thank you.
you
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair, can I add?
CHAIR LEE: Before you go further, I just want to say that I, I do have reservations. But these
are actually only estimates, and it's not like we could spend them tomorrow, because
we haven't collected them. And I don't know when the monies will start flowing in.
Probably not till, I don't know, maybe January, February, March. So, that's, that's the
only reason why I would support something like this today.
Okay. Director?
with the effective date of November 1, the firstBUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair, so, yea,
1 think will be December 20. And these monies will go into these specialcollection,
funds. The Administration can't spend the funds without another budget amendment
to appropriate the monies for specific projects. So, that's why I reiterated the fact that
it will be in BFED Committee for further discussion, and we can talk about projects at
that time. But the monies will not lapse once it goes to the funds. It'll remain there.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 110
So, $4 million will go into the Affordable Housing Fund. We can't spend a dime of that
until we come back to the Council with a proposal. So, that, that's, I guess, to address
Councilmember King, that's when you could actually say, you know, you want certain
projects, or you want to recommend, make suggestions on how the monies are
appropriated at that time.
CHAIR LEE: For. for future consideration, please don't forget the Highway Fund.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, thank you, Chair. And 1 can support this too, with
reservations. But so, you're not, there's no plans to putting in this money into grant
funding that you then can turn around and administer without approval? Because, and
I'm asking you that because one of the things that's in here is $2 million for tourism
management. And, you know, the Council cut the MVB Board back, because we didn't
see tourism management happening. So, I would hate to have the Mayor then turn
around and give another 2 million to the Maui Visitors Bureau, because, you know,
that, we specifically, you know, we specifically cut that, because we didn't see any
tourism management coming out of there or, you know, what, what our desired result
was.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair. So, Councilmember King, when we did do the tourism
management appropriation for $2 million, we heard how the monies should be spent
the illegal TVR enforcement, water safety personnel at Makena Beach, or increased
water safety.
(Councilmember Molina was excused from the meeting at 2:36 p.m.)
BUDGET DIRECTOR: So, rather than putting the monies into each individual department,
and trying to guess how much money each department will need, we put it under
Countywide. So, between Scott, DirectorTeruya and I, we will work a plan to use these
funds for the specific purposes of tourism management, whether it be enforcement,
whether it be promotion, or, well, I shouldn't say, management, and what, whatever we
need to do with tourism. That was the, that was the intent.
on
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, that will come back to the Council before?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: That can come back to the Council, as well. We can, we can have
that come back.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 111
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else with questions or comments?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I support this. I think also, the Members
should make a note, or that list that Member Sinenci read. There’s also a Countywide
Cost Fringe Benefit OPEB by 4 million. So, I think that's very responsible. Thank you
for this discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Okay. Madam Clerk, where are we on the vote?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I believe we're on the amendment to
change the effective date from October 1 to November 1. So, amendment to the main
motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion on that amendment? All those in favor of that
amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN
SINENCI
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
VICE-CHAIRSUGIMURA,
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND MOLINA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: So one, two, three. I'm missing one. One, two-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Mr. Molina has left the meeting.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mr. Molina is gone.
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 112
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; We don't him. I don't see Mike.
CHAIR LEE: Mike? Mike Molina.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -unreliable internet is contagious.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We'll take the vote. Seven "ayes". Okay, seven "ayes", two "excused";
motion carries.
Okay. Proceeding along.
Call for the question on the main motion asVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
amended?
CHAIR LEE: No more amendments? No more amendments. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Question?
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, we were told earlier that we couldn't make amendments, we
had to just go up or down, but this amendment's okay, this amendment is okay?
CHAIR LEE: I think the up or down was on, on the, on how the monies would be appropriated.
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yes. so it, it's amending the section
on the effective date. And that's our section.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And that’s okay for us to amend, but the other one is not?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just, just keeping everybody honest.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 113
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, the motion as amended. Any more discussion? All those in favor;
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, PALTIN
SINENCI
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
VICE-CHAIRSUGIMURA.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND MOLINA.
CHAIR LEE: I see one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, again. Seven "ayes", two "excused’;
motion carries. Alright.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: So, you’re back from Seattle, huh. Director?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I am, yes.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Good to see you again.
Madam Clerk.
(Councilmember Molina returned to the meeting at 2:40 p.m.)
Those would be Bills 106 (2021), 107 (2021)Thank you. Chair.COUNTY CLERK:
108 (2021). and 109 (2021).
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: Scratch that. Scratch that. Excuse me, BILLS 107 (2021) through
110 (2021).
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Then proceeding forward with communications for referral.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 114
- MICHAEL J- MOLINA, COUNCILMEMBER,
(dated September 14, 2021)
Relating to Alternate Appointments to Advisory Committees to the Maui Planning
Commission.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-474 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
NO. 21-474
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR,
(dated September 14, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "REMOVAL OF AGNES GROFF FROM
THE COUNCIL ON AGING FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-475 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: County Communication 21-476-
CHAIR LEE; Mr, Mr. Molina, did you want to take action on any of these?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, Madam Chair As a matter of fact, I was going to ask if
the Clerk could call up County Communication 21-476, as well as 21-475. And then,
afterwards. I'll make the consideration to take action on these two matters. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
NO. 21-475
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR,
(dated September 14, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "REMOVAL OF VIVIAN LINDSEY FROM
COUNCIL ON AGING FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-475 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
NO. 21^76
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 115
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci, to waive the Rule of
the Council regarding these two items; CC 21-475 and 21-476.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Approval of this motion by a
two-thirds vote of the Council will enable the Council to consider the proposed
resolution today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore comments, questions? All those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we got, we're back to eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 21-475 AND
21-476, AND TO FILE BOTH COMMUNICATIONS 21-475 AND
21-476.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 116
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Paltin, to adopt the
21-476, and filing of theresolutions in County Communications 21-475
communications.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you very much, Madam Chair. According to the
Mayor's letter dated September 14, 2021, Agnes Groff, a member of the Council on
Aging has not attended board meetings since April 2021 to present. And according to
the Mayor's letter dated September 14, 2021, Vivian Lindsey, also a member on the
Council on Aging, has not attended board meetings since February 2021 till
Attempts to contact both individuals via phone and emails have been unsuccessful.
And in accordance with Section 2.41.090.E, of Maui County Code, in a six-month
period once a board, commission, or committee record reflects a member's non-
attendance of 50 percent or more meetings within 30 days of a member's last excused
unexcused absence, the chairperson of the board, commission, or committee must
send a letter to the Mayor with a copy to the Council informing of the member's
attendance record.
And a copy of the letter from the Chair of the Council on Aging, dated August 27, 2021,
documenting Ms. Groffs and Ms. Lindsey's non-attendance, is attached to the Mayor's
letters. And so, in accordance with Charter Section 13-2(5), members of the boards
and commissions appointed by the Mayor, with approval of the Council may be
removed for cause upon recommendation of such removal by the Mayor and the
approval of two-thirds of the entire membership of the Council. And I ask for the
Members support of this.
But on a personal note, I am hoping that the non-attendance of both of these individuals
not related to health, and that they are in good, you know, health condition. Cause
they both, I know of them from the past, they're very fine individuals. So, anyway, that
is the motion, Madam Chair. Thank you.
now.
or
are
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 117
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh. 1 support the motion and thank the members for their
service. I just, I always get so worried, you know, when they say that they haven't been
able to contact them. And 1 hope we can find out that they're okay somehow. That's,
that's just my only discussion. Cause, you know, it's a pandemic and older and, you
know, we. we just came off of suicide awareness month and everything, so I just want
to check in on all our people that we can't get a hold of Thafs, that's my only
comments.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thankyou. Of course. I support this motion. Butlwantto
say that I ran into Agnes Groff. And I will say that she was having computer problems
and connection problems. So, if you're wondering about her health, I saw her at the
Upcountry Farmers Market. But she was saying that it was really hard, and I think it
got frustrating. So, because this is both the same commission, and 1 m on that
commission on behalf of all of you. I'm going to check into this. Because, yea, usually
the members of the commission that are nominated are seniors and not all of them are
tech savvy. So, I will make it a point to talk to the commission, or the Office on Aging.
But thanks for that concern, Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sugimura.
Anybody else? Okay. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE; Okay. It's eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Thank you. Chair. Those are RESOLUTIONS 21-156 and 21-157.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 118
YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated September 24, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "URGING THE STATE TO IMPLEMENT
THE HOMEOWNER ASSISTANCE FUND PROGRAM FOR MORTGAGE RELIEF
ASSISTANCE TO MAUI COUNTY HOMEOWNERS IMPACTED BY THE
COVID-19 PANDEMIC".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-477 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Urn, yes. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I just want to make a statement on this, is that once I got
the reso out, 1 did have a discussion. Member Molina, with Lori Tsuhako. And she
made, she is going to be receiving, she said that the Department asked from
Department of HHFDC for this funding and that we, she is anticipating that it will come
to our, our County in a few months.
So, what happened was, when this program was
assistance for COVID, only Honolulu and Kauai participated in this pilot program. And
she had lobbied for us to also receive it. So, she told me that weTe like in line in the
next few months to get this. So, I'm going to withdraw this and Mr. Molina, you dont
have to hear it. 1 will check with Lori, but she did say that it's kind of in motion already.
So, this is, this is not needed anymore 1 guess is what I'm saying. So, thank you.
Thankyou very much, Mr. Molina. And thank you, Lori Tsuhako, Department.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so you, you want us to file this.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
YEA, IF YOU CAN FILE IT, YEA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I see Keani has her hands up.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. That was going to be my question.
SO, I'LL SECOND MEMBER SUGIMURA'S MOTION TO FILE.
NO. 21-477
AND
launched, which was mortgage
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 119
CHAIR LEE: And Member King, your, your hand was up.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I was just going to say the same thing that she should make the
motion to file it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, any discussion on, anymore discussion on the filing?
Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to file
CC 21-477.
All those in favor, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES;
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Did you get that Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
KARLA H. PETERS. DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION,NO. 21-478
(dated September 20, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF A
PERMIT FOR THE USE OF THE HANA BALL PARK/MULTIPURPOSE FIELD,
OUTDOOR TENNIS AND BASKETBALL COURTS, HELENE HALL. AND THE HANA
COMMUNITY CENTER FOR THE HANA FESTIVALS OF ALOHA IN ACCORDANCE
WITH SECTION 13.04A.100, MAUI COUNTY CODE".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-478 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 120
CHAIR LEE: Is there going to be action on this?
Yes, Mr. Sinenci?
A consideration for CountyYes, thank you, Chair.COUNCiLMEMBER SINENCI:
Communication 21-478.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member King, to waive the Rule of
the Council.
Alright. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any-
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of the entire
membership of the Council will enable us to consider the proposed resolution today.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore? All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: I see eight "ayes", one "excused'; motion carries.
Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 121
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI; Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-478.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member King, to adopt the resolution
in County Communication 21-478.
Discussion, Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. The Hana Festivals of Aloha continues to be
eight-day event, which begins on Saturday with the festival parade and royal court
procession and ends the following Saturday with a community luau.
The Aloha Festival has been celebrated in Hana for more than 40 years. And events
held every day throughout the week, including a kupuna luncheon, a lei and flower
contest, a fishing contest, keiki aloha shirt and muumuu contest, cultural evening with
music and hula, movie in the park, just to name a few.
In addition to the daily events, several days are needed for setup and breakdown.
Since the Parks rules changed to allow only five-day events, this has created a huge
burden on the committee to come before the Council every year to waive the five-day
limit. The request for authorization of a five-year permit would greatly assist the Aloha
Festival Committee in reducing the burden of paperwork and meetings. And so, I ask
for the Councilmembers support of my motion. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? if not, all those in favor, please say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
an
are
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 122
CHAIR LEE: 1, eight "ayes", one "excused'; motion carries. No "noes". Very good.
Next.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk?
COUNPi'CLERK: Thank you, Chair. That would be RESOLUTION NO. 21-158.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING, COUNCILMEMBER,
(dated September 23, 2021)
NO. 21-479
Relating to aircraft noise and flight paths over Ma'alaea and South Maui.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-479 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: County Communication 21-480
CHAIR LEE: Wait one second. Wait one second, Madam Clerk.
Member King, I don't want to make light of this, but I was giving a speech not too long
ago about overtourism. And I had a five-step program, and one of them was to move
Kahului Airport so they can't find us. So, they can't find us. Okay, sorry. Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's not attached to my proposal, Member, Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: What's that?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's not attached to my proposal, to my county communication
CHAIR LEE: Yea, 1 know.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -just the idea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 123
- YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. CQUNCILMEMBER,
(dated September 24, 2021)
Relating to Central Maui Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility (Waikapu) Project.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-480 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
NO. 21-480
- MICHELE CHOUTEAU MCLEAN. PU\NNING DIRECTORNO. 21-481
(dated September 20, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTERS 19.04 AND 19.12, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO TRANSIENT
VACATION RENTALS IN THE APARTMENT DISTRICT", and related documents.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-481 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections? So, ordered.
Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: Moving forward with item K. committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-87NO. - AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 111 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL
WORKFORCE HOUSING POLICY APPLICANT SELECTION PRIORITY
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
be
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 124
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Mahalo. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-87.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND.
Discussion, Member, moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member
Molina, to approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-87.
CHAIR LEE;
Discussion, Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. The Affordable Housing Committee had
a comprehensive discussion on the proposed bill entitled, A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
WORKFORCE HOUSING POLICY APPLICANT SELECTIONRESIDENTIAL
PRIORITY".
The purpose of this bill is to establish a countywide workforce housing list. This would
be a digital database where residents can sign up to receive information about any
existing or future project that has workforce housing units for sale or for rent. Residents
of the countywide interest list would then be referred to individual project waitlists, if
they meet the specific criteria for that project.
Having one central pool of applicants to draw from would help ensure that our residents
have the same access and are treated fairly across all projects. These lists could also
provide the data and real time information we need to develop further policies that
effect, effectively meet housing demands.
Both the countywide interest list and the project waitlist would be managed by the
Department of Housing and Human Concerns, or through its designee. Helping
residents prepare themselves for available housing opportunities would also be done
in partnership with experienced and qualified agencies that are already doing this work
in the community. The burden is not solely on the department.
Another purpose of the bill is to give priority for workforce housing to applicants based
on the length of residency in the County. The ranking system and lottery, as well as
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 125
other specific rules and procedures, would be determined by guidelines submitted by
the Department to the Council for approval on November 1, 2022.
Finally, the bill would extend the marketing, marketing period for ownership units from
90 days to 120 days for each targeted AMI group. After the final marketing period, any
unsold units must be purchased by the County at the original AMI design, designated
sales price. Members, these amendments to the residential workforce housing policy
for our residents who work here, are struggling to afford to live here.
Your Committee voted 8-1 to recommend passage of the revised proposed bill. And i
respectfully request the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: May I say something. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, I was that one dissenting vote when it came out of
Committee. I'm going to still have the same vote and I want to explain why. I never
got to explain it when we took the vote in the Committee. We just kind of took the vote
really fast, and I voted. And I will tell you that we received, not only from the
Department of Housing and Human Concerns, comments which raises questions as
to, you know, why that didn't come up maybe during Committee.
But the one testimony that I would hope that you would look at came from Denise
Matsubara, HHFDC, which they give out State funds to a lot of projects of which Bigiey
and others have received,
applications that uses length of residency. And she also says, just like Mr. Carney, I
think who came earlier as a testifier, how it could impact LIHTC funding, as well as the
residency. This is the one thing that really got to me. She says, "We further note
residency preferences in housing placements would violate Fair Housing laws if they
are determined to have a disparative, disparate impact on the basis of a protected
class under the Fair Housing Act." So, I, I'm going to still maintain my vote and that s,
that's why. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. You know, I, you know, I, I come in with
open ears. And I have an amendment to address that issue. And it's just adding to
the extent permitted by law that would allow that we don't, you know, step on other
laws toes, as they say.
are
And she questions the bill's ranking purposes of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 126
SO I CAN, I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 2.96.100.D.2. BY
ADDING "TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW".
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay?
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Alright, to the beginning of the-
CHAIRLEE: Okay. I’m sorry. Go ahead, say, say your amendment. Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Alright. Thank you.
TO, IF AMENDED, THE FIRST SENTENCE WOULD READ, "TO
THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE APPLICANTS
SELECTED BY LOTTERY MUST THEN BE RANKED BY THE
TOTAL LENGTH OF TIME EACH HAS BEEN A RESIDENT OF
THE COUNTY. THE WORKFORCE HOUSING UNITS MUST
THEN BE" ORDERED IN THE ORDER OF THE RANKING,
"OFFERED IN THE ORDER OF THE RANKING".
The intent behind this amendment is to reconcile the bill with Federal rental housing
programs including Section 8 and the LIHTC, which is low-income tax housing credits.
To be clear, the ranking system is not a residency requirement, but a residency
preference.
The bill was signed by Corporation Counsel as to form and legality and supported by
OCS attorneys. The resident's duration preference ranking system would be the new
standard process and must be used unless specifically prohibited by a Federal rental
housing program.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
_II Okay. Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Paitin, for that
amendment. Any further discussion? It seemed pretty self-explanatory, but do you
have any more discussion?
CHAIR LEE:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 127
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: What section are you amending, of the bill?
Okay. Just to . . . I'll give you the actual numbers:COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
2.96.100.D.2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, did you have, go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, can we have Corp. Counsel?
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel, are, are you on the call? Mimi DesJardins?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL MIMI DESJARDINS: Yes,  Iam. So, my understanding
from the testimony is it's, that it's the ranking only that is the concern under the LIHTC
funding, which would be for rentals only. So, by amending 2.96.100.D.2., which is
where you get to the applicants that are selected for the lottery are then ranked, that s
where the "to the extent permitted by law" language would apply. Prior to that, you
have to be a resident to be on the list anyways. And being a resident is, as far as I can
tell, legally fine. The lottery is a random selection, so that would be a random selection
of people that are residents. That's fine. But it's the ranking that's the issue.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: So, in an abundance of caution
putting that language in for the rentals will take care of the LIHTC issue.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We amended the, you amended the correct section, right? Any more
discussion? Okay. All those in favor of the amend-
Go ahead, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I have a, I have a question for Mimi. What about the other
section, Mimi, of this letter? Where we note that residency preferences in housing
placements would violate Fair Housing laws if they are determined to have a disparate
impact on the basis of protected class under the Fair Housing Act?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: And that, that's a correct statement of
the law. But we, and that, we make sure that doesn't happen. And if you read
HHFDC's language, it could violate the Fair Housing law. It's our burden to make sure
that that doesn't happen when we apply anything under the Fair Housing law. So,
again, to the extent permitted by law should be, should cover that. But we definitely
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 128
for example, the end result to be disparate. And that's part of what thedo not want
DHHC is looking for.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
|_ee: Alright. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye .
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
one, one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE; Okay, we got eight "ayes'
So, the, the motion as amended. The main motion as amended, raise your hand and
say "aye".
zero noes
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI. VICE-CHAIR
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE; Uh, okay. So, seven "ayes". Seven "ayes". No, anybody "no".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
AYES;
RAWLINS
NOES;
-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I'm voting "no".
one "excused"; motionCHAIR LEE; Okay, Member Sugimura. Seven "ayes'
carries.
one no
Alright. May we have the next item.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Members.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, that's BILL 111 (2021).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 129
COMMITTEE REPORT
NiO 21-88 BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 112_ (2021), entitled A ^ILL FOR AN ORD NANCE
AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A. PART i. GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE
REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE ^
DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS (DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD),
EMERGENCY HOUSING VOUCHERS)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-88.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
the recommendation in Committee Report 21-88.
Discussion? Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Mahalo. Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and
CHAIR LEE:
approve
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Economic Development Committee met on September 15. 2021. to discuss the
proposed bill to amend Appendix A, in the amount of $420,336.
Your Committee noted these funds would be used for administrative fee amounts that
not originally accounted for. The use of these fees is not limited to the
department, to Department administrative costs, but can be shared with nonprofits
assisting with the administration of the Emergency Housing Voucher Program. Your
Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill.
were
CHAIR LEE: Okay anymore-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 130
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I ask for the Members support.
CHAIR LEE; Oh. Any more discussion anyone? All those in favor of the motion, please say
"aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NONE.NOES;
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, we have eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Thank you. Chair. That's BILL 112 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-89NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE;
Recommending the following;
That Bill 113 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX A, PART I, GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY
DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND
HUMAN CONCERNS (AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT OF 2021 -
EMERGENCY RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM #2)", be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
That Bill 114 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING
AND HUMAN CONCERNS, (AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT OF 2021 -
EMERGENCY RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM #2)". be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
1.
2.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 131
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-89, INCORPORATING
NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-89.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee met on September 15, 2021 to discuss proposed
bills to amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget from the Housing and Human Concerns,
Appendix A, Part I; Appendix D to add a new grant entitled "American Rescue Plan Act
of 2021 - Emergency Rental Assistance Program #2", in the amount of $10,710,000,
and adding a Limited Term Appointment equivalent personnel".
Your Committee noted the State took back approximately $10 million of the Maui
County's initial allocation of Emergency Rental Assistance funding in order to meet the
These funds are now being65 percent spending deadline at the State level,
reallocated into the Emergency Rental Assistance Program #2 in FY 2022.
Your Committee confirmed the Department of Housing and Human Concerns and its
part, partners assist, and its partners assist applicants who do not qualify for the
Emergency Rental Assistance Program in identifying other resources that are available
to support them.
I requested that we approve the committee report, incorporating any nonsubstantive
to enable the reformatting of Appendix D, by department rather than by page
number. This will allow future amendments to Appendix D to only include the relevant
section, rather than the entire appendix. And Appendix D, if you'll remember is, was
the new appendix that we started this budget session.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bills. Mahalo,
Chair.
revisions
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 132
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion, questions? If not, all those in favor of the-
Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Question. I know that, is this where we were talking about
that, when the Rescue Act money comes, that we would like to have some kind of
input. And so, 1 wonder if there was, if this would take us down that path that we could?
No? It's not, this is not the item? Okay. We never heard from the Budget Office of
how to provide input on the Rescue Act money yet then?
CHAIR LEE; No.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? if not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", raise
your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Thank you. Chair. That is BILL 113 (2021) and BILL 114 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-90NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE;
Recommending the following;
That Bill 115 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX A, PART I, GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES -
1.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 133
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY
DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS. DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT (STATE OF HAWAII. ACT 88. SLH 2021, CENTRAL MAUIbe PASSED ON FIRSTREGIONAL WWRF (WAIKAPU) PROJECT))
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
That Bill 116 (2021). entitled'A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT
OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT, CENTRAL MAUI REGIONAL WWRF
(WAIKAPU) PROJECT", be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED
TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And what about the next one? You did both?
Alright. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1  MOVE
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-90.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
2.
TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura. I, I
got distracted for a moment because 1 was trying to think of what WWRF was. And I
believe it's Wastewater Reclamation Facility. Just being silly.
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Today is quite the adventure. Your Budget and
Finance and Economic Development Committee met on September 15, 2021, to
discuss proposed bills to amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Department of
Environmental Management, Appendix A, Part I; Appendix C, to add a new grant
State of Hawaii. Act 88, SLH 2021, Central Maui Regional WWRF (Waikapu)entitled "
Project".
These bills would add an additional $3.5 million from the State to the FY 2022 Budget,
as noted in Appendix A. Part I, and Appendix C, respectively, and bring the total project
funding to $7 million.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 134
Your Committee noted the Department will be designing a facility with a three-million-
gallon capacity per day, which would shed, which would shed onto two-million-gallons
a day from the existing Kahului facility, and leave the remaining capacity for new
developments.
In addition, the technology that the Department is considering is modular and if it
becomes necessary, expansion for additional capacity would be possible. And
Member Sugimura has taken the subject matter into her Committee for further
discussion. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bills.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye'
your hand.
raise
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that is BILL 115 (2021) and BILL 116 (2021).
From your Climate Action, Resilience, and Environment Committee. Oh, I'm sorry
did that one already.
we
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-92NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THE21-159Recommending that Resolution -tav
APPOINTMENT OF STACEY LEE VINORAY TO THE REAL PROPERTY TAX
REVIEW BOARD", be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 135
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-92.
RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt the
resolution in Committee Report 21-92.
Member Molina, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you. Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
September 14, 2021, to discuss a proposed resolution relating to the Mayor’s
nomination of Stacey Lee Vinoray to the Real Property Tax Review Board for a term
March 31,2026, due to the resignation of Russell Johnson.expiring on
Council has until October 17 of this year to approve or disapprove the Mayor’s
otherwise, the nominee will be deemed appointed.nominee
Ms. Vinoray is a realtor and former OCS employee. She has a background with real
property tax and will certainly be an asset to the board if approved. Shes also able to
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend the nomination ofattend meetings.
Ms. Vinoray. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NONE.NOES;
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
excused"; motion carries. We are partial.CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes". Eight "ayes", one
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; That's RESOLUTION 21-159.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 136
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-93 -  HUMAN CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 117 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 13.04A.270, MAUI COUNTY CODE, REPEALING THE MINIMUM
FINE FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS RELATING TO PARKS AND
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES", be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1.
That County Communication 21-78, from Councilmember Gabe Johnson, be
FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-93.
I
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-93.
Discussion, Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, so this is Gabe Johnson's first bill that was passed.
And so. I'm going to say a few words and if he wants to also add. But the purpose of
the proposed bill is to provide more flexibility in imposing penalties for being in a park
between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. or when the park is closed.
This flexibility may be needed for people experiencing homelessness, where monetary
fines may be counterproductive in helping people looking to seek permanent shelter
and other vital services. I respectfully ask for the Members to support my motion.
CHAIR LEE:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 137
And this was in Tasha Kama’s housing. I mean, Human Concerns and Parks
Committee, And it was Gabe's first bill that he got, or he proposed. So, glad to support
this. I hope you will too.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Of course, I support this. I’m really
excited this is on our agenda today. 1 just want to give you a couple quick facts. 168
people got fined, the homeless folks got fined in the past two years sleeping in the
parks. And they had to get a minimum of $150 fine. It cost the County $200 a night to
put someone in our jail.
I spoke with Kat Brady from Coordinator on Community Alliance on Prisons. And this
is a way that we help the folks who need it the most. Again, we don't want to fine the
poor for being poor, so this bill has a special place in my heart, because this is what
we have to do as a, as a moral body. And I, I rise in full support. And there s times in
these, these meetings that I’ll, will be burned in my brain forever. And I just remember
the words that Councilmember Shane Sinenci did and how eloquently he was to
explain that we, these are our Hawaiian brothers and sisters that need it. And ’
want to say that that's a good memory for me. So. thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise
your hand and say ”aye"?
AYES:
I just
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
VICE-CHAIR
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes”, one "excused": motion passes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member, I mean, Member. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 138
COUNTY CLERK; Thank you, Chair, that is BILL 117 (2021).
Moving forward with, proceeding with ordinances, second and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 96 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
jl_jE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR TFIE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART 1,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
(AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT OF 2021,
NON-ENTITLEMENT UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT (NEUS))
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. I hope you're going to wipe up, wipe off the
rest of this page.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Most of the page. Oh wait.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, most of the page. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yea. Yes, the rest of this page and some of the next
I request for the Clerk to also call up Bills 97 through Bills, Bill 100, if therepage, as
are no objections?
CHAIR LEE; Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; So, ordered.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 139
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 97 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
(AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT OF 2021,
NON-ENTITLEMENT UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT (NEUS))
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 98 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
ANIMAL MANAGEMENT REVOLVING FUND
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 99 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
ANIMAL MANAGEMENT REVOLVING FUND
ORDINANCE NO.
RIILNO. 100 (2021)
BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY
OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
j|_iE EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF THE STATE OF HAWAII
RELATING TO THE ACQUISITION OF A GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS BOARD STATEMENT NO. 68 REPORT
A
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 140
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 96 THROUGH 100 ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to pass 96, 97, 98, 99, and 100 on second and final reading.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. Almost there. Bill 96 and Bill 97
amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Department of Finance, Appendix A, Part I;
Appendix C, to add a new grant entitled "American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, Non-
Entitlement Units of Local Government (NEUs)" in the amount of $17,523,295.
Bill 98 and Bill 99 amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix A, Part 11, Animal
Management Revolving Fund; and Appendix D to change the conditional language to
grant the fund to the Maui Humane Society for the purchase of the vehicles rather than
having the County purchase the vehicles.
And Bill 100 authorizes the intergovernmental agreement with Employees' Retirement
System to acquire the Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 68
Report for Fiscal Years 2021 through 2026. I ask for the Councilmembers support of
my motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Okay. All those in favor of approving all of these bills,
raise your hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SlNENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 141
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Eighrayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Member Johnson, do you know when you’re laughing your face turns red? Would you
like to share with us what you're laughing about?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; It’s your jokes, Chair Lee. You're killing me today. You're
just killing me.
CHAIR LEE; I wasn't even talking at that time. Okay. Blame me.
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 102 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING SECTION 19.52.090, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
relating to unlawful consumption of intoxicating LIQUOR
AND OTHER MINOR UPDATES FOR HISTORIC DISTRICTS NUMBERS ONE
AND TWO (LAHAINA)
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, do you want to do all of them?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Let's go up to 104, maybe, cause 1 thought-
CHAIRLEE: Okay. Let's go to 104.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 103 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CONDITIONAL
PERMIT GRANTED BY ORDINANCE NO. 2101 (1992) AND
AMENDED BY ORDINANCE NOS. 2360 (1994), 2800 (1999), AND
3201 (2004) TO ALEXANDER & BALDWIN SUGAR MUSEUM,
TO ALLOW FOR AN EXPANSION OF THE MUSEUM USE AND FOR
A TIME EXTENSION ON APPROXIMATELY 4.166 ACRES IN THE
R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT AT 3957 HANSEN ROAD,
TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-8-006:004 (POR.) PUUNENE, MAUI, HAWAII
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1.2021
Page 142
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 104 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE 3377,
TO AMEND CONDITIONS, GRANT A TIME EXTENSION,
AND TRANSFER A CONDITIONAL PERMIT TO HELAINA
DIMARTINO FOR THE BANYAN TREE TRANSIENT VACATION
RENTAL WITHIN THE RU-1 RURAL ZONING DISTRICT FOR
PROPERTY SITUATED AT 3265 BALDWIN AVENUE.
TAX MAP KEY (2) 2-4-002:002
HAMAKUAPOKO - MAKAWAO. MAUI, HAWAII
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, was that really a Hawaiian name?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Helaina.
CHAIR LEE: It was Helaina, yea? Okay. That's okay. Hela'ina. Cute.
COUNTY CLERK: Kala mai.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 102, 103, AND 104 ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Mem, moved by Member Paltin. seconded by Member King, to pass
Bills 102, 103, 104 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. The purpose of Bill 102 is to prohibit the
consumption of intoxicating liquor in recreational areas under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Parks and Recreation in historic districts one and two in Lahaina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1.2021
Page 143
Your Committee noted the proposed bill was reviewed by the Maui, Molokai, and Lanai
Planning Commissions, and the Maui County Cultural Resources Commission. And
the Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage.
Bill 103 purpose is to provide a time extension and to amend the Conditional Permit
granted to Alexander & Baldwin Sugar Museum for expanded museum use. The
Museum provides educational programs on the complete history of plantation life and
the role of the sugar industry in Maui, including adverse impacts. The Museum's
proposed expansion of approximately 2.4 acres includes the development of multi, of
a multipurpose building, outdoor display, and garden areas, and use of a vacant portion
of land for community events.
Your Committee agreed to allow the expansion with the conditions set by the planning
commission, Maui Planning Commission, and to extend the Conditional Permit until
March 31, 2047, when the Museum's lease with Alexander & Baldwin expires.
Bill 104's purpose is to grant a Conditional Permit transfer and time extension to allow
Helaina DiMartino to operate the Banyan Tree Bed  &Breakfast, a transient vacation
rental with a Rural Zoning District, on historic property that includes structures dating
back to the 1920's. The applicant purchased the property from her father, the original
permit holder, Marty Herling. She plans to continue operating the seven-bedroom B&B
as permitted, since 2006.
Your Committee did add two conditions to bring it in alignment with current B&B rules,
that the B&B not operate when the owners are away overnight, and the owners must
be County residents and reside full-time on the property. I respectfully ask the
Members support of my three motions. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion or questions? Alright, all those in favor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
And the next bill. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 144
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 105 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 19.28, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO PERMITTED USES IN THE AIRPORT DISTRICT
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
I  MOVE TO PASS BILL 105 ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to pass Bill 105 on second
and final reading.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The purpose of the proposed bill is as follows: 1) include as a
permitted use in the Airport District, buildings or premises used by State or County
governments for public purposes, except that facilities on Lanai and Molokai must first
obtain approval from the Lanai or Molokai Planning Commission; exclude transient
accommodations as a permitted use in the Airport District; and 3) update references to
obsolete terms and agencies.
Your Committee noted the Airport District includes Kahului, Kapalua, and Lanai
Airports. But the Molokai and Hana Airports are designated Interim Zoning and are
not affected by the proposed bill. I respectfully ask for the Members support of my
motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, did you have an amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I did not, because-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, somebody else did?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 145
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I have an amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I have a, a critical amendment on
your behalf.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.28.020(B) TO STRIKE THE
SEMICOLON AND REPLACE IT WITH A COMMA.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: That must have been Diane Wakamatsu who found that. Okay. So, is that a
friendly amendment, or do we have to take a, is that a friendly amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We might have to waive some Rules or something. I don't
know, second and final.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Why don't, why don't we just, oh, come on, that's not substantive.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Isn't that a nonsubstantive change?
CHAIR LEE: Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Isn't that a nonsubstantive change or edit?
CHAIR LEE; That's what I was thinking. However, why, why worry about it. All those in favor
of the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye". Okay, the punctuation change.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
Eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay, good
Now, the motion as amended. Ready, everybody?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 146
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. We don't need to waive any Rules or anything?
CHAIR LEE: For that? I don't think so.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Alright. You're the boss.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. All those in favor of the main motion as amended, raise your hand and
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with unfinished business.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-81NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THE21-160Recommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF SPENCER LAU TO THE COST OF GOVERNMENT
COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-81.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 147
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Johnson, to a, adopt the
recommendation in Committee Report 21-81.
Discussion, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
August 31, to discuss a proposed resolution relating to the Mayor's nomination of
Spencer Lau to the Cost of Government Commission for a term expiring on March 31,
2024, due to the resignation of Michelle Del Rosario.
Council has until October 10, 2021 to approve or disapprove the Mayor’s nominee,
otherwise the nominee will be deemed approved.
Mr. Lau's business background will enable him to provide recommendations to
promote the service and efficiency of County operations. And if approved, this will be
Mr. Lau's first time serving on a County board.
And Committee Report 21-81 was tabled until today's Council meeting to allow Mr. Lau
to participate in answering Members questions, which took place earlier this morning.
And I want to thank him for making that appearance today.
And for the Members information, your Committee voted 6-2 back in Committee, to
recommend that his nomination be approved. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Molina.
Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye”.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGiMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1, 2021
Page 148
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. Yes.
That brings us to the end of the calendar. And let's see, I know that several of you will
be going to the conference, right? Member Molina, Member Sinenci, who else is
going? Just the two of you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I was thinking about going. I decided not to go, because I've got
some other travel coming up. But I would appreciate either Member Molina and
Member, or Member Sinenci, or both of them, taking notes and maybe transmitting
them so I could use those in WIR report at HSAC.  Iwould appreciate it. Do my report
for me. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I, I don't have that much to look forward to. Not like you guys going off
to the mainland, you know, carousing around, good time. What I'm planning to do is
get a safety check for my car, which expired last month. Yea, don't tell anybody, right.
Member Johnson, don't tell anybody. Okay. Hope all of you have a wonderful,
wonderful weekend. And we'll see you back next week. Any announcements,
anybody?
Member King and then Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, anybody who wants to get some exercise tomorrow can
come down to the wetlands clean up. That's a wetlands workday starting at 8:00
tomorrow in the parking lot of the medical spa there next to Marcos.
CHAIR LEE: Well, you go ahead and represent us, cause we know you can do a great job.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I know. It's hard work. It's really hard work, but it's good.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Johnson, and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. 1 just want to thank all the Members for
the support of my first bill, and the affordable housing list, and all the big changes that
we did in today's meeting. I'm going fishing, so  Iwill be off grid for who knows. I'm not
going to tell you, cause you can't talk about fishing because then you won't catch
anything. So, I'm just... be gone for a little bit. So, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 149
CHAIR LEE: Well, good luck and have fun. Have Fun.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yea, so just as Kelly is going to be doing some community
service, tomorrow is the monthly Pulehunui, Pulehu Posse clean-up that we do, clean
Pulehu Road. We go ail the way down to the Central Maui Landfill. So, I feel like I'm
at home with my committee. And it's expanded now to also include the, 1 call them
Community Workday, but that group has joined us. So, let's see how many people
actually show up.
And Chair, I hope one day you might find it to invite the Imi Pono winners to also
present what they have, you know, the winners, maybe to present to our Council. I
would love to see what they did. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. I've, I've already asked MEO for their, their final presentations. It’s
amazing. These kids are amazing. We just saw them last night and, wow. Anybody
else want to say anything about what you’re doing.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Not, not so much what I'm doing
other than yardwork this weekend. But, just as a public service reminder, next week
of course, we have the off-week meetings for Affordable Housing and Budget. And
then the, according to the calendar, we made that change for the Committee weeks.
Committee meetings for October has been shifted to the week of the 18th, and the
Council meeting to the 22nd. So, in case people who follow the calendar may, might
need to be aware of that change.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Just an FYl.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. That’s very helpful. Anybody else?
Member Paltin, are you going surfing?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I don't think there's waves. But if there is, don't tell anybody.
It's, it's flat. Go fishing.
CHAIR LEE; Ah, okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 1,2021
Page 150
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Everybody go fishing.
CHAIR LEE: Go fishing.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, anything special coming up on the weekend?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Family time. And if it's flat, than I'm definitely not
going paddling. Fishing, everybody go fishing.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci, how about you?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Like, like Member Molina, clean house and clean yard, getting
ready for the trip.
CHAIR LEE: Ah. You guys are so good. Very conscientious. Okay, Members, that's all for
now until next time. So, please have a safe weekend and have fun. And this meeting
is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of October 1,2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 3:38 p.m.
Ll^
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
211001/lks:jm
Testimony of
Pacific Resource Partnership 20ZI SEP 30 AH T- 53
City Council
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice L Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
CJr FiCE OF < h'E
COUNTY CLERK
Committee Report No. 21-87—Countywide workforce housing interest list and related policies
Friday, October 1, 2021
9:00 A.M.
City Council Chamber
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council.
Pacific Resource Partnership (PRP) is a non-profit market recovery trust fund which represents approximately
7,000 men and women union carpenters and 240 large and small contractors. With our expertise in research,
compliance, marketing, and project advocacy, we are committed to building a stronger, more sustainable
Hawaii in a way that promotes a vibrant economy, creates jobs, and enhances the quality of life for all
residents of Hawaii.
PRP writes in strong opposition of a bill in Committee Report No. 21-87, establishing a countywide workforce
housing interest list and related policies for residents interested in workforce housing rental or ownership
units.
The proposed bill will further complicate and prolong the process of getting Maui's residents into affordable
housing and likely increase the overall cost of housing units.
Affordable housing projects using government subsidies, including but not limited to Low Income Housing
Tax Credits (LIHTC), are highly regulated by County, State, and Federal agencies. Agencies have specific
requirements regarding tenant selection, financial qualifications, fair housing and accessibility. Adding an
additional layer of regulation to the selection process and taking away the developer, its partners, or its
management company's ability to establish a wait list is unnecessary and equates to more risk for the
developer, tax credit investors, debt financiers, and private equity investors. This risk alone may deter
developers from building affordable housing in Maui.
Moreover, the proposed amendments will put a heavy burden on the Department of Housing and Human
Concerns (DHHC) to ensure that all County, State, and Federal regulations are followed in a timely manner.
This will likely require DHHC to hire and retain more staff with experience in developing affordable housing,
and require DHHC to invest in additional resources to deliver these new responsibilities. Furthermore, DHHC
or its designee will likely be held liable for any errors occurring during the qualification process.
%PRP^^
the: power of p a r t \ e r s h ■ p
n ‘MVW.FACEB00K.COM/
^ RACIHCHESOURCEPARTNERSHIP
PHONE --> 808.528.555?nOOAJlKEASTREET/iTHFLDOR Q TWiTTER:HON(iLUl.U/HI96!:i3 ; ^ BPRPH.AWAH
(Continued rrom Page 1)
We are also concerned that changing the sales period from 90 days to 120 days will create additional
carrying costs for projects thereby making housing more expensive.
We have witnessed and continue to see how Maui's overregulation of affordable housing projects have kept
this county in its current housing crisis. We need to find new ways to incentivize developers to build more
affordable housing before the problem gets worse. Given the above, we respectfully recommend that this
Council defer this bill and consider policies that encourage the construction of more affordable housing.
Thank you for this opportunity to submit written testimony.
PRPV-^I H P W S H O - p A ^ i N f H b H !
RECEIVED
Council Chair Alice Lee and Maui County Council Members
Lynn Britton
To:
Fr: ?Q?} SEP 30 AH l|: 28
RE: Testimony for the Oct 1 County Council meeting, on the following items:
● HSAC Legislative Package
● Air traffic noise over Ma’alaea
● Requiring registration numbers for transient rentals in apartment districts
● Implementing a County Transient Accommodations Tax
r'FlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
)  j
I am submitting my personai testimony to the Council for these items on the Oct 1 agenda:
HSAC Legislative Package
I support the assessment of impact fees on tourism-related vehicles as well as a green fee
surcharge on transient accommodations and hosting platforms. We must address the goals
of environmental protection and enhancement. Restoring Ma'alaea Bay and the watershed
are crucial for Maui's future. In addition, we must focus on placing rental car rentals in the
resort areas of the island so that it is not automatic that they rent a car at the airport.
Public transportation and resort shuttles need to be encouraged and marketed to visitors.
Please be sure that the fees go directly to the individual counties where the
revenues are generated and not follow the precedent of traffic fines that go to the
State general fund.
Aircraft Noise Abatement over Ma'alaea
Please lend your support to Ma'alaea's request for action from the appropriate airport
officials and the FAA, to bring relief to residents and visitors from the excessive noise
caused by air traffic at low altitudes directly over Ma'alaea.
Air traffic has increased continuously for the past 20+ years (with exception of short period
of the pandemic-related travel disruptions) and now is near historic highs. Flights are routed
directly over the community, at low altitudes, and the noise is frequently so loud that
normal conversations and phone calls have to be interrupted until the offending jet airliner
passes by.
This is not only a nuisance, but a real health issue, and a real problem that can and should
be addressed. The simple solution is to route traffic over the uninhabited area between
Ma’alaea and North Kihei. Aircraft actually fly that space from time to time in present day.
Ma'alaea Village and Haiku face similar problems. Although neither the Maui County Council
nor the Mayor have direct authority over airport operations or the FAA, the Council can
recognize the problem and request the appropriate authorities take action to address.
Requiring registration numbers for transient rentals in apartment districts
I support the Planning Director's recommendation to require registration numbers for
transient rentals in apartment districts approved by all Planning Commissions. It is also
important to make sure that ties in with the real property tax roles.
Maui has been my home since 1973. I bought and lived in my Island Sands condominium in
Ma’alaea from 1985 until my marriage in 2009 when  Imoved to Waiehu. Doing vacation
rental helps me pay the bills, it also supports the small business owners that market and
clean the unit and state and county tax coffers because I pay a very high real property tax
and GET and TAT. Legitimate vacation rental owners like me would not object to the
County's efforts to police illegal rentals that have been allowed to proliferate because of a
lack of enforcement by the County.
Bill No. 101 Implementing a County Transient Accommodations Tax
I understand the County's interest in implementing a County Transient Accommodations
Tax. The possibility of bringing in over $50 million from a 3% tax is exciting. I caution the
Council and the Mayor to focus on the need to re-estat lish Maui County as a quality visitor
destination. Invest in our communities for the mutual benefit of residents AND the visitors
who will be generating these new revenues.
Focus on enforcement against illegal rentals, provide funds to protect and preserve our
special natural and scenic resources such as Ma'alaea Bay and the Pohakea Watershed,
address climate change on our beaches and wetlands, improve infrastructure and help
communities such as Ma'alaea eliminate injection wells and cesspools and provide
transportation alternatives to relieve traffic on our roads.
Maui residents' concerns about 'over tourism' are legitimate and shared by many, but there
is a conflict between talk of over tourism and efforts to tax the industry to produce
additional revenues. There needs to be a well thought put plan for the future of Maui's
visitor industry. It will take a concerted effort to returri to Maui's original philosophy of
"quality" over "quantity" that led to our success and focus on the desired goals of cultural,
agricultural and environmental tourism that attract the quality visitor who appreciates the
uniqueness of our island home. '
Thank you for listening and for your service to all of Maui County's people.
Sincerely, with Much Aloha,
Lynn Britton
Count^^lerk
Lynn Britton <blb@maui.net>
Thursday, September 30, 2021 2:53 PM
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King; Mike J. Molina;
Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura
County Clerk
Additional input on 3 % TAT RE Testimony for October 1 Maui County Council meeting
3% TAT Bill 101 (2021).pdf; Testimony for October  1Maui County Council meeting
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha!
I apologize for not reading the fine print in Bill No. 101 to implement the County TAT that the tax would go into effect
OCTOBER 1,20211.
It is highly unfair to impose the tax now without giving TVRs a chance to change their methods of assessing TAT taxes for
bookings, etc. It's impact on small businesses like myself and others like me that handle their own rentals is severe.
It is confusing- if you have already received payments for rentals through the rest of the year and next, is the 3% to be
added or not?
More work on this legislation needs to be done.
Mahalo for your consideration!
With Much Aloha,
Lynn Britton
The future depends on what we do in the present." Mahatma Gandhi
OC
O-n
C ~
73oo m“O
om mo-<
OO <“O-n 3C
mm -H Vr' a73Xm K>
O
1
OCO
rw
 *n 73ooC Tl m
25 “O
o*H rom-< ●o rnTo: Maui County Council Chair Alice Lee and Maui County Council Members, OO *T3"Tl
Re: Phase out of short-term rentals In apartment zones and Aircraft Noise Abatem6Ttt-f6r Ma'^ea fTl
XX ”
Aloha, my name is Shannon VanderHeuvel, my husband and I moved to Maui and bo^fiVour
condominium at Ma'alaea so that I could be closer to my father, Henry Allen, who lives in West Maui.
He gave me the Hawaiian name of Leiaioha Lei Makamae, (friends call me Lei). We enjoy Ma'alaea and
Maui's beauty and love living here. I am a retired police officer, and Crime Committee Chair and Board
Secretary for Ma'alaea Village Association (MVA).  Iwould like to offer testimony on two items:
Proposed phase out of short-term rentals in apartment zones on Maui and Aircraft Noise over Ma'alaea.
Proposed Phase out of short-term rentals in apartment zones on Maul
As we all know, living on Maui is expensive. If my husband retired from his current Job on Maui we
might have to move back to the Midwest. We would like to be able to enjoy our condo and be able to
put it in vacation rental so that we could cover expenses when we are not here. My mortgage and
maintenance fees would not permit me to rent my condo at affordable rates. I am sure this would be
the case for most condo owners. If we were to become ill, we might need to see the condo. Future
owners would need to be able to do vacation rentals in order to cover expenses. The current legislation
to eliminate vacation rentals in apartment zones after December 31“ 2021, would prevent us from
being able to do that.
I support the goal of increasing affordable housing on the island. It is much needed. When the County is
looking for additional revenues to build affordable housing and improve the environment, this would
actually decrease the revenues coming into the County. The only parties benefiting from the proposal
would be Maui hotels. I urge the Council to find fairer, more effective ways to address the need for
more affordable housing for Maui's people.
Aircraft Noise over Ma'alaea
a
Written testimony will be presented by MVA President Lyndon Ibele and Bill Hawkins, of the MVA
Aviation Committee. I ask for your support to bring relief to Ma'alaea residents and visitors from the
excessive noise caused by air traffic at low altitudes flying directly over Ma'alaea. Living in Ma'alaea, I
can say that the noise Is frequently so loud that normal conversations and phone calls have to be
interrupted until the jet airliners pass by.
MVA has asked HDOT airport officials and the FAA for help for years. If not flatly Ignored, the response
received is "it can't be done" or "it's too expensive", with no alternatives. I know that the County
Council has no direct authority over airport operations or the FAA. I hope with today's testimony that
the Council will recognize the problem and exert whatever pressure it can to encourage HDOT airports
and the FAA to face the reality that this is not only a nuisance, but a health issue, and real problem that
needs to be addressed. Mahalo for listening, responding to our concerns and for your consideration.
With Aloha Shannon VanderHeuvel Leiaioha Lei Makamae
Expanding ihe range ofopporiunilies for all by
developing, mamiging, and promoting quality
affordable homing and diverse communities.
f S
A roof Is just the beginning
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
September 29, 2021
Maui County Council
200 S. High St
Kaiana O'Maui Bldg, #708
Waiiuku, HI 96793
RE: CR 21-87, Maui County Code, Section 2.96.700 Proposed Amendments
Council Hearing October 1, 2021, 9:00AM, Testimony in Opposition
Council Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. and Members of the County Council:
Aloha, I am Kevin Carney, Vice President of EAH Housing, a 53-year-old non-profit developer,
manager, and advocate of affordable rental housing. I am also a Board Member of Stand Up
Maui (SUM) and a member of its Affordable Housing Committee (AHC). My comments herein
are entirely EAH's position on the proposed amendments and not those of SUM or Its AHC.
EAH is strongly opposed to any changes to Section 2.96.100 as will be explained below.
EAH has been operating in Hawaii for 25 years and currently has a managed portfolio of 22
properties, 2,178 units on Kauai, Maui, and Oahu. We also have 3 properties (272 units) in our
predevelopment pipeline, one on the Big Island, one on Maui and one on Oahu. Including our
California portfolio EAH manages over 10,000 units of affordable rental housing. As a mission
oriented non-profit we are long term owners and managers having never sold a property in our
53-year history.
EAH serves primarily those with incomes at or below 60% of the area median income (AM!) and
we finance the development of our communities with the use of Low-Income Housing Tax
Credits (LIHTC) as our primary source of equity. As a LIHTC developer we do not see a need to
make any changes to Section 2.96.100 as it applies to our type of projects. Our specific industry,
including our application process, is highly regulated by a variety of entities, County, State.
Federal Government (IRS), investors and lenders to ensure compliance related to tenant
selection, financial qualifications, fair housing, and accessibility.
We do agree that there is a need for applicant education by third parties well before the
property is ready to accept applications because the primary reason for rejecting an application
in our industry is poor credit. EAH has worked with the Hawaii Homeownership Center and the
Bank of Hawaii, at no cost, on repairing credit to prepare applicants for our rental units and to
educate tenants on the next step, homeownership.
HAWAII 1001 BishopStreet, #2880, Honolulu, HI 96813 |  (808) 523-8826 | HI Lie. R8-16985
CALIFORNIA 22 Pelican Way, San Rafael, CA 94901 | [415) 258-1800 | CA Lie. 853495
www.BAHHousing.org
As I understand it, the main purpose of the proposed amendments is to create a process that
will provide housing, in this case rental housing, primarily for residents of Maui County. EAH
believes this is already being accomplished under existing code and regulatory agreements
utilizing a preference based on Maui residency. For verification. 1 have attached the applicable
pages, 1 and 2 of the Resident Selection Plan for Kenolio Apartments in Kihei, a property EAH
manages. Also attached are applicable pages 1, 5 and 6 from the May 9, 2018, Kihei Residential
Workforce Housing Agreement with the County that applies to Kenolio. As you will see the
Selection Plan is derived from the Housing Agreement and is the principal document for
selecting and qualifying applicants.
Companies like EAH who manage LIHTC communities, whether non-profit or for-profit, have
compliance specialists on staff who are trained to qualify applicants in accordance with Section
42 of IRS Code and the various regulatory agreements specific to the property. Producing
affordable rental housing is a very long complicated process, typically 5 years or longer from the
time of site control to completion and welcoming of our tenants.
EAH believes that adding additional entities, whether it be the Department of Housing and
Human Concerns'or its designee, to the process of qualifying tenants, is not necessary, will add
confusion for our staff and to the applicants and will delay an already well functioning selection
process based on preferences. Timing of initial certifications is critical. Initial applications for
LIHTC properties have a 120-day life span, if the unit is not available for tenant occupancy
within that time period, the certification process must be started all over again.
There is also the issue of liability, if an applicant approved by the County or its designee is
determined to be over income after taking occupancy because of a miscalculation, the effect is a
loss of tax credit on the unit, resulting in a substantial penalty to the investor who typically
would look to the party responsible for the miscalculation, for reimbursement.
Mahalo for this opportunity to share our extensive experience on the selection process for our
LIHTC communities.
For EAH Housing, a roof is just the beginning.
Sincerely,
t
Kevih R. Carney, (PB) NAHP-E
Vice President, Hawaii
EAH Housing
HAWAII 1001 Bishop Street, #2880, Honolulu, Hi 96813 1 (808) 523-8826 j Hi Lie. RB-16985
CALIFORNIA 22 Pelican Way, San Rafael, CA 94901 j (415)258-1800 | CA Lit. 853495
wvvw.BAHHQUsing. org
Kenolio Apartments
116 Nokaiiea Loop, Kiiiei, HI 96753
g Tei.EI'HONE (808)762-2028 Fax; (808)762-2028
TDD (877)447-5991
kcn-management(^eahlio«sing.or{{
CAM HOUSING ;
RESIDENT SELECTION PLAN INCOIVIE LIIV1ITS
Kenolio Apartments is a 186 apartment, multi-family community in Kihei,
HI that provides housing for extremely low and low income households,
without regard to race, color, sex, creed, religion, national origin,
physical or mental disability status, familial status, age, ancestry, marital
status, source of income, sexual orientation or HIV status.
Kenolio Apartments will make reasonable accommodations to
individuals whose disability so requires. Reasonable Accommodation
Request forms are available upon request from management. Kenolio
Apartments is an Equal Housing Opportunity Housing Facility, admitting
people in accordance with Local, State and Federal Housing laws, the
County of Maui Residential Workforce Housing Policy (MCC Chapter
2.96), the Rental Housing Revolving Fund (RHRF), and the Low Income
Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) Program,
To qualify for an apartment, the household’s gross income may not
exceed the maximum income limit per household size and may not be
lower than the income minimum* per household size. The income
maximums and minimums are attached and are posted in the Kenoiio
Apartments Management Office.
*The apartment may be rented if proof is obtained indicating satisfactory
and timely rental payment history for the past twelve (12) months in the
amount equal to or greater than the rent charged for that apartment
size.
APPLICATION FEES AND HOLDING DEPOSIT
Application fees will be waived for Initial placement. Once all
apartments are initially rented, application fees will apply, Durinp
the period of waived apolication fees, the Holding Deposit
requirement will still aooiv.
An application fee of $35 per adult household member will apply. The
application fee is to help cover the cost of conducting credit and criminal
background inquiries.
Application fee(s) (per adult to occupy the apartment) are required at
the time an application is processed to determine eligibility. A holding
deposit of $200 wilt be collected once a unit is offered. These funds
must be in the form of a cashier’s check, money order or ACH transfer.
The holding deposit will be applied to your Security Deposit and or first
month’s rent if your application is approved and you move-in on your
scheduled move-in day. if you rescind your application in writing within
three (3) days of the date the holding deposit was paid, your holding
deposit will be reimbursed. Reimbursement may take up to 14
business days to be returned to you. if you cancel after the initial 3
Kenolio RSP rev 11.10,2020 1
NON-SMOKING POLICY
Kenolio Apartments is designated as a Non-Smoking property,
Smoking is prohibited in all areas of the property including the interior of
apartments, all indoor and outdoor common areas on the property.
It is the residents’ responsibility to inform their guests of the Non-
Smoking Policy. Any violation of the Non-Smoking Policy will be
deemed a material breach of the Rental Agreement and grounds for
immediate termination of the Lease/Rental Agreement.
Kenolio Apartments adoption of a Non-Smoking Policy does not make
the Owner the guarantor of the residents health or that the property will
be free of smoke but management shall take reasonable steps to
enforce this policy.
EAH Housing BRE #00853495 RB-16985.TOTBBacpfPitTvarrv
days for any reason your holding deposit will be forfeited. Application
fees are non-refundable. Currently employed in the County;
Retired from employment in the County, having worked in the
County immediately prior to retirement;
A full-time student residing in the County (must meet provisions
of the LIHTC program);
A disabled person residing in the County who was employed in
the County prior to becoming disabled;
The parent or guardian of a disabled person residing in the
County
A spouse or dependent of any such employee, retired person,
student, or disabled person residing in the County; or
In the event of the death of the employee, retied person,
student, or disabled person, the spouse or dependent of any
such person residing in the County.
APPLICATION PROCEDURES
Applications v/lll only be available when the waiting list is open.
Applications will not be available when the Waiting List is closed.
Only online applications will be accepted. Visit www.eahhousinq.org
to complete your application.
Each applicant must complete an application and be willing to submit to
a credit histofy, rental history, and criminal background inquiry, as well
as income and asset verifications.
A lottery will determine the order the applications are screened for initial
placements, Once the lottery has taken place, applications will be
processed as follows:
Applicants shall provide evidence of their preference status. Applicants
with a valid verified preference will have priority over applicants without
a verified preference, Therefore, applicants with  averified preference
that are lower on the waiting list will be offered an apartment first to
satisfy the preference order as described in the County of Maui Code of
Ordinances Section 2.96,100.
Completed onSne applications will be processed on  afirst-come, first-
served basis. The application must be completed and signed by the
head of household and all household members over 18 before an
applicant can be placed on the waiting list. If an application is not
completely answered, the date of it being fully completed will be the
date that the appi icatlon is considered accepted for rental purposes.
To implement this preference, we will first select applicants with a
verified preference in lottery order. Mext, we will select applicants
without a preference in lottery order. If at any time there is no applicant
with a valid and verified preference on the waiting list, then no
apartment in the Project shall be held vacant awaiting such applicant,
but shall be rented promptly to an approved applicant without a
preference.
PREFERENCES
Preferences will be used on a continuous basis in the selection of
applicants. However, the policy of the Property is that a preference
does not guarantee admission. Every applicant must still meet the
Property’s Resident Selection Plan standards for acceptance as a
resident.
Where preferences apply, applicants with a valid and verified
preference will be moved to the top of the waiting list above persons
without a preference.
The preferences so described will at all times be consistent with the
requirements of Section 42 and future interpretations or guidance from
the IRS and will not in any way jeopardize the project's eligibility under
Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code.
For apartments accessible to or adaptable for persons with mobility,
visual or hearing impairments, households containing at least one
person with such impairment will have first priority.
Residents shall be selected in accordance with the guidelines described
in the County of Maui Residential Workforce Housing Policy (MCC
Chapter 2,96). Preference will be given to applicants which meet at
least one of the following criteria:
civKenolio RSP rev 11.10.2020 2EAH Housing BRE #00853495 RB-16985
STATE OF
bureau of conveyances
DOCUWfs- -
4 T t - ■f-M'= Doc A-67030596
May 09. 201B tO:45AM
LAND COURT REGULAR SYSTEM
Return By Mail X | Pick-Up To:
Caleb Roope
Maui Pacific Associates, a Hawaii Limited
Partnership
430 E. State Street, Ste.lOO
Eagle, ID 83616
TITLE OF DOCUMENT:
KENOLIO APARTMENTS
RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING AGREEMENT
PARTIES TO DOCUMENT:
DEVELOPER: Maui Pacific Associates, a Hawaii Limited Partnership
430 E. State Street, Ste.lOO
Eagle, ID 83616
COUNTY: COUNTY OF MAUI
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
TAX MAP KEY(S); (2) 3-9-001-157 and 158 (This document consists of 11 pages.)
ARTICLE 11 - residential WORKFORCE HOUSING PROGRAM
A. Housing Distribution and Affordable Rents
Developer shall construct 184 Residential Worfcforce Housing Units plus two employee
units and shall offer to rent said units in accordance with the terms, covenants and conditions of
this Agreement:
1. Ten of the Residential Woricforce Housing Units (three one-bedrooms, four
two-bedrooms and three three-bedrooms) will be leased at rents affordable to Families
earning at or below 30% of Median Annual income.
174 of the Residential W orkforce Housing Units (60 one-bedrooms, 68 two-
bedrooms and 46 three-bedrooms) will be leased at rents affordable to Families earning at
or below 60% of Median Annual Income.
Families shall be eligible to reside in the Workforce Housing Units if, in
addition to the requirements set forth elsewhere herein, they comply with the requirements
of County of Maui, Code of Ordinances Section 2.96.100 including, without limitation,
that each household shall satisfy all applicable State and Federal eligibility requirements,
B. Marketing of Residential Workforce Housing Units.
WAIT LIST PROCEDURE:
The Developer or its management company shall establish a wait list of
interested applicants for Residential Workforce Housing Units;
Prior to initiating the wait list, the Developer or its management company
shall initiate the wait list process by publishing in at least five issues of a newspaper of
general circulation uuthin the County, a public notice that shall contain all information
that is relevant to the establishment of the wait list. The public shall also be informed in a
like manner of any decision that would substantially affect the maintenance and use of the
waitlist;
2.
3.
1.
a.
b.
Selection for renting Residential Workforce Housing Units shall be made by
a lottery administered by the Developer or its management company and overseen by
DHHC, subject to the applicant meeting the eligibility criteria necessary to qualify
Affordable Renter; and
c.
as an
d. Each applicant shall be responsible for notifying the Developer or its
management company in writing of any changes in mailing address, telephone number, fax
number, and/or e-mail address. If an applicant fails to properly notify the Developer
or its management company of such changes and the Developer or its management company
IS unable to contact the applicant, the applicant's name shall be removed from the applicablewait list.
5
2. SELECTION PRIORITY;
Residents on the wait Hst shall receive first priority for the available units.
Nonresidents on the wait list may rent a residential workforce housing unit once the waitlisthas been exhausted of all residents.
a.
b. The developer or its management company may do a mass mailing of
housing applications to applicants on the wait list.
The residential workforce housing units shall be offered to residents in the
order m winch their names were drawn in the lottery, provided that there is a unit available
in the income group for which they qualify. Nonresidents will then be offered residential
workforce housing units in the order in which tlieir names were drawn in the lottery,
provided that there is a unit available in the income group for which they qualify.
c.
'Fhe developer or its management company shall submit copies of the
following information to DHHC to verify the rental of residential workforce housing units
to eligible renters:
d.
●  Applicant's completed final rental application;
●  Executed rental lease; and
All signed federal and state tax returns used to determine eligibility, or any
other documents used to determine eligibility by the developer or its
management company.
The developer or its management company shall maintain a wait list
for DHHC after all of tire units are rented, which shall be used to fill any vacancy. No vacant
uiut shdl be leased to or occupied by any household except in conformity with all applicable
eligibility and waiting list requirements as set forth herein.
If Developer intends to sell the development. Developer shall notify
writing prior to the closing of the sale, and shall provide documentation to
DHHC that the prospective new owner acknowledges and is aware of the terms, conditions,
and restrictions encumbering the development pursuant to this Residential Workforce
Housing Agreement.
e.
f.
DHHC in
g. If the Project is sold within the 55 year term of this Agreement, any new
owner must comply with the requirements of this Agreement. Developer shall execute and
record a deed restriction complying with County of Maui, Section 2.96.070(c), Maui County
Code, and reasonably acceptable to County.
C- affordable renter DOCUMENTATION
Within sixty (60) calendar days after the close of each calendar year, Developer or its
management company shall provide the DHHC with a report including the following:
1. Each tenant rented to during the preceding calendar year along with theirraove-in date; and
6
MICHAl'I, P. VICTORINO
Mayor
LORI TSUHAKO
Director
UiNDA R.MUNSELL
Depuly Director
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSINCJ
& HUMAN CONCERNS
COUNTY OF MAUI
2200 MAIN STREET, SUITE 546
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAi'I 96793
PHONE; (808)270-7805
OCO
<39
r-^
m 70c -n CO
m m2;o “O
owm-c o moSeptember 29, 2021 OX:“n <:
m -■{ rnX31
oX rn oCOHonorable Alice Lee, Chair
and Members of the Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair Lee and Members:
SUBJECT: COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-87
AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE
HOUSING POLICY APPLICANT SELECTION PRIORITY
Thank you for the opportunity to provide the Department's testimony on the proposed bill
entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING POLICY APPLICANT SELECTION
PRIORITY”.
As stated during the Affordable Housing Committee's multiple discussions, the
Department supports the concept of developing a centralized database for residents Interested in
workforce housing units, as well as a central place for disseminating information about current
and upcoming workforce and affordable housing projects. The Department also supports
encouraging residents to become better prepared for rental and homeownership opportunities by
working with a HUD certified housing agency.
The Department also feels strongly that other proposed changes in the legislation are
significant and are deserving of adequate time and review to verify that the suggested changes
in the law will result in the intended outcome. Our discussions with the development community
strongly indicate that there has not been adequate consultation or discussion to insure that
intended outcomes will be achieved, and there is significant opinion that the proposed changes
will have a negative, rather than a positive impact on housing projects.
Having said that, the Department has concerns about several very specific amendments
as proposed:
rO SUPPORT AND EMPOWHR OUR COMMUNITY TO REACH ITS FULLEST
POTENTIAL. FOR PERSONAL WELL-BEING AND SELF-RELIANCE
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
and Members of the Maui County Council
September 29, 2021
Page 2 of 3
1. Department management of the project wait lists, both for rental and for sale
projects.
The Department has no objection to referring lists of interested residents to developers
for their projects and requiring the developers to prioritize these residents for units.
However, determining eligibility of the famiiies on the list should be done by the
developer. For rental projects, the liability associated with making an error when
determining eligibility can be significant, especially, for example, if the project
developer has been granted Low Income Housing Tax Credits. From discussions with
the project developers, it is clear that the staffing and cost required to complete the
work would be significant. For for-sale projects, the developers’ ability to obtain
financing is dependent upon finding qualified buyers. Developers have significant
investment in these projects and delays in determining eligibility increase the cost of
development thus making homes less affordable to our residents.
The Department believes that the responsibility for maintaining the wait list and
determining eligibility should continue to be borne by the project and the developer. If
the Council is concerned about mortgage steering, for instance, we believe that there
are alternate avenues to address this issue than to shift the workload to the County
and the Department. This can be done either through training for developers, or by
providing more clearly written selection procedures that developers must adhere to.
2. Priority based on length of residency.
The amendments proposed were modeled after a policy currently in effect in the
District of Columbia (DC), with one very significant difference. The DC model places
priority on the wait list based on the length of time the individual has been on the
interest list, rather than the length of their residency.
The debate about whether durational residency runs contrary to Fair Housing or
Constitutional law aside, the Department is deeply concerned about the proposed
durational residency from a logistical aspect. The documentation and verification
process to determine the length someone has been  aresident, minus absences,
would be subject to errors and challenges, and we foresee significant and perhaps
unnecessary administrative time devoted to determining length of residency and
defending residency calculations.
3. County requirement to purchase units as proposed in 2.96.090(D)(4)(d).
The Department believes that it would not be in the best interest of the County to
require the purchase of ail workforce housing units, prior to those units being sold at
market. We encourage the Council to amend this section to give the County the right
to purchase, but not be required to purchase. This change will allow the County to
evaluate the value and necessity of the purchase before making a decision. Aside
from the expense and unpredictability of these purchase requirements, there are
additional concerns and cautions that should be exercised before compelling the
County to purchase homes. These include the County's limited capacity to hold
residential real estate, to sell homes, and the inadequacy of planning for a land trust
of some kind to possibly take ownership of homes.
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
and Members of the Maui County Council
September 29, 2021
Page 3 of 3
4. Publication requirements for rental projects as proposed In 2.96.100(3).
Publication in social media outlets tends to attract a great number of non-local
applicants for rental projects.
To add further context to the Department’s comments, we note that Chapter 2.96 MCC
was enacted in 2006, and after very careful consideration and much debate, was amended in
2015. As a result of the amendments, data indicates that MCC 2.96 which originally had produced
almost no units between 2006 and 2104, enabled nearly one thousand (1,000) housing units
completed or under construction today. Additional projects representing another fourteen
hundred seventy-four (1,474) units have executed workforce housing agreements with the County
and are pending. The majority of these units are workforce units. This has been a significant
shift in momentum in favor of housing development for our community. Inasmuch as the
amendments proposed to Chapter 2.96 MCC will also impact projects utilizing 201H and MCC
2.97 processes, we would respectfully ask this body to thoroughly vet these proposed changes
with the community before taking action, and possibly losing the momentum we have gained in
recent years.
The Department appreciates your time and consideration,
questions, please feel free to contact me at Ext. 7805.
Should you have any
Sincerely,
AR. MUNSELL
Deputy Director of Housing and Human Concerns
Honorable Michael P. Victohno, Mayor
Housing Division
xc:
The Mauian Hotel
5441 Lower HonoapiNani Road
Lahaina, HI 96761
Testimony on Final Reading, Bill No. 101 (2021) - "A bill for an ordinance
establishing a new chapter 3.47, Maui County Code, implementing a county
transient accommodation tax"
My testimony is asking that the Maui County Council delay the implementation of
the additional 3% transient accommodation tax to January 1, 2022, or at least till
November 1, 2021. The VERY SHORT NOTICE implementation of this MCTAT
creates serious hardship on the smooth collection of this additional tax.
First, we cannot collect the additional tax from any of our guests currently
inhouse and staying beyond October 1. The response from our guests would be
extremely critical of us because we are the entity collecting the additional tax.
Second, we must now contact all future guests who have been quoted rates and
made their initial deposits that their charges have all increased because of the
additional 3% MCTAT.
Third, we need to make sure the Online Travel Agencies (OTAs) like Expedia and
Booking.com who we do business with, are informed of this additional 3% MCTAT
so they can price their packages accordingly.
Please help us out in this regard. We're having a difficult time recovering from our
losses in 2020 and early 2021. If we end up needing to absorb the uncollected 3%
MCTAT, this adds further burdens to our ability to increase the wages for our
employees and pay our bills.
Thank you for your consideration. OCO m
^ m
<yy
mNane Aluli
General Manager
The Mauian Hotel on Napili Bay
~X3
ornCO
:oo 3 <-n
m
7:m
Or*o
O
Count^^CletJt
noelani balai <ehaunty@yahoo.com>
Tuesday, September 28, 2021 1:34 PM
County Clerk
Kelly King
Communication No. 21-479 Aircraft Noise
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
You don't often get email from ehaunty@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
I would like to give testimony in support of Communication No.21-479.
As a longtime resident of Ma’alaea, I was so pleased to see that the county is finally responding to
our community’s complaints about the aircraft noise and flight paths over Ma’alaea. When I moved
here thirty years ago, our community was a nice peaceful fishing village. Today as Maui has grown
so have the amount of flights to our island. The aircraft noise has increased tremendously! There
are those in our community who have tried unsuccessfully to speak with airport officials. I believe
they even have a plan for altering the flight paths. Please work with the Ma’alaea community to
resolve this issue.
Thank you for your time and attention to this matter^
Noelani Balai
150 Hau'oli Street #514
Wailuku, Hi. 96793
Phone: 808-242-8036
o ri
o 70COc m m“O
o oH rom-< <x 1Oo
T!m
Om NJ
O
1
Count^CleH<
Maui_County Council_maiIbox
Friday, October 1, 2021 10:25 AM
County Clerk
FW: Support for proposed amendments to MCC 19-12-020
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
The following is being forwarded for your attention/information. Thank you!
 Original Message—
From: Patricia B Cadiz <pbc5@mac.com>
Sent: Friday, October 1, 2021 9:59 AM
To: Maui_County Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Support for proposed amendments to MCC 19-12-020
[You don't often get email from pbc5@mac.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I support the proposed amendments to MCC 19-12-020 requiring all taxes be current and requiring TMK in advertising.
Thank you,
Patricia Cadiz
Maui, Hawaii
1
County Clerk
RECEIVED
7021 SEP 30 AH 1- 53
From:
Sent:
Peter <peter@hawaiianresources.net>
Wednesday, September 29, 2021 5:40 PM
County Clerk
Alice L Lee; Mike J. Molina; Kelly King
Communications #21-478 re: Aircraft noise over Maalaea
To:
Cc:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Some people who received this message don't often get email from peter@hawaiianresources.net. Learn why this is
important
Dear Council Chair Alice Lee and Council Members,
Regarding Aircraft noise over Maalaea:
I have read the testimony of Captain Bill Hawkins, the Maalaea Village Association (MVA), chair of the MVA Aviation
Committee, with great Interest.
Bill points out that the solution is very simple. Please focus on the solution. Simply fly a safe approach to Kahului
over uninhabited areas. The suggested approach is very well described in Bill's testimony. This totally solves the
problem for Maalaea.
If the Council wants the Maui community to support sustainable tourism on Maui, then please realize that 250 super
loud low level flights a day over the Maalaea community is way too much. This happens all day long and as well as in
the dead of night. Noise pollution is a health and safety issue. Common sense says to find a solution.
Common sense can also solve the problem for Council Member Mike Molina and his Haiku Community.
Aircraft coming in from the East fly over Haiku, make a big circle over Maalaea Bay, and then come in over Maalaea
Village affecting both communities. This big circle over the bay eats up fuel. If the aircraft approached Maui over the
Alenuihaha Channel, well off of Kaupo, and circled in over Maalaea Bay instead of over Haiku, then the fuel would
be similar and both the Haiku and Maalaea noise problems would be solved. Just fly the approaches over the
uninhabited areas of Maui.
While the County Council does not have jurisdiction over the Kahului Airport flight paths, a resolution by the Maui
County Council will provide much needed support and attention to the efforts of Council Member Molina and of the
MVA. Capt. Bill Hawkins has well described the FAA's resistance to change. The FAA's easy answer is to ignore and
do nothing.
Your support will make a big difference for both Maalaea and Haiku.
With aloha.
Peter Cannon
1
ATIS 128.6
HCF APPROACH
119.5 225.4
MAUI TOWER ♦
118.7 279.6
PROPOSED RADAR VECTORS
(OGGKPHOG) RWY 02
KAHULUi, Hawaii
A
LANAI
LANAI
117.71NY ifll
Chan 124
MAALA
NOISE i
AVOID 4
DURINC
R-085
Proposed Draft
NOT FOR NAVIGATION
KAh
2
received
HALE MAHAQeLU p« 2m
AKAHI
300 vV. Wakea A-.e.
Kahului HI 96~32
808-87'-C54-:
ELUA
200 Hina A .-e.
Kahului HI ■’6~32
808-872--ii80
WHERE ALOHA LIVES
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSeptember 28, 2021EKOLU
r 1' OloKaala Dr.
Wailuku, HI 56703
808-242-43":
EHA
105" O^okawao
f-la'Osvao HI 96748
808-5’3-i647
ELIMA
1 I Mahaolu St.
<ahulul HI 56732
808-853-0002
EONO
810 Kelaweo St.
iohaina hi 56''6i
803-661-595-
Chairperson Alice Lee
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
VIA E-MAIL countv.clerk@mauicountv.us
CR 21-87 - Countywide Workforce Housing Interest List and Related Policies for
Residents Interested in Workforce Housing Rental and Ownership Units
RE:EHIKU
56 Ehi-'u St.
<ihei H|56"53
808-85)-8588
EWALU
88 Ohio <'j St.
5u-alani hi 56^68
Dear Chairperson Lee:
808-5-3-5
The above-referenced bill pending before the Maui County Council would require that the County or
its designee establish a countywide workforce rental housing interest list of interested applicants.
HOME PUMEHANA
5.0. 3o. ICC
<aur.a‘'akai nl 55-48
13-5"88908
I am writing as the executive director of Hale Mahaolu, a non-profit provider of affordable rental
housing for seniors and families. As you are aware, our company owns or manages 17 different
properties comprised of over 1,200 housing units on Maui, Molokai, and Lanai. We have a long
standing and well-established process in place for maintaining wait lists for our various projects.
HALE KUPUNA O LANA
^.O. 30' 63C4'8
-onai CH-. Hi 96'63
808-565-66)5
LOKENANI HALE
1885 Lote St.
VvoiiU'U HI 55-03
808-243-52'2
KAHULUl LANI
65 School St.
<ahuiui -I 54-32
808-868-080
LAHAINA SURF
' 03' v‘roinee $t.
Lahoino hi 55^4-
808-661-3'^;
The proposed ordinance is not clear whether it would apply to our work in the context of our existing
properties or whether it is meant to apply only to new properties in the initial stage of leasing. In
either case, I would respectfully submit that the County Council may want to think twice before
requiring that the Department of Housing and Human Concerns (DHHC) take on this role. There are
numerous regulatory and compliance standards dictated by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development, as well as funder driven standards which provide a framework and guidelines
for the various lists which we maintain at our properties.
LUANA GARDENS
61 5 '.V. 5opa -
Cahului HI 55-35
308-871-5CC5
KOMOHANA HALE
120 Leoleo S*.
Lahaina -1 55-51
838-66'-555"
KULAMALU HALE
65 Ohio Cu St.
= j" oIorF -^1 56"68
808-368-4:48
HULIAU
■ -5 .Vohlnepio a
Ohului -I 55-32
8C8-868-2225
CHSP/MEALS PROGRAM
2CC Hina A.e.
».ahuiui. -I 55-32
808-372-41"C
HOMEOWNERSHIP.
HOUSING COUNSELING
2CC Hina A.e.
Cahuiui. -I 55-32
8C8-242-"02"
These standards will routinely govern the minimum qualification criteria for each property's
occupants, which can vary significantly depending upon the regulatory requirements imposed on the
project by its funding. Depending upon that criteria, certain projects are tailored to age-specific
groups, income-specific groups, special needs groups, various combinations thereof, etc.
Providers like Hale Mahaolu have extensive experience and training in how to manage these lists so
as to comply with regulatory standards. We have implemented software-based waitlists which
provide for a seamless process when the applicant becomes eligible for a unit, with individuals'
information already in the system available to populate relevant documents and forms. We also
have personnel who perform an internal audit function of our lists and applications, dedicated to
ensuring that we are compliant with regulatory standards.
PERSONAL CARE/
HOMEMAKER/CHORE
11 Mohoolu 5t. ite. A
<ohului HI 56^32 200 HINA AVENUE. KAHULUl. HI 96732 ! PH: 808 872.4100 FAX: 808872 4120 | TDD# 800.545.1833 EXT. 432 1 WWW.HAlfMAHAOLU. ORG
8C8-873-C521
Chairperson Alice Lee
September 28, 2021
Page I 2
The proposed ordinance would presumably have DHHC take on this role without necessarily
understanding the intricacies of ensuring that this task is administered properly and without issue.
The volume of applications and inquiries which we receive each month numbers in the hundreds, and
it would be difficult to imagine that DHHC has the staffing or expertise in place to take on this
function.
I would respectfully request that the portion of the proposed ordinance pertaining to rental housing
be reconsidered. Thank you for your kind consideration of this request.
Sincerely yours,
0
GRANT Y. M. CHUN
Executive Director
Budget Finance and Economic Development Committee
Thursday. September 30, 2021
Testimony on COUNTY PROPERTY TAX REFORM (BFED-78)
Aloha Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair Tamara Paltin, and Committee members:
Mahalo for the opportunity to submit testimony in full support of the ‘Aina Kupuna Tax Relief Bill.
My lineage has deep roots here on Maui. My paternal great grandparents were John David and
Maria Hamole Nohua of Kaupo. Their descendants are the Kaleikini’s, Needham's, Kekiwi's,
Hai's, Pi'imauna’s, Kalaehano's, and Ho‘opi‘i's.
My great grandmother Maria Hamole, has an interest in Land Grant 2577, located in Kaupo.
The property predates the State of Hawaii and has been cared for by the Nohua ohana for
generations. This bill would help lineal descendants preserve what is left of our ancestral land.
Additionally, my grandfather William Boniface Scott Ha’i conveyed his interest in several
properties with Royal Patent 6220 and Land Commission Award 5178E to my father Ephraim
Ha’i who in turn conveyed his interest to me. Our family has owned this land since 1933,
meaning we are two years short of the original 1931 cutoff. I humbly request your support to
extend the cutoff until 1940. This extension would be a substantial benefit to my own family and
more importantly to so many other Hawaiian families. It is our kuleana to protect and preserve
the land we are still blessed to own, and by doing so, we pay homage to our kupuna who came
before us.
Mahalo nui for your consideration and time.
Sincerely,
O-n
C T1 73CD
C~> mo oH m I
rnoOb nLinda A. Clark
(808) 268-9844
clarkl004@gmail.com
m JT]●74
OCK
RECL.VFn
m\ SEP 30 PH |: 28
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Carol Daum <gncdaum@gmail.com>
Thursday, September 30, 2021 11:59 AM
County Clerk
written testimony 10/1/21 Maui Council agenda
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from gncdaum@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha,
Please submit this testimony tomorrow for Agenda item #21-479:
As a member of the MVA and a resident in Maalaea  Iam requesting that you (this council) please
vote to request action from the FAA requesting relief of aircraft noise by:
(1) that Ma'alaea be declared a noise sensitive area,
(2) that noise abatement procedures be established, and
(3) that all arriving aircraft be required to fly approaches which avoid flying directly over Ma’alaea
Village.
This aircraft noise directly overhead is very disruptive, constant and irritating to an otherwise very
quiet village.
Respectfully
Carol Daum
190 Hauoii ST
530-318-6452
The contents of this email message and any attachments are intended solelyfor the addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or privileged information and may be legally
protectedfrom other disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient of this message or their agent, or if this message has been addressed to you in error, please immediately
alert the sender by reply email and then delete this message and any attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any use, dissemination,
copying, or storage of this message or its attachments is strictly prohibited. Please do notforward this message without permission from the sender.
1
RECEIVED
AQUA ASTON Z0?l SEP 30 AH © 50
HOSP I TAL I TY OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
September 30, 2021
TO: Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlin-Fenandez, Vice- Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
FR: Aqua-Aston Hospitality
RE: Comments on Bill 101 Relating to County Transient Accommodations Tax
(Sent via e-mail county.clerk@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing Aqua-Aston Hospitality, LLC (“Aqua-Astom’) to provide
Comments and Amendments on Bill 101 establishing  anew chapter 3.47 to the Maui County
Code, implementing a county transient accommodations tax. Aqua-Aston has engaged in hotel and
resort management in the state of Hawaii for over 75 years.
Bill 101 establishes a county transient accommodation tax of three percent (3%) ("County
TAT"). The new County TAT imposes a monthly tax on the gross rental or gross rental proceeds
derived from the furnishing of transient accommodations. Every transient accommodation broker,
travel agency, and tour package that arrange transient accommodations, and every operator, and
occupant of a resort time share vacation unit, must pay to the County the tax imposed. The County
TAT takes effect upon the approval of the ordinance.
Aqua-Aston understands the County's intentions in establishing the County TAT in
response to Act 1, Special Session Laws of HawaiM, which stripped the County of allocated State
Transient Accommodations Tax. Nevertheless, we have concerns with the implementation of
the additional 3 percent increase. The Council intends to have the County TAT levied from
October 1, 2021, which is the same day that it is being heard for second and final reading.
Accordingly, the County TAT would be retroactively applicable to reservations made on October
1, 2021 even though the bill has not been officially signed by the Mayor.
Having the County TAT levied upon October 1,2021, the date which Bill 101 may become
effective, puts hotel operators at a disadvantage. Primarily, hotel operators will not be able to: 1)
disclose the new tax to guests in advance; and 2) collect the new tax as the guest already booked
their room at a specif c price including tax. Hotel operators will not be able to charge guests for
the County TAT until Bill 101 has been offcially passed and signed into law. Therefore, Hotel
operators will need to pay for the County TAT themselves for reservations between October 1 and
the date Bill 101 is officially approved and able to be included in charges for rooms.
Office; 820 Mililani St, Ste. 600, Honolulu, HI 96813 T 808-931-1400
Mailing Address; 6649 Westwood Blvd., Orlando, FL 32821
Aqua-Aston respectfully requests the County TAT not be levied until, at a minimum, the
date immediately subsequent to being officially passed to allow: 1) appropriate notice to be
given to guests and travel partners; 2) hotel operators to charge for the County that is officially
passed; 3) booking engines to be updated with the new County TAT; and 4) rental
agreements to be modified with the new required language.
Accordingly, Aqua-Aston recommends the following amendment to Bill 101:
1. Amend the second sentence of Section 3.47.010 to state "This tax is considered levied on
the date after the Bill has passed."
Mahalo for your consideration of these amendments.
Respectfully submitted,
Denis Ebrill
Aqua Aston Hospitality, LLC, Managing Director
Office: 820 Mililani St, Ste. 600, Honolulu, HI 96813 T 808-931-1400
Mailing Address: 6649 Westwood Blvd., Orlando, FL 32821
M AR R lOTT
RECEIVED
ZOZI SEP 30 AH ID 50
VAC ATI O N S
WORLDWIDE
SM
September 30, 2021
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTO: Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlin-Fenandez, Vice- Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
Denis Ebrill, Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation
Comments on Bill 101 Relating to County Transient Accommodations Tax
FR:
RE:
(Sent via e-mail county.clerk@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing me to submit testimony on behalf of Marriott Vacations Worldwide
Corporation (“MVWC") providing comments to the proposed bill establishing a new chapter
3.47 to the Maui County Code, implementing a county transient accommodations tax. MVWC is
a global leader in the timeshare industry with ten resort properties in Hawaii. Timeshare resorts
are an important and stabilizing part of the tourism industry, and resort development provides
thousands of construction jobs in Hawaii per year.
Bill 101 establishes a county transient accommodation tax of three percent (3%) ("County
TAT"). The new County TAT imposes a monthly tax on the gross rental or gross rental proceeds
derived from the furnishing of transient accommodations. Every transient accommodation broker,
travel agency, and tour package that arrange transient accommodations, and every operator, and
occupant of a resort time share vacation unit, must pay to the County the tax imposed. Pursuant to
Section 3.47.010, the new County TAT is "considered levied on October 1, 2021." The County
TAT takes effect upon the approval of the ordinance.
MVWC understands the County's intentions in establishing the County TAT, however, we
have concerns with the implementation of the additional 3 percent increase. The Council intends
to have the County TAT levied from October 1,2021, which is the same day that it is being heard
for second and final reading. Essentially, this would mean that the County TAT would be
retroactively applicable to reservations made on October 1,2021, even though the bill has not been
signed by the Mayor. Hotel operators will not be able to charge guests for the County TAT until
Bill 101 has been officially passed and signed into law. Therefore, Hotel operators will need to
pay for the County TAT themselves for reservations between October 1 and the date Bill 101 is
officially approved and able to be included in charges for rooms.
Having the County TAT levied upon October 1.2021, the date which Bill 101 may become
effective, puts hotel operators at a disadvantage. Primarily, these hotel operators will not be able
to disclose the new tax to guests in advance, and therefore, may not be able to collect the new tax
as the guest already booked their room at a specific price including tax. Furthermore, timeshare
resorts will need to update their Hawaii disclosure statements and file with the Department of
Commerce and Consumer Affairs ("DCCA").
9002 San Marco Court, Orlando, Florida 32819 T 407-206-6000 F 407-206-6420 marriottvacationsworldwide.com
Proud supporter of Children s Miracle Network Hospitals
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmembcr Keani Rawlin-Fenandcz, Vice- Chair
September 30, 2021
Page 2
Accordingly, MVWC respectfully requests the County TAT not be levied until, at a
minimum, the date immediately subsequent to being signed into law by the Mayor to allow: 1)
appropriate notice to be given to travel partners that the law has been signed; 2) hotel operators to
charge for the County TAT that is officially passed; 3) booking engines to be updated with the
new County TAT; and 4) rental agreements to be modified with the new required
language. Furthermore, making the County TAT levied after it officially becomes law provides
resorts adequate amount of time to properly notice guests that the law has been officially signed
into law.
Based upon the foregoing, MVWC recommends the following amendments to the County
TAT bill:
1. Amend the second sentence of Section 3.47.010 of Bill 101 to state "This tax is considered
levied on the date after the Bill has passed."
Mahalo for your consideration of these amendments.
Aloha,
Denis Ebrill
Senior Vice President
Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation
HAWAII STATE ENERGY OFFICE
STATE OF HAWAII
DAVID Y, IGE
GOVERNOR
SCOTT J. GLENN
CHIEF ENERGY OFFICER
235 South Beretania Street, 5th Floor, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, Hawaii 96804
Telephone:
Web:
(808)587-3807
energy.hawaii.gov
Testimony of
SCOTT J. GLENN, Chief Energy Officer
nobefore the
MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL 73O "n ooC
2;oH
m“O
ohO
October 1,2021
9:00 AM
m 1-^<
OoTT
mm
73 X
7^ ni
Comments in consideration of
CARE-42
RELATING TO ZERO NET ENERGY HOMES
o
Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council, the
Hawaii State Energy Office (HSEO) supports the intent of CARE-42, which would
require new one and two family residential buildings over 5,000 square feet to be zero
net energy homes, and looks forward to further refinements of the measure.
We are all aware of reports from the United Nations, from scientific organizations
and other distinguished bodies indicating that climate change is accelerating and which
point to worsening droughts, forest fires, floods and rising sea levels. Scientists agree
that rising temperatures caused by man-made CO2 emissions are the prime cause of
these catastrophes.
CARE-42 is part of a national shift that recognizes the importance of building
codes to steer our buildings, and the energy systems that support them, to more
sustainable and efficient designs. Both our buildings and our energy infrastructure
generally last more than 50 years.
Measures such as this are intended to move the builders of high-end residences
toward highly efficient windows, roofs, air conditioning and water heating technologies
which in turn would help to bring these products to hardware department shelves.
Perhaps just as importantly, measures such as this spark conversation and
creative thought, as we recognize the importance and lasting impact of the facilities and
Page 1 of 2
Hawaii State Energy Office Testimony
CARE-42 Relating to Zero Net Energy Homes - Comments
October 1,2021
systems that are built today, and hear about the potential interactions between home
design, energy resources, and our natural environment.
Greater building efficiency, and the ability of homes to produce their own energy,
reduce pressure on using our limited land, especially agricultural land, for renewable
energy development. Maximizing the use of roof space for energy production - even in
excess of the amount used for the individual building - has the potential to further
reduce demands on our limited land areas, and could also be considered in this bill.
It is important to avoid measures that unintentionally cause facility owners to
switch to the use of fossil fuels, or to isolate themselves from the grid. Progress toward
decarbonization is supported by greater participation in efficient renewable energy
production, distribution and use through interactive, grid responsive systems.
The Hawaii State Energy Office looks forward to participating in these
discussions, as the details of CARE 42 are worked out in a way that moves Maui and
the state of Hawaii toward energy self-sufficiency. In joining forces with similar
initiatives across the country, advanced building codes and standards have the potential
to move the CO2 needle downward and contribute to Hawaii’s net carbon negative goal.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
Count^CJetjc
From:
Sent:
Joel Goldman <donutking22@gmail.com>
Monday, September 27, 2021 10:11 AM
County Clerk
Testimony for article 21-479 COUNCILMEMBER KING, relating to aircraft noise and flight
paths over Ma’alaea and South Maui
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from donutking22@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha
My name is Joel Goldman and I own property at the Ma’alaea Yacht Marina in Wailuku. As the number of flights in and
out of Maui has increased substantially over the past few years, the amount of noise is getting impossible to ignore.
There are documented health concerns about people subjected to excessive noise over time causing various health
conditions like heart attacks, loss of hearing, depression and others. While I realize one can't simply get rid of the
airport to reduce the noise, a number of proposals have been submitted to the director of the airport, Marvin Moniz,
which have then been denied by the FAA. The airport director I believe would gladly implement the proposals, but his
hands are tied by the FAA.
I am hopeful that bringing this issue forward by council member King will help move the FAA to agree the proposals
merit implementing, especially since they save time, money and noise. There appear to be no downsides to this, except
the FAA needs to make the change.
Sincerely,
Joel Goldman
OC
O-t;
C31
3 ^“1 m
oo moro
-<
oo "ITr" mm -i
Ot: m ro
O
1
September 30, 2021
To: Maui County Council and Council Chair Alice Lee
Subject: Testimony requesting Abatement of Air Traffic over Ma'alaea Village
Dear Council Chair Lee and Council members
My written testimony today respectfully requests the Council to advocate on behalf of Ma'alaea
Village residents for a redirection of incoming air traffic flight pathways away from the residential
area of Ma'alaea. Currently a constant barrage of aircraft approach the Kahului Airport via a
direct low altitude flyover of every Ma'alaea condominium and home. The flights typically begin
early in the morning, around 5 am, and continue late Into the evening. When aircraft fly over,
residents' phone conversations must be halted due to the noise, and individuals on the other
end of the line can hear the roar of the jet engines. The noise pollution is unhealthy, as is the
fuel exhaust coming down from a relatively close proximity.
My family and I have resided in Ma'alaea for over 40 years, and many years ago most flights
approached in a different manner which did not negatively impact the residents and guests of
Ma'alaea. Then, incoming flights did not fly directly over every single Ma'alaea residence, but
instead over the uninhabited area of Kealia Pond, between Ma'alaea and Kihei. Occasionally an
incoming flight still uses the old approach over the unpopulated refuge and beach, but that is
rare. It seems like a relatively easy fix to change the flight path by a few degrees and
subsequently provide much needed relief from the current noise and air pollution.
Please use the weight of the Council to impress upon the agencies in charge, be they the FAA,
Kahului Airport management, or others, of the need to address this issue and change the
incoming flight pathways away from direct low altitude flyovers of residential areas.
Mahalo for your time and attention to this matter.
OC
73O 11
CDMahalo with Aloha, c j2
“jm
m<r>
oJ
Lora Harbo -< !  ' I
oO 53“-n
mm —i
X
7^ m O
O'
To: Maui County Council Meeting Testimony 10/1/2021
countv.clerk@mauicountv.us
From: Captain H. Wm. Hawkins
bill.hawkins@live.com
808 249-8224
Subject:Communications # 21-478
Relating to aircraft noise and flight paths over Ma’alaea ASS<.>LlATION
Aloha Council Chair Alice Lee and Members,
Thank you for the opportunity to address you today regarding aircraft noise and flight paths
over Ma’alaea. I am Bill Hawkins retired airline captain/check airman and former Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) approved designee. As the chairman of the Ma’alaea Village
Association (MVA) Aviation Committee, we seek your help in declaring Ma’alaea an aviation
noise sensitive area and to promote a plan to offset the final approach to the Kahului airport
(OGG) in order to avoid direct flights over Ma’alaea at low altitudes with excessive noise levels.
We have spent the last 3 years advocating with the FAA and the Hawaii Department of
Transportation. We have met with Marvin Moniz OGG airport manager and been in touch with
fellow airline pilot Congressman Kai Kahele. But due to F/\A resistance to change, we have had
little success. We appreciate South Maui Council member Kelly King bringing the matter to the
Council to be addressed. We understand Haiku has smilier aircraft overflight noise concerns.
This request is made on behalf of the safety and well-being of Ma'alaea residents directly
under the path of arriving aircraft now averaging more than 250 flights per day. While it is
understood that the airport was here first, arrivals have increased significantly since the 1970's
when Ma'alaea was first developed. While the Ma'alaea residential area has changed little, the
airport has experienced a continued increase in traffic. In 2021 aircraft arrivals are running
above those for pre-pandemic 2019 and is expected to rise even more in the future. Jet engine
noise exceeds that of a jack hammer. Imagine how 250 flights per day, every day, directly
above you is equivalent to a jack hammer constantly in your home.
Douglas M. Hildrew, M.D., medical director of the Yale Hearing and Balance Program, has gone
on record stating that a high level of noise stimulates a stress response that increases blood
pressure and levels of stress-related hormones causing cardiovascular issues, including stroke.
The American Heart Association warns of an increased risk of heart attack for those who are
regularly exposed to excessive noise, the kind found near airports. Chronic stress is a
contributor to deaths related to immune system suppression, diabetes, atherosclerosis,
psychiatric illness, sleeplessness, fatigue, and possibly cancer. Hearing loss adds to the risk of
cognitive decline. Health issues are not small things. Aircraft noise over Ma’alaea is as big a
safety issue as safety concerning crews and passengers. It is time the fAA treated it as such.
The solution is surprisingly simple; redirect low level flights to fly over uninhabited areas. A
modified approach has been submitted to Marvin Moniz OGG airport manager. This approach
is based on an existing visual day only approach. But this new proposed approach consists of
radar vectors to intercept the final Instrument Landing System (ILS) to avoid Ma’alaea. This
approach can be assigned at anytime including night and during poor weather conditions.
Page 1 of 3
Meeting Testimony 10/1/2021Maui County CouncilTo:
The OGG airport manager has been helpful but due to high workloads and other priority safety
items, communications are slow to almost non-responsive. Your help to acknowledge that this
is a priority safety issue encouraging timely updates would be a boost to these efforts. While
your direct control in this matter may be limited, your influence can not be ignored. The council
influences many supporting aspects of airport areas. The County Council is the single most
important advocate for Maui safety and environmental concerns. The Council is encouraged to
contact airport managers, HDOTA, and the FAA expressing concerns as to the safety of those
who reside in harm’s way.
Mahalo,
Bill Hawkins,
Chairman MVA Aviation Committee
817 875-8875 Mobile
808 249-8224 Land
bill.hawkins@llve.cofn
MVA Past President
American Airlines, Captain Ret.
Former American Airlines Check Airman
Former American Airlines Flight Standards Evaluation
Former FAA Approved Program Designee Boeing 757/767
Former United States Air Force (USAF) Combat Pilot
Former USAF Captain C-141 Flight Examiner/Aircraft Commander
Former USAF UPT Williams AFB T-37 T-38
Attachment: Proposed Radar Vectors OGG RWY 02
Page 2 of 3
Alls 128.6
HCF APPROACH
119,5 225.i
MAUI TOWER*
118.7 279.6
PROPOSED RADAR VECTORS
(OGG)CPHOG) RWY 02
Kahului, Hawaii
MAUI MAUI
115.1 OGG zz:
Chon 98lOCALIZER llQ.l
l-OGG ==r
WAILUKU KAHULUl
5788
LA.NAI
VAllET ISLAND 1
327 VY1 -4617
lANAi
1 i 7.7 LNr z”
Chen 124
7-MILE FtNAL
2.000 ACL/A0^.
IMAALfAEMAALAEA IS A
/NOISE SENSITIVE AREA
AVOID OVERFUIGHT / KIHEIDURING VMC OPERATIONS
/
/R-085
WAILEA
Proposed Draft
NOT FOR NAVaCATION
MAKENAMOLOKINI
IIKAHOOLAWE
VEDRECCount^Clei^ T- j
From:
Sent:
Lyndon ibele <akibele75@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 29, 2021 7:41 AM
County Clerk; Alice L. Lee
Kelly King
Air traffic noise over Ma'alaea
?0Z1 SEP 29 AM 7: 53
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Cc:
Subject:
Some people who received this message don't often get email from akibele75@gmaiLcom. Learn why this is important
To: The Maui County Council and Council Chair Alice Lee
CC: South Maui County Council Member Kelly King
RE: testimony for the Oct 1 County Council meeting, regarding air traffic noise over Ma'aelaea
I am submitting my personal testimony to the Council for this item on its Oct 1 agenda.
I am a 20+ year owner of a condominium in Ma'alaea, and I am requesting action/relief from the appropriate airport
officials and the FAA, to bring relief to residents and visitors to Ma'alaea from the excessive noise caused by air traffic at
low altitudes directly over Ma'alaea.
Air traffic has increased continuously for the past 20+ years (with exception of short period of the pandemic-related
travel disruptions) and now is at near its historic high. Flights are routed directly over the community, at low altitudes,
and the noise is frequently so loud that normal conversations and phone calls have to be interrupted until the offending
jet airliner passes by.
The simple solution is to route traffic over the uninhabited area between Ma'alaea and North Kihei. Volunteer members
of the Ma'alaea Village Association have been attempting to have productive discussions with County airport officials
and the FAA for nearly 4 years. If not flatly ignored, the response received is "it can't be done" or "its too expensive",
with no additional explanation.
While I recognize that the County Council has no direct authority over the airport operations or the FAA,  Ithank the
Council for recognizing the problem and exerting whatever pressure it can to force the airport and the FAA to the reality
that this is a real nuisance, a real health issue, and a real problem that can and should be addressed.
Thank you to Kelly King for adding this topic to the Council meeting, and thank you to the County Council for listening
and responding to community concerns. Please accept this email as written testimony for the Oct 1 Council meeting.
Sincerely,
Lyndon Ibele
1
REcr
® SEP 29
tIVSD
W 9: 53
coul?r%%‘HEA S S <) (● I A T I O N
Submitted by email to: countv.clerk@mauicountv.us
mailto:Alice.Lee@mauicountv.us
September 29, 2021
To: Council Chair Alice Lee and Maui County Council Members
RE: PHASING OUT TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS IN APARTMENT DISTRICTS
This testimony for the Oct 1,2021 County Council meeting is submitted by the Ma'alaea
Village Association (MVA) on behalf of its +180 members and the owners of +500
condominium properties in Ma’alaea Village.
MVA is deeply concerned by and adamantly opposed to efforts to phase out transient
accommodation rentals (TVR’s) in apartment districts in a misguided effort to increase
affordable housing for Maui residents.
Ma’alaea condos are not attractive as residences or long term rentals with their limited
parking and limited storage. Property taxes, mortgage and maintenance fee costs are
very high, resulting in high monthly rental rates that few Maui residents could afford.
The greatest single beneficiary of reducing the number of TVR’s is the hotel industry. The
County would not see an increase in affordable housing, and instead would see a
significant loss in TAT and property tax. The loss of tax revenue would be counter to the
County’s need of greater funding to support its efforts to increase affordable housing.
All things considered, this proposal will not achieve its goal of increasing affordable
housing inventories, and will result in economic harm to the County. MVA encourages
the Council to reject this proposal.
Sincerely
Lyndon C. Ibele
President, Ma’alaea Village Association
Ma'alaea Village Association
P. O. Box 2122. Wailuku. HI 96793
maalacavillageassociatioiKggmail.com
DAEIDAH 11 ca»
OP
rimeshare with 7)C/O
m-T3
50■irn Ow
rno-<
OSeptember 30, 2021 O :s» <71r- mm --iCouncilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins- Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members for the Maui County Council
TO: oo7; m ●o
AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA Hawaii)FR:
Comments on Bill 101 ("Bill 101") ("A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
A NEW CHAPTER 3.47, MAUI COUNTY CODE, IMPLEMENTING A COUNTY
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TAX")
RE:
(Sent via e-mail to county.clerki@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing ARDA Hawaii to submit testimony providing comments to the
proposed bill establishing a new chapter 3.47 to the Maui County Code, implementing a county
transient accommodations tax. ARDA Hawaii is the local chapter of the trade association for the
timeshare industry. Timeshare is an important and stabilizing part of the tourism industry and
Maui’s economy. Timeshare owners have made a long-term commitment to Maui by purchasing
and owning real property in the County. These owners are consistent and dependable visitors who
bring substantial tax dollars to the County and continue to come even during periods of economic
downturn.
Bill 101 establishes a county transient accommodation tax of three percent (3%) ("County
TAT"). The new County TAT imposes a monthly tax on the gross rental or gross rental proceeds
derived from the furnishing of transient accommodations. Every transient accommodation broker,
travel agency, and tour package that arrange transient accommodations, and every operator, and
occupant of a resort time share vacation unit, must pay to the County TAT once it takes effect
upon the approval of the ordinance. Pursuant to Section 3.47.010, the new County TAT is
"considered levied on October I, 2021." The County TAT takes effect upon the approval of the
ordinance.
ARDA Hawaii understands the need for the County to establish the County TAT,
however, we have concerns with the timing of the application of the additional 3 percent
increase. The Council intends to have the County TAT levied from October 1, 2021, which is the
same day that it is being heard for second and fi nal reading. Essentially, this would mean that the
I
County TAT would be retroactively applicable to reservations made on October 1, 2021, even
though the bill has not been signed by the Mayor. Timeshare operators will not be able to
disclose the new tax to guests in advance. Furthermore, timeshare operators will not be able to
charge guests for the County TAT until Bill 101 has been officially passed and signed into law.
Therefore, operators will need to pay for the County TAT themselves for reservations between
October 1 and the date Bill 101 is officially approved and able to be included in charges for
rooms.
Moreover, timeshare resorts will need to update their Hawaii disclosure statements and
file with the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs ("DCCA"). This is often a time-
consuming process requiring approval from the DCCA. Having Bill 101 be effective upon
approval and levied on October 1,2021, will lead to inadequate disclosure to customers.
Imposing the County TAT in this manner will make it impossible for developers and operators to
provide full and fair disclosure to buyers, owners, and other occupants.
Accordingly, ARDA Hawaii respectfully requests the County TAT not be levied until, at
a minimum, the date immediately subsequent to being officially passed to allow: 1) appropriate
notice to be given to travel partners that the law has been signed; 2) hotel operators to charge for
the County TAT that is officially passed; 3) booking engines to be updated with the new County
TAT; and 4) rental agreements to be modified with the new required language. Further, the any
additional time will provide developers and timeshare operators time to update disclosure
statements with DCCA and provide consumers with full and fair disclosure.
Specifically, ARDA Hawaii recommends the following amendment to Bill 101:
This tax is considered levied on the date after the Bill has1. Amend 3.47.010 to state
passed."
Mahalo for your consideration of our comments. We look forward to working with the
Council on implementing a policy that will enhance the ability of developers and operators to
comply with the new existing laws and requirements that compel fair and full disclosure of the
County TAT to consumers.
Respectfully Submitted,
Mitchell A. Imanaka
Chair
American Resort Development Association of Hawaii
2
DAVID Y. IGE
GOVERNOR
DENISE ISERI-MATSUBARA
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
STATE OF HAWAII
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
HAWAII HOUSING FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
677 QUEEN STREET. SUITE 300
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
FAX: (808) 587-0600
IN REPLY REFER TO:
Statement of
DENISE ISERI-MATSUBARA
Hawaii Housing Finance and Development Corporation
Before the
OQO m
CTJ
hSj m
m“O
or-r-t
u/o
OOCOUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Regular Meeting of October 1,2021
9:00 a.m.
T]
m mo
In consideration of
Committee Report No. 21-87
Recommending First Reading of a Bill to establish  acountywide workforce
housing interest list and related policies for residents interested in workforce
housing rental or ownership units.
The Hawaii Housing Finance and Development Corporation (HHFDC) offers the
following comments on Committee Report 21-87, recommending First Reading of a
bill that would amend Sections 2.96.090 and 2.96.100 of the Maui County Code to
change wait list procedures and the methods for selecting applicants for units in for-sale
and rental workforce housing developments in the County of Maui.
This bill proposes ranking applicants for selection priority for both rental and for-sale
project units by length of residency in the County. This selection method could
potentially violate the Internal Revenue Service's general public use requirement
applicable to Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) and multifamily bonds, which
are the primary financing tools for the development of rental housing affordable to
households at or below 60 percent of the area median income. Adoption of this policy
could therefore preclude the use of LlHTCs and multifamily revenue bonds as financing
sources for rental projects developed in the County of Maui.
We further note that residency preferences in housing placements could violate Fair
Housing laws if they are determined to have a disparate impact on the basis of a
protected class under the Fair Housing Act. For example, U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development regulations, 24 C.F.R. §982.207(b), states that residency
preferences must not be based on length of residency.
Thank you for the opportunity to provide written comments on this bill.
RECEIVED
im SEP 30 AM 7: 5^TESTIMONY: COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUi
NO. 21-481 OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha and Good Day!
My name is Ralph Overton, let me take a minute to share Who we are & Why we
Care!
I've been a Maui County resident since 1997; my spouse, for over 50 years. Nancy
& I have been very fortunate to call Maui home, benefitting from the great quality
of life our island affords, in turn, our ohana has supported the community through
charity donations and volunteerism.
Nancy is on the Board of Directors...for the Maui Health Foundation and the
Friends of the Children's'Justice Center. She also serves as Treasurer for the Maui
Contractors Women's' Auxiliary.
I volunteer for the Pu'u Kukui Watershed Preserve, am a Founders Circle member
of the Maalaea Village Association; Volunteer for the Sentry Tournament of
Champions; and, a Member of the Realtors Association of Maui (RAM), however,
I am not providing this testimony on RAM's behalf, only as a concerned resident.
Nancy is an executive for the Dorvin D. Leis Company, I'm a REALTOR® specializing
in Short Term Vacation Rentals which we own, manage, and truly LOVE IT!
In a nutshell, these investments contribute to our livelihood, our retirement, and
our Keiki's futures! Hence our deep concern with this current proposal! Banning
future short term vacation rental opportunities will directly affect our ability to
maintain current living standards and affect our future!
We realize that there are many issues on this PROPOSAL'S table and on many
fronts, including legal, budgetary, and Big Business! We have empathy regarding
housing issues; however, we certainly don't agree that prohibiting Short Term
Vacation Rental investment opportunities will best address!
This proposed ban will not only affect our family but also other Maui ohana who
strive to gain access to real estate investing on Maui!
Please consider the NEGATIVE IMPACT:
First, prohibiting our children with an opportunity to invest on Maui and help
defray Maui's high cost of living.
Second, removing & losing...our opportunity for a stake in the tourism industry,
maintain our livelihood, and create wealth opportunities?
SO, WHAT CAN WE DO IN OUR HUMBLE OPINION?
1)GREAT PLANS ARE IN THE WORKS!!
> The recently announced 100% Affordable Rental Project for Waiehu is
the type of proposal that should be passed hands down.
> More developments like this can effectively address our housing issue!
2) HOLD US MORE ACCOUNTABLE!
> Illegal Short-Term Vacation Rentals: TAT & GET cheats; Vacation Rental
owners without an on-island manager; Vacation Rental owners whose
guest count exceed the 2 X's the number of bedrooms.
> IMPROVED efforts to catch violators and consider governmental police
powers to convert these into subsidized affordable housing?
We do have additional ideas, however not quite ready to expand on.
We hope that you will Consider our Concerns and We are very appreciative of
your efforts to Move Maui Forwardl
Mahalo Nul Loa!
Ralph W. Overton Nancy Leis Overton
received
®l SEP 30 AH 10: 36
OrFIC-E Of THF
COUNTY CLERK
schat/collaboru
collaborative
September 30, 2021
Council of the County of Maui
200 South High Street, 8'^ Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii
SUBJECT: CR 21-87, Maui County Code, Section 2.96.100 Proposed Amendments In
Opposition (Hearing: October 1, 2021)
Aloha Council Chair and Members,
I strongly oppose the amendments suggested in CR21-87.
I am a housing developer focusing on housing at 30%AMI to 140%AMI levels on Maui and
Honolulu County. I am submitting written testimony to express my concerns over the
proposed draft amendments to Maui County Code, Section 2.96.100.
All our rental housing projects are highly regulated by State and Federal agencies, which
includes the application process, investors, and lenders. There is a standard in qualifying
tenants and income eligibility requirements to ensure compliance with fair housing,
accessibility, and financial qualifications.
We understand the intention of the amendments is to ensure there is a preference for Maui
residents. This can be done by the current ordinance and workforce housing agreements
required by the Department of Housing and Human Concerns (DHHC). Requiring DHHC or its
designee to qualifying tenants is not necessary.
DHHC is not equipped to handle this type of process and it will only impact and increase the
time it already takes to do this. If a project requires federal and state subsidies, there is also a
period in which the qualified applicant's information is relevant, once that period expires the
process must be started over again. The qualification process should be fully managed by the
developer and the leasing company versus DHHC who may not know when projects will be
ready to accept tenants. For developers, giving up this responsibility means more risk for the
developer and potentially for tax credit investors, debt financiers, and private equity
investors. The County/DHHC would also be liable if income qualifications are not done
properly because developers are responsible for the tax credits issued to investors. And if for
some reason DHHC or its designee makes an error and cannot rectify income qualification
1
Scliat7Collaborative.com
collaborative
errors, the developer will be held liable for the tax credits and push that liability onto the
County.
The sales period from 90-120 days will only create additional carrying costs for projects and in
the end make housing more expensive. Ninety days is ample time to sort out qualified
prospects. Projects on Maui have interest lists with sometimes 5-8Xs the number of units.
Providing more time to sell these units does not actually mean you will find a qualified family
to meet the income and credit qualifications necessary given the sizable interest list available.
It only increases carrying costs to a project.
Thank you again for the opportunity to submit this testimony. If there are any questions, or if
additional information is needed, please do not hesitate to contact me at (808)428-8717.
Warmest Regards,
Linda Schatz
Principal
2