MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-09-17
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1390,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

minutes
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
September 17, 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS. ON FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 17. 2021.
BEGINNING AT 9:01 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: The Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
September 17, 2021, please come to order.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call. In
accordance with the Governor's most recent emergency proclamation related to the
COVID-19 response. Members should state who, if anyone, is present with them as
part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha, Po'alima kakou my Maui hikina and habari. Chair from
the Hana Cultural Center. I‘m here with my EA Dawn Lono. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Habari and good morning to you Madam Chair, my colleagues
and everyone else joining us on this Aloha Friday. For the record I'm broadcasting
from home in Makawao, with the virtual background of the Council chambers. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 2
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Good morning, aloha kakahiaka, ohayo gozaimasu, everyone. I
am alone in my space here. Wish 1 was on the farm, but I'm not really there. But
there's no one else in the room with me.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair. Good morning, Members. Habari to
all and it's Friday and I look forward to an exciting meeting. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha kakahiaka kakou, and habari from the Council chambers.
CHAIR LEE: Habari.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Aloha, aloha everyone from Kula. And I'm at, in a room by
myself, my husband's in the other room, no one else is here with us and, or with me.
And good morning, and I just wanted to say the lei that I'm wearing is from Mayor
Hannibal Tavares' family, and I look fonward to enjoying it for this Council meeting.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka. and habari to each and every one of you,
especially to you Chair Lee. I am here in my bedroom, with my granddaughter sleeping
on the bed, she's not feeling well. So this is my office, and it doubles as a bedroom
sometimes, but good morning everyone.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17. 2021
Page 3
VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair, my Moloka‘i Nui ahina. I'm
in the Moloka'i District Office by myself. Hope your granddaughter feels better quickly,
Pro Tern Kama and habari kakou.
CHAIR LEE: Habari.
DEPUPr' COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Habari, everyone. That's a greeting from South Africa. I am home alone and
look forward to a great meeting with all of you today.
Please proceed, Mr. Chair.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA. KELLY T. KING, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. NATALIE A. KAMA,
VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
ALICE L. LEE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine Members present. A quorum is present to
conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Our opening remarks will be provided by Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for that beautiful message, Member Sinenci.
Now, everyone, please join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 4
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Before we proceed with today’s agenda, may I please request that everyone
keep their microphones muted unless it is your turn to speak. Decorum shall be
maintained at all times.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with testimony on the ceremonial resolution.
The first person signed up to testify is Sandy Ma, of Common Cause. To be followed
by Donna Oba, of the League of Women Voters of Hawaii.
CHAIR LEE: You're muted. Please turn your microphone on.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. SANDY MA, COMMON CAUSE:
Good morning, Chair, Vice-Chair--
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. MA: --Counciimembers. Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. MA: Thank you. My name is Sandy Ma and I'm with Common Cause Hawaii. Thank
you for allowing Common Cause to testify on this ceremonial resolution. We applaud
the Maui County Council for recognizing September 28, as National Voter Registration
Day. This is a very important day for our representative democracy, and we applaud
Maui County Council for recognizing September 28 as voter. National Voter
Registration Day. And civic education and voter engagement is so important to our
representative democracy, so we thank the Maui County Council for doing this.
And we also sincerely appreciate the Maui County Council for recognizing the vital
work of our elections officials and supporting our representative democracy. We have
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 5
always said that our elections officials are the backbone of our democracy, so this is
so important. We're so glad to see that they are appreciated in this ceremonial
resolution. Thank you again for letting us testify in support of this resolution. And thank
you for the work you do. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Ma.
Member King has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I've got a really quick question. Thank you for being here,
Sandy. I really appreciate all the work that Common Cause does. And it reminded me
that I have a donation I was going to send out. How much of that, when we get those
requests, how much of that makes it to Common Cause Hawaii, to your office?
MS. MA; Thank you for that, Councilmember King. If it's a, if you request it to be spent in
Hawaii, earmarked for Hawaii, all of it goes to Hawaii.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Good to know. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MS. MA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, great. Any more questions? If not. Thank you, Ms. Ma.
MS. MA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The last person signed up to testify on ceremonial resolutions is
Donna Oba.
MS. DONNA OBA, LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS OF HAWAII:
Aloha. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Could you speak a little louder, please, Ms. Oba.
MS. OBA: I'm sorry, but I'm not able to get my video on.
CHAIR LEE: That's alright. We can hear you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 6
MS. OBA: Okay. Thank you. Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Councilmembers. And thank you for this opportunity to speak to you today. I'm Donna
Oba, president of the League of Women Voters of Hawaii. The league strongly
supports the proposed resolution "RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 28, 2021 AS
NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION DAY". The League is a partner organization in
the NVRD 2021 and has been for a number of years. Like Common Cause, Sandy Ma
said, voting is at the core of our democracy and representative democracy, but in order
to vote you have to be registered to vote. And we're lucky in Hawaii, because Hawaii
is very modern in its selections, and especially how we register to vote. We have
multiple choices: online, application by mail, in-person on Election Day, and of course,
in-person at our County Clerk Offices.
Tuned with the passage of Act 126 this year, voter registration will be automatic with
an option to decline when resident citizens renew or get a Hawaii ID or driver's license.
For over 101 years, the League has been a nonpartisan, activist organization,
empowering voters in defending democracy. We understood from the beginning that
not everyone who is eligible to vote does, can, or is willing to vote. Sometimes you
have to remind them, remind them why it's important to vote, to register to vote, and
then remind them again to vote.
This adoption of this resolution raises public awareness of the importance of the first
step, just registering to vote. We acknowledge and thank the Office of the Maui County
Clerk, for its ongoing voter registration service, and outreach to the residents of Maui
County. The League of Women Voters of Hawaii urges you to adopt this resolution.
And thank you again for the opportunity to submit testimony.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, you’re muted.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions for Ms. Oba. If not, thank you, Ms. Oba.
Mr. Clerk.
MS. OBA: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testify on the
ceremonial resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any objections to closing public testimony on ceremonial
resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 7
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
Chair, proceeding with the ceremonial resolution.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 21-144
RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 28, 2021 AS
NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION DAY
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ON YOUR
BEHALF, ENTITLED "RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 28, 2021,
AS NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION DAY".
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember Kelly
King, to adopt the resolution.
Discussion, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May  Irequest that the Clerk, or
Deputy Clerk, read the resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 8
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair? Any more discussion, anyone?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yes. Mahalo, Deputy Clerk. 1 fully
support and thank you for introducing this resolution, Chair Lee. And I'm proud to be,
be a part of Hawaii where we've continually made strides in making voter registration
easier. From enabling voter registration, same day voter registration to automatic voter
registration now, and mail-in ballots. Inclusion is critical to democracy. And before
voting, in order to vote, you have to register to vote. And this is a critical piece in
protecting and ensuring democracy. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for introducing this resolution. It's,
I think it's really important. I almost, you know, I, I join Member Rawlins-Fernandez in
being proud to be from Hawaii where we're encouraging, you know, this expansion of
voter registration. And I almost wish we could have put something in here calling out
the recent ... of voter suppression laws across the country that are just shamefully
trying to keep people from voting in order to direct the outcome of elections. But 1 know
we want to stay positive, so I appreciate the wording.
One of the, one of the, I was hoping to make a friendly amendment to paragraph 4 of
that, that speaks to where the copies of the resolution. And if we could add Sandy Ma
of Common Cause Hawaii and Donna Oba of the League of Women Voters, to receive
copies of this resolution, I think that would be very appropriate.
CHAIR LEE: I think that's a great idea.
Vice-Chair, friendly amendment?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections. 1 support it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But yea, I wholly support this and I, and again I'm so proud of
Hawaii to be one of the State's that's increasing voter registration opportunities instead
of trying to, you know, suppress them. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Yes, 1 helped with initiating this resolution. But it was really the
County Clerk who asked me to do it. And so, Kathy, Kathy Kaohu, are you on the call?
I wanted to ask you about the young voter registration program. Kathy?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 9
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Thank you, Chair. Hold on, I got my mask on.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: I'm all tangled up in wires. The, I don't have any of my notes, sorry. The
voter, the young voter registration program is a program coming out of the Office of
Elections. And it's an annual incentive to the high school students. From what I
understand, this year, they're going to be sponsoring, Olelo on Oahu has a youth video
conference, I mean a video contest. And Office of Elections is going to be sponsoring
one of the subject matters so that the high school students would put together a video.
And they would use, Office of Elections would use the video during election time to
encourage more voter registration and voter activity by that demographic group.
CHAIR LEE: Great. And so, is Maui. Maui office helping?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. We're working with the Maui, well, we're going to work with how we
can enhance what Office of Elections is doing. But I'm working directly with the Maui
Board of Education representative Kili Namauu. And her, her suggestion is to have
the student board member launch this program for us.
CHAIR LEE: Wonderful. Wonderful. Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I just want to say thank you for your hard work. Madam Clerk, and your Deputy,
and the entire staff, for getting us through the last election. And, you know, helping us
move forward with even a greater registration, greater registration numbers. It's really
great to see the numbers increasing every year. And, and a lot of it is, you know, the
fruit of what you guys are doing and so, congratulations.
And Members, I'm assuming you have no objections to sending this copy to the two
people that Member King suggested, yea?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 1 think we have one more question from Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I just wanted to also extend my congratulations to Kathy,
and James Krueger, and your team that really pulled off amazing election as, as Chair
Lee also gave her congratulations. But that's exactly what I was going to say. I mean,
it's amazing the outcome of a first-time mail ballot statewide. And I think that you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 10
handled this so smoothly. It looked like you were doing this for a lifetime, Kathy, and
James, and your team, Joyce, and everybody. Thank you very much for your hard
work for us.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: I, I just want to thank you for that, and recognize the team that we do have.
It's a small group, but everybody worked together for the goal of pulling off a really
good clean transparent election.
CHAIR LEE: Great. Anybody else want to make a comment? If not, all those in favor of the
motion, please raise your hand and say "aye", to adopt the resolution.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: I see nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-144.
Up next is item F. on the agenda, setting the Consent Calendar.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, at this time we will set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder,
the calendar can still be adjusted even after it is set. Are there any requested changes
to the Consent Calendar at this time?
Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'd like to ask the first two items on the agenda, 21-437 and
21-438, be removed from the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any objections. Members?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 11
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk, please do that.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to pull out some of the contracts
to and ask that they could be referred to the CARE Committee. These all have to do
with recycling. There are a lot of them that had to do with recycling, so I tried to pull
out the ones that had the most, the most requests from the community.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Let me go to Member, I mean, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, well just remove CC 21-440 at
this time. And we'll take it up-
COUNCiLMEMBER KING: Oh, from the Consent Calendar. Oh, okay. Then I can wait, HI
hold. I'll hold onto those requests.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Great.
Mr. Clerk, did you get that?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: James? Okay.
Anybody else want to make any changes to the Consent Calendar? Alright. Are there
any objections to setting the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. The Consent Calendar is set.
Ms., Mr. Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 12
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BiueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku: Maui Community Media or on
mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at
any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person signed up to testify is Vera Sredanovic. To be followed by Kristin
Mills.
CHAIR LEE; Vera? Sorry, didn't get your last name. Vera?
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. VERA SREDANOVIC (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Yes. Hi. Good morning, dear Councilmembers. 1 guess I'm trying to turn on the
camera, but it's not working for some reason.
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you. We can hear you clearly.
MS. SREDANOVIC: Oh, oh good. Okay. Hi. Good morning. So, my name is Vera
Sredanovic, I'm calling you regarding CR 21-85. I'm alone here in my room. I live next
door to the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm. Please deny renewal of their CUP based on
multiple repeated violations. I will give example of typical day of living here.
Throughout the day we hear screams from tourists ziplining and two, on two parallel
ziplines, and Aqua-Balls rolling down the hill. We also hear very loud farm tours as
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 13
guides are having to yell to large groups of tourists. And these tours are conducted
right along our property line. In the afternoons and late into the night, we have large
weddings with loudspeakers, DJ's and singing guests.
Once they all leave and dragon farm close for business, we hear staff that lives on the
property party, frequently party at night. The also invite friends who will drive up the
hill and join their late-night parties. Those temporary unpaid farm workers are young
adults from all over the world and U.S. They're not locals. They work as tour guides,
zipline and Aqua-Ball operators. On occasions, very rarely we've seen them farming,
even though they arrive here on the farm programs. We did not receive notice
regarding this CUP and other amendments for, from the farm owners.
I found out about this meeting couple days ago by chance. That would explain why
you didn't receive more complaints about the farm operations and the farm. We never
received a copy of CUP from farm owners either, neither did our neighbors. I had to
locate it on the County website. I will try to keep it short, but the list of CUP violations
is very long.
Land and ... is much less than 15 acres of planted of crops. More than two events
are, more than two events are held per month. Occasionally, there are larger than
50 guests, like this week. Amplified sound is used for every wedding. Owners not
available to address noise complaints the same day. Professional event planner
information is not provided. Events don't stop at 8:00 p.m., but last much longer. Lights
are not turned off or down-shielded. Last wedding  acouple of days ago had cars
parked on the . . . streets as well. Event clean-up is never done on the same day,
typically, the next day. Set-up is done the day before. Department of Health
compliance and COVID rules is very questionable. Just yesterday afternoon, there
was a group of 30 people gathered at the ceremony  .. . Currently, outside gatherings
are limited to 10 people. And you may want to check with . . . Crystal today, because
. . . people. Tents larger than 700 square feet are used frequently. County should
investigate this Fire Department is reviewing and approving those. 1 have video proof
and audio proof of all of the violations, so they can be verified.
Considering that so many conditions have been repeatedly violated and that owners
are aware of them, it would be pointless to give any extensions as further rules will be
violated again. 1 understand and commend your desire to support job opportunities
and promotional agriculture, but this dragon fruit farm is not providing support for local
employment on this particular property. The main focus here is to generate profits from
tourist attractions and weddings, not. . . Let's keep farms for farmers and other. . .
CHAIR LEE; Vera.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 14
MS. SREDANOVIC; Thank you so much. Yes?
CHAIR LEE: You can take another 30 seconds or a minute to complete your testimony.
MS. SREDANOVIC: Oh. thank you so much. I was just trying, I know I'm speaking too fast
to cram it all, but there is so much violations. And it has been happening over the
years. So, it’s really difficult for me to see how this can be further allowed. And I really
appreciate you folks considering this. Please contact me. I have videos and audios to
prove all the dates, the numbers of people, size of tents, anything you need. Thank
you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions, Members?
Member Paltin and then Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Vera, for your testimony. I
just was wondering if you have been in contact with the Planning Department about
this. Because when we received the presentation there wasn't that type of violations
reported. So, it's kind of has to be--
MS. SREDANOVIC: Yea, oh-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Sorry, go ahead.
MS. SREDANOVIC: Yes. Absolutely. As I said in my testimony, we never received any
notices from the owners or anybody else to be able to comment on anything. So, even
though I, you know, I never even got conditional use permits from the owners, and I've
been reading it since I had to locate it online.  Idid ask the owners once, I contacted
by text and I provided that text in my testimony, which you will clearly see the text from
Crystal-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Excuse me. Ms. Vera, the question was, have you been in
contact with the Planning Department about violations to the conditional permit?
MS. SREDANOVIC: No, because I. no, because I was never aware of any conditional permit
rules. I didn't know where to get it. I know I was supposed to get it from the owners,
but I just found out now. I didn't know how the system operates. Nobody, there was
no way for me to find out, unless, until Michele, this wonderful lady, I forgot her last
name. She works for the County. I found her name online because I was reading
about ziplining because we hear screams here constantly. And I found her name in
the paper online. So, I contacted her by email regarding that. And I just mentioned to
her other noise disturbances we hear. So, she asked me, she was the one who pointed
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 15
me to the County website, and she said this is actually coming up this Friday. And this
was just this week, all happened this week just by chance. Said you better write to
them and have the testimony, and to say about your experiences. So, there was no
way for me to know how to address the County or.  .. And because I was never, I was
never provided a copy-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. And my other question was, you know, due to the
fire there and the change in Administration, there was a delay between the permit
application and our Council taking it up because in 2018, there was a fire. So, I just
was wondering, were you living there in 2017 when the notices went out?
MS. SREDANOVIC: I was here on and off of the island. So, I would spend like six days here
and some time in California. Since COVID happened, both me and my husband, who
is a doctor, and I work in the medical field also, that's why I'm really concerned about
these COVID violations happening at the farm, too. We, we basically don't have work
anymore due to COVID, so we moved here permanently as of April this year. And
that's how I was able to document these people. So, I didn’t document everything
because I, I wanted to be a good neighbor so I would text Crystal in the middle of the
night when I'm being awoken by the noise and ask her to stop it. But she would text
me the next day saying that it wasn't even happening from her property. So, she kept
denying that the noises are coming from her property. At one point, she blamed
another neighbor. I have it all in texts.
So 1,1 was just at the end of my rope. So, I had to start calling police, which is a horrible
thing do. And I didn't want to do it on the weddings, which were lasting, you know, like
I had one that was lasting at 11:00 p.m. with loudspeakers, lights, noise, screaming.
And I had to call the police, but I didn't want to do it on the, on the weddings, because
I really feel bad for the people. I don't want them to have their wedding day
remembered that day. So, I called it on their farm workers, who I don't even know how
many live there. But there's tents set up for them. I know that they don't have the best
living condition there either. And they'll have also their friends come up there to the
farm. One day I was over there because one duck was--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. You answered my questions.
MS. SREDANOVIC: Thank you. Sorry. So, much. I'm so sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. We have another question from Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question, see if Ms. Sredanovic
had sent in her written testimony?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 16
MS. SREDANOVIC: I'm sorry didn't get the question.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
testimony. Thank you.
It looks like Member Paltin said that you did send in your
MS. SREDANOVIC: Yes. Yes, yes, I did send in. I sent some supporting, I had to, I sent
you short, very short clips because 1 couldn't load more through the email, of the
screaming of one the, you could see the noise, the speakers, and all of that. But I have
much more because of the, the files are too big to send by email.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vera? Vera, how far--
MS. SREDANOVIC: Yes?
CHAIR LEE: --how far away do you live from the, the fruit farm, Maui Dragon Fruit Farm?
MS. SREDANOVIC: Okay, so, if you see my testimony, I attached also the map that Crystal
attached to your presentation from the prior meetings. So, I kind of outlined their, their
farm and what's really going on in terms of land usage. But, so, if you look at that map,
you'll see me. I'm right above them. Because their driveway where they have a parking
for tourists is right along our property line, like right... But our house is, luckily is not
there, we only have ohana which is further down. So, we are kind of, they are L-shaped
... like a hockey stick. And we are wedged on two sides. So, we see their, their zipline
and the, and the rolling Aqua-Ball is right on our, towards the ocean on the west, sorry,
southside. And on the north side, they are also bordering us. That's where the
driveway, and the parking, and the weddings. And there is this area where they used
to be natural run-off. And I know that they created, they kind of cover it for the wedding
tents. So, that's-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I just, I just wanted to know how far away you were. Thank you. So,
you're like a next neighbor almost.
MS. SREDANOVIC: Oh, yes. We're right, we're the closest. We, so we have like two sides
of our property are wedged inside of their property.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
MS. SREDANOVIC: You're welcome.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 17
CHAIR LEE: Any, we have another question for you from Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you for testifying. And I just wanted to
clarify, Chair, make this point of order, but the, what's before us today is not about the
zipline permit, agriculture related activities and their production. So, I just wanted that
clarification maybe from the Clerk's Office or Corp. Counsel, as this testimony sounds
like it has a lot to do with the zipline.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, did you want me to answer that?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Well, actually-
CHAIR LEE: She asked for, she asked for Corp. Counsel, but you probably know the subject
matter better than most of us. In your, it is, it is actually included in the committee
report. But go ahead. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, this is fora extension of the conditional permit. And it, the
owners have withdrawn their TVR request. Zipline activities will require an additional
conditional permit after August 13, 2022. So, this is for the farm tours and the selling
of products that aren't grown on the premises, and I believe the Aqua-Ball rides.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right. So, thank you. I just wanted that clarification
because I, from, from what I could hear, the testifier had quite a lot of concerns about
a future conditional use permit if they are to do that for the zipline. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Well, we'll leave it up to Member Paltin. Alright, any other questions for the
testifier? If not, thank you to the testifier.
And may we have the next one, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Kristin Mills. To
be followed by Elyssa Tsotis.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Chair, I'm sorry. In the chat, they also said wedding
weddings, too. I'm sorry. I missed that one. Weddings as well.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We can talk about it further when we get to that item.
Ms., Ms. Mills.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 18
MS. KRISTIN MILLS (testifying on County Communication No. 21-453):
Thank you. Thank you, Chair, Vice-Chair, and all Councilmembers.  I would like to
comment on 21-453, bicycle tour public safety concerns. I am a Pukalani resident and
an avid cyclist Upcountry. For a very long time,  Ihave been concerned about safety
con, surrounding the bike tours on our Upcountry roads. These concerns have only
worsened recently as numbers have increased. There are too many tour cyclists on
our roads. When I ride from my home in Pukalani up, uphill-
MS. SREDANOVIC: They'll come back to it ...
CFIAIR LEE: Alright. Anyone not, not testifying, please turn on, turn off your audio please.
MS. MILLS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright
MS. MILLS: When I ride from my home in Pukalani uphill toward Kula Lodge and sometimes
beyond, I will see up to 50 tour cyclists, oftentimes even more than that, they are mostly
unaccompanied. And I'll preface at that, the amount that 1 see is probably within one
hour. That's about how long it takes me to ride from my house to up, to Kula Lodge.
They ride in the middle of the vehicle lane, very slow, and often looking very scared.
I've actually had conversations with cyclists, and they're saying, well, 1 ride in the middle
lane because I'm terrified. Well, you have ten cars driving behind you. So, cars end
up passing them fast in the opposite lane. All of  asudden, they look up from looking
at the road and see a car speeding right at me. And it's horrifying.
So, then, sorry, I lost where I was on my what I wrote down. There is a lot of road rage
because of too many tour cyclists, which we don't need any road-rage on our roads.
So, we need to, one, limit the number of tour bikes on our roads. They need to be
accompanied. And then the vans and cyclists need to pull over when there's vehicles
behind them. Once again, here's another topic where we need to put residents before
tourists. Yes, we need visitors. Yes, our mainstay income is from tourism. But we
need to find a balance between being open and showing aloha to our, our visitors, but
respecting the, the fact that our residents need the roadways to get to work, and to
school, and also to our own recreation.
Our roadways are not a Disneyland ride, but that's what they've become. So, we need
to limit the tour cyclists, how many are on our roads, so we can protect everyone's
safety. Thank you, everyone.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 19
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina has a question for you, Ms. Mills. Ms. Mills?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning, Ms. Mills. Thank
you very much for your testimony. You know, we've been getting a lot of calls about
the, you know, injuries, and the inconveniences causing the residents. What, you
mentioned limiting the amount of rides. What would you suggest? That, so, I guess a
workable and, in your opinion, an acceptable number of rides to deal with?
MS. MILLS: Okay. So, and I'll also preface though, I am testifying as a private citizen, but
I'm also a health educator with the Health Department here. I've written articles on this
topic a lot. I, in all honesty, I would have to put some thought into that. I have spoken
with some tour companies, just when I happen to be out and they're out. And these
are some of the smaller companies. I was looking at the list on the, on this discussion.
And so, when I talked, sorry, that's a side note. When I speak with other bike
companies, some of the smaller bike companies, and I don't want to name names, but
this is just from having those conversations. They all say that the concerns are with
Haleakala Bike Company. And you'll see the number of bicycles they have, over 200.
And they are, all those 200 are going out all at once.
And from what I can see and speaking with the. I've even stopped and spoken with
some of the cyclists from that company. And they're not given any instructions to stay
to the right. I mean I'm aware as a cyclist we have very limited bicycle lanes, but the
rule of thumb is typically you ride in the bicycle lane when you are, when you're able
to, and if you are unable to you stay as far to the right as possible, and they are not.
They are just five miles an hour, right down the middle of the lane. So, to answer your
question. Council, Councilmember Molina, I apologize, I don't have a recommendation.
But I could definitely put some thought into that if you'd like.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Great. Thank you for your testimony. And when this
matter does come to Committee, we certainly invite you to participate and share your
thoughts.
MS. MILLS: Thank you. I'd be happy to.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Mills.
MS. MILLS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, next testifier.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17. 2021
Page 20
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Elyssa Tsolis. To be
followed by Warren Watanabe.
MS. ELYSSA TSOLIS (testifying on County Communication No. 21-453):
Aloha, County Councilmembers. My name is Elyssa Tsolis. I am a resident of
Makawao. I am speaking regarding CC 21-453, bicycle tour safety. 1 mahalo Mike
Molina for transmitting this proposed resolution. We are in now year two of this thing
we call the pandemic. It has been very trying on all of us citizens in Maui County. And
I know all of you have been doing your job, helping to keep Maui safe. And I mahalo
you all for that.
My current concern is this bicycle tours, and that they are utilizing Baldwin Avenue. My
9-year-old son attends Kula Kaiapuna at Paia. And the traffic in the morning and also
the afternoon is very, very busy, especially during drop-off and pick-up times.
My question is why are these bicycle tours being allowed to operate during school drop
off and pick-up hours? Baldwin Avenue, as you know, is a narrow two-lane road, with
oftentimes no shoulders, no guardrails. And there has been many times we have had
to come to a complete stop because we get stuck behind these bicyclists who take up
the whole road.
You know, the risk of a head-on collision is often because there is no place to, we're
not allowed to pass a lot of these places, because there's no room. A lot of these
cyclers are oblivious to, to us. And this also goes for the cyclers that’s traveling in the
opposite direction, coming up the hill, whether they are training for some kind of cycling
events or not. They also create that traffic jam. And the drivers do get very irate, and
they are trying to pass, and it becomes very, very dangerous.
We have witnessed cyclers fall off their bikes. We have seen them flying down at
speeds they can't control, because of the obvious decline of the road. A lot of them
are kids, inexperienced bikers, and also, they are unguided. I don't understand how
these groups of tourists are allowed to bike down an island that they have no
knowledge of, without a guide. Where is the accountability for these tour companies?
There needs to be some ordinance in place with restrictions of times. The whole
Upcountry area is being affected of these bicyclers being able to bike down the volcano
during peak school hours. Take into account, take into account how many schools are
being affected. There's King Kekaulike, there's Makawao School, Seabury. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Tsolis. No, no could you just summarize and conclude your testimony?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 21
MS. TSOLIS; Okay. You know, we’re just looking to provide a safe environment, getting our
kids to school safely and in a timely manner. These bicycle tour companies, my, my
proposal is to just not allow these guys to be do, riding down the hill during drop-off
and pick-up times for school, cause it creates so much traffic. They have no regard for
anybody else on the road.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. Members, questions?
MS. TSOLIS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any questions for Ms. Tsolis?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair. And good morning, Ms. Tsolis.
And thank you for your testimony. Just quickly, the, I guess the worst, I guess the peak
time, you said is pick-up and, pick-up in the morning and pick-up in the afternoon. So,
those times, you would suggest maybe between say  7and 8, and maybe what, 1:30
and 2:30?
MS. TSOLIS: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Would that be . . .
MS. TSOLIS: Definitely. Because, you know, it's like parents are also trying to get. get to
work, you know? So, it creates so much traffic, you know. We were stuck in Paia
traffic one day and these bikes were just weaving through the stopped traffic, you know.
We're stopped all the way up at the top by the Heritage Hall and, you know, they're just
weaving through traffic with no regard for safety, you know? So, it’s, it's a huge
concern. We've seen bikes flying down in front of Paia School and they don't know
how, how steep that decline is, you know. And they're just, they're flying over that
speed bump. And, you know, we see so much, so much of them almost eat it, you
know. It's crazy.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Well, thank you for that information. That'll be certainly very
helpful when we have this matter discussed in Committee. Mahalo. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
MS. TSOLIS: Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 22
CHAIR LEE: You're welcome.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, thank you, Chair. I think Member Molina may have just
answered my question. But I was going to ask Ms. Tsolis if, you know, you mentioned
asking, requesting for an ordinance. And so, are you working with Member Molina?
All I saw was a resolution urging the Mayor to address, but it sounded like Member
Molina is working on this as a possible Committee issue too, to go forward? Okay,
that's all I wanted to know, is I wasn't sure if we were trying to go beyond the resolution
but I'm glad you are. So, that was my question. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I think we have another question from Member Johnson. Did I see your hand
up, Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: No, Chair. 1 don't have my hand up. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I guess that's all. Thank you, Ms. Tsolis.
MS. TSOLIS: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Appreciate it for your--
MS. TSOLIS: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: --testimony.
Mr. Clerk, next testifier, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Warren Watanabe. To
be followed by Noah Okuley.
MR. WARREN WATANABE, MAUI COUNTY FARM BUREAU
Communication 21
(testifying on County
What was that? Yea, I . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, you're muted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 23
CHAIR LEE: Warren? Yea, let's try with your video off. Try again. No, not your audio off.
Your video off.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's not, it's not  avideo thing. It's...
CHAIR LEE: So. Warren, do you have more than one device on?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Some, sometimes the BlueJeans software opens
twice on, on your device and that's what creates the feedback. So, perhaps we can go
to the next testifier while Mr. Watanabe logs out of BlueJeans and comes back in-
CHAIR LEE: Then logs back in.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -and you can take him.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Warren, can you log out and then log back in, so we can take the next?
We'll take the next testifier and come back to you, when you're ready, okay?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next testifier is Noah Okuley.
MR. NOAH OKULEY (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Good morning, Council. I'm here on item CR 21-85. I'm here in support of the Maui
Dragon Fruit Farm. I've been an employee here for almost two years now, a paid
employee. I know the issue in the air is kind of hard to understand right now with the
testimony from earlier. I would just like to say that in the two years I've been here, we
have had nothing but progress as far as agriculture goes. We have planted hundreds
if not thousands of plants. And we are constantly growing fruit, and sharing with tourists
and locals, and other farms around us.
In the past three to five months, we have suffered harassment from Ms. Vera, who
seems to be determined to shut us down. This harassment has come in the form of
drone photos and videos, which she has flown over our property numerous amounts
of times. She also watches us daily, from her property, with binoculars. And at
nighttime, she even comes out to the edge of her property and shines spotlights at us.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 24
And even accuses us of poisoning her coconut plants that I have yet to see her take
any time to work on.
At this point, in the past three to five months with all the complaints that she's come to
us with, we have tried to be nothing but compliant, and good neighbors and quiet.
Because we know people like their quiet when the sun goes down around here. And
at this point, we just feel violated, and our privacy has been invaded.
And ail I can really say is that I’m here in support of the farm. I've seen numerous
amounts of employees and people come to this place and absolutely enjoy themselves.
I personally love how I live, and where I live, and what I do. And thank you for listening.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. How do you pronounce your last name?
MR. OKULEY: Mr. Krueger had it right, it's Okuley.
CHAIR LEE: Okuley. Members, any questions for Mr. Okuley? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
MR. OKULEY: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, I do not see Mr. Watanabe on the call. Therefore, the
next testifier is Gaia Giannotta.
MS. GAIA GIANNOTTA (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Aloha. Aloha, Councilmembers. My name is Gaia Giannotta. I'm here addressing
item CR-21-85. And I'm here in support of Maui Dragon Fruit Farm. I've been an
employee here for two years. I'm a paid employee. And in the time that I've been on
this farm, actually, so I want to address a couple points that she made in her complaint.
One of them was that we don't farm here. And in the time that I've been here, I've
planted thousands of plants. And probably 80 percent of those plants are actually
harvestable produce, edible things. And I've made meals from what I've made. We've
shared it with our community. We'd even shared with local restaurants down in town.
And then, another thing that I wanted to address was her claim that we try and blame
the neighbors above us, when it's not true. I actually personally am friends with the
people who live in the property right above us. And I have been at their property when,
and no one's been at the farm or the farm has been relatively quiet. And the neighbor,
Ms. Vera has actually gone out and shined strobe lights at our neighbors, assuming
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 25
that it's us. And now so her, you know, her impact is now not only affecting the farm
but it's also affecting the neighbors in, in our community.
Beyond those two complaints that she made, i also just want to emphasize how
impactful this farm is for myself, as well as the people that are here. I am part, one of
the managers that hires and brings people onto the farm. And I also check in regularly
to make sure that everyone’s happy, and this is a safe space. And I can 100 percent
confirm that everyone here is happy, and taken care of, and provided for. and enriched.
This is not just a farm, but it's also an educational experience. And everyone who
comes here is able to learn about organic agriculture, as well as the aina, as well as
Maui. And we are, through our tours we're able to share that knowledge with the
tourists that come on. So, we're able to make a positive impact on the individuals that
are here, and then the people that visit us as well .So, I just want to stand here in
support of the farm, because I think it's a really important opportunity that Crystal has
been providing for the community and for us. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. Are there any questions for the testifier?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here. Sorry on your,
Ms. Giannotta, on your square it says "Schmi". But I just wanted to, wondered if you
could speak to the issue of late night, you know, events going on till 11 with
loudspeakers and, and what your intention is going forward with the zipline? Because
the zipline issue is a big issue and we've heard, you know, other areas of, of residents
next to agriculture, where the zipline, you know, have the same experience for, you
know, sleepless nights and noise all day long. So, what are the intentions going
forward with that?
MS. GIANNOTTA: We don't do any ziplining at night. Is that kind of what you are asking?
We, after 1:00 p.m.--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, the nighttime complaints were late night events, like
weddings, you know, using loudspeakers and going till 11:00.
MS. GIANNOTTA: Yea. No, I don't, that doesn't happen. Crystal is on property throughout
all of the weddings. The owner is on property through the weddings and follows what
the mandates of the time restraints.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 26
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Giannotta. Thank you.
MS. GIANNOTTA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Cameron Richards.
To be followed by Elijah Martinez.
MR. CAMERON RICHARDS (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Aloha Councilmembers. My name is Cameron Richards. I'm here to testify on item
CR-21-83; 85, I'm sorry. I just want to give my experience that I've had here. I've been
on the farm for two years now. You know, I put my heart and soul into this place. It's
been a blessing to be able to come here on Maui, you know, get my foot in the door
here. You know, learn about organic farming, do organic farming, learn about the
history and the culture here in Hawaii. Normally, that 1 get a chance to educate people
that come here and want to learn more about that. So, I'm very, very fortunate for that.
But, unfortunately though our neighbor, Ms. Vera, has been harassing us for the past
five months, I would say. A lot of these cases I've been experiencing firsthand. One
that I would like to talk about was, so we have ducks here on the property. And one
day, Ms. Vera comes down the residential driveway and carries this wounded duck
over to us. We had no clue who she was. She was coming around snooping the whole
time. She was asking us questions and when we would answer them, she just wouldn't
accept our answer and would keep snooping around. You know, and the harassment
goes on in various ways. She comes through the edge of her property. She'll
eavesdrop on us like they were saying previously. You know, she shines strobe lights,
she flies drones over our property. And you know,  Ifeel very violated personally,
because 1 do everything i can for this community. And that's something that we really
stand for here, is to, you know, provide. And with her being around here, she kind of
dampers everything that we're working towards. And that's pretty much it, you know.
I'm very appreciative for your guys time today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Richards. Questions, Members? If not, thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Elijah Martinez. To
be followed by Jeff Schlenske.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 27
MR. ELIJAH MARTINEZ (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Good morning, Council members. My name Elijah Martinez and I am speaking on the
item CR-21-83; 85, excuse me. I'm here to, in support of the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm.
I have worked here for about a year-and-a-half now. It's been an awesome, nothing
but an awesome experience. As Cam said, perfect foot in the door on Maui. And I've
met, met and learned so many amazing things. And unfortunately, the really big
damper on this whole situation is the harassment that I can attest to that Ms. Vera has
been putting on our farm through various, various methods such as kind of spying, as
well as dropping that injured duck off on the farm, when that was not agreed to by
anybody here, expecting us to take care of the situation.
And I, I work very closely under Crystal and Larry Schmitt, our owners, the owners and
boss of the farm. And I look up to them as mentors. And I can speak firsthand that,
that through this whole situation, they have both personally tried to accommodate and
work things out with Ms. Vera. And each time she, instead of trying to get an
understanding, she rather retaliates or escalates the situation. And I can only speak
good things about the farm. That's about all I, all I have to say. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Any questions, Members? If not, thank you.
MR. MARTINEZ; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: May we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Jeff Schlenske. To be
Dominique Scaltrito.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Schlenske?
MR. JEFF SCHLENSKE (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Good morning, Councilmembers. How are you all doing today?
CHAIR LEE: Good.
MR. SCHLENSKE: Awesome. Yea, I'm just here on behalf of the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm,
item CR-21-85. I just want to say that throughout this whole situation. I'm also a paid
worker on the farm. And I've been here for about six months, been able to have an
amazing opportunity. I've worked at farms and ranches around the United States and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 28
other places in the world, and this is an amazing opportunity. It's one of the most
beautiful places I've ever been. And it's just very kind of amazing to me that someone
would kind of attack this kind of place that's been around for a while. And, you know,
invading our privacy and feeling pretty violated, honestly, for, you know, us having lived
here for a while and her just showing up, which is pretty crazy.
But I think that this farm is an amazing opportunity for organic farming. We share with
the community. I've gotten to know a lot of amazing people. And basically, just share
what we, what we do here with not only just tourists, but other people, such as myself
that come and work here. And that's all I have to say on that matter, so thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Are there any questions, for the
Yes, Ms., Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Oh, testifier. So, Mr. Schlenske, you all seem
to be testifying from the same room. Are you all living on the farm? And how many of
you are there?
MR. SCHLENSKE: 1 want to say there are about 15 of us workers here.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And you all live on the farm?
MR. SCHLENSKE: Eight permanently, yea.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You have eight folks permanently. Is the, is the living conditions
permanent because, you know, we don't really have provisions right now for a lot of
housing?
MR. SCHLENSKE; Yea, we have, we have air-conditioned RV's. It's honestly an amazing
living system that we have here.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: RV's, you live on the farm? Okay. And then most of you are from
out-of-state it sounds like?
MR. SCHLENSKE: Yea, most of us are from out-of-state. I would say the majority are, yea.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 29
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you for testifying. So, you're living in a recreational
vehicle? Is that what you said, RV?
MR. SCHLENSKE: Not, not a. not a full RV, no.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: What does that mean?
MR. SCHLENSKE: A luxury RV.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, it is a RV, but it's just a fancy one?
MR. SCHLENSKE: Yea, a pretty fancy one.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think that's not allowed. Thank you.
MR. SCHLENSKE: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you.
Let's have the next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Dominique Scaltrito.
To be followed by Ajay Draper.
CHAIR LEE: Hello, Ms. Caldito/s/c/
MS. DOMINIQUE SCALTRITO (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Aloha, dear Councilmembers. My name is Dominique Scaltrito and I'm here today to
testify for item CR-21-85, in favor here of the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm. So, I have been
a paid employee of the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm for about five months now. And I can
honestly say that in my 28 years of life, it's one of my most favorite jobs I've ever had.
I'm here today because I love this place. I want to support this place and keep it going.
The reason that it's one of my most favorite workplaces is because it's rewarding to
work here. I have learned more about the earth and growing and organic farming than
I could have ever expected. I actually visited a farm over in Oahu and I can compare,
you know, like this farm is incredible.
We are watering every day. We're planting, we're pollinating, we're propagating, we're
harvesting. I didn't even expect to, you know, do ail of these beautiful things and learn
as much as I have about the land. So, really. I'm, just want to, you know, testify that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 30
this is a really happy workplace. We're taken care of here and we are, you know, I feel
like this is a really safe place. And I'm just really confused and kind of heartbroken that
it's been attacked by our neighbor, who is, you know, just ignorant about what is really
going on here. So, thank you so much for your time, and I appreciate it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
If. Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, then Member Paltin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. How many of you, aloha, mahalo for
your testimony. How many of you folks live on the farm?
MS. SCALTRITO: There is, it varies, yea. There's about eight of us here now that are living
here.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And so, it, it ranges. So, there's eight now, but there
could be less sometimes and more sometimes?
MS. SCALTRITO: Correct. It's always kind of like  aconstant change of people. Not constant.
Some people stay a little bit longer, you know, some people stay shorter. Kind of just
depends.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
MS. SCALTRITO: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you. I didn't write down your name.
But just following up on Member Rawlins-Fernandez question. Wondering if everybody
lives in the luxury RV, or if there is camping going on?
MS. SCALTRITO: Yes. everyone stays here in the RV. Very comfortable conditions. We're
really blessed.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Is it one RV or more than one?
MS. SCALTRITO: We have two.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Alright. Thank you.
MS. SCALTRITO: Thank you so much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 31
CHAIR LEE; Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here this morning. My
question is. you know, we've heard from various testifiers from your same company
that the harassment has been going on for at least five months, is that correct?
MS. SCALTRITO; Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: And if it has, I can almost imagine how horrible that must be, or
that must feel to all of you.
MS. SCALTRITO: It's a bit uncomfortable for sure.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; So, my question is have you ever thought to maybe invite your
neighbor over, and to show her what you folks are doing? And maybe give her a
different perspective of whatever it is she's thinking that you are doing with all of her
inquiries that she does through her night light and her, 1 don't know, whatever other
tools she might use to investigate all that you are doing? You ever thought to invite
her?
MS. SCALTRITO; That's a good question. I don't really believe she's kind of given us the
chance. But, you know, we would be happy to do that.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: You folks are going to be neighbors for a long time. And five
months of being harassed is a long time.
MS. SCALTRITO: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: And here in Hawaii, we'd like to make sure that people have
aloha for one another. And that begins with having good, honest conversations. So,
that's just my thoughts towards you folks and what you are doing. Thank you.
MS. SCALTRITO: I appreciate that. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you for coming by and testifying.
MS. SCALTRITO: Mahalo. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 32
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Ajay Draper. To be
followed by Crystal Schmitt.
MR. AJAY DRAPER (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Hello, Council. My name is Ajay Draper. I'm here to talk in favor of Maui Dragon Fruit
Farm, on item CR 21-85. And I'm a paid employer of Larry and Crystal Schmitt. And
what attracted me to this farm is that they're organic. And I really like that about
farming, is that you're organic and you help the earth. And I was really hurt when our
neighbor, Ms. Vera, accused us of having poison and then using it there, on her palm
trees. It confused me, because that's not what we're about. We're about helping the
earth, and we want to grow food that's healthy and sustainable.
Another thing that we're hurt about is that our neighbor accused us of not farming too
much. And like Dominique said, constantly watering, we're weeding, cause we really
want our farm to be good and productive and look nice too. So, we're constantly
weeding. And I just want to say I'm really happy and fulfilled working here, because
we're growing really delicious fruits and our customers seem to really love it. It tastes
really good and I'm happy to be contributing to the community. I like working here.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members? If not, thanks again.
Next testifier, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Crystal Schmitt.
To be followed by Rod Antone.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Schmitt?
MS. CRYSTAL SCHMITT (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Aloha, Council Chair and Councilmembers. I have so much to say, and I just wanted
to say Maui Dragon Fruit Farm is a organization with a mission. We are here to grow
organic food. We are here to take care of our aina. The pandemic has been really
hard. I mean, last year, we started, you see how quickly the grocery stores, the shelf
just went empty. I was panicked in the beginning.
And I was thinking to myself, what happen if Costco's containers stop coming? What's
going to happen to this island? We actually used to be one of the major Costco lettuce
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 33
supplier. We used to do truckloads of organic lettuce to Costco, weekly basis. I was
thinking to myself and to the community, just imagine if 80 percent of Costco, Maui
Costco's food items are all grown by people here. We don't have to worry about if
Costco's containers not coming. Not only we can do that, we also can supply maybe
other island, like Honolulu.
So, organic farming is key because you make soil more and more productive. The
longer you farming, the better. Instead of if you do chemical farming, the longer you
do the bet, the worse the soil.
So, I have a great, great group of staff members. They're awesome people. They
basically want to help. They want to produce healthy food for people. They're
passionate about it. They're just very motivated, intelligent kids who could be our future
organic industry leaders. That's what we're here for. I’m inspired by them, you know.
They, they're just such wonderful respectful kids. So, we here as a family, we're very,
very happy as a group. We just want to say we want to contribute and thank you.
Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, we heard from many of your employees.
And I just wondered if you could verify that you have luxury recreational vehicles on
your property?
MS. SCHMITT: You know, actually the County inspector came yesterday afternoon. And
they actually took pictures. They went inside. You know, its summer, so my electricity
bill is really, really high because the place is 24 hours air-conditioned. I don't even get
to live there like that. I mean, there's massage chairs inside. So, they will get back to
me to say as far as if it's okay. We also, actually one of them is drivable. You can put
the key and move anywhere. So, it is actually very nice.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And, and how many employees do you have living there
from all the people that we've seen?
MS. SCHMITT: So, we, so, we basically constant right now on payroll is eight. Occasionally,
we have more and less. It a slowdown season, but it does varies a little bit. But this is
a good level that for us to be, feel productive and feel it's, you know, it's just very nice.
We constantly adjust. So, we have Gaia, who was, testified earlier. I do want to say
one more thing; how nice those kids are.
So, Ajay, Ajay is the last one who testified. I overheard a conversation, just overheard
it. She said, Ajay, what is the biggest fear you have in your life? And he was like.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17. 2021
Page 34
thought about it, he's like, my biggest fear is dealing with people with no aloha. I mean
that, that's, they're just wonderful people. And  ijust. 1 cannot say enough. I'm happy
that we have kids out there who take up agriculture, take up with passionate and want
to contribute.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Any Other-
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Did I miss anybody in between?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 1 was just going to ask-
CHAIRLEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: If we, if we can just ask if Ms. Schmitt would be
available when the item comes up? Because the questions are not clarifying questions,
and then we can continue on with the public testimony.
MS. SCHMITT: Absolutely. We will stay here until our item comes up.
CHAIR LEE: Member Tasha Kama, you had your hand up.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I was going to ask the same, because it seems like there's so
many questions that are being asked, and they are not actually germane sometimes to
the testifiers. So, if we could maybe have them as resource people. I concur with our
Vice-Chair. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to having Ms. Schmitt return when the item is discussed?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
Ms. Schmitt, could you continue to watch our program and then when your item comes
up then stay on, come back on the call, okay?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 35
MS. SCHMITT: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Or. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Or, or if staff can get her number and then just call
her when the item is coming up? So, she doesn't need to monitor the meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, Clerk, Mr. Clerk?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I can give it to them. Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk, may we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Rod Antone. To
be followed by Kevin Watkins.
MR. ROD ANTONE. MAUI HOTEL LODGING ASSOCIATION (testifying on Committee
Report No. 21-85):
Aloha and good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. ANTONE: Aloha. Rod Antone, registered lobbyist with the State and County for the
Maui Hotel & Lodging Association. This is in regards to the bill to establish a new
Chapter 3.47 of Maui County Code, to create a three percent transient
accommodations tax, TAT, on all gross rental, gross rental proceeds, and fair market
rental value as, as considered taxable under the definitions of Section 237D-1, Hawaii
Revised Statutes.
You know, the main thing about my testimony here today is the industry just wants to
make sure that when the. when the new tax is collected, it's not something that happens
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 36
in the middle of a, a guest's billing. For example, if the guest checks in on
September 28 and doesn't check out until October 2, we don't want them to pay one
bill and then, at the end of it say, by the way, we got to add three percent to it. So, we,
MHLA respectfully requests that the new TAT collection date be delayed until after
October 1, 2021, and preferably sometime in 2022. Again, guests pay in advance.
The State of Hawaii, when they increase TAT, they, they gave some time for notification
and changes to be made. There’s computers software systems that we need to
change. Third-party sales agents must update their computer systems with the new
taxes, internal prices. Basically, we're just asking for a little bit more time. And that's
my testimony as a lobbyist.
And I'd just like to mention as a individual resident, thank you, Councilmember Sinenci
for your acknowledgment of, you know, this is suicide prevention month, and mental
health is a very real thing out there. And we need to be able to talk about it so that
people don't feel bad about getting help. And that's my testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Rod.
Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Antone, for your testimony.
I just wanted to clarify when you said October 1, if not later. Is that because, I mean,
do, I don't understand how that would make it not in the middle. Like, if someone right
now booked a stay in November, then you could add it on, or nobody stays from
September to October? 1 just wasn't clear on that.
MR. ANTONE: Okay. So, let me, welcome back from France, by the way.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MR. ANTONE: I enjoyed your pictures. So, let's say you book a stay, and it's September,
and it's after. Cause I, from what I understand, October is when you folks will vote,
October 1 is when the Council will vote. And if your vote, yes, it goes into effect
October 1. Did I get that right? Is that the schedule right now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Rod.
MR. ANTONE: Okay. Okay. So, we cannot add a three percent before the Council enacts
it. And if it goes into effect that day and there's, you know, if it's, if you're applying it to
everything after October 1, all new reservations, that's, that's much less of a problem.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 37
If it affects everybody in the hotel on October 1, you understand what I'm saying right
now? These people, the people in there right now, it's not just people that checked in
on October 1. There's people there that checked in before that paid and agreed to
price, that signed a piece of paper that says we agree to pay this price. And then, the
hotel is going to have to go back and say, by the way we gotta add another
three percent.
I think Kauai has, I think they passed it yesterday. And if I'm not mistaken, they've
agreed to only have it to apply new, to new reservations after October 1. Does
everybody understand that?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 1 think so. yea. Thank you.
MR. ANTONE; Okay. Okay. Took me a while too, guys. Don't worry about it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions for Rod?
Vice-Chair, and then Member Molina.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. 1,1 know Member Molina had his hand
up before me, but I'm hoping that I can provide clarification. And it may answer his
question before he asks. As the author of the, or introducer of the bill, and so, to answer
and address the concern, I guess, this isn't a question. But my proposals to amend,
as we all were aware in Committee, that we would be getting language from the State
with recommendations on how to amend the bill. And it would amend so that bookings
as of October 1 would only apply, and not any bookings previous, prior to October 1.
So, that should address your concern there.
And then, I do have a question. But I'll wait until after Member Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair, and mahalo Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez. Good morning, Mr. Antone. Before I ask you my clarifying
question, congratulations on your Las Vegas Raiders resounding victory the other night
on Monday Night Football. And speaking of-
MR. ANTONE: Fantastic. Thank you, Mr. Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 38
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; And speaking of Las Vegas, which is a resort area like our
County. So basically, you're asking us with the implementation, delaying the
implementation date of this tax. So, at least your future hotel guests have an idea that,
okay this is what's going to be added to your bill, just be prepared for it, so they're not
blindsided. Am I correct with that assessment?
MR. ANTONE: Yes. So, the main concern is that the, we don't have to apply it to folks that
are presently staying, that might be staying extended into October 1 and all of a sudden
have their bill change. That was the number one concern. Number two, if the Council
is, is open to it is to delay the collection, I don't know, maybe to the start of 2022 just
so some other, we can change pricing and have the third-party pricing folks change
and change software. There, there's a bit of an adjustment time. And again, we can't
really make, we can sort of prepare but we can't put em into effect until after you guys
actually vote on it on October 1. So, to, to vote on it and then to implement it all on the
same day is a little daunting, especially when, you know, we're also dealing with making
sure we comply with the new COVID restrictions out there. But yea, those are my, yea.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Alright. And as quickly, you don't think the taxes would deter
visitors from coming? ! mean, it's not enough to keep them away when they see this
additional three percent, right, added to their bill?
MR. ANTONE: I mean, I would also make that argument. But I, but I also understand the
State has, has taken away the County's TAT. So, the County is kind of in a corner and
has to come up with a, you know, a replacement. But yea, no, I mean, you know, going
back to other discussions we've had, we would like to see, we understand we want to
make money off our tourist industry. That's how we pay for our, you know, community
infrastructure and everything. Can you get it in another way, directly from the tourists
instead of always tacking it on to an accommodations bill? I think, yes, we would really
like to see something like that. And that's why we've talked about beach parking for,
for non-residents to be charged, etc., etc.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you very much for your responses, Mr. Antone.
And I don't know if it did help, but I guess from hereon in, maybe if the hotel industry
can start alerting future visitors that, hey, such and such tax will be added to your bill.
So, just sort of, you know, prepare them for it, so they're not, you know, have sticker
shock, so to speak. But thank you for your input, Mr. Antone. Thank you. Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair, and then Pro Temp Kama, and then Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 39
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Okay. Mahalo for your testimony,
Mr. Antone. So, my first question is. has the Association and hotels been following this
bill, so HB862 from its inception, and then its veto, and then override, and then Council,
and the other counties looking to, to pass it as quickly as possible?
MR. ANTONE: I, I understand. I wouldn't be doing my job if I wasn't here bringing up these
other points.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Absolutely.
MR. ANTONE: At least informing the Council of all of the elements surrounding this bill.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, in following its inception to now its first reading,
would it not have been possible, I understand that they can't charge, hotels can't charge
the tax. But would it have been possible for them to have put a disclaimer, alerting
them that this tax would be possible?
MR. ANTONE: A disclaimer? As in, hey, this might come up, we're not sure, they haven't
voted yet. But other counties, I mean, there were  alot of questions. And, and we still
needed clarification. In the beginning there was no, I just saw County legislation in
regards to this because it came from the State. So, all we had was the State legislation,
right? As you mentioned, the vote, the override. And, and the State's legislation was
very vague. It was just we want to give the County the power to do this, correct? So,
there were a lot of questions and we just recently became aware of some of the plans.
And there were a lot of concerns about how do we let, how do we rectify letting guests
know, especially when they've already paid? It became a question about, it's almost,
you know, it's a legal contract. Okay, you want to stay at this hotel, you're going to pay
this much. And okay, what do we, what happens if they pass the three percent? So,
I, you know, could they have issued a disclaimer? We weren't sure. And maybe we
should have reached out, or, to you guys or talked to Corporation Counsel.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, I'm on my last question.
MR. ANTONE: But this is a lot, this is, you got to understand this is all happening very quickly
while there are many other things going on. We have been ovenwhelmed with trying
to get clarification on some of the restrictions passed by the Administration, of course,
now the, the Biden Administration, so there's been a lot--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Rod. Rod, we have to move on.
MR. ANTONE: Sorry. Go ahead. Hope that helps.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 40
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Thanks. Okay, my, my, my last two questions is,
one, did you not see the Mayor's press release during Budget session back in April,
expressing the intention of charging up to three percent? And then, two, would the
grant, would the clause . .. contracts that were already made, bookings already made,
address your concern about not adding a tax to bookings already made and just future
bookings as of October 1 ?
MR. ANTONE; Vice-Chair, I am afraid I was on personal leave because of events that
happened last year, you know, in April. So, I did miss that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I, I’m sorry. Not just, not just you, Mr. Antone, but
those that you represent.
MR. ANTONE; Yea, no, 1, I understand what you're saying. But I was not available.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. And then, the second question regarding
addressing your concern? Yes or no?
MR. ANTONE: I'm sorry, you were coming in and out. What is the second one again?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The second question is, would it address your
concern of bookings already made, not being, not having the three percent added to
it? And then future bookings as of October 1 having the three percent added?
MR. ANTONE; No, you, you did. You did address that. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Great. Mahalo, Mr. Antone.
MR. ANTONE: I'm still, I'm still hoping we get maybe the 2022 push-back. But I mean, that's
just a. I'm still going to ask.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry. Mahalo, Chair.
MR. ANTONE; You understand? There you go.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Rod. We heard that one already.
MR. ANTONE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 41
CHAIR LEE; Who else? Oh, Member Kama, and then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you. Chair. Thanks for being here,
Rod. So, that's what I just wanted to clarify. If  Idid hear you correct in saying that the
October 1 date for the industry would be maybe too cumbersome for you folks to
respond and to react in a manner that would be okay for the industry, and that you
were looking at something closer to 2022? And that's my question.
MR. ANTONE: Yes. Yes. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay.
MR. ANTONE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Then we. Member King, did you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I did, and it's, it's kind of related to that, that issue of pushing this
out to 2022 in order to give some notice. But i just wanted to clarify with you. Rod, that
isn't the hotel industry very volatile of any way, as far as the rates? I mean, you can
log on as a, as a potential client and get one rate one day and another rate the next
day, and then that rate could be gone by the time you decide to book it. So, it's not like
the tourism industry has any stability to room rates or that they give the general
populous any notice about their changes in room rates. So, I'm not sure why we're,
you're concerned. Is there some deeper reason why you're concerned about, you
know, giving people notice? Because, you know, I, as a person who stayed in a lot of
hotels, I never get notice when, notices when I'm looking at a hotel room and then
suddenly it goes up another $100.
MR. ANTONE: I think the difference is, when you pay the bill, when you pay to stay and then
it changes afterward--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right, but.. .
MR. ANTONE: -that is, that is the concern. Also, again, to, there's billing computer systems
that need to, there's a lot of changes that need to be made. I'm sure there's going to
be folks from the industry that'll testify after me that will be able to explain a little bit
better in more detail.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 42
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. But, but. yea. I think we already addressed the concern
about, you know, the existing reservations. So, you know, anyway, that was just my,
my question to you, is, you know, is there some reason that, is the hotel industry
wanting to stabilize its rates because it never has been stable? And you can’t, there's
no, there's no rhyme or reason between one day and the next sometimes and, and
even one hotel and the next.
MR. ANTONE: In my written testimony, I talk about the computer systems, the third-party
sales that have to update their computer systems with the new taxes, travel agents
who have booked clients who would need to reach out and advise people of the
changes. There’s, we would appreciate some time is all we're saying.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: We have another question from Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Good morning. Mr. Antone. Just a real
quick question. We've talked about taking the money, but can we talk about what we're
planning to use it for? Do you have a stance on this money going towards affordable
housing or certain things that you're for and against?
MR. ANTONE: Honestly, I'm glad you brought that up. We would like to see this TAT money
that is going to be taken, designated. We would like to see, instead of, you know,
we've had a bad taste in our mouth because the State takes it and, you know,
heard they apply it to the early retirement system, you know, instead of
infrastructure and projects for Maui. So, yea, if the Council, we, we would love to send
you guys, 1 don't know, some priorities, you know, affordable housing, infrastructure,
parks. 1 mean, we would love to see what you guys collect designated for something
specific.
we ve
we've
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
MR. ANTONE: So, we can at least say, well, that's where our money is going to.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yea, I'd love to hear you guys' stance on that. And if you
want to write, write it to us, that'd be great too. Alright, thank you. Chair. I have no
further questions.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions for Mr. Antone? If not, thank you. Good seeing you. Rod.
Let's see. Mr. Clerk, how many more testifiers do we have?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 43
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are currently six individuals signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Members, do you want to take your break now? Okay. So, let's take a break
until 10:55. And return at that time. So, the meeting is in recess until 10:55.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:41 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:56 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER
JOHNSON, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the regular Council meeting of September 17, 2021, please reconvene?
Mr. Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Kevin Watkins.
To be followed by Lana Coryell.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Watkins?
MR. KEVIN WATKINS (testifying on County Communication No. 21-455):
Aloha. Can everyone hear me clearly?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MR. WATKINS: Good morning. And thank you guys for your dedicated hard work and all the
wonderful things that you guys are doing to keep our County running on a daily basis.
I wanted to take the time to testify on, I don't remember the number off the top my head,
but the COVID, for sending that over to the Mayor's Office. There's a couple of things
I wanted to put on testimony. I'm surprised that there's not a lot of other people here
testifying on this. This is really important.
So, firsthand experience is we just had these new rule changes here that are requiring,
whether it's the Federal changes from the Biden Administration or the different changes
with the Health Pass that now there are requirements for employees to either have a
vaccination, or a test. And for many reasons, some people may choose not to get a
vaccination. This has just been an ongoing thing. We may never hit 100 percent
vaccination rates. Furthermore, many people were vaccinated back in January. And
if you look to countries like Israel or even at our own numbers, you can see that the
efficacy of vaccination wanes. Whereas, months ago, that wasn't a question. . . .
everyone just assumed that breakthrough cases were very rare. And now we're seeing
that vaccination is waning, people are needing to get boosters.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 44
And so, what I propose, so. further, to add to this is from October 15 of 2020 up until
June 8 of this year, we had a very effective Safe Travels Program that required all
passengers coming into the State, trans-pacific passengers to have a test 72 hours
prior to arrival. If you look at the data from that time period, until June 8, we had a very
flat curve. You see at the onset of June 8, and I'll happily share this graph, but I'm sure
you've seen it going around online. After that, we have an exponential curve of COVID
cases.
Now. I know from talking to the company that won the bid for the RFP that was put out
by the Mayor's Office to do secondary testing at the airports, that they were letting
people be exempt from the secondary testing if they said they had a vaccination card.
I know from firsthand experience from people that have traveled with their vaccination
card there were not adequate staff verifying that.
And then, with the information that I just shared that even though you may have the
vaccination, it doesn't mean that you can't carry it, or that you can't be an asymptotic
carrier, or that your, your symptoms are lessened. You know, we know that the vaccine
does make it to where you don't have to get hospitalized, and it does lower your chance
of death. However, with people traveling, now they're not going to feel those symptoms
and they may become a asymptotic carrier. Which we can see if we look at your data
that prior to June 8 we have low numbers and now we're at the highest our cases have
ever been. And that's . . . different vaccines on the marketplace.
CHAIR LEE: Kevin?
MR. WATKINS: So, if 1 may just summarize?
CHAIR LEE: Kevin, yes, could you conclude? Thank you.
MR. WATKINS: So, if I could just summarize. I'm proposing that in your communication with
the Mayor, that you do mandatory zero exemption pre-arrival and post-arrival testing
for all trans-pacific passengers for a minimum three-month period. So, that way we
have the opportunity to see that data be reflected accurately, if, if these are the issues.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Great. Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thanks for being here, Kevin. I just wanted to
ask you if you had made this request directly to the Administration?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 45
MR. WATKINS; 1 have written to them several times, multiple times. I think, I've got the RFP
pulled up right here. 1 think Jared is one of the contacts. I've tried contacting Josiah
Nishita, the Deputy Managing Director. I've emailed them, I've called them, I've left
them voicemails.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Are you getting any response?
MR. WATKINS; And who else? Jared Masuda. Jared Masuda, Josiah Nishita, and then the
MEMA contact. I can't remember his name off the top of my head.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Are you getting any response?
MR. WATKINS; Zero.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Alright. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
(Councilmember Johnson returned to the meeting at 11:01 a.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just wanted to clarify. This was for a second
resolution, because I think that's not within the Mayor's purview. We would resolution
it to the Governor, perhaps. Or did you mean--
MR. WATKINS: Well, so, the Mayor's Office had put out the bid previously for the secondary
testing and they worked together with the airport. I know that the airport DOTA is State-
managed. So, I know that the previous RFP did come out of the Maui County. It wasn't
a State bid. So, that's why, you know, I thought that coming here and talking to you
guys with your communication with the Mayor, that maybe you guys would find the
pathway forward with that. I've also emailed the Governor several times throughout
the pandemic, suggesting changes like this, and you know, you just, you hit a wall.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; And to clarify on that secondary testing that you were referring
to, I believe that was voluntary. Were you wanting the resolution for a voluntary second
testing, or mandatory second testing?
MR. WATKINS: I thinkfor a three-month period, we should have mandatory secondary testing
until we get our numbers down. A year ago, we didn't have vaccines, but a year ago
we didn't have our numbers this high. So, where, where, where's the discrepancy?
Now we have three . . . going on, vaccines available in the marketplace, but our
numbers have never been higher. So, you know, our testing program was effective
until the rule changes allowing exemptions to the rules.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 46
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Kevin.
MR. WATKINS: Thank you. And you guys stay safe out there.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Lana Coryell. To
be followed by Cara Fiores.
MS. LANA CORYELL (testifying on County Communication No. 21-453):
Aloha, Counciimembers. My name is Lana Coryell, and I've been a resident of
Upcountry, Maui, for my entire life. First, let me say that I'm so grateful to all you for
your hard work and care for our community and for hearing my testimony today. I'm
here today to testify in favor of resolution CC 21-453, to address bicycle tour public
safety.
Nearly every day, I drive from Kula to Makawao. On most days, I encounter both
guided and unguided groups of downhill bikers and  Iregularly observe unsafe
behavior, both from the tour bikers, and drivers. And I worry for our collective safety.
Our Upcountry roadways are simply not safe for bicycle tours. The tour route,
particularly the Haleakala Highway section, has many twists and turns with no visibility,
no bike lane, little road shoulder, a steep grade, relatively high car speed, and few safe
passing zones.
Just some months ago on my drive home, I came upon an ambulance attending to an
unguided tour biker who was laying on the ground. It just makes your heart drop. As
our hospitals are filling up, I really continue to question the wisdom of this extremely
dangerous activity. And ultimately, I feel that these bike tours are both unsafe and
unnecessary in the Upcountry area. And I support any measures to limit and restrict
this activity so that we can improve road safety for all.
And I want to be sure to mention that I support cycling on Maui for those who ride for
sport. These riders show great understanding of the rules of the road. In contrast, the
unguided bike tours show the least respect for basic road rules. They don't ride to the
far right, they make unexpected stops, neglect to signal when turning, ignore stop signs
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 47
and the list goes on. I've even seen a tour rider ride on the yellow line and nearly veer
into an oncoming lane. The guided tours are slightly better, but the groups are simply
too large and there are too many of them.
After facing group after group of tours when locals are just trying to get to work or
school, impatient drivers pass in unsafe places creating problems for everyone. While
1 am a patient and responsible driver, I have regularly been put in unsafe positions and
seen scary maneuvers by other drivers. I've also seen that many bike tour participants
look unprepared for the demands of the ride, not realizing the speed or grade of
Haleakala Highway, how much traffic there is, or how narrow the shoulder is. Some
riders can't control their bike physically and many show a complete lack of awareness
for basic road rules. Every day, I feel like there are accidents just waiting to happen
with these bike tours.
I recognize that bike tours do create some economic activity, but I wonder who pays
the ultimate price. I'm a big supporter of local business, but I'm not a supporter of
businesses that compromise our public safety. So,  Iplease, I urge you to please take
action to support limits on these bike tours in the Upcountry area. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Coryell. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much for
your testimony.
MS. CORYELL; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Cara Flores. To
be followed by Kui Aipa.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Flores?
MS. CARA FLORES. HALE HAWAII ftestifying on County Communication No. 21-455 and
Bill No. 95 (2021)]:
Aloha. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. FLORES: Hi. I'm Cara Flores. I'm the founder of Hale Hawaii and I'm testifying on 455.
I wanted to say thank you, many mahalos, to Councilmember Paltin for this resolution.
And we support it. We do feel that we need a lot more testing available to our residents.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 48
It's something we're seeing frequently in the COVID-19 . . . group, and other places on
social media, and hearing from friends.
A lot more people are being required to have testing now. And of course, all of our
keiki are getting a lot more exposure than they were. So, it's nice to have that easily
available. A lot of the testing right now is not available during after school hours or
after work hours. So, I would say that is something else that we need. The pandemic
is our huge crisis that we're having right now, and I'm glad to see anything related to it
on the agenda. I hope to see a lot more on every agenda until we're out of this, because
we're having a lot of death. We've lost 80 of our residents here in Maui County. And
we need to do more. And we need to do better.
And 1 agree with Mr. Watkins' testimony. We need post arrival testing required. We
had it for a very short period of time on Maui. It was at the airport. It would be more
effective a few days after arrival, because it is  aantigen test. And we, we need to bring
back pre-arrival testing, too. So, I encourage the Council to encourage the Governor
to bring that back, and the Mayor to put pressure on the Governor to bring that back.
If you guys have been paying attention, our numbers have actually gone down in this
week, as well as our arrivals. And I don't think that's coincidental. So, there is
community spread, and that is harder to get under control. But in general, we see that
the residents of the State of Hawaii are much more compliant, and cognizant of their
effect on others. And in general, our residents have much better behavior. Of course,
we have that small percentage who don't. But in general, we have amazing residents
who've been doing their part.
So, we need our government to do its part because we are the most vaccinated State
in the union, and we are in competition with the highest hospitalization rates in our
ICU's. So, that doesn't add up. There's a disconnect there. So, our residents are
doing their part. We need the government to step in and do a little more. And we thank
you for this resolution.
And regards to Bill 95, I also just wanted to make a quick comment. I appreciate that
we're trying to get our County's plan in alignment. And I would just like to see it go with
the 2018, any, anything looking towards the future and planning to put into the content
House Bill 2182 that was passed in 2018, where the State committed to become
carbon-neutral by 2045. So, just because that was  agoal that the State set, I think it'd
be nice to align the County goals to such a big ambitious goal. And ambitious goals
like that take a lot more ambitious action. But 1 think it's nice to have them all tied
together when you have something like that. So, that's all 1 had to say. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17. 2021
Page 49
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Flores. Members?
Member King, question?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. Thank you for being here, Cara. I really appreciate, and I
appreciate your ongoing work cause I know it's all volunteer. Just on the comment on
the Bill 95. It's on second and final reading, so we're, we're not going to be adding
anything substantial. But It was based on, I mean, the statewide requirement for
100 percent by 2045 already covers the entire State. And I'm actually hoping we can
make more ambitious goals at some point than the State's goals because I don't think
we have till 2045 to get there.
But on the, on the 21-455. have you. I'm going to ask you the same question I asked
Kevin. Have you reached out to the Mayor, the Administration, and the Governor with
these same concerns, and have you gotten any response?
MS. FLORES: We have been actively reaching out throughout the pandemic, and we don't
really get much of a response. And so, it's frustrating. But I think in general, the
community has been reaching out and trying to get, you know, more done. And I know
I feel personally that the tourism industry is being over-catered to, and residents aren't
being listened to as far as implementing more mitigation measures that'll actually do
something. So-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I was just asking you about that because, you know, we,
we've, we've passed quite a few resolutions and we don't get, you know, sometimes I
think maybe it would be more effective for residents to contact them. But you get
nothing. We just get press releases saying they're not going to do . . . resolutions
urging the Administration to do something. But we are getting some response, but it's
not the response we want. But keep trying. Keep at it. I want to encourage you. And
you know. I'm behind your efforts. So, thank you for being here.
MS. FLORES: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Flores.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Kui
Aipa. To be followed by John White.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 50
MR. KUI AlPA, KA'ANAPALI BEACH HOTEL (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-79):
Hi. Good morning, Council Chair, Council Vice-Chair, and Councilmembers. My name
is Kui Aipa, I'm the Director of Finance here at the Ka'anapali Beach Hotel. And I just
wanted to speak on behalf of the Committee Report 21-79. And just kind of echo some
of the sentiments that we heard earlier from Rod Antone, regarding timing of when the,
this proposed new tax will be implemented.
So, as an operator, I can tell you as we've gone through State tax changes, you know,
normally they would give us anywhere from 90 to about 180 days, sort of notice so we
can kind of, you know, send out the communications to our travel partners,
wholesalers. Send out communications to guests that may have already booked. A
lot of our guests, you know, they book sometimes three to six months out. And again,
it allows us sufficient time to make the necessary changes within our systems, allows
our third parties to make the same changes in their systems. But again, I'm kind of
concerned that if this goes into effect October 1, and I've heard from Councilmember
Rawlins that it would be just on new bookings that would be applicable as of October 1.
That, too, can be somewhat of an administrative challenge.
But, you know, I guess what I'm hoping is that we could, you know, once the law is
passed, normally again, we would get sort of a tax information release from the State.
I'm not sure what we'll receive from the County. But 1 would hope that we could get
some sufficient time to get things set up, you know, do the proper communications to
our third parties, to our guests that are coming in, especially here in the Fall. And, you
know, I hope that we can, you know, that this won't have, you know, an impact on our
future bookings as we kind of continue to struggle here through the pandemic. But
that's all I have. And thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mr. Aipa. Members, questions? If not, thank you again.
Mr. Clerk, next.
MR. AIPA; Alright. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is John
White. To be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with
these last four digits, 0083. These are the last two testifiers we have signed up to
testify. If there's anyone else in the meeting who wishes to testify and has not done so
yet please let us know in the meeting chat now. Again, next up is John White.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 51
MR. JOHN WHITE. KA'ANAPALI BEACH HOTEL (testifying on Committee Report
No. 21-79):
Aloha, Chair and Maui County Councilmembers. Greatly appreciate your time and
hearing a variety, a wide variety of topics today. I'm talking about CR 21-79. i am the
Director of Sales and Marketing at Ka'anapali Beach Hotel. I'm also a steering
committee member for the Maui Destination Management Area Plan. So, I, I
understand a lot of the community's comments, both pro and maybe not so pro,
towards the tourism industry. And we've put a lot of that effort into the DMAP for Maui
to make sure that we move forward.
As we've experienced, House Bill 862 and the ramifications of that, it's been such a
blow to the tourism industry, and specifically to Maui, because now we have a puka in
the budget of anywhere from $24-25 million. So, from a logistics perspective, we
understand the need to, to look at supplementing that. Our question is do we need the
full three percent to supplement that $24-25 million?
Secondly, I think we need to also look about where is that money going to go? And
specifically telling the story that if you come to Maui, and you're going to be taxed at
the highest amount of tax in the United States, with the current TAT, this additional
surcharge, and the GET, what are you getting for it? That's an important thing. At the
same time, I am a resident of Maui and understand the needs for affordable housing,
the needs for natural resource management. There's, there's tons of needs out there.
So I just want to make sure that we think about the, the upfront understanding what the
industry has gone through over the last two years, and how we are also residents of
Maui and want to support things here.
There were also some earlier questions I think that the people talked about, about
dynamic pricing, how things are affecting. And I'd be happy to share that. But in the
limited time that I have, 1 also want to echo our Director of Finance, Kui's comments,
and ask for, for some time to implement this. 1 have been fielding a ton of questions
from wholesale partners, AAA, Costco, etc. And they're trying to understand how to
go back to bookings and ask for more money on a trip that's already been purchased.
So, i thank you for your time. I thank you for going through and thinking holistically
about this. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. White. Members?
Vice-Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 52
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. White. Mahalo for your
testimony. You talked about if we need to implement the three percent. How much is
the average room? If it's about $400 to $500 that would be a tax of about 12-15. Is, is
that about right? $12-15?
MR. WHITE: Well, if you're, which tax are you applying? The GET, the TAT, or the TAT
surplus, surcharge?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; This County TAT for three percent.
MR. WHITE: Yea, it would be another three percent on top of whatever that daily rate is. If
it's $400, then yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; $12? Okay. Mahalo. Mr. White. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, yea, thank you. Chair. I thought Member Rawlins-Fernandez
was going to clarify this. But I just wanted to clarify, because you testified about
previous bookings. But this would not apply to previous bookings before October 1.
So, just any new bookings as of October 1.
And, and then as was mentioned earlier during Mr. Antone's testimony, would it, would
you be in a position to at least put a disclaimer that there may be a three percent added
on for bookings as of October 1? Because if, if we pass this today, then, you know,
there's a good likelihood it goes into effect on October 1 and, and you and other hotel
managers may want to start alerting, you know, future bookings that that will be added
on top.
MR. WHITE: Yea. Good point. In our booking systems for direct bookings, we do have taxes
that are subject to change. We definitely have that. If it's a new booking, that's not a
problem. If it's an existing booking, and we're talking about booking through March of
2023, so we book that far out.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, no, we're not talking about, about previous . . . previous to
October 1.
MR. WHITE: Yea. I, I think making sure that we have enough time to implement that, because
now your, we would be required as a provider to have basically two books for being
able to track what we book to this tax rate, existing on the book, versus what is new on
the books. So, we would need do some significant accounting set up across all the
hotels for that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17. 2021
Page 53
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Mr. White. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, sorry. So, nice to see you. John. I was. I wanted to
ask you. in your testimony you said that there's  apuka of $24-25 million. So. are you
talking about the existing TAT that the counties are not getting? What is the puka?
MR. WHITE: Correct Correct. Yea. So, the amount that the County receives from the State
TAT.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, okay. Okay. Then I understand. Cause they're still
collecting what they are collecting and then this would then fill the puka. So, thank you
very much for the clarification.
MR. WHITE: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Other Members?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And aloha, Mr. White. Mahalo for your
testimony. Just following up on Member King's line of questioning. Do, does the hotel
have, like, a disclaimer on some of the COVID rules and regulations before, before
residents, visitors show up?
MR. WHITE: Yes, most definitely.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, okay. And then, so, yea, I was just wondering if, if you
did include a disclaimer, would the hotel be open to giving members the option to
cancel with no penalty?
MR. WHITE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Great. Thank you.
MR. WHITE: Within a certain timeline.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Right, right.
MR. WHITE: Like 48 hours before.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 54
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions, Members? If not, thank you, Mr. White.
MR. WHITE: Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is the
individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 0083. To
be followed by Josiah Nishita. 0083, I see that you are unmuted. It is your time to
testify, if you wish to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's move on to Mr. Nishita. Mr. Clerk. Call Mr. Nishita.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: There he is, Chair. And then to follow Mr. Nishita is Mike White.
MR. JOSIAH NISHITA. DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR (testifying on County
Communication No. 21-455):
Aloha. Good morning. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez-
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: -and Members of the Maui County Council. Apologize,
I'm going to go kind of quickly through, because  Ionly have a short period of time to
try to get a lot in. Just in response to a couple of the things that were said earlier. In
terms of Kevin's communications, I think what was just left out of there was that he's
a-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr., Mr. Nishita? Mr. Nishita, are you talking on CC 21-
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: I apologize, Chair. Yes, County Communication 21-455.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Okay. Thank you. Just specific to the previous
testimony. Kevin is a prospective vendor to the County of Maui. And communications,
at least that I'm aware of with Jared Masuda and myself, is as a prospective vendor
with relations to ongoing procurements. So, it is County policy that we don't give
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 55
prospective vendors an unfair advantage over other vendors during the procurement
process. But questions that he did submit to our Office are outlined in all of the
addendums that are included in any procurements that are issued. So, the questions
do get answered, but just in a fair process, so all vendors get the same information at
the same time. Specific to the, the, and I can go over some of that other testimony
later, if needed.
In 2021 Maui County was nationally recognized through a National Association of
Counties achievement award in the category of health for ongoing community-based
COVID-19 testing and surveillance programs. And it's, you know, been modeled by
other counties around the State, as well as the U.S. In terms of tests administered per
capita, Maui County has done 8 percent more than Hawaii County, 17 percent more
than City and County of Honolulu, and 22 percent more than Kauai.
And just for the community's sake, I would just like to offer some clarifications.
COVID-19 testing is free for community members in the sense of no out-of-pocket
expense if an individual meets criteria to be tested. For example, if an individual is
symptomatic or has had close contact exposure to  aconfirmed case such as a child at
school. Individuals should really contact their healthcare provider for testing in these
circumstances, especially because they could use, you know, the medical oversight in
that sense. Even if they lack healthcare insurance, COVID-19 testing is still being
covered by the Federal government for these individuals.
And individuals do not need to wait to seek out a County or State-sponsored program
to have access to what we generally call "free testing". For others in the community,
there are a variety of resources that are available; preventCOVIDhi.com,
hawaiiCOVID19.com, and minutemed.com.
But we do encourage people to seek care from your medical provider if you are sick or
had exposure. And it, and while it's completely understandable that community
members want immediate access to testing, the day that they have exposure to
someone with COVID-19, it is generally recommended public health principles that an
individual be tested about three to five days after exposure, as the virus may still be
incubating.
For additional clarification, the language of the resolution, I did look up the numbers as
of yesterday, Maui County currently has the lowest seven-day rolling average positivity
rate in the entire State at 4.46 percent. Madam Chair, if I may have a minute to
conclude?
CHAIR LEE: Sure. Go ahead.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 56
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Kauai is at 4.78 percent. Hawaii County at 6.91 percent.
And City and County of Honolulu is at 7.81 percent. Maui County also has the lowest
seven-day rolling average of new positive cases per 100,000 in the entire State at
36.95, followed by City and County of Honolulu at 43.42, Kauai at 45.25, and Hawaii
County at 47.14.
For additional testing options, we have been working diligently with Department of
Health, expand testing resources in school and these are currently available at 26
schools throughout Maui County, through programs called "Increasing Community
Access to Testing", and another program called "Operation Expanded Testing". WeTe
the first County in the State to establish a program for employees to ensure that they
had free and ample access to testing for those that have chosen not to be vaccinated.
Managing Director Baz went over some of the problems with the removal of the
procurement exemptions in HRS 103D the other day, so we won't discuss that. But
there are additional market forces that play, bigger than the County of Maui, such as
large states and employers mandating testing and the ability of the Federal government
to take our test kit allocations.
Staff for testing can be for the same specialized labor resources that are prioritized for
surge capacity at hospitals with long-term care facilities, vaccination clinics,
monoclonal anti-body treatment centers, and other emergency care.
Having said all that, undoubtedly, the County can always find a way to do better, and
we must do better, and we'll continue to strive towards that goal. Really appreciate the
resolution put forward by Councilmember Paltin, as well as all of the Council's support
in funding during the COVID-19 pandemic. And a big mahalo to all of our partners out
there that have really collaborated to provide COVID-19 testing and other support for
the community.
And finally, Madam Chair, I would just like to thank the wonderful staff at the Office of
the County Clerk and the Office of Counsel Services for all their hard work putting these
meetings on. And to you. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, Councilmember
Paltin for introducing the resolution, and the rest of the Members of the Maui County
Council for all of your support in allowing me the opportunity to testify today. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Nishita.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 57
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. That was a lot longer than one
minute, Mr. Nishita. But 1 know you have a lot of information and that’s why I'll request
if when this item comes up, if you're available, perhaps we can have Mr. Nishita as a
resource person?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Would you be available, Josiah?
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yea, if. if staff from the Office of the County Clerk is able
to reach out to me when it's nearing that time. I'll definitely try to make myself available.
We have a variety of other things going on, so I will definitely try my best.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, probably be after lunch sometime.
Member King
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So. a couple of clarifying questions. So, are
you, were you saying that, that Kevin Watkins is, has, is a potential bidder for testing?
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yea. My understanding, Mr. Watkins runs a company, I
believe it's called, like Maui Sustainable Solutions, and they do, one of the things that
they offer is to sell test kits to entities.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I just wanted to clarify that. And then, the other question
I have is, you know, when you're talking about positivity rates, they're usually relative
to how much testing we're doing. So, are we doing at least as much testing as we were
doing, you know, in the, the immediate months following lockdown?
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yea, actually, we're doing more testing now. The thing
is that there's more demand fortesting, of course, with the increase in the Delta variant.
So, you know, as positivity rate increases, more people have a desire to get tested.
The return to in-person learning at schools, you know, now we have students that are
getting notified that they may have had a close contact exposure. And so, you know,
previously they may have been distanced learning or what not. So, there's an increase
in demand there.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 58
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Maybe we can talk about this further. But it just seemed
like, it just seemed like, you know, during the lockdown there was testing, you know, a
couple times a week in, in my community. Now, there's no, you know. Representative
Wildberger actually had to organize testing in South Maui because there was no testing
available. So, it doesn't feel like it's the same rate, and I think that's the purpose of the
resolution; asking for expanding, expanded testing.
But we won't really know, I mean, we don't get, we don't get or do we, we don't get
positivity rates relative to how many people we're testing? And so, if we're not testing,
I mean this goes back to President Trump saying we don't want the numbers to go up,
so let's not test. So, you know, that's why testing, 1 think, is so important. And it's hard
to take the positivity, positivity numbers relative to other, other communities or other
states if we don't know how much testing is being done. Cause if we don't do enough
testing, we're not going to find the positive numbers that we need to find.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yea, Madam Chair, if 1 may just clarify that?
CHAIR LEE: Sure.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Okay. Yes, that's more specific to asymptomatic cases.
If you look at it in the sense of like a rationing healthcare situation, when there's more
demand for testing then there is supply. Medical providers will triage people to
determine who gets testing at the appropriate time. So, in all actuality it's kind of
flipped, because when, when supply of testing exceeds demand, anyone can get in at
any time. When demand exceeds supply, then medical providers will make a
determination as to who they actually think is positive. So, the people who are getting
the testing through Kaiser, you know, Maui Medical Group, others, are people who they
actually think have a significant chance of being positive. Whereas--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But there are also people that have been there, they're not the
people walking around the street that may be positive. They're just the people that
have been to the medical facility. So, that's what I'm saying, is that we don't have a
number. And I think I said this in the beginning, we don't talk about how many people
we're testing and then how many of those are positive. Then it's hard to really say how
we're doing compared to other states.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yea, and Madam Chair, just a last thing. One thing that
the County of Maui does more than any other county in the State, which actually skews
our positivity rate upwards, is that we do a significant amount of antigen testing. So,
what happens is providers will do antigen testing to find probable cases. And then
those individuals will then go get tested on a PCR test or another molecular test that
actually gets counted in the counts. And so, they may do 100 tests to find that one
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 59
person. But the counts that get reported is they did one test and found one positive
person. So, it actually skews our positivity rate upwards a little. But yes, we completely
agree, there needs to be more testing. You know, we need to provide more
opportunities for people to get in and we're definitely committed to working with the
Council to make that happen.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Mr. Nishita. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I got a lot of questions. But to keep it limited to
clarifying, I was wondering if, it seemed as though that you were reading from
something. And if you could send that Into us? Cause you were talking real fast
because of the time limit.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yea, I apologize. I just have some kind of bullet points
noted, but I'll try to kind of clean it up a little bit and then send something in.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? So, we'll be in touch with you, Josiah, to see if you can
come back when we take this up.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Okay. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Okay? Thank you. Do we have anyone else signed up to testify?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the last individual we have signed up to testify is Mike
White.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. MIKE WHITE. KA'ANAPALI BEACH HOTEL (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-79):
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. WHITE: Thanks for, good to see all of you onscreen. I'm testifying on CR 21-79. As
you can imagine, anything having to do with the TAT, I've, always piqued my interest
because the counties have been getting the, the short end of the stick from the State
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 60
for a very long time. I'm just asking for you to give us more time to implement. When
the additional one percent TAT was implemented to fund Rail on Oahu, it was passed
in August and took effect on January 1. Even with that four-month lead time, we had
a number of wholesalers who refused to go back to their clients and ask for the
one percent back. And so, we ended up having to pay for that out of our funds. We'd
like to avoid having to do that with the three percent increase.
There are major problems with trying to separate those that are booked prior to August,
or October 1, and those that book afterwards. I think it's much better to have a specific
start date. But it needs to be far enough out so that we can allow our partners time to
notify everyone who has already made a reservation. For every, every reservation that
comes later, they're going to be able to see that the three percent is there, and they'll
make a decision whether they want to come here or go to Mexico, which is much less
costly.
One of the things that I feel comfortable asking for the delay of implementation from
October 1, is that the County is in, is not in any kind of financial problems. The County
of Maui generates from the visitor plant about $210 million per year. Oahu, last year,
generated 193 million. Kauai, I think was around 63 million. And the Big Island only
generated about 12 million. So, Big Island and Kauai need this three percent because
the, the amount that they lost is going to be made up pretty closely by this three percent.
I think Big Island will get about, both of them will get between $3 and $5 million more
than they got under the separate $103 million allocation from the State. On the other
hand, Maui and Oahu will get an additional 37 million with the three percent. Our, ours
will be around 61 million, which is significantly higher than the 23.5--
So, we, we just ask that you postpone this until January 1. Give us time to allow our
guests to be notified and do this graciously and gracefully rather than giving people the
sense that they're, we're just going to ram this down their throat whether they like it or
not. Thank you for the time this morning.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mike.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, former Councilmember Mike
White. Mahalo for your testimony today. I have two questions. My first question is
regarding tracking separate books. And we know that they're not physical books, that
you use some kind of accounting software. And so, I ,I guess I don’t understand what
the difference would be in starting the tax on October 1, versus starting it on
November 1 for those that have booked to stay in 2023? 1 would imagine you would
still need to have some kind of separate tracking system, is that not correct?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 61
MR. WHITE: Well, we have, we have bookings. Once you book, we confirm the rate and the
appropriate level of taxes. So, that's in your reservation record. But from an accounting
standpoint when we report revenue to the State and the County, we're going to be
having to report a different level of revenue to the State, versus the County if we're only
charging the tax on those bookings that are done after a certain date.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-FERNANDEZ: Right. So, what I'm saying is, and I'm sorry if I'm not
understanding you, you're asking us to hold off and not start the tax on October 1,
because you're going to have to have separate books? And so, what would be--
MR. WHITE: No, mymain--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
MR. WHITE: No, my main, yea, my main reason for asking for the, the time lag is for us to go
out and let everybody know that this tax is going to be applied. And then they can,
they can cancel their reservation if they choose to, or they can hold it. But at least they
know they're going to be paying that three percent when they come. So, it's all a matter
of being, being gracious to our guests, as opposed to doing something that's going to
put them in a little bit of discomfort, to say the least. Because they've already budgeted
their travel, they've already made their reservations, they've already paid their deposits
and everything else. So, it's just a kinder and gentler way of tax policy. And the State,
as Kui mentioned earlier, generally gives us-
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mr. White?
MR. WHITE: ~90 to 180 days.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: As your two .. . employees testified, and we clarified
for them, as well as Mr. Antone, that we are going to be amending it so that any existing
bookings would not be charged the three percent; only new bookings. And so, you
wouldn't need to be gracious in letting your guests know that they will be having to pay
an additional tax. And as I asked your employee, the other Mr. White, about the
average room rate cost. So, if it's about $400, or even $500, your average room rate,
that three percent tax would be about $12 to $15. So, are you telling us that you think
that for an additional $12 or $15 that your guest may cancel their rooms and go to
Mexico instead?
MR. WHITE: It's unknown whether this will have an impact on, on the demand for Maui.
We've had tax increases previously, and it has not had an impact. So, I'm just
suggesting that Mexico is a much less expensive place to go, and I don't believe they
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 62
have the same level of taxes either. So, to go to, to go to Mexico, the airlines, the
airfare is cheaper, hotels are cheaper by generally about 25 to 40 percent, and then
they don't have the same level of taxation.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, my last question, I guess, is, this Council
has made a push for inviting tourists that believe in contributing more and protecting
our environment; so, quality over quantity. It, do you, do you believe in that same vision
for Maui County?
MR. WHITE: I think as a concept, it makes sense. The reality is that, you know, not all of us
run, you know, hotels that have really high rates, that have people with lots of
disposable income. So, yea, we're, 1 would hate to say that by going after that, the
Council is actually not wanting my guests to come who are more middle America than,
than the folks that are staying at the higher end resorts.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Mr. White. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions for Mr. White? If not, thank-
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I just want to say nice to see you, Mr. White. Thank you
for testifying.
MR. WHITE: Thank you. Nice to see all of you.
CHAIR LEE: Great to see you, Mike. Thank you again for stopping by. Appreciate your
testimony.
MR. WHITE: Alrighty. Thank you so much. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Mr. Clerk, who else do we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testify. So
we'll do a last call.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; If there's anyone else in the meeting who has not testified, but
wishes to do so, please notify us now. You can unmute yourself and identify yourself.
I repeat, this is our last call for testifiers. Please identify yourself now. Chair, no one
else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have received written testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 63
CHAIR LEE; Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the record
and to dosing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Sandy Ma, Common Cause Hawaii;
Donna Oba, League of Women Voters of Hawaii;
Vera Sredanovic;
Elyssa S.L. Tsolis;
Crystal and Lawrence Schmitt, Maui Dragon Fruit Farm;
Rod Antone, Maui Hotel & Lodging Association;
Fred Adolphsen;
Jeff Anderson;
Aaron-Michael Arcangel;
Kyle Caires, Maui County Farm Bureau;
Koy Collier, Ka'anapali Beach Hotel;
Roy Daniel;
Denis Ebrill, Aqua Aston Hospitality and Marriott Vacations Worldwide
Corporation;
Rusty Fujihara;
Scott J. Glenn, Hawaii State Energy Office, State of Hawaii;
Yolanda Hadley;
Jum Hinds;
Nancy Huang;
Mitchell A. Imanaka, ARDA Hawaii;
Susan Marshall;
Robert Mitnick, Hawaii Taro Company, LLC;
Christopher Mrahunec;
Scott T. Nago, State of Hawaii Office of Elections;
Kekai Paleka-Wright;
Laurie Robello;
Carisa Sand;
Phyllis Shimabukuro-Geiser, Board of Agriculture, State of Hawaii;
Margot Thom & Laurent Joly;
Beth and Kurt Thompson;
Elileen Welter; and
Suinan Zhong.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22,
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 64
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. So, ordered.
Members, so this will be a good time to take a lunch break. It's almost 12. Do you
want to come back at 1 or 1:30? 1?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm good with 1:30.
CHAIR LEE: We have some 1's, and we have one 1:30. 1 see one, two, three, four, five, six
1's, seven 1's and one 1:30. Ms. King, could you come back at 1?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. You're a good team player. Alright, Members, time for a lunch
break. Meeting will resume at 1:00, So, this meeting is in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 11:46 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:00 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the September 17 Council meeting please reconvene.
Hello, hope everybody had a very filling lunch. Now, let's breeze through the rest of
the meeting.
Mr. Clerk, shall we go to minutes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with the minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of June 18, 2021 was
presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
CHAIR, I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY
THE CLERK.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 65
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the minutes.
Any discussion? No discussion? All those in favor of the motion, say "aye" and raise
your hand.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Nine "ayes", zero "noes";
motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 21-439 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated September 8, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Executive
Office on Aging for the Nutrition Services Incentive Program in the amount of $487.
NO. 21-441 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated August 30, 2021)
Informing of a vacancy on the Commission on Children and Youth due to the
resignation of Elizabeth Fujii, effective August 27, 2021.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 66
NO. 21-442 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated September 3, 2021)
Informing of the appointment of Cody Clark to the Maui County Arborist Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair, seconded by Member Sugimura, to file all the items on
the Consent Calendar.
Discussion, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No discussion for Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no discussion. Alright. So, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye'
raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 67
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 21-437 - JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
(dated September 3, 2021)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Reports for the month ending August 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so, let's see. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Could I also ask the Clerk to bring up
CC 21-438, and for both to be referred to my Committee, with your indulgence?
CHAIR LEE: 437 and 438 did you say?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. Yes. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered. Refer these two items to your IT Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, shall I just call-
CHAIR LEE: I guess you didn't, you didn't read the 21-438.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Do you want me to call it now just for the record?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 68
NO. 21-438 - ROWENA M. DAGDAG-ANDAYA. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
(dated August 31,2021)
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant and agreement award from the USDA Natural
Resources Conservation Service for the Lahaina Watershed Flood Protection Project,
in the amount of $1,229,230.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; And so, that along with CC 21-437 is to the IT Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Next.
NO. 21-440 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated August 31, 2021)
Transmitting 121 contracts/grants for the month of July 2021.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Did, did you miss 439?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that item was filed with the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I'm sorry.
Okay. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 21-440,
EXCEPT FOR THOSE CONTRACTS AND GRANTS THAT
COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 69
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to file
all the items except those items that will be by the Members.
Okay, Members. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, I, I have four contracts I would like referred
to the CARE Committee. And they all have to do with recycling and even ones that a
lot of people in the community are following.
IS C6049-5 ON COUNTY FACILITIES PAPER RECYCLABLES
COLLECTION HAULING; C6118-7 THE USED MOTOR OIL
PROGRAM; C6268-7 SERVICES TO RECEIVE, PROCESS,
AND RECYCLE WHITE GOODS AND VEHICLES; AND
C6539-6 ELECTRONICS RECYCLING PROGRAM.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered. Those four contracts will be referred to the CARE Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Any, any others. Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I just have one.
SO, IT'S C6254-4, PROFESSIONAL SERVICES,
REPRESENTATION SERVICES ON WASHINGTON, IN
WASHINGTON D.C., DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
RFP NO. 18-17 [SIC], GO TO MY IT COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Toreferto-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 70
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. So, ordered. No objections.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I WAS WONDERING IF WE CAN PULL C6254-4 FOR IT?
CHAIR LEE: What was that? I mean, didn't she just ask, request that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, sorry. My bad. I wasn't paying attention.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Alright.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you. Tamara.
CHAIR LEE: Any, any more contracts? Any more contracts? If not, gonna move on. The
rest, the rest will be filed.
Okay. Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Call for the question?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I’m sorry. We didn't vote on it. Okay, all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye" and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 71
NO. 21-443 - MICHAEL J. MOLINA. CHAIR. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS.
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE
{dated September 9, 2021)
Transmitting the following proposed resolutions entitled:
1. "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION
OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO ESTABLISH
CRIMINAL OFFENSES OF UNLAWFUL CHOP SHOP ACTIVITY"; and
2. "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION
OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO ALLOW COUNTY
REGULATION OF NOISE NUISANCES STRICTER THAN DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH RULES".
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSED
RESOLUTIONS ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION
NO. 21-443.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, requesting
discharge.
Any discussion? Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes. Thank you very much. Madam Chair. The Council must
submit its legislative proposals to the HSAC Executive Committee to be included for
discussion at its upcoming meeting of September 2021. So, in light of that deadline, a
discharge is needed to enable the Council to consider action today on the proposed
resolutions. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 72
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? if not, all those in favor, say "aye", of the motion.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to waive the Rules
of the Council,
And discussion, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Approval of this motion by a
two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council will enable the Council to
consider the proposed resolutions today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 73
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ENTITLED
"APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE
ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A
STATE BILL TO ESTABLISH CRIMINAL OFFENSES OF
UNLAWFUL CHOP SHOP ACTIVITY": AND TO FILE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-443.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt the
resolution in 21-443, and to file the communication.
Any discussion, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The legislative
proposal submitted by Member Paltin relates to establishing criminal offenses of
unlawful chop shop activity. The bill would amend Chapter 708 of HRS to establish
criminal offenses of unlawful chop shop activity in the first and second degrees and
provide for the forfeiture of property connected with chop shop activity.
The legislative proposal submitted by CouncilmemberSinenci, related to noise, will be
filed with the County Communication. Member Sinenci will be looking to include this
proposal in the Maui County Legislative Package only.
And as further information for the Members consideration, a memo to Members of the
GREAT Committee was distributed yesterday under my signature noting a deadline of
Monday, September 20 at 4 p.m. to receive any additional legislative proposals for the
HSAC or Maui County Council Legislative packages. And as the Committee Chair, I
intend to post any new HSAC Legislative proposals received by that deadline and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 74
discuss them at my September 28 GREAT meeting for possible action at the October 1
Council meeting in order to meet the posting deadline for the next HSAC meeting in
mid-October. And I will be very amenable to scheduling any future meetings to further
discuss the existing proposals and any new proposals under the Maui County Council
Legislative package. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I support the proposal, the motion on the floor.
And I just wanted to thank Member Molina. We're sort of in transit in trying to change
the HSAC deadline. So, thank you for your flexibility, Councilmember Molina. And it
looks like we may be asking for a deadline of October 22 for it to reach the HSAC
Executive Board. So, 1 appreciate Member Molina offering to schedule new bills as
soon as possible. We also will be asking to have  aseparate list of bills that we want
to bring back from previous times. And hopefully that won't engender a whole lot of
discussion. So, that, I think that will be easier. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to mention that I did run the
bill past our Prosecuting Attorney Andrew Martin, and if he had any amendment, or
addition, or objection, for him to come testify today. So, I'm assuming that since he
didn't testify, it's all good. He said he was also working on the thefts involving catalytic
convertors and, and this may be a assistance to him.
And this was a bill that was originally introduced in 2013. It got past the readings and
then it was rolled over to the 2014 Session, in which it died. And I also checked in with
Rep. Amy Perruso who has Whitmore Village where that chop shop with the murder in
her district occurred. And she's very supportive and can't wait to support this bill from
us as well.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion
please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCiLMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair. Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-145.
NO. 21-444 - MICHAEL J. MOLINA. CHAIR. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE,
(dated September 9, 2021)
Transmitting the following proposed resolutions entitled:
1. "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO ESTABLISH CRIMINAL
OFFENSES OF UNLAWFUL CHOP SHOP ACTIVITY";
2. "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO ALLOW COUNTY REGULATION
OF NOISE NUISANCES STRICTER THAN DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
RULES":
3. "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 MAUI COUNTY LEGISLATIVE
PACKAGE A STATE BILL RELATING TO HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENTS IN
THE COUNTY OF MAUI"; and
4. "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO INCORPORATE KALAUPAPA
SETTLEMENT INTO MAUI COUNTY".
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-444.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 76
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to file County
Communication 21-444.
Discussion, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. Due to the flexibility the
Council has in transmitting legislative proposals included in the 2022 Maui County
Council Legislative Package to the State Legislature by early to mid-December, filing
this County Communication will allow the four proposals to remain in the GREAT
Committee for further discussion, and also allow for the receipt of additional proposals
as I previously mentioned. And I want to ask for the Members full support. And I also
want to thank our legislative staff who's been of great assistance; Ms. Espeleta,
Ms. Apo-Takayama, and Mr. Forrest as well. So, anyway, I'd like to ask again for the
Members full support on this matter. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member King, then Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, I, I think the, part of the other thing that I
wanted to clarify is this, this will also allow some of the bills to be further worked on if
there, if there are changes or additions? Okay. Great. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yea, mahalo, Member Molina. Right. After hearing back from
members of our community, like Member King will focus on working with the necessary
parties for our legislative proposals to the Maui County Legislative Package. So,
mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Alright. Any more discussion? If not. ail those in favor of the motion,
please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 77
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with county communications for referral. The
following county communications are recommended for referral to the following
Committees as noted:
NO. 21-445 - SHANE M. SINENCI. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated Septembers, 2021)
Relating to A&B's proposed water lease for the Nahiku, Ke'anae, Honomano, and
Huelo License Areas.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-445 be referred to the
Agriculture and Public Trust Committee.
NO. 21-446 - SHANE M. SINENCI. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated September 9, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
CHAPTER 20.09, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO BLASTING PERMITS".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-446 be referred to the
Agriculture and Public Trust Committee.
NO. 21-447 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated August 26, 2021)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the Proposed General Obligation Bonds Series Fund
as of July 31, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-447 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 78
NO. 21-448 - MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated September 10, 2021)
Transmitting the following proposed bills entitled:
1. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART i,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS
AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, (AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT OF 2021,
NON-ENTITLEMENT UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT (NEUS))"; and
2. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX  D-
CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE, DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, (AMERICAN
RESCUE PLAN ACT OF 2021, NON-ENTITLEMENT UNITS OF LOCAL
GOVERNMENT (NEUS))".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-448 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(THE PROPOSED BILLS ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-448 WERE PASSED ON FIRST
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL
NOS. 96 (2021) AND 97 (2021). COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-448 WAS THEN FILED. See pages
82 through 84 for discussion and action.)
NO. 21-449 - MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR,
(dated September 10, 2021)
Transmitting the following proposed bills entitled:
1. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL
YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
PART
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022
MANAGEMENT REVOLVING FUND"; and
SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES SCHEDULE OF
ANIMAL
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 79
2. "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX  D-
CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE, ANIMAL MANAGEMENT REVOLVING FUND".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-449 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(THE PROPOSED BILLS ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-449 WERE PASSED ON FIRST
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL
NOS. 98 (2021) AND 99 (2021). COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-449 WAS THEN FILED. See pages
85 and 86 for discussion and action.)
NO. 21-450 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated September 9, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING
THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT
SYSTEM OF THE STATE OF HAWAII RELATING TO THE ACQUISITION OF A
GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD STATEMENT NO. 68
REPORT".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-450 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(THE PROPOSED BILL ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-450 WAS PASSED ON FIRST
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL
NO. 100 (2021). COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-450
WAS THEN FILED. See pages 87 through 89 for discussion and
action.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: To your Climate Action, Resilience-
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair. Vice-Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 80
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies.
CHAIR LEE: Are you going to take action on these now or later?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, mahalo, Chair.  Iwas going to let the Clerk read
all the referrals and then-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Please proceed, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Chair.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated September 8, 2021)
NO. 21-451
Relating to the Hawaii State Energy Conservation Code.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-451 be referred to the
Climate Action, Resilience, and Environment Committee.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. CHAIR. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE.
AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE, (dated September 9, 2021)
NO. 21-452
Transmitting County Communication No. 18-128, from Councilmember Elle K.
Cochran, relating to an Anaergia Project status update.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-452 be referred to the
Climate Action, Resilience, and Environment Committee.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NOS. 21-452 AND 18-128 WERE
FILED LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 90 through 92 for
discussion and action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 81
NO. 21-453 - MICHAEL J. MOLINA. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated September 9, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "URGING THE MAYOR TO ADDRESS
BICYCLE TOUR PUBLIC SAFETY AND RELATED LITIGATION CONCERNS".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-453 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(See pages 102 and 103 for discussion.)
NO. 21-454 - LORI TSUHAKO, DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated September 1, 2021)
Transmitting a letter from the Commission on Persons \A/ith Disabilities, requesting the
Council's support of the Counseling Compact.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-454 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
NO. 21-455 - TAMARA PALTIN, COUNCILMEMBER,
(dated September 9, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "URGING THE MAYOR TO IMPLEMENT
EXPANDED, FREE, ACCESSIBLE, RAPID COVID-19 TESTING FOR ALL MAUI
COUNTY RESIDENTS".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-455 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
(THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-455 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING AND ASSIGNED RESOLUTION NO. 21-146 .
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-455 WAS THEN FILED.
See pages 92 through 101 for discussion and action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 82
NO. 21-456 - YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated September 9, 2021)
Relating to Public Works Commission Naming and Renaming.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-456 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
NO. 21-457 - MICHELE CHOUTEAU MCLEAN. PLANNING DIRECTOR
(dated September 9, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 19.06.020, MAUI COUNTY CODE, ADOPTING DIGITAL ZONING MAP (3)
AS THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FOR THE ISLAND OF MAUI"; and related
documents.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-457 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-448
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration on CC 21-448. And
that is a bill for an ordinance accepting the ARPA funds.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 83
CHAIR LEE; Second? Moved by Mem, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member Sinenci, to waive Rule 7.G.
Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And the time sensitivity regarding
this is receiving the funding and starting the program under ARPA.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Question, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, so just to clarify for the public. This is just receiving the
funds, it's not saying how they're going to dispense.
CHAIR LEE: Right. And this, this-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: ... the waiver. And I'll explain more when we, when
we're on the main motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, on the waiver. All those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-448.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 84
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
pass the bills in the, in County Communication, is it--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 448.
CHAIR LEE: 21-448 on first reading and filing of the communication.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the proposed bills would
amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Department of Finance, Appendix A, Part I, and
Appendix D, to add a new grant entitled "American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, Non-
Entitlement Units of Local Government (NEUS)", in the amount of $17,523,295. As
discussed in your Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee meeting,
on September 15, 2021, this grant would also add funding for a one limited term
appointment equivalent personnel in the Department of Finance.
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer any questions the
Members may have. And as Member King pointed out, this is, this budget amendment
is to receive the funding. And we look forward to working with the Administration on
the plan for the use of the funds. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 85
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-449
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration on CC 21-449. This
is regarding the Animal Management Revolving Fund.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson, to
waive 7.G., Rule of the Council.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. And I'll get into more detail on the
But the time sensitivity relating to this item is to expedite the
management of the animal control vehicle, to get that going. Mahalo, Chair.
main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the waiver, raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 86
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILLS ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-449.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson, to
pass the bills in County Communication 21-449, and file the communication.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the proposed bill would
amend Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix A, Part II, Animal Management Revolving
Fund, and Appendix D, to change the conditional language to grant the fund to the
Maui Humane Society for the purchase of the vehicles, rather than have the County
purchase the vehicles. The Maui Humane Society is in the process of converting their
vehicles from County ownership. And the County would no longer be responsible for
the vehicle cost, such as maintenance and gas.
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer any questions the
Members may have. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members, or more further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion, please raise your hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Alright. Next. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 87
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-450 AND BILL NO. 90 (2021)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And this will be, I believe the last one
here. This is consideration on 21-450. This is the IGA for the Accounting Standards
Board Statement Report. And I would like to request, if there are no objections, to also
call up Bill 90, which is relating to the same thing.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections, Members?
Okay. Mr. Clerk, Bill 90.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 90 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY
OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
WITH THE OFFICE OF THE AUDITOR, STATE OF HAWAII, TO AUDIT THE
SCHEDULE OF ALLOCATIONS OF THE EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM
OF THE STATE OF HAWAII
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE THE, I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF
COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR THE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 21-450, IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE
7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Any second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 88
CHAIR LEE: Second by Vice, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member Sinenci, to waive the Rules of the Council.
Any discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And again, I'll go into more detail in
the main motion. But the time sensitivity relating to this County Communication is that
the contract needs to be made quickly. And we have representatives from the
Administration who can answer questions on that.
This bill takes the place of Bill 90 and is time sensitive as the Department of Finance
needs this information as soon as possible to prepare for the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor, raise your hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-450 AND
BILL 90 (2021).
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
pass the bill in, the bill in CC 21-450 and to file the communications and Bill 90. Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 89
CHAIR LEE: Discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the following, following our
meeting of September 3, 2021, the Department of Finance and the Department of
Corporation Counsel shared that an incorrect template was used for the bill posted
today as Bill 90 (2021).
The County of Maui executes two similar agreements periodically. And the template
for the other agreement was inadvertently used when drafting the bill. This corrected
bill authorizes an intergovernmental agreement with the Employees' Retirement
System to acquire the Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 68
Report for Fiscal Years 2021 through 2026. The total cost will be divided equally
between the 10 requesting employers, with the cost to Maui County as follows: FY21,
$1,700; FY22, $2,500; FY23, $2,550; FY24, $2,600; FY25, $2,650; and FY26, $2,700.
Again, as I mentioned, representatives from the Administration and Corporation
Counsel are available to answer any questions the Members may have. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any questions. Members? Hard to, it's hard to ask a question on those kinds
of, the type of information, the technical information that you just gave us. Okay. Any
more discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? Anything else?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No further discussion. Chair. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of passing the bill on first reading and filing of the rest
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay. Then, please continue.
Oh, Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 90
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-452
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I ask for consideration of County Communication 21-452.
CHAIR LEE: 452. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And I'm going to move to discharge the action, but just to let
everyone know, this is just to file it. so it gets off the master agenda.
SO. 1 MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE CLIMATE ACTION,
RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE FROM
COUNTY COMMUNICATION 18-128 ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 21-45, OR 452.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to discharge this
item.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Your CARE Committee plans to focus on
matters relating to sea level rise, shoreline erosion, managed retreat, recycling, and
pollution, among other things.
At the August 30, 2021 Infrastructure and Transportation Committee meeting, we
learned from the Director of the Environmental Management Department, the Anaergia
Project is done and over, so there's no longer a need for status update in the Climate
Action, Resilience, and Environment Committee. Discharge in needed to enable the
Council to consider the filing of the County Communication as mentioned.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We're going to discharge this first, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 91
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Right.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, any more discussion on this item? All those in favor, raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. This is for the discharge. All "aye", all, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion
carries.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 18-128, AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-452.
No further discussion.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to file this item.
Discussion? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No, basically, it's just the, the, you know, the Anaergia Project
was given chance after chance and just didn't happen. And so, it was confirmed that
it is pretty much dead in the water and we just want to remove it from the, the master
agenda.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say
"aye", and raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 92
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Anybody else, take action on any item? Okay. Member, we're going in order, yea.
So, let's see, I see Member Paltin first. 455. Member Paltin.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-455
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-455,
INCORPORATING ANY NON-SUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS,
AND FILING OF THE COMMUNICATION.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to adopt the resolution in
County Communication 21-455.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. May I please request the Clerk read the
resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. I just gotta pull it up real quick. Apologies.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 93
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, I just was wondering too if Mr. Nishita was on. We
requested him for this.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Mr. Nishita, are you still there?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, maybe he's not answering his phone. We'll, we'll try call
again.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies .... Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait. Hold on one second. You want to have a discussion with him
to make a change on this reso? Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No. I think Members might have had questions or something
like that.
CHAIR LEE: But in relation to this item, yea?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, so. I'm afraid he would miss the boat on this.
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I'll try to get in touch with him.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. In the meantime, Mr. Krueger, can you read the reso in its entirety?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Michele.
(The resolution as read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Clerk's staff, do we need to let Josiah in? I believe he's trying.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, we, we heard from Mr. Nishita and he'll be on in a few
minutes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, why don't we go to the next one.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 94
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I did have discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you have, okay. Without him?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And I just wanted to clarify that, you know, because we have
to put things a week in advance that information for the resolution was current at that
time. I'm not sure as of today, cause, you know, Mr. Nishita gave new information
today.
But you know, in Lahaina, we've had members of our community, people that
everybody know passed way. And many of my constituents have shared concerns
about the accessibility of free, rapid COVID-19 testing. The County's Maui Nui Strong
website references five locations for testing, including Clinical Labs of Hawaii,
CVS Pharmacy, Malama I Ke Ola Health Center, Maui Medical Group, and
Minit Medical. All locations require appointments. Some require fees of up to 165 per
test. Available appointments are scarce, and scheduling can be difficult to navigate or
only open to established patients, folks with internet access.
Many residents have been using free drive-thru testing at Minit Medical in Kahului.
Lahaina, and Kihei. How, however, as of yesterday evening, only the Kahului location
was showing availability for appointments for next Saturday, which was already over
50 percent booked. None of their locations show any other availability for the
remainder of the month. And while residents can contact their primary care physician
for a test, that requires health insurance.
Getting tested for COVID-19 is not an easy task right now and it should be. Free,
accessible, rapid testing is essential to helping manage and prevent COVID-19
transmission. Residents need to be able to get tested as soon as symptoms arise. If
testing is not accessible and free, less people will get tested, which means less people
will be aware of the need to take the precaution to minimize the spread, which leads
to more cases of COVID-19. We must do better to provide a safer environment for our
loved ones and our community, and so I urge the Mayor to increase access to free,
rapid COVID-19 testing for all residents of Maui County, and respectfully ask for the
Members support.
And on a side note, I think many of you know that  Irecently went to France. And over
there, like, almost every corner they have pharmacies where you can just walk up and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 95
get a test. No appointment necessary for the French citizens. They said it was free
until later on this year, or I think maybe April of next year. I'm not sure. But for, like,
folks like myself, it was 39, or 29 euros, about 35 bucks.
And you know, I think that it's great that we have high standards within the State, but
Maui is also a leader globally. And so, you know,  Ithink we need to think of our school
kids who can't get vaccinated, and also, their parents. Like if they've been exposed,
even if you wait three or four days, with testing only once a week in Lahaina, you need
to go Central. And then, are you spreading the virus Central if you go and do some
shopping while you're there, you know?
So, I mean, it's just a little bit of a disconnect at how much testing there were, there
was when our numbers were low and how little and how hard it is to get testing now
when people are actually dying? And, you know, 1 got tested myself before I left. It
wasn't the PCR test, cause that wasn't required. But I paid $150 at Doctors On Call.
And it's like, you know, it's kind of people talk about the, the discrimination about
vaccinated and unvaccinated. What we're having is kind of like a discrimination
between people who can afford to go to the doctor and pay for the test, and people
that have to wait, or try and find a location not in their own district. So, it's, it's a really
serious concern.
And I, 1 realize the things that Mr. Baz had said at the BFED Committee, but that's not
being shared with the community, you know, until, until this types of things come up.
And that leads to some of the frustration. So, that's, that's all I have to say, and the
reason why I made this resolution. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Member Paltin. I think we're all glad that you did, you know, propose
the resolution.
I believe Mr. Nishita has joined us. Josiah. are you on the call?
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yea. Are you able to hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: I apologize. I wasn't able to hear all of Councilmember
Paltin's speech to the rest of the Councilmembers. But I did kind of hear the ending of
it.
CHAIR LEE: So, do you have any plans now to provide more testing and free testing, Josiah?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 96
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yea, definitely. In terms of the, just to kind of give, and,
and I would echo what Councilmember Paltin said about, you know, providing more
information to the public to help the public better understand kinds of the situation and
what not. You know, as Mr. Baz had kind of outlined, procurement is a major issue.
Some of the other things that come at play, and I'll give you one example, is you know,
to kind of do like an out of the box solution. Because, you know, I talked about our
labor shortages of doctors and nurses and other healthcare professionals that are
being pulled. You know, the same people doing testing are also the same people doing
monoclonal anti-body therapy, and vaccinations, and things like that. So, we do have
a finite number of resources here to do testing. But we were working with the Maui
District Health Office on, and we ran a procurement for tens of thousands of over-the-
counter tests that we could provide information to people on how to use them. And,
you know, wouldn't take a doctor or healthcare professional to order it or administer it.
And so, we thought okay, that would be a good out of the box solution.
And our first order was supposed to arrive, I think it was maybe a couple of weeks ago.
It was about 13,000 tests and the Federal government commandeered that for their
own purposes. So, you know, that's just one example of, you know, kind of the
pressures that we're under. Because this isn't just an island specific issue, you know?
The entire nation is trying to get access to more testing and other resources. And, you
know, if you look at it from an economic perspective, you know, Councilmember Paltin
outlined how much it cost for her to get tested. And, you know, relatively, we live in a
capitalistic society, and businesses are in the business to make a profit.
And so, you know, the closest thing 1 can kind of relate it to is like, you know, if you
driven around in past few months you probably see  alot of car dealerships completely
empty. There's no vehicles on the lot, you know, nobody can get one for a really long
time. It's not that they don't want to sell them. It's not that there's not demand for them.
But there's market forces at play, you know, the microchips for vehicles, production
stalls, demand everywhere from, you know, rent-a-car facilities and things like that that
play into, you know, these outside market forces that impact kind of the local response
at the area.
So, 1 don't want to have anything sound like an excuse, because I completely
acknowledge that the County, you know, needs to do better, the State needs to do
better, you know, we need to involve our citizens more. I completely agree with that.
And but we are taking many efforts on multiple fronts to try to find creative, out of the
box solutions to, you know, kind of the, some of the more global economic forces at
play here when we try to provide, you know, widespread testing to our residents.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 97
In our procurement that's going to, you know, select a vendor to continue our
community testing programs starting October 1, we're including provisions such as
helping Maui Assistance Dogs of Hawaii to get their COVID sniffing dog program, you
know, up off the ground. We have HNu Photonics that has, you know, they're trying to
go through the FDA/EUA process to do a COVID detecting light sensor technology.
So, we're trying to help out in other areas as well, not just looking at the standard, you
know, test that is available that may be subject to reagent shortages, or, you know.
Federal allocation issues, yea. So, just to give you a sense, the testing that we're doing
across the County is at, you know, in, in some areas it's the same as previously. And
then other areas, it's more than it was previously. It's just that the demand has far
exceeded previous demand for testing.
And we do, do, for the County's program anyway, we do six days a week throughout
the entire County. The standing clinics is Mondays in Lahaina; Tuesdays, Saturdays
in Kahului; Thursdays in Kihei; and then we use two additional clinics on a rotating
basis. But generally, we go to Kihei and Lahaina again because the demand is high.
We are working with the National Guard, and pending State approval, we're going to
be able to, you know, get additional resources, manpower from them. And we're going
to have to conduct training and whatnot to get them up off the ground. But we're hoping
to, for every Friday and Saturday throughout the month of October, to stand up three
additional testing sites throughout the County to run, you know, thousands of tests
during that time.
So, you know, we have a lot of different things that is being worked on by us and State
partners and whatnot. But yea, we agree, you know, any solutions, any options need
to be brought to the table and considered for our community.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for that long explanation, Josiah.
I, I don’t, I still don't know if you support the resolution or not. But it was a lot of
interesting information. I'm glad you're working with the dog-sniffing folks, because I
have done some research into that. Looks like, they're saying it's 100 percent accurate
with those dogs.
So, but my question to you is, you know, I haven't seen any, I haven't seen the level of
testing in South Maui that you say is being offer. They only testing. I've seen recently
that was offered was organized by our State House Representative Wildberger.
So, how, what, how are you getting the word out about this free testing, if you are doing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 98
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Yea, I guess the difference between now and previously
is that no marketing has to be done right now. Because our testing sites, once
launched, you know, we went through a period of time where it would fill up in minutes
without any announcement. There was a, you know, now it's a little better, but the
demand is still incredibly high. So, you know, if  atesting site fills up, we're not going
to advertise that it's available when all slots have been taken. So, that's--
COUNCILMEMBER KING; But then, but then . .. finding out. You know that I think that's the
part that's not right is that there are a lot of people that don't know about it, so maybe
just a few people that know about it that keep filling it up. So, marketing I think is just
as important all the time just to get the word out.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR; Yea, you know, we do, you know, our vendor is able to
identify repeat visitors and whatnot. And we have  alot of first timers coming through
all the clinics. So, it isn't quite, you know, from what the data shows, it's not quite the
same people coming again and again. But I do understand the concern, you know?
And as I stated earlier, I think, yes, we absolutely need to do a better job of, you know,
getting the information out.
And with respect to Representative Wildberger, I have been in communications with
her. You know, she had some upcoming clinics that they needed some assistance on
and we're trying to help them out in certain areas. But I think she's, had to end up
canceling her future ones. But we did add another Kihei date to try to assist with her
request. So, yea, we are working with various entities and individuals on that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Just, just please let us know. Becauseforthoseof us who
are getting contacted by our constituents and we don't know what you're doing. You
know, all we can say is we haven't heard of anything, any testing going on. So, I think
you need to be, you need to double-down on the marketing.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I think Member Kama has a question. Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Thank you for being here, Josiah.
You know, I was listening to the opening remarks by, by Member Paltin and she
mentioned something that I remembered also. That you know, that when she was in
France and it seemed like they had a lot of the pharmacies were participants in the
COVID testing for their people.
So, and to me, it seems like you know. I'm always hearing about somebody was being
exposed and they had to go get tested. A lot of my kids and a lot of my grandkids have
been exposed, they've had to get tested. And, but wouldn't it, to me it would make
sense to have all our pharmacies participating so that you would know that, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 99
if you needed to go tested, you could go to Walgreens Pharmacy, you could go to
Safeway Pharmacy, or you go to the, your nearest Long's Drugs or whatever, so that
you wouldn't have to. I mean, the past two months. I've been tested 10 times only
because of the exposures.
And I know what it's going to cost people if they have to pay for it all the time. And if
they can't find something that they don't have to pay, they don't know where to go. And
you know, it's a huge expense, just from my own family alone because they all work in
the industry. They get exposed all the time and it's like, it's worrisome. But I think if
we could just urge for more participation with our pharmacies that are out there, that
probably can help at a moment's notice and not have to put our families through undue
stress. Thank you. Chair.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR; Thank you. Yea, just, Chair, if I may respond?
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead, Josiah.
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR: Thank you. Yes. Essentially all of the pharmacies, I
mean, there are some that don't do testing, but essentially alt of them participate in
some way, either through reservation basis or through drive-thru testing with no
appointment necessary. It's also something important to get out and we try through
multiple means, but of course, you know, as I said earlier, we can always do a better
job. But it's not a requirement to have insurance to get tested if you are covered under
one of those eligibility criteria. So, the Federal government already allocates resources
to pay for the testing for uninsured individuals who meet the criteria such as being
symptomatic or having a direct exposure to someone with COVID-19.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions or comments?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Just a real quick question. Chair. Good afternoon, Josiah.
Have you met, or is FEMA been involved in this? I know you, what you mention
Federal, but are you speaking specifically in regards to FEMA?
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR; Yea. So, FEMA's primary focus in Hawaii right now has
been on vaccinations and on the monoclonal antibody therapy, so that can alleviate
pressure on the hospital. We do have, you know, as I said, we're awaiting approval
from the State for additional National Guard personnel, which is generally the process
we would go through before trying to get, you know, some type of large mainland
Federal assistance.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 100
The State of Hawaii has requested additional teams and whatnot, but as I said earlier,
this is a global issue and, you know, especially in the United States. You know, there's
testing shortages and needs across the entire country. So, if you look at, you know,
the heat maps, a lot of the concentration of cases have been, you know, in the southern
states, and some of those other, like, areas with lower vaccination rates. And you
know, obviously. Federal resources have to be allocated appropriately as well to areas
where the need is the most.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Alright. Thank you. Thank you. Chair. I have no
further questions.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, this has been  avery, very interesting discussion
and can go all kinds of ways. But I know, I want to respect the fact that 1 know you
don't like, you know, discussions dragging out into where it's going to be like a
Committee-like setting here at Council. If there's any way this topic could be continued
in the appropriate Committee, we can have a full-blown presentation with not only
Mr. Nishita, but folks from the Department of Health, Maui Memorial Hospital, as to
how they are trying to meet this need, a very good resolution from Member Paltin, to
see how the County or the Mayor can expand doing free COVID testing.
Because I'd like to hear more on a larger scale, but obviously, we can't do it today. So,
if there's, 1 don't know whatever the appropriate Committee we can continue this
particular discussion as it relates to Member Paltin's resolution, would be not only
beneficial to us, but for the whole general public viewing in. And that way we can get
a good take as to where we can get these funds. And, you know, the other day in
Member Rawlins-Fernandez budget meeting we saw a real inequity with the spending
of monies for public safety versus the emphasis on more money on the economics.
So, I would like to see this discussion continued with a full-blown presentation from not
only from the Mayor's Office, but the hospital and, and whoever else, to how we can
serve our citizens better by providing more opportunities for free COVID testing. So,
anyway, those are my comments. Madam Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I think that's a great suggestion. And what we could do is pass this resolution,
and then send the subject-matter communication to HCP, Human Concerns and Parks.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Yes, Vice-Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 101
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. All the Committees, you already sent
us the COVID-related item, which is a very broad item. And so, all of our Committees
already have an item that this could be taken up under. So, we wouldn't need another
item, because you already had that foresight to put it in our Committees. So, at any
time, like I mentioned for the Budget Committee, and I said that we could take it up,
you know, once a month in my Committee. It does take up time and it does, you know,
take up space that other legislation could be taken up. But we all see how important it
is. So, if everyone could work together in, you know, putting this in their Committee at
some point in time, so that not just one Committee would have to take up the larger
bulk of the discussion, such as Budget. That, I think that would be really working
together to address this. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. And so, I would recommend referring this to the Housing, Human
Concerns and Parks. And specifically expanding free accessible testing. I mean, you
know, COVID covers a whole range of items, but here we're talking about testing in
particular. So, would you be interested in taking that, Chair Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Good. Great. Okay. Any more comments or questions before we take
a vote on this resolution?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just wanted to thank you guys for your support of this
resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Of course, of course. We're all very concerned about this. And so everybody,
all those in favor of the motion to adopt the resolution, please raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Very good.
And then, a part of that motion was to refer this to HCP, right?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 102
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good. So, Mr. Clerk, you got all of that? Did you get all of that?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. I think Councilmember Sugimura has her hand up.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Member Sugimura.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-453
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, thank you. So, I appreciate Member Molina bringing
up the bicycle tour public safety and related litigation concerns item, that resolution.
And as you can see it's, has great support. It has great support from my community,
as my office has been receiving also the concern. And 1 actually have legislation that
I got from the Kula Community Association that 1 would like to ask if this item can also
be, I guess, subject matter or whatever, I think Mr. Molina, looks like he wants to take
up litigation, which is part of GREAT and not part of IT. Because of my roads and, and
that part of multimodal transportation as well as the public. Department of Public
Works, 1 have roads in it. I wonder if I could do that?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina, it looks like it was going to Human Concerns and Parks. But
Mr. Molina, did you want this in your Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, as a matter a fact. And it's nice that Member Sugimura
mentioned she has legislation. I have some legislation to consider as well. I, I looked
at GREAT because, again, a lot of the concerns that were, were related to litigation,
and by continuing to allow these bike tours on our County roads. So, that's some of
the concerns that was highlighted by Members of the community. So, along with this
resolution, my preference was to, you know, take it to a nine-Member Committee and
then consider legislation as to what we can do on our end to curb this concern that's
growing in the community. But it's nice to hear Member Sugimura has legislation as
well. And maybe we can work on something, and work together as they say, to address
it. But yea, I, I mean, if there's other areas of the subject matter that Member Sugimura
wants, that's fine. But I definitely want this as part of a nine-Member Committee. So,
that's my, my thoughts on this. Madam Chair. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of information.
CHAIR LEE: Member Su-
Yes, Vice-Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 103
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And I think that's why our Deputy Clerk turned on his
video. It's set to be referred to GREAT.
CHAIR LEE: I was just going to say that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, yea. So, that's what  Iwas asking.
CHAIR LEE: I was just going to go over; 1 was just going to go over that. So, Ms. Sugimura,
would you, would you mind if we could, you know, send it to the GREAT Committee?
We realize that both of you share in the geographic impacts. They start at Haleakala,
Upcountry, and they go down to Haiku and Makawao. So, it might be better in the
GREAT Committee because it is a nine-Member Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. I mean, if that's what the Committee wants. And
then, my legislation then, I'll send it over to Mr. Molina. And thank you, Mr. Molina,
cause I didn't realize that there was litigations tied to this. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Yea, I misspoke when 1 said Human Concerns. But I meant GREAT.
Okay? So, that will be referred to that Committee.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, the bills that were attached to County
Communication 21-448, those are BILLS 96 and 97 (2021).
The bills that were attached to County Communication 21-449, those are BILLS 98 and
99 (2021).
And the bill that was attached to County Communication 21-450, that is
BILL 100 (2021).
And then the resolution that was attached to County Communication 21-455, that is
RESOLUTION 21-146.
Chair, we'd just like to confirm that there are no other objections to the referrals as read
by the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE; Just want to confirm. Members, there's no other objections to the referrals as
read by the Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 104
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; So, ordered.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, Chair-
CHAIRLEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: --proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-79NO. BUDGET, FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 101 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
A NEW CHAPTER 3.47, MAUI COUNTY CODE, IMPLEMENTING A COUNTY
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TAX," be PASSED ON FIRST READING
and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1.
That County Communication 21-354, from Council Vice-Chair Keani N.W.
Rawiins-Fernandez, be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-79.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 105
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-79.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. To adopt the recommendations.
Your Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee met on September 1,
2021 to discuss a proposed bill to establish a three percent County transient
accommodation tax on all gross rental, gross rental proceeds, and fair market value
considered taxable under the definitions of Section 237D-1 Hawaii Revised Statutes.
Your Committee noted the State would provide the County with monthly TAT data, but
the County would need to establish its own tax office to receive this information. Your
Committee clarified that vacant positions in the Department of Finance may be used
to temporarily assist with the implementation of the County TAT, but that the Fiscal
Year 2022 Budget will need to be amended to create the new tax office and to account
for the additional revenue that will be generated by the new tax. Your Committee voted
6-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposed bill and filing of, of the
communications.
I also, we also discussed taking up amendments after hearing back from the State
Department of Taxation, which I have before you now. And you should have received
it In, via email. I don't see it in my, oh, there it is. Okay, at 2:09. So, it just arrived in
my inbox. So, you should, If you refresh, see it in your inbox, my Amendment Summary
Form. Okay. Okay, I move to amend. Chair, would you like me to share screen?
Would that be easier for everyone to follow along? Any-
CHAIR LEE: I notice, 1 noticed that this is including the signature page. It's eleven pages.
But some of it would be like housekeeping, and some of them substantive. Is that the
reason for a lengthy ASF?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. So, remember in Committee, we asked the
Finance Department to work with the State Department of Taxation to get their
feedback so that we could incorporate any of their recommended changes. And so,
the Department of Finance submitted their memo on September 9 to the BFED
Committee with all of the recommendations and our OCS staff Ms. Milner incorporated
those amendments into the bill. The Amendment Summary Form goes over all the
amendments. They're not very substantive, but it is, it is a longer bill. So, if you would
like to see it on the screen, I can show it. If not, I don't need to.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 106
CHAIR LEE: No. I think maybe everybody would like to see it on the screen. I have one
more question before we start doing that. Is, can you go over, remind us about the
timeline, and why we, we need to make this effective October 1 ?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, mahalo. Chair. So, the timeline to enact it
starting October 1 is, as we learned, each month, we could generate between
$4-7 million. And so, that's a lot of money that we could help mitigate the impacts that
the tourism industry, the impacts to our County and to our residents' quality of life, to
our culture, to the environment, and make it a better place to visit as well.
CHAIR LEE: And we're also taking into consideration that this would affect reservations going
forward, and not past reservations.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right. Okay. And so, I, I actually misspoke earlier.
That the amendments actually aren't necessary. That the State statute, so Bill HB,
House Bill 862 already put that into State statute. And so, that's already there, that
clause that addresses contracts, or reservations/bookings, is already enshrined in
State statute. But for further clarification, and ease of, and for consistency, we, my
proposal is to add that language straight from HB 862 into our bill. And so, that would
be one of the amendments that I would share.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. Let's, let's get going then. We have a lot to do.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, Mr. Clerk. Mr. Deputy Clerk, can, will you enable
my sharing, my screen share function, please? Okay. And while we're waiting for that
to happen. I'll go over the motion. Okay, there we go. Oh, okay. Sorry, it's in the
middle. Okay. Okay.
I MOVE TO AMEND VARIOUS PROPOSED MAUI COUNTY,
MAUI COUNTY CODE SECTIONS AS FOLLOWS:
1. IN SECTION 3.47.010, ADD A THIRD SENTENCE TO
EXEMPT THE, FROM THE COUNTY TAT CERTAIN
INCOME WHEN THERE ARE SALES CONTRACTS
EXECUTED BEFORE THE NEW CHAPTER IS
ESTABLISHED, TO READ AS FOLLOWS:
"IF THE GROSS RENTAL, GROSS RENTAL
PROCEEDS, AND FAIR MARKET RENTAL VALUE ARE
RECEIVED AS PAYMENTS BEGINNING IN THE
TAXABLE YEAR IN WHICH THE TAXES BECOME
EFFECTIVE, ON CONTRACTS ENTERED INTO PRIOR
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 107
TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THIS CHAPTER, SO
OCTOBER 1, AND THE WRITTEN CONTRACTS DO
NOT PROVIDE FOR THE PASSING ON OF INCREASED
RATES OF TAXES, THE COUNTY TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATION TAX WILL NOT BE IMPOSED ON
THE GROSS RENTAL, GROSS RENTAL PROCEEDS,
AND FAIR MARKET RENTAL VALUE COVERED
UNDER THIS, UNDER THE WRITTEN CONTRACTS."
AND, SO, THE WRITTEN CONTRACTS AS IN
RESERVATIONS OR BOOKINGS.
OKAY, AND THEN THE NEXT IS
2. IN SECTION 3.47.030(B), TO REPLACE AND
OCCUPANT. "AND OCCUPANT OF A RESORT TIME
SHARE VACATION UNIT" WITH "OR OTHER
TAXPAYERS WHO RECEIVED GROSS RENTAL
PROCEEDS."
TO ADD AN OKINA IN "HAWAIT'.3.
IN SECTION 3.47.060, REPLACE OPERATOR,
"OPERATOR TAXABLE OR PLAN MANAGER" WITH
"PERSON," AND IN SECTION 3.47.110(A), REPLACE
THE MULTIPLE INSTANCES OF "OPERATOR OR PLAN
MANAGER" WITH "PERSON."
4.
IN SECTION 3.47.120, TO ADD AN OKINA IN "HAWAIT’
AND REMOVE THE FOLLOWING: 'ALL TAXES MUST
BE PAID PENDING APPEAL."; AND
5.
6. IN SECTION 3.47.150, ADD THE FOLLOWING AS A
SUBSECTION (A)(1), TO INCLUDE A PENALTY FOR
FAILURE TO FILE A TAX RETURN, AND
RENUMBERING EXISTING SUBSECTIONS (A)(1) AS
(A)(2), AND SUBSECTION (A)(2) AS (A)(3).
"FAILURE TO FILE TAX RETURN.
FAILURE TO FILE ANY TAX RETURN REQUIRED TO
BE FILED ON THE DATE REQUIRED (DETERMINED
WITH REGARD TO ANY EXTENSION OF TIME FOR
FILING), UNLESS IT IS SHOWN THAT THE FAILURE IS
IN CASE OF
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 108
DUE TO REASONABLE CAUSE AND NOT DUE TO
NEGLECT, THERE WILL BE ADDED TO THE AMOUNT
REQUIRED TO BE SHOWN AS TAX ON THE RETURN
5 PERCENT OF THE AMOUNT OF TAX IF THE FAILURE
IS NOT MORE THAN ONE MONTH, WITH AN
ADDITIONAL 5 PERCENT FOR EACH ADDITIONAL
MONTH OR FRACTION THEREOF DURING WHICH
THE FAILURE CONTINUES, NOT EXCEEDING 25
PERCENT IN THE AGGREGATE. FOR PURPOSES OF
THIS PARAGRAPH, THE AMOUNT OF TAX REQUIRED
TO BE SHOWN ON THE RETURN WILL BE REDUCED
BY THE AMOUNT OF ANY PART OF THE TAX PAID ON
OR BEFORE THE DATE PRESCRIBED FOR PAYMENT
OF THE TAX AND BY THE AMOUNT OF ANY CREDIT
AGAINST THE TAX WHICH MAY BE CLAIMED UPON
RETURN."
AND LASTLY
7. IN SECTION 3.47.170, DELETE THE WORD "COUNTY.
AND THAT'S MY MOTION.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's been moved and seconded to amend, amend the motion with this
Amendment Summary Form as read.
Now, discussion. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Again, these are the amendments
that we received from the State Department of Taxation. And if you look at the memo
that we received, it just recommended a deletion of a portion, making consistent with
State Statute 3, HRS 237D, and then each of the sections for consistency and . . . .
So, we're just following the recommendations of the State Department of Taxation.
And so, this will additionally clarify what's already in State statute, and it's just a
redundancy, to make clear what we were clarifying for testifiers earlier, which is that
the three percent tax won't start until the bill is enacted on October 1. So, any of the
bookings that were made prior to October 1 would not have the three percent tax.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 109
Furthermore, we, I heard the concern from some of the testifiers, and understand the
concern about adding on the tax to new guests making reservations. And during the
lunch break, went onto the website, so Ka'anapali Beach Hotel's website, and found
that on their website it says, "This site may contain typographical mistakes,
inaccuracies or omissions, some of which may relate to pricing and availability, and
some information may not be complete or current. Ka'anapali Beach Hotel reserves
the right to correct any errors, inaccuracies or omissions, including after or [sic] order
has been submitted, and to change or update information at any time without prior
notice". And so, that disclaimer is already on the website, as well as I'm sure it's on
other hotel websites and other tourist accommodation websites, to protect themselves.
And so, that disclaimer already exists.
And I will yield the floor at this time and open to questions. And I believe the
Department of Finance Director Scott Teruya is on, as well as Budget Director Michele
Yoshimura, if Members have--
CHAIRLEE: Member King.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -questions regarding the amendments. And then
we'll go to the main motion.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So, Member Rawlins-Fernandez, I was
following you really closely when you were going through the ASF. But the last one
you went through so quick, 1, I didn't catch the purpose of deleting the word "County"
or what the effect of that was. Could you just reiterate that? I think you just said
deleting the word "County", but I didn't, then you, then you went through that kind of
fast. That was on number 7.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Member King. Okay, so, that is 3.47.170,
and that's under the provision Director of Finance. And so, removing the word "County"
is super non-substantive. And I'll read the sentence in its entirety, so you understand.
"The Director is authorized to enter into an agreement with the Director of Taxation,
other State agency, or other entity approved or designated by the Council for collection
of taxes authorized by this Chapter". So, instead of just saying, instead of saying
"County Council," we just removed the word "County" and so it just-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. Oh, okay. Thank you for that. I just, I didn't catch that cause
you went through that so fast.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 110
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But I, I, I just wanted to say that I support this. And then, while
we were taking our break too, I just reached out to our counterpart on Kauai, who, who
passed the same, the same tax surcharge, as you may have heard. And I asked if
there was a motion to try to push it out. And, and I was told, yes there was, but it failed.
So, you know, they went with October 1, as well. So, I, 1 just wanted to share that with
everybody. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I see your hand, Scott. But let me ask any Members, do you have any burning
questions right now? No?
Okay, Mr. Teruya.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE SCOTT TERUYA: Thank you. Chair. And good afternoon.
Members. Member Rawlins-Fernandez just a quick, I'm not sure if you hit it or not. I
think I didn't hear; I think number 2 on our submission regarding the authority to deem
periodic/annual returns filed with the County of Maui when filed with the State of
Hawaii. I wasn't sure if you already had mentioned that amendment. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Which item is that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: What number is that?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: On number 2.
CHAIR LEE: There's lots of number 2's, Mr. Teruya.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, that's number 2. It's the number 2 point on the
memo that we received from the Department of Finance, from the, the
recommendations from the State Department of Taxation. It's posted on BFED-52 on
Granicus. And that memo goes over nine points, recommended amendments to our
bill number 2 that Director Teruya is asking about. We kind of discussed yesterday on
how to amend in accordance with the recommendation from the State Department of
Taxation. And my Budget Analyst and I discussed a proposal for the Council to
consider. And it's regarding the authority. And Director and I talked about the authority
being Director of Finance. But for wordsmithing that amendment at this time, we just
needed a little more time. But if the Director has language to propose. I'm happy to
entertain that in the next motion.
CHAIR LEE: So, are you going to provide that language, Mr. Teruya, for the next motion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 111
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE; Is Deputy on? If not, I can start with it. I was just wondering if
this would be the right place or not, Vice-Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Well, we’re still in the middle of the motion. So, let us dispose of that first. Any,
anything, any more questions or comments about the amendment, and then the main
motion? Well, just the amendment for now. Okay. All those in favor of the Amendment
Summary Form, which includes the various amendments, just read by Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez, raise your hand and say "aye", if you are in favor.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL KRISTINA TOSHIKIYO; I’m sorry, Chair Lee. This is
Deputy Toshikiyo.
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL TOSHIKIYO: I'm on the call right now. I'm sorry,
before you take the vote. I’m looking through the language and I just had a question, if
I may, to Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, regarding the tax established and the effective
date for the bookings? I thought that she, it had been discussed that it would only be
applied to bookings after October 1. So, I did have a question, because there is a
provision that also would, I guess, maybe apply-
CHAIR LEE: What page, what page are you on?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL TOSHIKIYO: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This is Section
3.47.010, regarding the tax established. And when I’m reading it, it has a provision
right there in the middle stating, "and the written contracts do not provide for the
passing on of increased rates of taxes". So, just from reading this, it means potentially
that bookings prior to October 1, but has a provision that allows for the increase of
taxes of rates could potentially be taxed. So, 1 just wanted to confirm that that’s what
was intended in this amendment. Because this does track the language within the
HRS of. Chair Rawlins-Fernandez is correct about that.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, as Ms. Toshikiyo stated, this
language was taken straight from the Statute 81, Act 1, HB862. So I, I'm not sure what
Deputy Corporation Counsel’s concern is regarding that language.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL TOSHIKIYO; Whether it would apply to bookings
made prior to October 1, or whenever your effective date is? But it does, if the bookings
have a provision that provide for passing on the increase of rates of taxes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 112
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; And what section makes it so that, oh, 1, okay, I'll just
share my screen again. So--
CHAIR LEE: For Ms. Toshikiyo, why don't you just make a suggestion on what you feel the
clarification should be?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL TOSHIKIYO: Just to make it very dear that all
bookings, cause I believe that's the Intent of the Council, regardless of whether or not
there's a provision. Or the pass--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Bookings is not-
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL TOSHIKIYO: Okay. Bookings or, sorry. I'm sorry, go
ahead.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's a, it's, it's written contracts.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL TOSHIKIYO: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And so, you're saying, okay, "received as payments
beginning in the taxable year in which the taxes become effective, on contracts entered
into prior to the establishment of this chapter, and the written contracts do not provide
for the passing on of increased rates of taxes". So, you, you want to delete the section?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL TOSHIKIYO: If it would be the section following the
comma, "and the written contracts do not provide for the passing on of increased rates
of taxes". And then it would be all written contracts prior to October 1 would not apply
and anything after would.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So-
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL TOSHIKIYO: Yea, I believe just from listening to your
conversations that that was this Council's intent.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, that section would allow for any contracts
that do not provide for the passing on of increased rates and taxes, it would just be a
harder line you're saying, instead of that flexibility.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL TOSHIKIYO: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 113
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yup, I'm fine with that.
CHAIR LEE: Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just wanted to say if that's a friendly amendment, I would accept
that too as the seconder.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's what we've been telling all-
CHAIR LEE: Friendly amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -of the testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair, I just had a question. So, pardon me Members with what
I'm going to ask. Why are we holding fast to the October 1 date? And why can’t we
wait a month, 30 days?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 1 know you, mahalo for the question.
Pro Temp Kama. I know you weren't in the Committee when we took this up twice,
and learned from the Department of Finance that, you know, the potential of revenue.
I think we owe it to our residents, and to our environment, and natural resources to
mitigate the harm that the tourism industry has inflicted upon everyone. And by
mitigating harm, we, we need money. And every month that goes by is between 4 and
$7 million. And so, I, I would not like to, I mean, I don't want to explain to our
constituents why we forwent, foregone, let $4-7 million go, times each month that we
let it go.
When, you know, during this pandemic, we have asked them to make such sacrifices
as not going to funerals and providing comfort to the families who lost loved ones while
watching the hypocrisy of the tourism industry have luaus and celebrations and huge
gatherings. And it's just been such an inequity. And that kind of inequity, injustice,
and it, it really isn't fair to our residents. And while we can't make that completely fair,
we can at least collect funds to make life a little better for our residents. And so, that's
why ! stand by the October 1 start date. Mahalo, Pro Temp Kama, for your question.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 114
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, it does. Thank you for that. I just have a different mindset
about things like that. But thank you very much, Chair. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Member Sugimura, and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sorry, Chair. So, actually I was,! was going to actually do
an amendment once Keani Rawlins is done with hers. And it was going to be about
the start date. And I have a, you know, a statement about that too. But I’ll wait until
Keani Rawlins is done with this. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
amendment.
Oh, Hi wait until Member Sugimura pro, proposes her
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? Any other comments, questions? Okay, now, we need
to, we need to take a vote on the amendment, yea? So, you ready everybody? All
those in favor of the amendment, as proposed by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Looks like nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now, other amendments?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, did you have another one?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I will work with the Department, the
Finance Director, and my Budget Committee Analyst on that second amendment that
Director referred to, mentioned earlier. And, and then, I'll yield the floor to Member
Sugimura's motion at this time. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 115
COUNCiLMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yea, thank you. Thanks, first of all, Keani, for putting that
all together and for explaining, and all the research back and forth with the State Tax
Office and the amendment. So, I wanted to thank you for that. I did hear Rod Antone
with the Maui Hotel & Lodging Association asking about the start date, as well as the
testifiers that came forward, you know, kind of on the, if you think about, they are
running the administrative part about the visitors that come in, and having to
communicate with them, and dealing with them from, I think positions of aloha. This, I
think what was said. But I do know that the TAT tax, which, which Member White was
adamant about--
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura? Member Su--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes? Oh, the amendment.
CHAIR LEE: What, let's make the amendment first.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Oh, okay sorry.
MY AMENDMENT IS NOT, MY AMENDMENT IS TO CHANGE,
SORRY, I CAN TELL YOU WHERE IT IS IN THE VERY
BEGINNING, SO IT, THE 3.47.010, TAX ESTABLISHED. AND
THIS TAX IS CONSIDERED LEVIED ON, IT SAYS OCTOBER 1,
2021, AND JUST TO KIND OF MAYBE COMPROMISE.
INSTEAD OF JANUARY 1, 2022, HOW ABOUT DECEMBER 1,
2021?
And I guess if OCS, or Ms. Tokio [sic] could help me with the very end, sorry, the last
statement. This tax, or this will take effect, this ordinance will take effect upon approval.
So, I don't know if that has to change because of the proposed amendment to start this
instead of October 1, to December 1, 2021. Do you have the--
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND, FOR DISCUSSION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: --more time. Yea, thank you, Mr. Molina. 1 started talking
about why before. And I will say again that I did hear the, as Rod Antone speaks for
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 116
the industry, Mr. White, and I think his sales and marketing and his financial, chief
financial officer did talk to us about the same concerns. And I will say that the TAT tax,
as you know, when the Legislature went into the COVID pandemic, when it first started,
right, we, we did not get 23. I think it was 5 million or $7 million. And then later on, it
did come to us. But the impact is huge.
I will say that this tax forward, it will give us  alot more than what the Legislature was
giving us. I think that was always the cry before, like we gave more than we got. And
I would like to give the industry some consideration for their need to communicate with
the visitors that are coming as, for this additional tax. And I do believe that, in the long
run, the concerns we have about being considerate, you know, building infrastructure,
all of the things, I think we try to do that anyway. Even if we didn't have this tax, we
would do that. But having this additional three, up to three percent with this TAT tax
will help us in the long run. This is like a gift that we never had before; cause it's going
to be much more. So, I think we can, I would like to just recommend that we start it
December 1,2021, instead of October 1. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. I appreciate your intent, Councilmember
Sugimura, but I don't, I don't support the amendment. You know, we speak on the
fears and the concerns of the industry, and I tell you, brothers and sisters, it's the fears
and concerns of our people of the communities we need to be concerned with. So,
that's where I, I think the sooner rather than later, because we can't ask these folks to
wait out at Amala Place. We can't ask to wait for these folks that have, have been
waiting for 30 years for infrastructure on Lana'i. We, I can go down the list. It's the
concerns that we have to worry about, is our voters, our constituents, and our members
of the community, not the industry. So, that's my two cents on it. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Member Sugimura, for the
proposal. My apologies that I couldn't stay awake for this Committee hearing on the
other side of the globe. But the same point that Member Sugimura brought up was
what I was going to bring up is that, you know, we have foregone the TAT that, all
those months, and when Coronavirus started.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 117
And we often hear of the industry trying to recoup their losses. Meanwhile, we're
expending our taxpayer funds to do search and rescues, to, you know, so many things
that maybe isn't quite as apparent in Upcountry as they are in West Maui. Living with
the effects of tourism, and especially the type of tourism that's going on now, versus
the pre-COVID tourism, versus the COVID shutdown, and seeing firsthand the impacts
along the timeline that, from the time before I was in office till today. I think it's important
that, you know, each person that has an effect on Hawaii begins to pull at least their
own weight.
And there's many needs within our community right now. And so, it's not a time to
forego it, because in the early discussions, we learned, or I learned, maybe you guys
already knew, that the State can yank this at any time, you know? They can, it's, it's
not definite. The original ask, even as Mr. White knows, the original intent of the TAT
was for the counties and then we got a portion of it. So, the rules that we're playing by
are not our own, and if that's the case and seeing how history went on this, we need
to take advantage of every day that we can, because there's no guarantee that even
after the next legislative session this will still be an option.
The other thing I would like to say is, you know, while we're talking about the impacts
and recouping the losses, I recently spent the day at Ka'anapali Beach and I was kind
of appalled to see a brand-new restaurant, like, inches away from the sand in front of
Ka'anapali Beach when we know about climate change and when it's a hard time. And
I, 1 just was blown away, like I'm all like, where, where did that thing come from, you
know. And so, it's no shortage of funds if they're able to expand onto the sand that's
disappearing. And to come and say, you know, we need to show aloha to the tourists.
They, it's a two-way street; aloha aku, aloha mai. And so, I won't be supporting the
amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any further discussion? Oh. Okay, we, we heard from you, Vice-Chair,
already. Other people? No?
Okay. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you very much, Madam Chair. First, you know, I,
I appreciate ail of the comments made by my colleagues with regards to not giving the,
the industry that opportunity to have a delayed implementation of this bill, which I fully
support, and its certainly time for it. But myself, 1 have support reducing funding for
MVB, I've support the moratorium on this industry. I've supported increases their
property tax rate. And, but, you know, there, there are times when maybe government
needs to just step back a little bit and give a little bit of breathing room to the industry.
So, I'm open to supporting the compromise made by Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 118
I know the industry reps that we heard from earlier had a preference for January. I'm
okay with giving them an additional 60 days to try and implement this and then get the
word out to all their prospective visitors. So, i just think, you know, and we're
concerned about government being a little overbearing on other issues as well. I mean,
you have this debate across the country, how much should government intervene and
when should government step back as it relates to private sector? So, I'm willing to
kind of bend a little bit and allow them that short opportunity to get things worked out
with their visitors and give them the heads up that this tax is coming their way. You're
going to have to pay a little bit more for a hotel room.
So, I guess I'm trying to understand their perspective, and their relations with their
customers and, you know, trying to keep things going for them business wise. So, yea,
I know we, we, whether we like the visitor industry or not, they're still a big part of our
economy. And I'm hoping one day that we may not have to be as dependent on this
industry, so we don't have to always, you know, say let's not kill the golden goose.
Because I think we can do much more by diversifying our economy in other areas
besides this. So, I will support Member Sugimura's proposal. Thank you. Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Oh, before I call on you, did Member Sinenci raise his hand.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: I saw a hand in that direction.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Go ahead, Mr. Sinenci. I'lU'll wait.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Yea, I just wanted to add my comments too. And
mahalo to my fellow Members for sharing. And mahalo to Mr. Antone and Mr. White
for their testimony today. I understand from, from the industry, it seems like, like for
me and for my community, we've been dealing with  alot of the issues, almost doing
damage control, especially on our highway. And that's why we had, or I had presented
our bill for HSAC or for, for the Maui Legislative Package to, to get more funding for
the roads. Because for our small little town, even though that the industry has
expanded, our infrastructure and rural town hasn't. And it's at that safety, we're at a
crisis, when it comes to safety: if we don't have enough room for emergency vehicles,
if people are walking in the middle of the road, we don't have cross, safe crosswalks
and sidewalks. So, I'm looking, we're, we're at critical mass, being that a lot of our own
people are moving out-of-state just because it's, we don't have any housing available
for them. So, I think we all committed ourselves to creating more affordable housing
for our people first. And I think this is the first step in doing it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 119
It's nothing against the industry. We want, we just want to be good hosts to our visitors.
And we want to make sure that our residents are taken care of first. We've, we learned
about the water restrictions Upcountry, but, you know, we've seen a lot of the industry
with expansions for more infinity pools, or, or water parks. So, so those are some of
the things that we still got to, got to work on as a community. And I'm sure we'll work
with the industry. And I'm sure they can understand the position that we're in. Thank
you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. I want to, I ,I don’t support this amendment. I
think we, we can easily start this on October 1. And I just wanted to share with the
Council that we discussed this TAT surcharge and the implementation in the, on the
HSAC Executive Board. Member Tommy Waters, who Chair's the City and County of
Honolulu Council showed us a sample of a, an electronic page where you just click on
here and that's how you pay your, your surcharge. You know, it was, it was so simple
in his mind. It's not going to take additional, you know, six staff to do.
This is not a, this is not a, you know, 1 hope that we don't have hotels that are carrying
two sets of books, because that doesn't sound right to me. But I don't see this as
something that's egregious to implement. And 1 think because of the fact that, and we
talked about it. I've talked about it, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez talked about it, that
the, how, how, how volatile, and how changing the hotel rates are anyway on a daily
basis. And they tacking on, they, they make provisions for additional taxes to come
and go depending on what, what community they're in.
So, I, ! really don't see this as an egregious move on our part to start it October 1.
Because, especially since we've been talking about it and everybody knew since it
passed the State Legislature that was coming.
The other thing 1 want to point out is that three months, we're talking about 4-7 million,
we're talking about $12-21 million that we'd be giving up if we start this at the end of
December. And, and to me, we have a very ambitious affordable housing plan, and
everybody keeps talking about where we're going to come up with that money. Well,
we're going to start coming up with it hopefully October 1. But this is what, to me, this
is like a priority, along with the infrastructure to get that affordable housing done, but
this is what people are crying out for, this is the need, this is the, the cost of housing
that the visitor industry has, has driven up. I think this is a very small payback for the
visitor industry to give to our local residents, you know, for, for our affordable housing
plan. So, I'm not going to support pushing the start date back. And I think there's other
reasons that, that Kauai didn't support it either. So, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 120
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, for my turn, I don't support the amendment because first of all, I think
we've been discussing this additional tax since January, February, and March. I
remember submitting testimony on behalf of the Council in January, February, March,
April, and so forth. So, this is not a surprise to the industry. If anybody needs to have
time to gear up, it's the County to implement the collection of the, of the tax, because
the hotels and the transient accommodations tax is already being paid. So, it's, it's an
increase of three percent. So, it's not a shock to them on how to pay this tax, cause
they're already paying a tax. So, it's three percent more, except this three percent
goes to the County. And as everybody said, we ali need the money.
So, but my, my main driver for me, the main driver for me is the fact that everybody
was on notice months ago that, to me. Because I don't like blindsiding anybody either.
But so, I think there was ample time to, to make adjustments. The people who really
have to scramble would be the Finance Department. But other than that, you know, I,
I think adding three percent onto what they already pay is not going to be much of an
adjustment to them.
Okay. Everybody had a chance to talk. Vice-Chair, you wanted to speak one more
time?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'll wait for the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: You're going to say something that nobody else said, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, I was. But that's okay. I can, I can hold off.
CHAIR LEE: Holdofffor? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The main motion.
CHAIR LEE: So, all in favor of the amendment to change the effective date, raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA. MOLINA, AND
SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see. I'm not sure where Member Sugimura went.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: She's there.
CHAIR LEE: But I saw, pardon me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 121
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I can see her. She's voting "aye". She's got her hand up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You can see her? Okay, three "ayes".
Those against the motion, raise your hand and say "no".
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, PALTIN
SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Six "noes", three "ayes"; motion fails.
Now, we're going back to the amendment, the long one that Vice-Chair did with her
ASF. Okay. Including the friendly amendment. Any last words on that? If not, all
those in favor of--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, wasn't there another-
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -amendment, wasn't there another amendment that we were
waiting on the Finance Director too?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I got it.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, yes, that's right, from the Finance Director.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And  Isaw-
CHAIR LEE: Did you get it?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I did. Mahalo, Deputy Director Alibin. Okay. And I
saw Mr. Deputy Clerk pop his video on and I'm sure that's to remind us that we already
took a vote on my initial motion. And so, this is  anew motion. And the motion is to
amend, and I can, I can share screen. One moment.
CHAIR LEE: Scott, you look tired
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: He's working hard on this TAT bill. Okay. Can
everyone see?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 122
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay. It's 3.47, oh.
I MOVE TO AMEND 3.47.070, TO DELETE 'A COPY OF THE"
AND "FILED WITH THE STATE AS REQUIRED UNDER" AND
TO ADD "AS SET FORTH UNDER" AND "AND A REMITTANCE
COVERING THE RESIDUE OF THE TAX DUE, IF ANY, AS
PRESCRIBED BY THE COUNTY FINANCE DIRECTOR".
SO, THAT IT WOULD READ IN ITS ENTIRETY, AS "3.47.070
ANNUAL RETURN. ON OR BEFORE THE TWENTIETH DAY
OF THE FOURTH MONTH FOLLOWING THE CLOSE OF THE
TAXABLE YEAR, EVERY PERSON WHO HAS BECOME
LIABLE FOR THE PAYMENT OF TAXES UNDER THIS
CHAPTER DURING THE PRECEDING TAX YEAR MUST FILE
WITH THE STATE DIRECTOR OF TAXATION A RETURN AS
SET FORTH UNDER SECTION 237D-7, HAWAII REVISED
STATUTES, AND A REMITTANCE COVERING THE RESIDUE
OF THE TAX DUE, IF ANY, AS PRESCRIBED BY THE COUNTY
FINANCE DIRECTOR".
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCiLMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Do we have a second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I saw the peace sign from Sinenci. Vice, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci to amend the motion to add that language
we just saw on the screen.
Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sure.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 123
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Again, this is a recommendation that
we received from the State Department of Taxation. So, just clarifying pursuant to that
recommendation. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member, mal, mal, Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I just had a question about this. Is it, are
they going to compare like what they're collecting with what we're collecting, so that
they align, and we don't have folks only paying the State tax and not the County tax,
or only paying the County tax and not the State tax?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Teruya, did you hear that question?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE SCOTT TERUYA: Sorry, Chair, I didn’t. Sorry. Can you repeat?
My bad.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just was wondering if the purpose of this was to see if, for
the State to align the taxes and make sure that the State, some people aren't only
paying the State tax or some people aren't only paying the County tax to ensure that
people are paying both taxes. Is that the point of it?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Thank you, Chair. Well, let me, let me put it this way. The reason
why we needed the, this ordinance in here is so that the Director of Taxation is able to
share with another tax office. Transient Accommodation Tax Office. So, we need to
establish that so that there's a data sharing that is allowable. Now, the data sharing
that is being given to the County identifies, after you make your payment to the State,
that we can take that data and understand what is owing to the County based on the
three percent. So, you're paying whatever you're going to self-report at 10.25 percent
to the State. And you, just a simple calculation, instead of 10, multiplying it by 10.25,
you're going to multiply it by three percent and remit that amount to the County. We're
taking the data that they are giving us to validate whether the amount paid is correct.
So, we're not sending bills to anybody. We're just validating that the amount that we
are expecting based on what they filed with the State matches. That's all it is. I hope
that answers your question.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 124
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. Thank you, Yea, totally, thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Question for Director Teruya.
IN MY MOTION, SHOULD I HAVE ALSO INCLUDED AN
AMENDMENT TO 3.47.060, RETURN PAYMENTS TO ADD
CLARIFICATION OF THE STATE DIRECTOR OF TAXATION IN
THE FORM OF THE COUNTY FINANCE DIRECTOR? WAS
THAT THE RECOMMENDATION FROM DEPUTY DIRECTOR
ALIBIN?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Yes. And, director. Deputy Director is on the call. So, I will let
her speak to that so that she's very clear. Because what was communicated on Kauai's
level, we wanted to just make sure there's consistency. So, May-Anne, do you have
any comments?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF FINANCE MAY-ANNE ALIBIN: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: May-Anne.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Good afternoon. Members. Yes, that is correct. So,
our, based on the recommendation from State . .. Tax, it's going to be to amend those
two sections, 3.46.060 [sic] and 3.47.070, sorry, 3.46.070 [sic]. Because, and this is
because there's periodic returns due and then also the annua! returns. Thank you,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
seconder, would be open to including that into the motion, the amendment to 060 and
clarifying Director of Taxation and then our County Finance Director in 060.
So, if Member Sinenci, as the
CHAIR LEE: He said, he motioned yes. He motioned yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Member Sinenci. Mahalo, Chair.
And mahalo. Deputy Director Aiibin
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 125
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Is, is everybody, any more questions or comments
those in favor of the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
anyone? Okay. All
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight "aye", nine "ayes".
Any, I mean eight "ayes". Those opposed?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm not opposed, but I don't know what you're voting on
cause I had to, I just connected right now. I lost connection, so sorry about that.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Would you like me to show the
amendment to Member Sugimura, so that she can decide whether she wants to vote
on it or not?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, on 3.47.060, it's the State Director of Taxation
in the form of the County Finance Director, here. Okay. And then in 070, annual return.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, these are, this came from the State Tax Department. They
want us to include it in our ordinance.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I vote "yes". Thank you, Keani.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. The result of the vote is nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Okay.
So, the main motion as amended.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, you have anything else to say?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'll yield to the other Members since
I've been monopolizing the time. And when all Members have, you know, exhausted
their, you know, comments, I'll, I'll make my final comments. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 126
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Okay, everybody, please feel free to say anything that hasn't been said.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Call for the question.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. And real quickly. I just wanted to say that
my vote of support, of support comes with my commitment to the, to the industry,
including participating in the Sustainable Tourist Summit next week, and also, as well
as my involvement in the Council Tourism Temporary Investigative Group. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. And I'll make this quick. I don't feel
sorry for the hotels and resorts. I feel sorry for our residents. And I feel sorry for our
aina. This is a pass-through tax. The hotels don't absorb any of it. It just goes straight
to the people who are coming here. And we can let the hotels and resorts know that
we're using this money for, for the good, for, to make our, to improve upon what's been
damaged, to make life better in our County. And, and that will help the hotels and
resorts with their public relations. So, I, I think it's beneficial to them, even though
they're, you know, providing comments.
And, and I don't think that an additional $15 per, per night or so would deter anyone
from coming here. I think it's a pretty ridiculous argument when remembering how
many people, how much people p.aid for rental cars this year; as high as $700 a day.
And, and people paid that. It wasn't a deterrence. They wanted to be here, and they
made it work, so, in, in just thinking about that contrast. And if we're worried that people
won't come here and they'll go to Mexico instead, I. I just don't believe that argument,
not one bit.
And for notice, I think Chair Lee covered it beautifully. But I was just going to add a
couple more dates that this was on the agenda on July 23, as County Communication
21-354. And at that time, we received no testimony from the industry. It was in the
Committee as BFED-52 on August 4, and we received nothing from the industry. And
again, it was scheduled on August 18 in Committee, and we received no comments
from the industry. And so, here we are at first reading and they finally appeared with
comments and, you know, claiming that they haven't had enough notice. And I just
don't think that that's a legitimate argument. There's been a lot of time and a lot of
notice.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 127
Starting now, we'll be able to generate lots more money. And how much will we, how
much affordable housing will we be able to build? How many residents will we be able
to stop from leaving our County with this funds when we create more housing? And
what kind of relief can we give to East Maui, West Maui, South Maui with, with, with
this funding?
And so, I thank the Members for their support. I don't know what that means. Member
Sinenci. But, yea, mahalo for the Members support and help in crafting this bill, as well
as the Administration’s help and support, and the State as well. And I look forward to
working with the Administration on using these funds to improve the lives of our
residents. Mahalo, Chair,
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. I'd like to say a few words that haven't been said earlier, or at all
that 1 know of. I just want to remind all of you, all of us, including myself, that we are
at a point in time that can really, our decisions can really change Maui County for the
better.
And I, I applaud those who, our founding fathers and mothers who gave birth to the
visitor industry. They had no idea what it was going to turn into. But we needed
something at that time. Cause I remember when I was a child, my parents talked about
moving to Oahu, because things were really bad economically. So, the policymakers
at that time came up with the idea of the visitor industry, the State and the County
policymakers. And they did a great job. But at that time, there was also agriculture. .
And there, there was more of a balance in our economy, which we don't have any
more.
But it's up to us to figure that out. It's really up to us. How do we have a good, viable,
strong visitor industry, but other economic drivers as well? And ! think we're very
capable of coming up with those answers and those solutions. And because 1, you
know, 1 always encourage you, and I know you all already know that our decisions are
not for today and tomorrow, it's long into the future, because we have that kind of
foresight. And we have that kind of courage to make the really hard decisions. And
this is one of them today.
But on the, on the other hand, the visitor industry knows that we are trying, even with
the TIG, as we talk about moratoriums, we talk about tax increases, we're also looking,
we're also looking out for that industry as well, because we are responsible for helping
the over 5,000 people who are employed by the visitor industry, which are our friends,
and neighbors, and family. So, we have responsibilities throughout this whole process
and it's very complicated and it's not simple. And I, I want to commend all of you for
being willing to make the hard decisions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 128
And so now, moving forward, are we ready for the vote? Okay. All those in favor of
the main motion as amended, please say "aye", and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCiLMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Thank you so much, everybody. Motion carries; nine "ayes". It's
unanimous. It's unanimous. Thank you, everybody.
Mr, Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL NO. 101 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-80NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE, AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That the Miscellaneous Communication referring Contract C7432, between the
County of Maui and Map-Collective, Inc., for assessing and analyzing carbon
emissions, and creation of data gathering, analysis, and visualization tools for
the County of Maui Joint Climate Action and Resilience Plan, in the amount of
$186,000, be FILED;
2. That the Miscellaneous Communication referring Contract C7431, between the
County of Maui and Geos Institute, for a Countywide Vulnerability Assessment,
in the amount of $77,956, be FILED; and
3. That the Miscellaneous Communication referring Contract C7436, between the
County of Maui and Lotus Engineering and Sustainability, LLC, for the County
of Maui Joint Climate Action and Resilience Plan, in the amount of $249,977,
be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 129
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-80.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-80.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you, Chair. This one's going to be easy after the
last one. Your CARE Committee met on September 1, 2021, and reviewed the
following: Miscellaneous Communication dated July 26, 2021, from the County Clerk,
transmitting Contract C732, 7432, between the County of Maui and Map-Collective,
Inc., for assessing and analyzing carbon emissions, and creation of data gathering,
analysis, and visualization tools for the County of Maui Joint Climate Action and
Resilience Plan:
Miscellaneous Communication dated July 26, 2021, from the County Clerk,
transmitting Contract C7431, between the County of Maui and Geos Institute, for a
Countywide Vulnerability Assessment; and
Miscellaneous Communication dated July 26, 2021, from the County Clerk,
transmitting Contract C7436, between the County of Maui and Lotus Engineering and
Sustainability, LLC, for the County of Maui Joint Climate Action and Resilience Plan.
Representatives from the Mayor's Office of Climate Action, Sustainability, and
Resilience provided status updates on the three contracts, as well as other . . .
contracts.
The Energy Commissioner and Environmental Coordinator informed us the contracts
related to the County's whole-systems solutions approach to climate change mitigation,
including adaptation initiatives to promote resilience and reduce greenhouse gases.
The Environmental Coordinator reviewed that data-gathering processes, components,
and structure of the County of Maui Joint Climate Action and Resilience Plan, noting
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 130
traditional ecological knowledge and investment in nature-based solutions can help to
mitigate climate change. The Plan models Oahu's Resilience Strategy and is
anticipated to roll out within the next six months.
The Energy Commissioner explained the connection between the different contracts
and the County's plans for climate change mitigation and adaptation initiatives.
Your Committee appreciated the update greatly and expressed support for the
County's efforts to mitigate climate change and promote resiliency. Your Committee
recommended filing the three Miscellaneous Communications by a 5-0 vote. I ask for
the Members support of your Committee's recommendations.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
CHAIR LEE.
AND
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-81 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution
OF SPENCER LAU TO THE COST OF GOVERNMENT COMMISSION FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED.
entitled "RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very, Madam Chair. Ooh, sorry about that. It
sounded bad.
MOVE TO PLAICE COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-81 ON THE
CLERK'S DESK UNTIL THE OCTOBER 1, 2021 COUNCIL
MEETING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 131
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to lay the item on
the Clerk's desk until the next meeting.
Discussion, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. My dog certainly has
very impeccable timing and he loves to participate.
Anyway, your GREAT Committee met on August 31, 2021 to discuss a proposed
resolution relating to the Mayor's nomination of Spencer Lau to the Cost of Government
Commission for a term expiring on March 31,2024, due to the resignation of Michelle
Del Rosario and recommend his nomination be approved with a vote of 6-2.
Your Committee also requested Mr. Lau be present today to answer Members
questions. Unfortunately, Mayor, Mayor's representative Mr. Mossman informed us
that Mr. Lau is currently on the mainland and not able to participate today. The 60-day
deadline to approve or disapprove Mr. Lau's nomination is October 10, 2021. So,
therefore, tabling this matter until October 1, 2021, for the Council meeting, will still be
within the 60-day deadline for the Council to take action. So, I ask for the Members
full support to table this matter till October 1. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 132
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-82NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 102 (2021). entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 19.52.090, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO UNLAWFUL
CONSUMPTION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR AND OTHER MINOR
UPDATES FOR HISTORIC DISTRICTS NUMBERS ONE AND TWO
(LAHAINA)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDRED TO PRINT;
and
2. That County Communication 21-192, from the Planning Director, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Here we go, gangy.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-82.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-82.
Member Paltin, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the proposed bill is to
prohibit the consumption of intoxicating liquor in recreational areas under the
jurisdiction of the Department in Parks and Recreation in the Lahaina Historic District
for safety reasons and respect for cultural and historic sites.
Your Committee noted a previous exclusion that related to softball teams is no longer
necessary because those teams now use the Lahaina Rec. Center Park, which is
outside of the Historic Districts.
The bill was reviewed by all the Planning Commissions, the Cultural Resources
Commission, and the Parks Department.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 133
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of the revised proposed bill on first
reading and filing of the communication. 1 respectfully ask for the Members support of
my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? if not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye
raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTiN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: I see nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 102 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-83 PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 103 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
CONDITIONAL PERMIT GRANTED BY ORDINANCE NO. 2101 (1992) AND
AMENDED BY ORDINANCE NOS. 2360 (1994), 2800 (1999), AND
3201 (2004) TO ALEXANDER & BALDWIN SUGAR MUSEUM, TO ALLOW
FOR AN EXPANSION OF THE MUSEUM USE AND FOR A TIME EXTENSION
ON APPROXIMATELY 4.166 ACRES IN THE R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
AT 3957 HANSEN ROAD, TAX MAP KEY (2)-3-8-006:004 (POR.) PUUNENE,
MAUI, HAWAII," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT; and
2. That County Communication 21-123, from the Planning Director, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 134
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair.
[  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-83,
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sugimura to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-83.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the proposed bill is to
provide a time extension and to amend the Conditional Permit granted to Alexander
and Baldwin Sugar Museum for the expanded museum use.
The Museum provides educational programs on the history of plantation life and the
role of the sugar industry in Maui's development, including adverse impacts on natural
resources.
The Museum's proposed expansion of approximately 2.4 acres includes the
development of a multi-purpose building, outdoor display and garden areas, and use
of a vacant portion of land for community events.
Your Committee agreed to allow the expansion with the condition set by the Maui
Planning Commission and to extend the Conditional Permit until March 31,2047, when
the Museum's lease with Alexander and Baldwin expires. Your Committee voted 7-0
to recommend passage of the revised proposed bill on first reading and filing of the
communication. I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 135
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 103 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-84 PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill104 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
ORDINANCE 3377, TO AMEND CONDITIONS, GRANT A TIME EXTENSION,
AND TRANSFER A CONDITIONAL PERMIT TO HELAINA DIMARTINO FOR
THE BANYAN TREE TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL WITHIN THE RU-1
RURAL ZONING DISTRICT FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT 3265 BALDWIN
AVENUE, TAX MAP KEY (2) 2-4-002:002 HAMAKUAPOKO - MAKAWAO,
MAUI, HAWAII," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT; and
2. That County Communication 20-274, from the Planning Director, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-84.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17. 2021
Page 136
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paitin, seconded by Member King, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-84.
Discussion, Member Paitin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the revised proposed bill is
to grant a Conditional Permit transfer and time extension to allow Helaina DiMartino to
operate the Banyan Tree Bed & Breakfast, a transient vacation rental within the Rural
Zoning District on historic property that includes structures dating back to the 1920's.
The applicant purchased the property from her father, the original permit holder, Marty
Herling. She plans to continue operating the seven-bedroom B&B as permitted since
2006.
Your Committee added two conditions that the B&B not operate when the owners are
away overnight, and the owners be County residents and reside full-time on the
property. Since committee, the consultant, I believe his name was Brett Davis, did
send his presentation. So, Members should have been able to see the pictures that
we weren't able to see in Committee at their leisure. Your Committee voted 7-0 to
recommend passage of the revised proposed bill on first reading and filing of the
communication. I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? if not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: For the record, that is BILL 104 (2021).
You have before you Committee Report 21-85, recommending the following-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 137
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Chair? Is it okay if we skip ahead to 21-86, just cause
we're in a flow right now? Maybe we can move that--
CHAIRLEE: Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -21-85 to the end or something.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No objections.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. 21-86, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-86NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following;
1. That Bill
CHAPTER 19.28, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO PERMITTED USES
IN THE AIRPORT DISTRICT," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT: and
105 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
2. That County Communication 21-124, from the Planning Director, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-86.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 138
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-86.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the proposed bill is as
follows: 1) include as a permitted use in the Airport District buildings or premises used
by the State or County governments for public purposes, except that facilities on Lanai
or/and Molokai must first obtain approval from the Lanai or Molokai Planning
Commission. Exclude transient accommodations as permitted use in the Airport
District, sorry, that's number 2). And 3) update references to obsolete terms and
agencies.
Your Committee noted the Airport District includes Kahului, Kapalua, and Lanai
Airports. But the Molokai and Hana Airports are designated Interim Zoning and are
not affected by the proposed bill. Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend passage
of the revised proposed bill on first reading and filing of the communication. !
respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Yes, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, thank you. The Department did a good job updating,
and we learned a lot about history. I just want to bring up, I think it came up during
discussion. West Maui Taxpayers wanted to have a, looked at, at the Kapalua Airport
regarding the lighting and because of emergency. And I think it was discussed that it
would be brought to the community to look at. And that's Pulelehua, that airport right
above Pulelehua. So, I think the concern was lighting, and the residents and West
Maui Taxpayers, I sent the email that I got from Joe Pluta to Committee Chair, so that
at your time you can bring it up in the, with the community. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry. Thank you. Yea, we did receive that, and we did reach
out to the community. We sent him some of the questions and concerns, but we are
still waiting to hear back from Mr. Pluta. So, maybe we'll try and send it directly to West
Maui Taxpayers Association.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 139
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Tamara.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand
and say "aye"?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Paltin, did you want 21-85 to be at the end of the calendar or now? Can't hear
you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: She is on the phone now. It, okay, so we can.
CHAIR LEE: Up to you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I mean, 1 think we can get through the second readings pretty
quickly and then just, 1 mean not that I want to take a long time on 21-85, but.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's do that then.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Second and final, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
Oh, for record, that was BILL 105 (2021).
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 105 (2021).
Chair, proceeding with ordinances for second and final reading.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 140
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 86 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
(STATE OF HAWAII MAKENA LIFEGUARD SERVICES)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, may I
request the Clerk also call up Bill 87 through Bill 89, Bill 91, and Bill 92?
CHAIR LEE: Mem, any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO,
BILL NO. 87 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
(STATE OF HAWAII MAKENA LIFEGUARD SERVICES)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 141
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 88 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY, COUNTYWIDE,
COUNTYWIDE FIRE FACILITIES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 89 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM; AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 91 (2021^
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND (LILOA HALE PROJECT)
ORDINANCE NO,
BILL NO.__92_(2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND (HALE O PIIKEA II)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 142
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 86 THROUGH 89. BILL 91 AND
BILL 92 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING,
INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS AND
REVISIONS TO INCORPORATE ANY PREVIOUSLY PASSED
BILLS.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass Bills 86, 87, 88, 89, 90 [sic], 91, and 92 on second and final reading.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. point of information.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, did I miss one?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Not 90. Oh, you put one too many.
CHAIR LEE; One too many?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We’re not, I thought we already, we already did 90.
CHAIR LEE: Exactly. We filed that. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Not 90, but 91 and 92.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: On second and final reading. Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 143
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Mahalo Chair. And mahalo Member Paltin.
And I'm sorry, this will be a little faster than you may have anticipated. Bill 86 and
Bill 87 amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget Appendix A, Part I, Appendix D, by adding
a new grant under the Department of Fire and Public Safety, entitled "State of Hawaii
Makena Lifeguard Services" and conditional language limiting disbursement for
salaries and premium pay to 10.5 LTA equivalent personnel.
Bill 88 amends the Fiscal Year 2022 Appendix C - Capital Improvement Project,
Department of Fire and Public Safety, to change the wording to allow the Department
of. Department to supplement existing capital improvement projects that exceed its
current budget allocation due to material and shipping cost increases. The bill also
adds the heading "5. Paia - Haiku Community Plan Area".
Bill 89 amends the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget Appendix D, to update or add the
conditional language for Re-Tree Hawaii; the Liloa Hale Project; and the Hale
Piikea [sic] Project. These changes have been made in the budget bill and only need
to be added to Appendix D.
Bill 91 amends the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget Appendix A, Part II, Special Purpose
Revenues - Schedule of Revolving/Special Funds, by adding an appropriation under
the Affordable Housing Fund for Liloa Hale Senior Rental Housing project in the
amount of $4.3 million.
Finally, Bill 92 amends the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget Appendix A, Part II, Special
Purpose Revenues - Schedule of Revolving/Special Funds, by amending the
appropriation for Hale O Piikea II under the Affordable Housing Fund for the Hawaiian
Community Development Board by: 1) allowing funds to be used for construction
instead of a land acquisition; 2) revising the number of units from 96 to 97; 3) adjusting
the unit count per category; and 4) adding one unit for an on-site property manager.
I ask for the Councilmembers continued support of these items. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, thank you. I like when you do many bills at once, so
thank you very much. You know, I just have a question, clarification question for Bill 91
and 92. And because it says. Revolving Funds, "Revolving/Special Funds", it's a loan,
correct? So, they're going to pay us back? Yea, okay. Very good.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye", for all those bills on second and final reading.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 144
AYES; COUNCiLMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries.
Clerk. We have a couple more.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 93 (20211
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 19.64
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
BED AND BREAKFAST HOMES
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. And you know, because Member Sugimura
likes it, may I ask the Clerk to please call up Bill 94 as well?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objection.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No objections.
CHAIR LEE; Two in a row.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 94 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 19.65, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOMES
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 145
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 93 AND 94 (2021) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Second? Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the proposed bills is to
reduce the number of bed and breakfast homes and short-term rental homes allo\A/ed
in the Lana'i Community Plan area by: 1) limiting permits of each type to 15;
2) prohibiting on-street parking by guests, operators, or service and delivery vehicles;
3) limiting density to no more than one type within a 300-foot radius and no more than
one type per block; 4) increasing notification requirements; 5) requiring Lana‘i Planning
Commission to review permit renewal applications and allowing approval for up to
five years. Current permits would remain valid until their expiration date and can be
renewed if criteria are met.
I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; More discussion? All those in favor of passing these bills on second and final
reading, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries, on Bills 93 and 94.
Bill 95.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 146
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 95 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.80B, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, TO ADD "MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE AND WORK TOWARD
RESILIENCE" AS A GOAL OF THE COUNTYWIDE POLICY PLAN
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 95 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass Bill 95 on
second and final reading.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. This has been a long journey for this bill, this
. . . bill. The purpose of the proposed bill is to incorporate the amended Section IV,
attached as Exhibit "1", by adding "Mitigate Climate Change and Work Toward
Resilience" as a theme and goal of the Countywide Policy Plan.
At the June 18, 2021 Council meeting, we adopted the recommendations of Committee
Report 21-38 to hold public hearings on Lana'i, Maui, and Moloka'i. After the public
hearing, schedule first reading of the proposed bill, and file the communication. The
public hearings were held on August 10, 2021, and no oral or written testimony was
received. The proposed bill passed first reading at the September 3, 2021 Council
meeting.
I'd like to remind Members the proposed bill was unanimously recommended for
approval by Lana'i, Maui, and Moloka'i Planning Commissions. And the Planning
Department also supported emphasizing climate change in the Countywide Policy
Plan.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 147
The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reported just last
month, "it is inequ, unequivocabie, unequivocal that human influence has warmed the
atmosphere, ocean and land". And the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres
described the report as, and that's, this is the reason for my lei, "code red for humanity".
We need to focus on the causes and effects of climate change by grouping policies
under this theme and goal. I respectfully ask for the Council's support of my motion.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor, please say "aye
hand.
raise your
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, it's unanimous; nine "ayes", zero "noes".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: They're all climate champions.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Hooray.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And you can't see it, but I actually wore my Climate Reality t-shirt
today under my jacket, so.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, very nice. Very good.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It doesn't show up on the screen, but.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Member Paltin, we do want to end on a good note. Committee
Report 21-85.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll do my best. Chair.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, shall I call up the item?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 148
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-85 PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
ORDINANCE 4295, GRANTING MAUI DRAGON FRUIT FARM LLC A
CONDITIONAL PERMIT TO CONDUCT AGRICULTURAL RELATED
ACTIVITIES, SELL NON-AGRICULTURAL RELATED ITEMS AND
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS NOT GROWN ON THE PROPERTY, AND TO
CONDUCT CERTAIN SPECIAL EVENTS WITHIN THE COUNTY
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT, FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT 833 PUNAKEA
LOOP, LAHAINA, MAUI, HAWAI I," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT; and
That Bill1.
That County Communication 18-34, from the Planning Director, be FILED.2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-85.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve
the recommendations in Committee Report 21-85.
Member Paltin, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The purpose of the proposed bill is to grant a Conditional
Permit to Lawrence and Crystal Schmitt of Maui Dragon Fruit Farm LLC, to conduct
agricultural activities, sell related products and items not grown on the property, and to
conduct special events.
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm is a 27-acre USDA-certified organic farm established in 2009.
The Farm's operation also includes farm tours, Aqua-Ball rides, and a 400-foot zipline.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 149
Your Committee agreed to extend the Conditional Permit expiration date to March 4,
2025 when their Special Use Permit expires. The Committee noted the zipline
activities will also require a Conditional Permit after August 13, 2022, under the recently
enacted Ordinance 5238. Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend passage of the
revises proposed bill on first reading and filing of the communication.
And then we received a bunch of testimony today.  Iwas wondering, as part of the
discussion, if Ms. Lutey could let us know as to the legalities of RVs on the property?
Or Ms. Thomson?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Thank you, Chair.
Thank you for that question. So, recreational vehicles being used for housing would
not be an outright legal use. I understood from some of the testimony today though
that the Planning Department is aware of that situation. And it is not currently a part
of the Conditional Permit being considered by you folks today. That use potentially
could be roped into the Conditional Permit, but it is not currently part of it.
So, my recommendation would be to probably allow, you know, the Planning
Department to go ahead and interact with the landowner and, you know, bring it back
to you. If, if you wanted to add the RV usage as some type of allowed, it's currently
not allowed-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, are you saying we have to recommit this?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: No, only, I mean, that's completely up to you.
But you could take action on the Conditional Permit as it's drafted. It would not affect
oneway or another the use of those RVs. So, that's not addressed by this permit that's
before you today.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. I'll yield to the other Members.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes?
CHAIR LEE: I have a couple of comments.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 150
CHAIR LEE: Yes, it's, it was a little disturbing to hearthat testimony today, but there's several
options. One, we could pass it and, or just leave it on the Clerk’s table. Or recommit,
as you don't want to do. But those are the options. But no matter what option, I would
suggest that perhaps you recommend to the Planning Director to, to try and mitigate
some of these issues that came up. Well, to first of all, verify, verify these claims. And
then if they are legitimate, then work with the owner on how to mitigate these issues.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, may I respond?
CHAIR LEE: Sure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You know, when we were in Committee, I mentioned that
Lahaina is a fairly small town. And I am aware that there are parties that go on at the
dragon fruit farm. And from my understanding of the people that attend, and whatnot,
they're not weddings, you know? We, we saw who the workers are, and I know some
of the kids that go there at night. And I think that the issues that are occurring and,
and I'm not certain because I haven't been to the parties or anything, but I think it's
more to do with not the Conditional Permit issues, personally, as it is to do with the
farming operations and maybe the workers and whatnot.
Because, if we believe what Ms. Schmitt says, you know, in her testimony about
weddings not going on. I think she mentioned to me in a separate conversation that
when they did not get the TVR for the two-bedroom that they had built, they rented it
out to three young, single guys.
And so, you know. I'm not sure that the partying noises and things that the neighbors
are hearing are actually weddings, or just long-term renters who have made Maui their
now home and are having good fun. And so, at this point, I kind of think, and I'm not
sure this is my theory, that having the Conditional Permit would be a strict enforcement
on other types of activities because violations could get it removed without having the
Conditional Permit, the farm workers, and the other things. Because they say, you
know, majority of the things that deal with this Conditional Permit are daytime hours.
But that's just my thoughts and theories. I will leave it to the body to provide their
feedback.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. My, my understanding is this is an extension
of a Conditional Permit that they already have. And so, it doesn't seem like the
Conditional Permit has, has resulted in those strict, you know, what you were talking
about, that that would give them strict parameters. I was, I was really shocked to hear
about the RVs on the property, and people living in them.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 151
Member Sugimura and I had been attending some of these sessions at the Police
Department about impaired driving. And we had a long conversation with the Brown
Family who lost their daughter in a, in an accident, who were then trying to, you know,
they, they moved to another property, were trying to live on an RV, and they were
getting kicked out of their RV. And they were told they couldn't, they couldn't have an
RV on the property to even live in, as the primary residence.
So, to hear that we're, that these luxury RVs are now being used as temporary housing
for people who, from out-of-State. I don't even know if they're not even there for six
months, then they wouldn't even, they wouldn't even be considered residents. They'd
be considered short-term rentals.
But I think this needs to be looked at more closely by the Planning Department, and
so, whether we recommit it to Committee or lay it on the Clerk's table until we get a full
report from the Planning Department. But, you know, I, I agree that Conditional Permits
are supposed to be, are supposed to allow for this kind of investigation. But it
apparently hasn't, because they've had a Conditional Permit and yet we're just now
finding out this information that didn't come up in Committee. So, that would be my
preference, is either to recommit to Committee or lay it on the Clerk's table for however
long it takes to get a full investigation and, and get the applicant into compliance with
the law. Because I don't think it sets a good example when someone's breaking the
law in one area to then turn around, give them a Conditional Permit for something else.
That would be my preference. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, I, I agree with Member King. You're not supposed to
have, well, according to, you know, what I've been reading with HRS, I'm, I'm reading
a communication between the Housing Committee with the State, and our Planning
Department. And one of the things that's pretty clear is that RVs are not allowed on
ag land. And even a discussion is going on, you know how I wanted to have in January,
I thought it would, or January/February, I would have, I would have a tiny home
ordinance. But it's pretty controversial and it's actually going back and forth. I don't
know if it's only with State, but there's some dissecting going on. But we need clarity.
I think it's something really important, because it's happening all around us. It's
happening in my community too, where I'm seeing these RVs pop-up, and tiny homes
pop-up, and I'm not sure if they're connected to wastewater systems and water. And
there's some safety things that I'm concerned, so I'm kind of anxious to get my, my
ordinance through.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 152
But going back to this, yea, I'm concerned like what Member King is talking about, so
that we can have some consistency. And as you heard, the zipline ordinance, which
was not on the agenda today, but certainly the neighbors sound like our other
neighbors that we heard in other ag communities where you have ziplines right next to
them and, and the disturbance to the neighborhood. So, but that's another discussion
that we'll hear once that Conditional Permit comes before us. But for today, I don't
think that we should take action, because of this, and let the Planning Department do
their investigation. And, and then we should assess it in total is my, is my
recommendation.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you, Madam Chair. Yea, I echo the concerns
expressed, or the preferences of Members King and Sugimura. It was an eye-opener
this morning. And I believe the applicant did tell us that there was an inspector that
looked at the RV. And, you know, I'd like to wait for that inspection report before
considering any action at all, and when that RV was put on that property. Cause,
apparently this was an extension of an existing permit. So, there’s a lot of questions
that kind of need to be answered, at least from my level of comfort to support an
extension like this.
So, either, you know, lay it on Clerk's desk or send it back to Committee. I don't know
if maybe might be, things might be more thorough if we send back to Committee, work
out all these details, and then move it forward from there. But I think we got to get
these questions answered, because if we were to act today and sort of like turn the
other cheek, I mean, it could set precedent, you know. And we don't want that
happening. And, you know, to have employees living in an RV, then that, you know,
we, if we look the other way, it's opening up a potential pandora's box. So, either
recommit, or at the very least, table. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Molina. Anyone else?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just, you know, I was wondering Members' thoughts on
filing? Because we’re about three years past the 180-day Charter deadline. And oh,
maybe we can check with Ms. Thompson about willful violation here?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thanks for the question. I think that the RV
usage, it’s, you know, it's not addressed in this Conditional Permit. And there's no real
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 153
section in there that I could find regarding housing of staff, you know, that would be a
type of enforceable condition. I think it's important, though. As you noted, this, this
matter, the original permit, Conditional Permit was issued or approved in 2016. So, I
know that it's just been lingering through the Committee and Council process for
various reasons. But if you file it, that would mean though that the permit is terminated
versus, I think right now it's just been operating a bit in limbo, pending your final
decision.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I, I understand that. But I guess the question was, if we don't
take action, are we willfully violating the Charter? I understand Members' reluctance
to grant the Conditional Permit. It's been operating with an expired permit for the last
three years. And if we don't take action, because  Ihave other things, other deadlines,
are we willfully violating the Charter's 180-day deadline? I mean, we're already three
years beyond. Would that?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: So, the, you know, although the Charter has
that 180-day deadline, there's no penalty. So, it doesn't mean automatic approval, or
automatic extension. I think that's one of the things the Charter Commission can clean
up is, you know, either extending that deadline or giving it, you know, a meaning what
happens when that deadline is exceeded? But there is, there is no real penalty.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, that's great. So, no $1,000 fine for me, you're saying.
Okay. Main thing. Thanks. I'll, we can leave it on the table till the investigation
concludes.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. So, after hearing what Chair Paltin just spoke,
then we leave the, the company in limbo until, and we leave it on, we leave the issue
on the Clerk's desk until the Planning Department is able to come up with some kind
of resolution that we can address? Is that where we're at right now?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think if they're in violation, then we wouldn't be extending the
permit. Is that, I mean, that was my interpretation. Was that you guys' interpretation?
CHAIR LEE: Wait. Member Kama, did you understand that answer?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I understood what Member Paltin just said. But that's not what
1 understood where that conversation went. And so, I think I probably understood
something else. But if everybody else understood that they are in violation, therefore,
you know, we couldn't do the Conditional Permit today. Then 1 guess that's where
we're at.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 154
CHAIR LEE; Weil, we don't know for sure that they're in violation. But that's the reason why
we would ask the Director of Pianning--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Right.
CHAIR LEE; --to do an investigation.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Right. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I saw Member Johnson, then I saw Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. As a former dragon fruit farmer, I'm going
to try not to be biased because I love dragon fruit. That being said, man, that's, that's
a hard one. Like, that's, that's really disappointing that we're at this stage. I, I
understand keeping it on the Clerk's desk, but I'm kind of curious, what would happen
if we voted it down? Can they reapply for everything and, correctly and include
everything that they're actually doing? Is that a path we could go for?
CHAIR LEE: Well, in. in my opinion, they're deserving of an answer after three years of being
in limbo, you know, one way or the other.
Well, what about you, Member Paltin? You're the Chair of the Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Well, you know, I don't know what weddings they have booked
or what tours they have booked. I guess if we file it today, then all the ones moving
forward are canceled. So, leaving it on the Clerk's desk until we get the results of the
investigation will give them, I guess however long it takes for the investigation to go
through, to stop taking more bookings and maybe start letting folks know that, you
know, there's a possibility that we don't get our permit and we can't continue these
tours.
They can reapply for all the things, but it, it's going have to go through the Planning
Commission again and they're going to have to do things the right way, and they won't
be able to operate after we take the action of filing them, or filing it, the permit--
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Sinenci, then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, just a response to Member Johnson. It looks like her
Conditional Permit is just for weddings, selling value added products at her shop, and
the Aqua-Ball. So, I, I believe she could still do her dragon fruit farm. I mean, I believe
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 155
the, why the, why the permit was in limbo was because they were also requesting
TVRs to the permit. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, sorry. Point of information.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I was going to, i was going to make the point that, you know, they,
there's certain things that are allowable under ag zoning. So, they can continue to
grow, to grow fruit, they can continue to sell fruit. What's not allowed is to sell non-
agricultural related items, you know. So, they're bringing in other items to sell at their
store, I guess, and, and then some of these extra, like the weddings. You're allowed
to do farm tours on ag-zoned land without a special permit. So, they could still do farm
tours with their farming operations.
But the other thing I wanted to say was, you know, after, pending the investigation,
there's probably going to be a need for a deep discussion about this issue. So, maybe
recommitting it to Committee is the way to go. Because otherwise, we're going to be
doing Committee work on the Council floor if we, if we wait till that investigation is done.
Then we have to, we have to have this discussion again. And we might want to look
at, relook at the conditions, as well. So, just wanted to kind of throw that out there that
if we do, if we do just table it, we're going to be back to this discussion and doing
Committee work in the Council, I believe.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, and I just wanted to add that the reason it took so long,
when we came into office in 2019, the permit had already expired. And each time we
contacted them, I don't know if you guys remember about the huge fire we had in
Lahaina? So, they weren't ready. It wasn't that I didn't try to contact them.
The other issue is, you know, I think to me if they're in violation, that's it. There's no
more discussion. And if we have it in Committee, we're going to get choke testimony
again and whatnot. And I don't know that it will be different than what we already
heard. So, I mean, if they are in violation, that's the end of the story for me. We don't
need to discuss it more. If they're not in violation, then I'm open to bringing it back to
Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Member, oh, Vice-Chair, did you have your hand up? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay. I'm just trying to understand
this to the fullest. The great news that we just heard from First Deputy Corporation
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 156
Counsel Thomson is that we don't have to be so concerned about the Charter mandate
regarding the timeline. So, Member Paltin can kind of not be so stressed out about all
those deadlines. So, I, it sounds like I support what Member King was just saying
about recommitting. And I know that Member Paltin has a full plate always, as we all
do. But it sounds like we’re going to keep it on the Clerk's desk until we hear back from
the Planning Department about potential violations regarding the Conditional Permit.
But the RV issue is a separate issue, not involving the Conditional Permit. And so, we
want to hear about violations on both before we make decisions, even though the RV
issue is not connected to the Conditional Permit. But that’s because we want to ensure
that those that get Conditional Permits from us are not violating the law, and any other
part of our Code. And so, I guess if we could get clarification on whether having an
RV there is a violation or not. So, getting confirmation from the Planning Department
about whether they are allowed to have an RV there or not, and that's a separate issue
from the Conditional Permit, but connected because we want them to be in compliance
with the law,
And regardless of whether we vote up or down, that this Conditional Permit, it sounds
like from Member Paltin that it's not the Conditional Permit that's causing the
frustrations and complaints from the neighbor. So, the neighbor will still be potentially
dealing with any of the impacts that she’s experiencing that she shared in testimony,
because it's not related to the Conditional Permit. Okay, so I just wanted to make sure
that we're all clear, or I, well. I'm clear on what's happening.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well.l can-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And then-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: --I mean, if the work--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -in a second. And then, I, I guess I share Member
Johnson's sentiment about we heard, and a lot of us really loved what we heard in
Committee about what was going on with all of the educational tours with the kids, how
fun that Aqua-Ball is. And we, we all talked about potentially wanting to take our
children, grandchildren there to check out their farm operations, because it sounded
so wonderful.
But you know, and it sounded like if we, if we don’t approve the Conditional Permit,
because of the hardships that they experienced with having, you know, the dragon fruit
start fruiting, it took a long time. And then in the meantime, they had leafy greens that
they were selling. And then there was the, the slug, the semi-slug with all the parasites,
and then, there, they, their farm operations totally, you know, disintegrated. And then,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 157
and then their dragon fruit finally fruited. And then the fire burned everything down.
And then they, they planted new dragon fruit ... I’m concerned that they'll lose, you
know, their, their, all their operations. And that was the concern we shared at
Committee, is if they don't have this supplemental income while they wait for their
dragon fruit again after the fire burned everything down to . . . while they wait that they
might lose everything. And so, I would like to hear back from them about what that,
what would, you know, what would that look like while they're in limbo right now and
still kind of operating but kind of without a permit. Just notan approved permit. Mahalo,
Chair.
And then, I think Member Paitin wanted to correct me, or share, share with me on
something. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair, you realize that we were all at the same meeting, right? Just kidding.
Just giving you a hard time.
Okay. Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea. I guess, you know, a lot of it depends on if the workers
still live on the property, or if that, the young single folks are still renting the house.
Because that's the nighttime noise that I think is going on. But yea, you're right, the, if
farm tours are allowed and they don't like farm tours, that'll still be going on. The night
pollinating of the dragon fruit stiil be going on. Selling of products that they make on
their farm still be going. So, I mean, if we're believing what she said that they haven't
been having these weddings, the only other conclusion I have is the, the night partying
noise is from either from the workers or the house renters.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, that was just my clarification of what you were saying that
I said.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I don't think she said that they weren't doing weddings. In
fact, the, the special, the permit they're looking for is to conduct special events. I think
she was saying that they weren't doing weddings into the night like they were, the other
testifiers said that they were going on till 11:00 at night with loudspeakers. But, you
know, according to what they're asking for, they could, they could do weddings and
any other special events, because that's part of the permit, the, the Conditional Use
Permit that they're asking for. So, I think, I do think that that's, that could be part of the
problem, part of the violations. If, if it’s, if the investigation is ... is found out that they're
doing outside, you know, more than they're supposed to per month and outside of the
actual hours. So, that's part of the, I think that'll be part of the investigation. But you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 158
have the farm tours that are allowed, you know, there's, there's no permit needed for
that.
CHAIR LEE; Member, Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCiLMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Were we going to hear from the property
owner at some point in time?
CHAIR LEE: We're just deciding how to deal with this--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; -item, which was scheduled to be passed.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: But people are having second thoughts. So, the Chair of the Committee is
looking at tabling this item until the investigation produces--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; -information to us.
Yes. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I think Pro Temp Kama wasn't at that
meeting, yea?
CHAIR LEE: No.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, see. So, I helped to give Member, Pro Temp
Kama a recap of what she missed.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're welcome. Pro Temp Kama. And i wouldn't
have any objections if Pro Temp Kama wanted to ask if she's on, Ms. Schmitt. But if
we're going to table and/or recommit, then we can also take a deeper dive, discussion
later.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 159
CHAIR LEE: Have we heard from everybody? Well, the Chair, the Committee Chair's
recommendation is to table the item and ask the Planning Department to investigate
the allegations.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Do we need to vote for that? Do we need to remove, or withdraw
the original motion then?
CHAIR LEE: Well, did, did you actually move to approve the Committee Report? Oh, you
did, eh. Okay, just making life more difficult. Okay. So, but you had your hand up.
What is that for?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Was that on me to follow up with the Planning Director? I got
to ask them to do the investigation, and let us know the results?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, because you're making us stay a lot longer than we're supposed to.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I mean we’re on the clock till 4:30, right?
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Punch in.
CHAIR LEE: We could have gone home earlier. Okay, so you're withdrawing your motion
then, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
WITHDRAWING IT. YEA, CORRECT.
CHAIR LEE: And who was the second on, on this beautiful motion? Who, who was the
second? Member Sugimura, you're withdrawing your second? So, you want to make
a new motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Sinenci was the second.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I got you deputy director, uh. Deputy Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 160
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
YES. I'LL, I'LL MOVE THIS TIME TO U\Y THIS ON THE
CLERK'S DESK.
I’LL COMMUNICATE WITH THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT
AND ASK THEM TO LET US KNOW THE RESULTS OF THEIR
INVESTIGATION. AND IF THEY CAN BROADEN IT BEYOND
THE RV TO NON-COMPLIANCE WITH THE ORIGINAL CUP.
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Since you already gave your explanation, anybody else want to chime in? If
not, ail those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
So, that brings us to the end of the calendar. Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE; Whew, I feel like we have worked overtime. Okay. Alright everybody, any
parting words, any words of wisdom?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'll just say that we could have, we could have done mine last like
it was scheduled. We could have ended on a real positive note.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 161
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: f just want to say congratulations Fire Chief Brad Ventura.
That was announced yesterday. And then, next week Friday, we're going to hear who
the next Fire Chief, I mean, sorry, Police Chief is. So, we're going to be full, full, fully
staffed. So, congratulations to Brad.
CFIAIR LEE; Anything exciting happening this weekend, anybody? Nothing?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Staying home for COVID.
CFIAIR LEE; Okay, everybody, I expect you to be working in the yard.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm going to paddle for 20 miles.
CHAIR LEE: You're going to paddle where?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh, 20 miles.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Wow.
CHAIR LEE: To where?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh, just along the coastline.
CHAIR LEE; Wow. Good for you. Good for you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Have fun golfing tomorrow.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, yea. Of course, I have to. It's like breathing. My only outlet I have, have
you know.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Take a picture of greens, if it's still beautiful.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I don't drink, I don't smoke, I don't do drugs, but I golf on weekends; Saturday
and Sunday.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Wow.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
September 17, 2021
Page 162
CHAIR LEE; Yea. Okay, everybody, have a wonderful weekend. Be safe. Be happy. And
please come back to work next week. Take care, everybody. Thank you so much for
everything. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Meeting adjourned.
CHAIR LEE: Meeting adjourned.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Does that mean if we don't play golf, we can drink?
CHAIR LEE; I know you guys'drink. I know you love your wine.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I'm also--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, meeting adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of September 17, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 4:10 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
210917/lks:jm
^ Common Cause P.O, Box 2240
Honolulu, Hawaii 96804
808.275.6275
received
ZOZI SEP 16 PH |: 26
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Hawaii www.commoncause.org/hi
Holding Power Accountable
September 16, 2021
Via Email OnlyCouncil of the County of Maui
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High St.
Waiiuku, Hawaii 96793
September 17, 2021 Agenda Item E "Recognizing September 28, 2021 as National Voter
Registration Day"
Re:
Dear Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers:
Common Cause Hawaii is a nonpartisan, nonprofit, grassroots organization dedicated to upholding the core
values of a representative democracy through increasing access to voting, civic education, and public
participation in government.
Common Cause Hawaii supports the Ceremonial Resolution "Recognizing September 28, 2021 as National Voter
Registration Day". Common Cause Hawaii commends the Maui County Council for recognizing the importance of
voter registration and civic education and the notion that voter engagement occurs every day of the year and
not just during election season. Common Cause Hawaii also applauds the Maui County Council for recognizing
the vital work of our election officials in securing our democracy.
Common Cause Hawaii sincerely appreciates the opportunity to support this Ceremonial Resolution. Please do
not hesitate to contact me, if you have any questions or concerns.
Very respectfully yours.
SnticUp
Sandy Ma
Executive Director
Common Cause Hawaii
LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS'
RECEIVED
m\ SEP 17 jiJI T- 52P. 0. Box 235026 | Honolulu, HI 96823
lwvh.org | 808.377.6727 | voters@lwvhi.org
OFFICE OF I HE
COUNTY CLERKCounty of Maui Regular Council Meeting
Friday, September 17, 2021, 9:00 a.m.
TESTIMONY
RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 28, 2021, AS NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION DAY
Donna Oba, President, League of Women Voters of Hawaii
Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Council Members:
The League of Women Voters of Hawaii strongly supports your proposed Resolution
“Recognizing September 28, 2021, as National Voter Registration Day.” Our position is
based on the National Voter Registration Act of 1993, whereby Congress reaffirmed that
voting is a fundamental right, and it is the duty of governments to promote the exercise of
that right.
Truthfully, Hawaii has one of the most modern voter registration systems in the United
States, offering voter registration online, voter registration in person on Election Day at Voter
Service Centers, and of course, voter registration in person at our County Clerk offices. We
acknowledge and thank the Office of the Maui County Clerk for its ongoing voter registration
service to the residents of Maui County.
Also, since Act 126, Hawaii’s “Automatic Voter Registration Law,” passed this year, an
application for voter registration will soon be part of all state identification card and driver's
license applications. Changes to the names and addresses of people already registered to
vote will be automatically updated unless the applicant declines. Voter registration
information will be shared only among the counties. Department of Transportation, election
personnel, and the online voter registration system.
For 101 years the League has been a nonpartisan, activist organization whose core value is
to protect the right to vote and encourage citizens to vote. Though we have worked hard to
realize the voter registration conveniences described above, estimates from U.S. census
data in November 2020 indicate only 40% of those eligible to vote in Hawaii were
registered, so we all have work to do to make it easier for the remaining 212,000 eligible but
unregistered Hawaii citizens to register to vote.
Registering to vote (and then voting) is core to sustaining our democracy. We thank the
Council of Maui County for helping raise public awareness of the importance of registering to
vote, and also cooperating with the League of Women Voters, an official Community Partner
in “National Voter Registration Day 2021.”
We urge you to adopt this resolution. Thank you for the opportunity to submit testimony.
Count^CleHt B«Cr!VCD-
Z0?l SEP 16 AM 8: 06
vera sreda <verasreda@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 7:56 PM
County Clerk; Tamara A. Paltin; Robert Carroll
Testimony Regarding County Council Item CR 21-85-Please DENY;- Qp y pi
Dragon Fruit Farm Lay outjpg; Crystal Text Saying 12 events per g'^rt^i^^ppp|‘
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Some people who received this message don't often get email from verasreda@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui Council Members,
I, Vera Sredanovic and my husband Winston Cheshire live at 959 Punakea Loop, Lahaina, right under Dragon Fruit Farm.
Over the past 6 years we have had many issues with Dragon Fruit Farm Commercial non-agricultural activities which are
creating daily noise from Zip lining. Aqua Rolling Balls, weddings. Transient vacation rental and unpaid workers who
sleep & party at the farm.
We have not received any notices regarding CUP and its amendments for Dragon Fruit Farm. I found out about this
Friday meeting from Michaele McLean a couple of days ago. I found her name in an online article regarding permitting
of Zip lines. I contacted her regarding noise from Dragon Farm and other CUP violations and she told me that CUP is on
the docket this Friday. She advised me to write to you. That explains why you never received any letters from the
community, as they are not being notified and were kept in the dark on the county's CUP restrictions, amendments and
extensions. I also talked to other neighbors 500 feet from Dragon fruit farm and they have not received notices either.
One neighbor said he received something in 2017, but nothing after that. Crystal was called by many neighbors with
complaints about the noise, so I guess she chose not to send notices to us. I see that CUP states that you have on file
proof that mailing was sent to us, it would be good to review those proofs. Also, we have never received a copy of the
CUP and its restrictions, so I contacted Crystal-Owner and asked her how many events she is allowed to have. This is her
text; (also attached bellow if not visible in the body of the e-mail)
Here you can see that she didn't want to answer how many events per month-so I had to ask twice.. She states here she
has unlimited picnics and 12 weddings per quarter (that is 4 weddings per month according to Crystal). Classification of
picnics Is murky too, as there was a wedding on 4/24/21 that she claims was a picnic-l think that was during the time
when weddings were not permitted as per public health order-but I am not positive on when that was in effect). CUP
available on-line from 2016 states 2 events/month are permitted? Are there some other rules not spelled in the CUP
that Crystal is referring to?
I will guide you through a typical day we experience living here: from am-through afternoon, we hear screams from
tourists Zip Lining and Aqua Ball rolling down the hill. We also hear very loud farm tours, as guides are having to yell to
large groups of tourists and these tours are conducted right along our property line. We see daily, multiple large groups
of tourists, sometimes 20-30 in each group having tours. Zip lining on the double zip line-2 lanes running at once-thus
double screams, and aqua balling. During the pandemic Dragon Fruit Farm also built a large- about 50 feet by 30 feet
pad with multiple dining tables for their Mountain Cafe-and noise is coming from there throughout the day also. In the
afternoons and through evenings and late into the night we have large weddings with very loudspeakers, DJs and
screaming wedding guests. Once they all leave and Dragon Fruit Farm is closed for adventure tours and other activities,
we hear unpaid staff party hard, sometimes well into midnight and 1 am. They also invite guests who will drive up the
hill and join their parties.
To give you a background on the people living at the farm and what they do: People at the farm are conducting tours,
operating ZIP and Aqua Ball adventures, I have yet to see them do any farm work. Over the years I met many of them-
1
nice kids (young adults from all over the world who come to HI on the farm exchange programs and work for free in
exchange for lodging and food. Many of them live in very bad conditions, in tents in extreme heat and direct west side
sun. They told me they are bitten by centipedes in their sleeping quarters and the kitchen area is hot and not sanitary.
So it is no wonder that at night they gather at the tour reception Cottage and party deep into the night under bright
lights. They invite other friends, so we will see  alot of kids at the farm playing football, yelling, parting, listening to loud
music and sometimes drugs. Couple of months ago I brought the Duck that was lost to them, as they have those ducks
and I could smell Marihuana in the air. That explains why I would awaken in the middle of the night with screams and
hysterical laughter.
I have, of course, notified Crystal-owner about these disturbances, I would call and text her in the middle of the night
but would not hear back from her until the next day (owners don't live at this property and are not available to respond
to disturbance calls), just to be told by her next day, that there was no noise coming from her farm (that is very blatant
to claim if you are not here to know for sure). Once she also stated that noise is coming from a neighbor above her-
which of course was not true. At this point the only remedy I had was to call the police. MPD has 3 of my middle of the
night disturbance calls, which they confirmed were coming from Dragon Fruit Farm. They have reports and also
contacted Crystal directly to warn her. I feel bad calling the police on weddings as that would ruin their wedding day, but
I have recordings of weddings going well into the night. All past 8 pm, all using loudspeakers, no tights are shielded and
of course a lot of cheering, screaming, and yelling. Party tents are erected the day before the event and removed the
day after the event-this is standard practice and  Ihave dated photos confirming that too. The last wedding that was
conducted on 9/12/2021 had over 50 people in attendance, 96 ceremony chairs were set up, it looked like the tent was
over 700 sf (it would be prudent to see if fire department was notified to obtain their review and approval), couple of
cars were parked on the street, loud speakers were used, unshielded string lights were used.
1 have documented proofs of most of the conditions from 2016 CUP being violated, and you are welcome to contact me
to provide you with videos and photos. I do see that one neighbor above the farm pointed to those similar complaints
with an official form filed to the ZAED department. I was not aware of this process to file complaints, and it seems that if
the complaint is past 7 days it doesn't get investigated. So it is good that 1 have digital proofs that can be verified.
Looking at the history of Dragon Fruit farm, I see that they conducted the same weddings and events even before being
granted CUP, which was collaborated by neighbors who were here before we moved in 2016. After obtaining CUP they
repeatedly violated the conditions of CUP. They also kept adding other activities to their CUP-all not related to
agricultural activities. If you review their source of revenues and actual activities conducted on this location you will
realize that all the profits are coming from Weddings, Zip Lines, Aqua Balls and "farm tours". Their unpaid staff is
engaged in those activities and not farming activities. It is difficult to get actual dragon fruits grown at the farm even
during the season from June-end of November. Land doesn't look like it is being worked and cultivated to produce crops.
Dragon fruits are just left unattended. Their presentation looks nice but is disconnected from reality as the farming
component is just used as a cover for other activities that should not be conducted on agricultural lands and are
generating huge profits to owners to the detriments of this land and its neighbors. It doesn't contribute to economic
development as there is minimal paid staff working at the farm. Less than 30% of their land is used for agriculture (even
though they claim 15 acres is used), the rest is devoted to 2 large wedding pads, large parking areas, TVR and its yard-
also used for weddings, Zip lines, some circular stone structures for photo props. Aqua Ball run, there is a portion of land
that used to be natural rain run off-but they built large wedding/observations deck on top of that natural runoff and
land below that is left unfarmed. I have provided the actual map of the lot as an attachment (this map is taken from
Crystal's presentation to the county in 2018 CUP extension process, where she omitted certain elements not used for
farming. Area shaded in yellow indicates the area entirely used for weddings and other events, shaded In white is
unused land-and includes a part that used to be natural water runoff but now covered by their half circle
ceremonies/viewing area, pink shaded is used for zip line and Aqua ball run-and not used for Dragon fruits-Crystal's
presentation stated it was all used for Dragon Fruit farming. Only area shaded in green is dragon fruits.
Considering that the farm has a history of doing commercial activities without permit, violating CUP restrictions, falsely
certifying that none of the CUP conditions were violated in their extension application, false claims that neighbors
2
adjacent to them were notified of their applications-so that they could have a chance to object, misstating surface of the
land used in farming, not contributing in a substantia! way to the welfare of the community by providing employment
opportunities for local residents, and using agricultural lands as an excuse for profitable adventure and events activities
while disturbing a peace of the land that is not zoned for such commercial activities, I would respectfully ask you to
immediately revoke the CUP and ensure that those activities are stopped.
Thank you for your service to the community and I apologize for the lengthy testimony-but this is an accumulation of
years of issues and disturbing activities at Dragon Fruit Farm.
Respectfully, Vera Sredanovic and Winston Cheshire
3
●I V2W Wi-Fi ^
<
Crystal Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
' This was second in the last 30 days.
My question is how many weddings/
receptions are you premier for per
month
^Permitted for- how many^
1 do not think we have another one
earlier. There is a ceremony earlier
Please respond_ I can call count
and ask if you refuse to answer
The one prior suppose to be a
picnic. We can have unlimited
amount picnic
Wedding reception 12 per quarter
I am trying not to do much reception
after dark. Less than 6 per quarter
So far we only had one. If that picnic
lady actually did a reception as you
described, I will totally bring up the
issue with her since that was not
SUDDOSe to.
O) oo
[ A T*Pay] ® ●li^
h
13 «4ji*
Proposed TVR
2 bedroom ohanaCuests/tour$ receptiou ar^a
UTILITY SHED PER
COUNTY T.YX REC ORDS
m *«ii
Pcto*d (2S 7 m
Periro 4 ^Iqi s'
Area with
existing CP . .Crm« Ni4»^ (43
Pir4ro
7
Lui^e Wtfcidiug'Ot'ftuum |Jiul
Encroacbing ou adjeceat propern*
Spiral rock attractiou areaNen- large coucrete pad wirli tuultiple leuts for
shade aud dousens of tables-New Cafe area
2 laues ZIP Line Towers
ZORB line and zorb storage building Nothing is planted here
receivedElyssa S.L. Tsolis
10 Mikiola Street
Makawao, HI 96768
(808) 276-2796
im SEP 17 f.H I0= 34
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKPublic Testimony
RE: CC 21-453 Bicycle Tour Public Safety
Aloha Maui County Councilmembers
My name is Elyssa Tsolis and I am a resident of Makawao. We are now in year two of this thing
we call the pandemic. It has been trying on all of us citizens of Maui County. I know most of you
have been going above and beyond in keeping Maui safe and 1 thank you for that.
My current concern, well one of many, is the bicycle tours utilizing Baldwin Avenue. My nine
year old son attends Kula Kaiapuni at Pa'a Elementary. Traffic in the morning and afternoon can
get quite busy especially during school hours.
Why are bicycle tours being allowed to operate during school drop off and pick up hours?
Baldwin Avenue is a narrow two lane road with no shoulders. In some areas of the road there
aren’t any guardrails as well. There have been so many times where we would have to come to
a complete stop; going around them create a huge risk of a head on collision because of all the
blind turns. A lot of these cyclers are oblivious to traffic and take up the whole lane not allowing
any room to pass when safe. This also goes for the cyclers traveling in the opposite direction
that possibly are training for cycling events. They create traffic jams as well as high risks for
major accidents.
We have witnessed cyclers fall off their bikes. We have also seen bikers flying down at speeds
they can’t control because of the decline. A lot of them are kids, inexperienced and unguided. I
don’t understand how a group of tourists are allowed to bike down an island that they have no
knowledge of without a guide. Where is the accountability for the tour companies?
There needs to be some ordinance in place with restrictions of times. The whole upcountry is
being affected by these bicyclers being able to ‘bike down a volcano’ during peak school hours.
Take into account how many schools are being affected; Makawao School, Seabury Hall, St.
Joseph’s, Pa’ia Elementary, Dorris Todd not to mention all the preschools along the way.
Parents, guardians and caregivers are trying to get their kids to school safely and in a timely
manner and get themselves to work safely too. Something needs to be done. There are much
more reasonable hours during the day that will allow these tours to operate.
We live in a time where uncertainty has been our daily life. We have become adjusted to rules
constantly changing because of this pandemic. We have a divide going on in our community
that is so huge because everyone is right and no one wants to listen, just talk.
This is one thing that I believe most of Maui residents would agree on. An ordinance in place
restricting bicycle tour companies from operating during school traffic hours in the morning and
afternoon. What is it going to take before action is taken? There have been so many accidents
in Maui county this year already involving tourists. I am not asking to stop bicycle tours
altogether. Limiting their hours is justifiable in helping to prevent bicycling accidents.
Our keiki deserve to go to school and return home from school safely and on time.
Mahalo a nui,
Elyssa Tsolis
Count^£iet^
Crystal Schmitt <crystal@mauidragonfruit.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 9:30 PM
County Clerk
Our response to Mr. Thompson and Mrs. Thom's Testimonies
ThompsonResponse.doc; Mrs.ThomResponse.doc
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
(You don't often get email from crystal(S)mauidragonfruit.com. Learn why this is important at
http;//aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Dear council members:
We appreciate all of our neighbors' feedback since we are always trying to be good neighbors.
Attached please find our response to our neighbors Mr. Thompson and Mrs.
Thom's testimonies.
Mahalol
Crystal Schmitt
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
(808)264-6127
OO
O 73OO
mm
50m
O
rnCN
oo 33-:*n
mrn *H 0
7s m
1
Dear Council Members,
We are writing this letter in response to Margot Thom's objection to the renewal of our conditional use
permit.
Our farm was devastated by the fire that swept through the area during Hurricane Lane. We have spent
the last few years replanting our dragonfruit fields, expanding our pineapple and banana plantings, and
planting an assortment of additional fruit trees. These plants are still small but are growing quickly and
will hopefully be productive in a few more years. In the meantime, the revenue we receive from the
farm tours, including the zipline, and from the occasional wedding are helping to pay the bills while we
recover from the disaster. We humbly ask that you not take away this supplemental revenue from us as
we rebuild.
We have tried to be respectful to the neighbors and have been limiting our farm tours to weekday
mornings to minimize the impact on the area. Additionally, the area is a large lot agricultural area, so
most neighbors are pretty far away and are not much affected by our activities. The area is not
residential, but agricultural, so a certain amount of noise, be it from machinery, animals, or staff is to be
expected. Our ag tourism activities do not significantly increase this basic noise level.
We would like to thank the council for their support of agriculture over the years. Farming can be
difficult at times and is subject to many unforeseen problems such as drought, fire, floods, invasive
plants, insects, etc. By diversifying our income with other revenue streams, we have been able to
weather these storms and continue to survive as an organic farm which provides benefits to the island
and to its people. We hope that you will continue this support and approve the renewal of our CUP.
Sincerely yours.
Crystal and Lawrence Schmitt
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
Dear Council Members,
This letter is in response to the Thompson's objection to the renewal of our Conditional Use Permit.
Our fann suffered in the 2018 fire that raged through the Lahaina hillside during Hurricane Lane. We
have spent the last few years rebuilding the crops which were destroyed in the fire. While they have
mostly been replanted, they are still small and will take a few more years before they are again fully
productive. In addition to dragonfruit, we are continuing to plant other crops such as bananas,
pineapples and sour sop and are constantly expanding our agricultural area. These continue to grow and
are getting better every year. Our weddings had stopped for over a year due to the COVID restrictions
and have just recently resumed. They only happen sporadically and are generally fairly quiet events.
We have been on site for these and have observed that there is not much sound noticeable in the
neighborhood when they occur. While we do have visitors to the farm to help supplement our income,
the vast majority of these and the associated traffic are walking tours which are a permitted use of the
property. Out of respect for our neighbors, we have been limiting these tours to weekdays in the
mornings. We respectfully ask that you renew our CUP as the additional income does help us to make
ends meet as our crops continue to recover.
Sincerely yours,
Crystal and Larry Schmitt
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
ELin \Count^CleH< £'n
Larry Schmitt <larry@mauidragonfruit.com>
Thursday, September 16, 2021 2:22 PM
County Clerk; ”,Tamara.Paltin"@mauicounty.us
Response to Vera Sredanovic's Complaint
farm_recovered.jpg; after_fire_accessroad.JPG
From:
Sent: 20?l SEP 16 PH 2: ^ I
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
Attachments:
IYou don't often get email from larry@mauidragonfruit.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Council Members,
This letter is in response to the objections raised by our neighbor Mrs. Vera Sredanovic and Mr. Winston Cheshire.
First of all, we would like to let you know that we love our neighbors and we always try to be great neighbors. There are
a lot of issues Mrs. Sredanovic has raised and we would like to address them as best as we can as below:
1. We had never heard from Vera until this year when she moved into her home. We were told that they are retired
doctors from California. She bought the property  afew years back but has only used it as vacation home staying there a
couple of times a year.
2. The minute she moved into the property, she started the process of constructing a gentleman's estate. Currently, she
is in the process of constructing a large in-ground pool and Jacuzzi. Apparently, she doesn't like living next to an actual
farm and is objecting the commercial activities that are going on there. She has been harassing our staff since she
arrived. She has been spying on us with drones and constantly monitors us with TV cameras. She even entered our farm
with an injured duck (not ours) to get a close look at our back of house areas without our permission. She obviously
ignores the fact that our neighborhood is suppose to be a farming community. She just wants people all around her that
are people like her who do not do any farming. Our farm has been in operation since long before she arrived. To us,
people with her mindset perhaps are better suited to live in a residential area such as Wailea.
3. Regardless of what efforts we have made, Mrs. Vera Sredanovic seems to be determined to drive our farm out of
business. They information she supplied to you was obtained by her flying her drone into our property and does to seem
to be accurate. Our county's ag Inspector personally came last year in August along with the staff planner Kim from the
Planning Department and walked the whole property with us and certified our growing area. The areas that have not
been cultivated are pretty much all rocks at this point. Even with the rocky area, we still have plans down the road to
clear the land and plant crops on them. Our goal is to use the land as much as we can to grow fruits. Mrs. Sredanovic has
refused to meet with me In person after I invited her to have a talk. Instead, she flew her drone over to inspect our
property. The drone footage obviously is not as good as our county's ag inspector walking the property with us on foot.
1
4. We have never had a TVR at the farm. We were in the process of getting a permit for one and were waiting for the
county council. While waiting for the permits, all tenants in the cottage have been long term. Although weddings have
restrictions on sound and when they need to finish, our long term tenants and our staff have a right to enjoy themselves
on their own time, including playing music and making noise until 10pm. As Vera has the right to enjoy her
property, so do we have a right to enjoy ours.
own
5. While some of our staff are short term interns who volunteer on a short term basis for the experience of living on a
farm on Maui, others are paid employees who have been here for several years. Although they all help with tours, much
of their day is spent in actual farm work such as weeding the fields, harvesting the fruits, planting new crops, mulching,
tending to irrigation etc. They are young and energetic and so do get a bit loud at times, but that has nothing to do with
the conditional use permit or weddings. On many occasions, Vera has complained about weddings when there was no
wedding going on. It was just staff who were hanging out, playing music, and talking. Ever since she complained to me
about them, we have been telling our staff to be very careful and to not make loud noises. We will continue to be better
on being good neighbors.
6. We do want to point out to you that dragon fruit is a night blooming cactus. To effectively cultivate them, hand
pollination at night is needed. During peak full moon days, hours and hours of time are needed to go through the fields
at night. Pollination normally start around 10:00pm and depending on the day of the month and our staffing level,
sometimes it will go until 1:00am or even 3:00am. So we do have some late noises sometimes. But we always remind
the workers to try to be quiet and be mindful of the neighbors. When Vera bought the property, she should have known
that agricultural activities comes with noise some time. For dragon fruit, that noise sometimes happens at night. Vera
has hired machinery to construct her pool, etc. and they have noise all day long. Sometime it is so loud that it really
disrupts our tour operations. But we never complained.
7. Additional problems in her complaint include the statement that lawn next to our parking encroaches on the adjacent
property. It does not and its size is exaggerated. The pink area she claimed has nothing planted has in fact many
bananas, papayas, pineapples, cacao, sugarcane, lilikoi, and an assortment of small fruit trees. She claimed the farm
stand / reception building was listed as a utility shed in county records. In fact it is called a farm stand. The concrete
that we installed to provide outdoor seating for our fruit tasting is an effort to pivot toward outdoor eating instead of
indoor tasting due to covid-19. She complained that we are adding activities that are not included in the CUP, meaning
farm tours, ziplining and aquaball. These were permitted activities when the CUP was issued, so they were not included
at the time.
area
8. Notice was given to all neighbors when we applied for the CUP amendment in 2017. After we made It through the
planning commission and finally to the council, the council deferred the decision at the time. We were also surprised
when it finally made it onto the agenda and did not deliberately fail to give notice to anyone. We have not had weddings
when we were shut down for covid and have only recently been having them again. The wedding she claimed had 95
chairs on the lawn was in fact a 50 person wedding. Half the chairs were supposed to be set up for the reception but
were mistakenly put on the lawn. They were moved to their proper location before the event began. She did the drone
footage the night before. By the time the wedding came, the chairs has been moved to the reception where they
2
belonged. Although a tent or wedding arch might occasionally go up the day before a wedding, most of the time they go
up the same day. Most of the time they are removed the following day. This does not mean the wedding is going on for
3 days, it simply means that we have to work with the tent vendor's schedule. We try to have this work done in the
middle of the day when it will cause the least disturbance to anyone.
9. They have hired somebody to plant a bunch of coconuts and other plants at the beginning of the year. Maybe it was
an effort to try to bring their land to be ag compliant so that they could obtain their building permit for pools, gazebo,
etc. When some of them did not survive, she texted me accusing us that we poisoned her coconuts with  amotive. I told
her that we are organic farmers and we do not even have one single drop of poison at our farm. I told her we love
coconuts and try to grow as many coconuts as we can at our farm. Why would an organic fruit farmer try to poison a
neighbor's fruit tree? We told her we would buy as much fruits from her as she can produce.
In summary, we are always trying to do the right thing and be a good neighbor. Mrs. Sredanovic's constant harassment
of us is doing great harm to our staff and our business. I sincerely ask your support and we hope she would try to be a
good neighbor as well.
Sincerely yours.
Crystal and Larry Schmitt
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
3

\
9
●:.
Ti
\
I
t?-? -isi
I
-.vS-:K0. !
Count^Clet^ Bl::!;: VCD
2021 SEP 17 AH 7: 53
Crystal Schmitt <crystal@mauidragonfruit.com>
Thursday, September 16, 2021 10:10 PM
County Clerk
Our response to Mr. Anderson Testimony
JeffAndersonResponse.doc
From;
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from crystal(5)mauidragonfruit.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Dear Council Members:
Attached please find our response to our neighbors Mr. Anderson's testimonies.
We do want to bring to your attention that dragon fruit is a night bloom cactus. They are all hand pollinated
at night. So sometimes we do get into late night for doing that.
Mahalo!
Crystal Schmitt
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
(808)264-6127
1
Dear Councilmembers,
This letter is in response to the objections raised by our neighbor Jeff Anderson to our conditional use
permit. Our weddings had been shut down or canceled for over a year due to COVID-19. Only
recently have we resumed hosting weddings. These have been subdued events and only happen
sporadically, about one wedding every two or three weeks. We have been on hand for these events and
have observed that they are barely noticeable from neighboring properties. We only hold zipline tours
weekdays in the mornings. Only three tours are held per day, starting at 9:00, 10:30 and 12:00. We try
to keep these groups small (typically less than 10 people) so everyone can have a better time. The noise
from the farm comes from our staff and tenants who are a bit young and energetic. Since dragon fruit
is a night blooming cactus, we need staff in the evenings for pollination. Additionally, Launiopoko can
get hot in the afternoon, so we try to get work done in the mornings before the sun gets too strong.
While we try to have them control their noise and be respectful of our neighbor's desire for quiet, what
they do is not related to our conditional use permit in any way. Any additional enforcement of the
provisions of the permit or the cancellation of the permit would have no effect on this issue.
Sincerely yours,
Crystal and Larry Schmitt
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
a:E
Maui Hotel & mgASSOCIATION
September 17, 2021
To the honorable Chair Alice Lee, Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez and our Maui County Council
Members,
The Maui Hotel & Lodging Association would like to make the following comments regarding the bill to
establish a new Chapter 3.47, Maui County Code, to create a 3 percent transient accommodations tax
(TAT) on all gross rental, gross rental proceeds, and fair market rental value considered taxable under
the definitions of Section 237D-1, Hawai'i Revised Statutes.
THE MHLA respectfully requests that this new TAT collection start date be delayed until after October 1,
2021, and preferably sometime in 2022.
The reason for this is that guests book in advance and prepay in full for their stays when booking online
- in such cases they have received a "paid in full" receipt - and adding an additional charge after the fact
may create legal and ethical issues, changing price after a quote and or payment collect is an issue. At
minimum a 60-day notice is needed to allow for adjustment to the tax rates, notification to affected
guests and collection of additional tax.
When the State of Hawaii increased the TAT for the State notice was given allowing time for notification
and changes to be made.
Changes in a tax rate with a same day affective date (no notice) will affect guests already in-house
causing a change in what balance they signed for upon arrival and a different negative balance upon
check-out.
It also takes time to adjust all the Hotel, Transient Rental and other computer systems to change the
new tax, the law requires the tax to be disclosed and it takes time to make the software changes
needed.
Third-party sales agents must update their computer systems with the new taxes, internal pricing,
websites etc.
Travel Agents who have booked clients will need to reach out and advise those clients of changes.
Website disclosures in addition to the pricing changes will have to be updated this takes time it cannot
be done the same day to be affective that day.
OO
O-n 73onC mSincerely, ~o
O—3m rn-<Rod Antone OO a>*
mExecutive Director of the Maui Hotel & Lodging Association m T9a3X
7^ m O
o
85 N. Church Street, Wailuku HI 96793 1 P.808-244-8625 F. 808-244-3094 | info(5imauihla.ore | www.mauihla.org
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Fred Adolphsen <fredhaiku1811@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 6:37 PM
County Clerk
Support testimony for CR21 -85
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from fredhaiku1811@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Dear Council Chair and Council Members:
My name is Fred Adolphsen and I am writing to you to support the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm.
I have worked in both of their lettuce farm in Haiku and their dragon fruit farm in Lahaina. I have to tell you that
Lawrence and Crystal Schmitt are making a real impact on agriculture here on Maui. Their farms ( Lahaina, Haiku and
Pukalani) are all USDA certified and the way they treat our Aina is so admirable. We never used any chemical or any
pesticides ever! They believe in nurturing the soil in an organic way so that the soil gets richer and richer over the years
and is regenerative. Unlike industrial chemical farming like the big farms practice, they deplete and destroy our soil and
our earth.
Lawrence and Crystal Schmitt also believe in teaching kids early on to grow their own food. We have school tours to
show kids how to plant pineapple and how to pollinate. Kids are so happy to come to the farm and they also have fun in
our zipline. To me, to have a farm like this on Maui is a blessing to our island.
OO
0-T1
cn
73Please support them . <y> m-o OMahalo! mo-<O <oFred Adolphsen -n
mT"
rn ^ 00
Oo
1
Count^£Ied<
From:
Sent:
Jeff and Sue Anderson <smander@pacbell.net>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 6:58 PM
County Clerk
Tamara A. Paltin
RE: Testimony Regarding County Council Item CR 21-85
To:
Cc:
Subject:
■; You don't often get email from smander@pacbeil.net. Learn why this is important
Council Members,
For the record, I did not receive notice for this permit update request. I understand notification to nearby neighbors is a
required part of the application process. I happened to find out about it from a neighbor two days ago. Had I known
about it, I would have submitted testimony while under consideration by the Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee.
o oO-n
C “n
m
73ooJeff Anderson
619-203-9542
m“O
o-< o- mooFrom: Jeff and Sue Anderson [mailto:smander@pacbell.net]
Sent: Tuesday, September 14, 2021 4:16 PM
To: 'county.clerk@mauicounty.us' <county.clerk@mauicounty.us>
Cc: 'Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us' <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Testimony Regarding County Council Item CR 21-85
<Tl
mm H
XIX OCDm
Council Members,
I'm writing regarding agenda item CR 21-85 pertaining to the conditional use permit for Maui Dragon Fruit Farm.
I own and reside on a small farm adjacent to the Dragon Fruit Farm on the makai side. Given the geographical
relationship between our properties, I'm mostly affected by noise rather than lighting or traffic issues.
The noise level from the Dragon Fruit Farm improved substantially from the unregulated high decibel blowouts prior to
2016 when they received their first restricted conditional use permit. The noise level also seemed to improve a bit more
in 2020 during Covid lockdowns.
That said, coming out from the lockdowns the farm still generates a lot of noise and often appears out of compliance
with its conditional use permit. There are two sources of noise. The first is from events. The farm hosts frequent
weddings and other gatherings attended by large crowds, which are often accompanied with moderately high volume
amplified music. These gatherings are frequent (though less so during 2020 lockdowns), they usually start quietly
midafternoon but heat up late in the evening. The second source of noise is the zipline where participants tend to
scream like banshees as operators cheer them on. The zipline noise is sporadic, mostly during the day however I'm
occasionally disturbed by a bunch of whooping and hollering from people riding the zipline in the middle of the night. I
don't know if these are paid guests or employees partying.
I support the restrictions in the conditional use permit, especially no amplified sound and limits on guest numbers, hours
and event frequency. But, these restrictions are meaningless if not adhered to. Please enact a compliance program to
ensure adherence or if that's not possible, I suggest you cancel the permit.
1
Count^Clet^
From:
Sent:
Aaron Arcangel <aaronarcangen234@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 6;08 PM
County Clerk
Support Testimony for Maui Dragon Fruit Farm For Their Conditional Use Permit
Extension
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from aaronarcangell234@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members:
My name is Aron-Michael Arcangel. I am writing to you to support the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
and their application to extend their conditional use permit.
I was horned and raised here on Maui and live in Pukalani, next to their lettuce and herb farm in upcountry. Lawrence
and Crystal Schmitt are the nicest people I ever met. They are hard working and full of aloha spirit. I also see their
struggle as farmers since I saw their productions were affected in many different ways over the years. Recently, their
biggest challenge is Axis deer in our area. I saw their crops damaged severely by deers in a few occasions. Sometimes
they came at night hiding in their cars to try to catch or scare the deers. Not sure how successful those efforts were to
them, but I know it must be hard to see crops gotten eaten. The current drought in upcountry are also affecting their
crops as well since I see they have to irrigate their crops now constantly. They must have expensive water bills now I am
thinking.
This pandemic made all of us aware that we need to grow more food on Maui to feed ourselves. 1 see how quickly our
grocery store shelves went empty at the beginning of the pandemic. It is scary to me sometimes thinking what happens
if the ships stop coming to Maui! We need more
farmers!
To support them and approve their application is the right thing to do, especially if we as a community trying to strive
for food-self sufficiency.
Mahalol
Aaron-Michaet Arcangel
O O
C
css
73<y>
mm-o-o O:● n-< On mo <
inm -H CO
OCDni o.
1
RECE!\/ED
ZflZI SEP !7 AH 7: 5^,September 17, 2021
^ rICE Or THF
COUNTY CLERK
21-443 2 and 21-444 2 "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 MAUI COUNTY
COUNCIL LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO ALLOW COUNTY
REGULATION OF NOISE NUISANCES STRICTHR THAN DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
RULES":
<J'r
TESTIMONY
MAUUCOUNTY S
FARMGQ
Chair Lee and Members of the Maui County Council:PO Box 148. Kula, HI 96790
mauicountyfarmbureau.org
My name is Kyle Caires, President of the Maui County Farm Bureau. 1 am here on
behalf of Maui's commercial farm and ranch families and organizations in
opposition of the matter regulating noise in the Ag District.Executive Director
Warren K.Watanabe
MCFB is concerned about the many unintended consequences to agriculture in
general if this initiative is passed. The matter initiating this measure has been
reviewed by the State Department of Agriculture as well as the Hawaii State
Legislature.
Board of Directors:
President
Kyle Caires
In 2020, a measure was passed by the Legislature requiring the Department of
Agriculture to review practices associated with hemp, resulting from the case that
initiated the measure before you. After review, the Board of Agriculture passed
interim rules relating to Hemp culture in September of 2020 with a caveat that
further research into lighting, odor and noise was needed. In January of 2021, the
Board decided not to amend the interim rule based on technical information
provided by the Department of Health and moved to have it go to public hearing.
The measure is scheduled to go to the Governor and then to the public for
comment. The comments will be considered and the rule amended as needed for
final passage. The public comment period will allow those concerned an
opportunity to suggest changes in the rule.
Vice President
Joshua Shvloli Staffordjoncs
Secretary
Heidi Watanabe
Treasurer
Tim Stevens
Directors:
Rodrigo Baiala
We also understand that a mediation process is underway between South Maui
Gardens and the neighbors. Proceedings are confidential so we do not know the
current status. Ag producers normally work with their neighbors to resolve these
problems. Creating a law due to one grower that affects the entire industry does
not seem prudent.
Brendan Balthazar
James "Kimo" Falconer
Mario Gaggero
Teena Rasmussen The interim rule as passed by the Board of Agriculture is attached. MCFB
respectfully requests that the measure be filed and instead encourage
participation in the Hemp interim rule process by the Department of
Agriculture.
Carver Wilson
We appreciate this opportunity to provide our opinion on this important matter.
Attachment: Hemp Interim Rule
Board of Agriculture
Page 3
September 22, 2020
Respectfully submitted
Leonard G. Obaldo. Acting Administrator
Quality Assurance Division
APPROVED FOR SUBMISSION:
Phyllis Shimabukuro-Geiser. Chairperson
Board of Agriculture
Attachment
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Adoption of Chapter 4-161
Hawaii Administrative Rules
September 22, 2020
Chapter 4-161, Hawaii Administrative Rules,
entitled "HEMP PRODUCTION INTERIM RULES," is adopted
to read as follows :
1.
L
1
HAWAII ADMINISTRATIVE RULES
TITLE 4
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
SUBTITLE 7
QUALITY ASSURANCE DIVISION
CHAPTER 161
HEMP PRODUCTION INTERIM RULES
Definitions
Transportation
Nuisance
Inspection
Violations/Penalties
§4-161-1
§4-161-2
§4-161-3
§4-161-4
§4-161-5
As used in this chapter:
the board of agriculture or the
§4-161-1 Definitions.
Board" means
board's designee.
'●Cannabis" means
\\
the genus of flowering plants in
For the purposes of thisthe family Cannabaceae.
chapter, cannabis means any form of the plant where
the delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration on a
dry weight basis has not yet been determined,
means the chairperson of theft
Chairperson
Hawaii Board of Agriculture.
"Decarboxylated" means the completion of the
chemical reaction that converts delta-9
tetrahydrocannabinol's acids (TKCA) into delta-9
tetrahydrocannabinol. The decarboxylated value may be
formula that sums delta-
N\
calculated using a conversion
9 tetrahydrocannabinol and eighty-seven and seven
tenths (87.7} per cent of THCA.
"Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
primary psychoactive component of cannabis.
Department" means the department of agriculture.
Dry weight basis
determining the percentage of a chemical in a
THC" is theor
the method oftr means1;
ii
2'j
substance after removing the moisture from the
substance.
means a structure which is"Dwelling unit
intended to be used primarily as a place of residence,
meets all applicable zoning and building code
requirements, and which is one among several
individual residences within a single larger structure
which has a solid base, exterior walls that encircle
the entire structure on all sides, and a root that
of theprotects the interior units from the elements
weather.
corporation, foundation,
limited
"Entity" means a firm,
organization, business trust, estate,
liability company, licensed corporation, trust,
partnership, limited liability partnership,
or other form of legal business entity.association,
as well as a state or local government entity,
shipment to any point outside of"Export" means
the State.
the area authorized to be
utilized for hemp production under a license issued by
the Secretary of the United States Department of
Agriculture pursuant to title 7 United States Code
section 1639q.
"Harvest
cultivation process at a grow area for usage rather
Grow area" means
the termination of themeans
than disposal.
"Hemp" means cannabis and any part of that plant,
including the seeds thereof and all derivatives,
isomers, acids, salts, andextracts, cannabinoids,
salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more
than 0.3 per cent on a dry weight basis, as measured
post-decarboxylation or by other similarly reliable
used in this chapter does notmethod.
include hemp products.
"Hemp product" shall have the same meaning
chapter 328, Hawaii Revised Statutes,
structure intended to be used
primarily as a place of residence and which meets all
applicable zoning and building code requirements,
must have a solid floor, rigid exterior walls that
fl
Hemp" as
as in
House" means a
It
ii
li
\
3
encircle the entire structure on all sides, and a roof
that protects the interior from the
weather.
elements of the
person or entity that has
obtained a license to produce hemp in the state of
issued by the Secretary of the United States
Licensee” means aIf
Hawaii,
Department of Agriculture pursuant to title 7 United
States Code section 1639q.
moans any federal, state, orfl
"Law enforcement
local law enforcement agency or drug suppression unit.
means an individual.IfM
Person
Playground" means any public outdoor facility,
including any parking lot appurtenant thereto, that is
intended for recreation, with any portion thereof
containing three or more separate apparatus
for the recreation of children, including but not
limited to sliding boards, swing sets, and
teeterboards.
n
intended
means testingPost-decarboxylation
methodologies for THC concentration levels in hemp,
where the total potential de]ta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol
derived from the sum of the THC and THCA
is determined and reported on a dry weight
content,
content,
basis.
means a person or entity with a valid
certificate of registration issued by the department
of health allowing them to legally process hemp to
manufacture a hemp product in the state.
Produce" or "production" refers to the
propagation or cultivation of hemp.
Residential structure” means a structure that
contains one or more individual dwelling units
intended for usage as a residence, and which meets all
applicable zoning and building code requirements.
Residential apartment shall have the same meaning as
residential structure.
School
kindergarten, elementary, intermediate,
secondary, high school, or university,
means the State of Hawaii,
the United States Department of
IT
Processor
M
It
means any public or private preschool,
middle.
IITl
TlIT
State
USDA ff
means
Agriculture.
4
The reporting§4-161-2 Transportation,
requirements of this section apply to:
Harvested hemp flowers and leaves in their
botanical form, whether wet or dried.
(a)
(1)
raw
which were produced in state by a licensee;
and
Living hemp plants or plant parts which can
be used to propagate a new plant, and viable
hemp seeds which were produced in state by a
licensee.
The reporting requirements of this section
(2)
(b)
do not apply to:
Mature stalks or mature stalk material if(1)
the stalk material has been stripped of
leaves and flowers with only a de minimus
amount of leaves and floral material
remaining attached;
(2) Sterilized hemp seed incapable of
germination;
Rhetted hemp fiber; or
(4) Hemp products.
Hemp in the forms specified in subsection
(a) shall not be transported outside of a licensed
grow area except by a person or
license to produce hemp issued by the USDA.
(d) A person or entity that has a license to
produce hemp issued by the USDA may transport hemp in
the forms specified in subsection (a) outside of a
licensed grow area, provided that:
(1) The hemp is transported to an authorized
processor within the state;
(2) The hemp is transported to a licensed grow
area within the state; or
(3)
(c)
entity that holds a
(3) The hemp is exported,
(e) Any hemp to be transported shall have passed
all compliance testing required by the USDA and comply
with all other applicable state or federal laws or
regulations, including those found in chapter 4-72,
Hawaii Administrative Rules.
Any hemp to be exported shall comply with
federal laws and regulations
(f)
all applicable state or
5
relating to exportation, including the laws of the
state or country that the hemp is being exported to.
(g) No hemp in the forms specified in subsection
(a) shall be transported outside of a licensed grow
area unless a licensee files a transportation report
with the department at least three business days prior
to the intended transportation date,
(h) The transportation report shall be in a form
and submitted in a manner prescribed by the department
and shall contain the following:
The licensee's name and USDA hemp producer
license number;
Date of transportation;
Method of transportation;
Identification of the person transporting
the hemp;
Address of the grow area that the hemp is to
be removed from;
Address the hemp is to be transported to
with contact information for recipient;
Kind and quantity of packages, or if in bulk
the total quantity of hemp to be
transported;
Documentation confirming the specific hemp
to be transported has passed all compliance
testing required by the USDA; and
Any additional information or documentation
required by the department or law
enforcement.
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
During any transportation of hemp, the
employee of the licensee shall carry with
(i)
licensee or
them a copy of the transportation report, the
licensee's USDA hemp production license, and any other
documentation required to be included with the
transportation report by the department or law
enforcement.
Licensees shall complete and submit to the
department all required reports and statements
relative to the licensee’s transportation of hemp at
least three business days prior to the intended
transportation date.
(j)
A failure to timely complete and
6
^10
submit any required report may result in the penalties
set forth in section 4-161-5.
(k) Licensees shall allow the department or law
enforcement to inspect and sample harvested hemp
cargoes prior to and during transport, including at
ports of origin or arrival.
Licensees shall comply with any direction of
the chairperson with respect to the Lransportation of
hemp when the circumstances require. [Eff; Upon
approval] (Auth:
§4-161-3 Nuisance,
within 500 feet of a preexisting playground, childcare
facility, or school; provided that this restriction
shall not apply to a person or entity:
(1)
Act 014 SLH 2020)
Hemp shall not be grown(a)
That was licensed to grow hemp under the
state industrial hemp pilot program prior to
(1)
August 27, 2020;
Whose licensed area to grow hemp under the
state industrial hemp pilot program is
within 500 feet of a preexisting playground,
childcare facility, or school; and
Who is growing hemp under a license to
produce hemp issued by the USDA in the same
approved under their industrial hemparea
(2)
(3)
pilot program license that is within 500
feet of real property with a preexisting
playground, childcare facility, or school.
Hemp shall not be grown within 500 feet of
existing house, dwelling unit, residential
(b)
any pre
apartment, or other residential structure that is not
owned or controlled by the licensee; provided that
this restriction shall not apply to a person or
entity:
That was licensed to grow hemp under the
state industrial hemp pilot program prior to
August 27, 2020;
Whose licensed area to grow hemp under the
State industrial hemp pilot program is
within 500 feet of any pre-existing house,
dwelling unit, residential apartment, or
(1)
(2)
7
other residential structure that is not
owned or controlled by the license; and
Who is growing hemp under a license to
produce hemp issued by the USDA in the same
area approved under their industrial hemp
pilot program license that is
feet of any pre-existing house, dwelling
unit; residential apartment, or other
residential structure that is not owned or
controlled by the license.
Hemp shall not be grown in any house,
dwelling unit, residential apartment, or other
(3)
within 500
c
residential structure.
Hemp shall not be grown outside of a state
agricultural district.
Licensees shall comply with all applicable
regulations, including nuisance regulations,
environmental regulations, and county land usage
ordinances.
(d)
(e)
Upon notice from the regulatory agency with
primary enforcement authority over nuisance,
environmental, or land usage regulations,
applicable, that a licensee who was previously
licensed to grow hemp under the state industrial hemp
pilot program i.s not in compliance with nuisance,
environmental, or
department may issue a notice
for the violation in accordance with section A-
Act 014 SLH 2020)
(f)
as
land usage regulations, the
of violation and assess
fines
161-5. [Eff: Upon approval] (Auth:
All licensees shall(a)§4-161-4 Inspection,
allow federal, state, and county law enforcement
authorities to inspect the records. growing area,
and areas incident to theequipment, facilities,
production or transportation of hemp to verify
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
The department, law enforcement, and third
party agents authorized by the department may enter
during business hours upon any growing area or place
of business associated with a licensee to inspect the
growing area, equipment, facilities, and
Incident to the production and transportation of
(b)
records,
areas i
8I
I
(^a
hemp to ensure compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
An authorized representative of the licensee
or the licensee shall be present during the
(c)
inspection.
Licensees shall pay the department or third-
parties authorized by the department a fee of $50 an
hour plus mileage for the performance of inspections
to ensure compliance with section 3 of Act 14,
Laws of Hawaii 2020, and the purposes of this chapter.
Act 014 SLH 2020)
(d)
Session
[Eff: Upon approval] (Auth:
(a) For anyViolations and Penalties.§4-161-5
violation of this chapter or section 3 of Act 14,
Session Laws of Hawaii 2020, the department may impose
civil penalties up to $10,000.00 and disciplinary
sanctions, including denying or suspending any
cease and desist orders.transportation, and issuing
In addition to other violations of this
chapter or section 3 of Act 14, Session Laws of Hawaii
The following acts and omissions by any
(b)
2020.
licensee or authorized representative thereof
constitute violations:
(1) Refusal or failure by a licensee
authorized representative to fully cooperate
with the department or law enforcement
regarding any inspection or sampling;
Failure to provide any information required
requested by the department for the
purposes of this chapter; or
Providing false, misleading, or incorrect
information to the department by any means,
including but not limited to information
provided in any form, report, record,
inspection required or maintained pursuant
to this chapter. [Eff; Upon approval] {Auth:
Act 014 SLH 2020)
or
(2)
or
(3)
or
Hawaii
Administrative Rules, shall take effect upon board
approval.
The adoption of chapter 4-161,2.
9
I certify that the foregoing are copies of the
rules, which were adopted on
PHYLLIS SHIMABUKURO-GEISER
Chairperson,Board of Agriculture
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Deputy Attorney General
10
f
Count^^leH<
R B i. b! V L D
im SEP ! 7 /if 7: 52
Nikoya Collier <ncollier@KBHMAUI.com>
Thursday, September 16, 2021 5:44 PM
County Clerk
Written Testimony CR 21-79
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from ncollier@kbhmaui.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha County Council,
I am not in favor of the 3% TAT increase to the hospitality industry.
I understand that our industry generates revenue the fastest, but as we've seen over the last 18 months, that
stream of revenue can be cut at any time. In the early parts of 2021, we saw a rapid increase in tourism, and
now are seeing cancellations due to the Governor asking tourists to "stay home." The west side of Maui has
seen millions of dollars lost due to cancellations, and O'ahu is on the verge of yet another round of layoffs to
their employees. With this increase, it will again cause incoming tourists to think twice about their upcoming
trip causing huge strain on our industry and for those of who wo work in it. The outlook is not always so bright.
1 know that the tourism industry has brought in some not so desirable domestic travelers in 2021, but what I
am seeing right now with this CR is the county putting too many eggs in one basket. Hotels already pay the
highest in property taxes as it currently stands. And now we are paying an additional amount of tax to fund
more Maui County's projects. Where does that money go currently? And if we give you so much, what does it
fund?
If you are going to increase the tax, I would recommend starting off slow at 1 - 1.5% in 2021 and increasing the
tax by 1.5 - 2% next year to equal the three percent. Tourism is slow as it currently stands, and 2022 hopefully
will be a better year for revenues. With this tax, I would love to see that the majority of the tax money bet put
into affordable housing, better water management, and more sustainability initiatives such as agriculture and
clean energy.
Mahalo for your time.
Mahalo,
Koy Collier | Sales Account Executive
2525 Kaanapali Parkway, Lahaina HI 96761
p 808.667.0107 | f 808.661.1963
US & Canada 800.262.8450 | Hotel Direct: +1.808.661.0011
e ncollier@kbhmaui.com
www.kbhmaui.com | Facebook | Instaeram j Twitter
KaanapaliOPACH HOTEL
1
Confidentiality Notice;
The information contained in this message and any attachments may contain confidential or proprietary material and is intended solely for the use
of the person or entity to which it is addressed. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this communication is strictly
prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please immediately notify the sender by reply e-mail and destroy ail copies of this
communication and any attachments. Warning; Although reasonable precautions have been taken to ensure no viruses are present in this email,
Ka'anapali Beach Hotel cannot accept responsibility for any loss or damage arising from the use of this email or attachments.
2
Count^£ietj<
Ron Daniei <ron@bikemaui.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 12:39 PM
County Clerk
Mike J. Molina; Ana L Lillis; Jeremy Hall; Ben Hall; Lewis Upfold; Phil Feliciano
CC 21-453
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Some people who received this message don't often get email from ron@bikemaui.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Honorable Maui County Council Members,
This letter is in response to County Communication 21-453, regarding Bicycle Tour Public Safety and Related
Litigation Concerns.
Proposal 21-453 is suggesting an assortment of possible regulations towards the Maui Downhill Bicycle Tour
Industry, of which there are (6) active companies still in operation today. It is imperative that the industry is
allowed to help disseminate information so that you, the Council Members, understand all sides of this
complex issue.
We at Haleakala Bike Company would like to be involved in any committee meetings in order to provide
valuable insight into the industry. Phil Feliciano, former owner of Cruiser Phil's Volcano Riders and well versed
in the history of the bike tours and all previous council meetings involving this industry, is now the Director of
Operations at Haleakala Bike Company. Our longtime management team, Lewis Upfold, Ron Daniel, and
owner Jeremy Hall, is available and willing to help in any way possible.
We would also like to extend an invite for you to participate in our tours so that you may have firsthand
experience and see how both guided and self-guided tours operate. We would be happy to organize this for
you.
We look forward to the dialog in which we all can endeavor to understand the issues and resolve them as best
as possible.
Mahalo,
Haleakala Bike Company, established 1993
2^
C2]
H
73
mm“O
mRon Daniel
Director of Sales/Marketing
(808} 575-9575
ron(S)bikemaui.com
rnUn
OO <
mm
X ni D
CO
1
Bike' Maul Haleakalo'GUtDEO A SELF-GUtOEO TOUeS ecoToufts
2
RECEIVED
2011 SEP 16 PH 2= 41
AQUA ASTON OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
HOSP I TAL I TY
September 16, 2021
TO: Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlin-Fenandez, Vice- Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
FR: Aqua-Aslon Flospitality
RE: Comments on Committee Report 21-79 ("CR 21-79") Relating to County Transient
Accommodations Tax
(Sent via e-mail county.clerk.@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing Aqua-Aston Hospitality. LLC (“Aqua-Aston”) to provide
Comments and Amendments to CR 21-79. establishing  anew chapter 3.47 to the Maui County
Code, implementing a county transient accommodations tax. Aqua-Aston has engaged in hotel and
resort management in the state of Hawaii for over 75 years.
CR 21-79 establishes a county transient accommodation tax of three percent (3%)
("County TAT"). The new County TAT imposes a monthly tax on the gross rental or gross rental
proceeds derived from the furnishing transient accommodations. Every transient accommodation
broker, travel agency, and tour package that arrange transient accommodations, and every
operator, and occupant of a resort time share vacation unit, must pay to the County the tax
imposed. The County TAT takes effect upon the approval of the ordinance.
Aqua-Aston understands the County's intentions in establishing the County TAT in
response to Act 1, Special Session Laws of Hawai‘i, which stripped the County of allocated State
Transient Accommodations Tax. Nevertheless, we have concerns with the implementation of
the additional 3 percent increase. Having the County TAT effective upon approval puts hotel
operators at a disadvantage. Primarily, hotel operators will not be able to: 1) disclose the new tax
to guests in advance; and 2) collect the new tax as the guest already booked their room at a specific
price including tax.
Aqua-Aston respectfully requests the effective date of the bill be made not earlier than 60
days after signing CR 21-29 into law to allow: 1) appropriate notice to be given to travel partners;
2) booking engines to be updated with the new County TAT; and 3) rental agreements to be
modified with the new required language.
Accordingly, Aqua-Aston recommends the following amendment to CR 21-79:
Office: 820 Miiilani St. Ste. 600, Honolulu, HI 96813 T 808-931-1400
Mailing Address: 6649 Westwood Blvd., Orlando, FL 32821
1. Amend Section 3 of the bill to state "This Ordinance shall be effective 60 days from
approval and signature by the Mayor."
Mahalo for your consideration of these amendments.
Respectfully submitted,
Denis Ebrill
Aqua Aston Hospitality, LLC, Managing Director
Office; 820 Mililani St, Ste. 600, Honolulu, HI 96813 T 808-931-1400
Mailing Address; 6649 Westwood Blvd., Orlando, FL 32821
MAR R lOTT
received
m\ SEP 16 PH 2^ I
VAC AT IONS
WORLDWIDE SM
September 16, 2021 OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTO: Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlin-Fenandez, Vice- Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
Denis Lbrill, Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation
Comments on Committee Report 21-79 ("CR 21-79") Relating to County Transient
Aceommodations Tax
FR:
RE:
(Sent via e-mail county.clerk@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing me to submit testimony on behalf of Marriott Vacations Worldwide
Corporation (“MVWC”) providing comments to the proposed bill establishing a new chapter
3.47 to the Maui County Code, implementing a eounty transient accommodations tax. MVWC is
a global leader in the timeshare industry with ten resort properties in Hawaii. Timeshare resorts
are an important and stabilizing part of the tourism industry, and resort development provides
thousands of construction jobs in Hawaii per year.
The new proposed bill establishes a county transient accommodation tax of three percent
(3%) ("County TAT"). The new County TAT imposes a monthly tax on the gross rental or gross
rental proceeds derived from the furnishing transient accommodations. Every transient
accommodation broker, travel agency, and tour package that arrange transient accommodations,
and every operator, and occupant of a resort time share vacation unit, must pay to the County the
tax imposed. The County TAT takes effect upon the approval of the ordinance.
MVWC understands the County's intentions in establishing the County TAT, however, we
have concerns with the implementation of the additional 3 percent increase. Having the County
TAT effective upon approval puts hotel operators at a disadvantage. Primarily, these hotel
operators will not be able to disclose the new tax to guests in advance, and therefore, may not be
able to collect the new tax as the guest already booked their room at a specific price including tax.
Furthermore, timeshare resorts will need to update their Hawaii disclosure statements and file with
the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs ("DCCA").
Accordingly, MVWC respectfully requests the effective date of the bill be made not earlier
than 60 days after signing CR 21-29 into law to allow: 1) appropriate notice to be given to travel
partners; 2) booking engines to be updated with the new County TAT; and 3) rental agreements to
be modified with the new required language. Further, the additional 30-60 days provide timeshare
resorts adequate amount of time to update disclosure statements with DCCA and provide
consumers with full and fair disclosure.
9002 San Marco Court, Orlando, Florida 32819 T 407-206-6000 F 407-206-6420 marriottvacationsworldwide.com
Proud supporter of Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlin-Fenandez, Vice- Chair
September 16, 2021
Page 2
Based upon the foregoing, MVWC recommends the following amendments to the County
TAT bill:
1. Amend Section 3 of the bill to state "This Ordinance shall be effective 60 days from
approval and signature by the Mayor."
Mahalo for your consideration of these amendments.
Aloha.
Denis Ebrill
Senior Vice President
Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation
Count^^lerk
Rusty Fujihara <fujirusty@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 6:57 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for CR-21-85/Support
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from fujirusty@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha Council members:
My name is Rusty Fujihara and I am sending this email to you to show support for the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm.
I am a contractor borned and raised on Maui. I have known Crystal and Lawrence Schmitt for quite a long time since I
did some road work for them both on their dragon fruit farm in Lahaina and their vegetable farm in Haiku.
Crystal and Larry are such nice people. They are hard working, sincere, and treat everyone with dignity and respect. We
always get paid right after our work and they have always done what they said. Over the years, I witnessed how hard to
be farmers like them. We saw the fire destruction in Lahaina a few years ago and we also saw how this early spring the
flood in Haiku wiped out their lettuce. I have to give them credit by sticking to what they do. I think  alot of people
would just quit already.
I sincerely hope that you would support them as I do and approve their conditional permit extension.
Mahalo!
Rusty
ooO-n
cn
“im
73m-o
o[T1Cr--<o <o TJ zs.
mm -t qo o:dX oo-
1
DAVID Y. IGE
GOVERNOR\  HAWAII STATE ENERGY OFFICE
STATE OF HAWAII SCOTT J. GLENN
CHIEF ENERGY OFFICER
235 South Beretania Street, 5th Floor, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, Hawaii 96804
1808) 587-3807
energy.hawaii.gov
Telephone:
Web:
Testimony of
SCOTT J. GLENN, Chief Energy Officer
O Tl
C m
before the
MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL 73CO
m
oHSeptember 17, 2021
9:00 AM
m Ov moo 23-Tl
m -i
m
mComments in consideration of
CARE-42
RELATING TO ZERO NET ENERGY HOMES
aor
Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council, the
Hawaii State Energy Office (HSEO) supports the intent of CARE-42, which would
require new one and two family residential buildings over 5,000 square feet to be zero
net energy homes, and looks forward to further refinements of the measure.
We are all aware of reports from the United Nations, from scientific organizations
and other distinguished bodies indicating that climate change is accelerating and which
point to worsening droughts, forest fires, floods and rising sea levels. Scientists agree
that rising temperatures caused by man-made CO2 emissions are the prime cause of
these catastrophes.
CARE-42 is part of a national shift that recognizes the importance of building
codes to steer our buildings, and the energy systems that support them, to more
sustainable and efficient designs. Both our buildings and our energy infrastructure
generally last more than 50 years.
Measures such as this are intended to move the builders of high-end residences
toward highly efficient windows, roofs, air conditioning and water heating technologies
which in turn would help to bring these products to hardware department shelves.
Perhaps just as importantly, measures such as this spark conversation and
creative thought, as we recognize the importance and lasting impact of the facilities and
Page 1 of 2
Hawaf i State Energy Office Testimony
CARE-42 Relating to Zero Net Energy Homes - Support
September 17, 2021
systems that are built today, and hear about the potential interactions between home
design, energy resources, and our natural environment.
Greater building efficiency, and the ability of homes to produce their own energy,
reduce pressure on using our limited land, especially agricultural land, for renewable
energy development. Maximizing the use of roof space for energy production - even in
excess of the amount used for the individual building - has the potential to further
reduce demands on our limited land areas, and could also be considered in this bill.
It is important to avoid measures that unintentionally cause facility owners to
switch to the use of fossil fuels, or to isolate themselves from the grid. Progress toward
decarbonization is supported by greater participation in efficient renewable energy
production, distribution and use through interactive, grid responsive systems.
The Hawaii State Energy Office looks forward to participating in these
discussions, as the details of CARE 42 are worked out in a way that moves Maui and
the state of Hawai'i toward energy self-sufficiency. In joining forces with similar
initiatives across the country, advanced building codes and standards have the potential
to move the CO2 needle downward and contribute to Hawaii’s net carbon negative goal.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
Count^^lerk
Yolanda Hadley <yoiandahandley100@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 10:30 PM
County Clerk
Testimony to support Maui Dragon Fruit Farm for Item CR21 -85
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from yoiandahandley100@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council Members:
My name is Yolanda Handly and I live in Lahaina not too far from the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm.
I am submitting this testimony to support the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm's effort to extend their conditional use permit.
My kids have gone to their farm for school tours  afew times. Each time they got back, they could not stop talking
about the farm and how much fun they had riding on their zipline and planting pineapples. They even brought home a
few dragon fruit cuttings and we planted them together in our yard. They are doing so great that we already start to
have fruits!
I ask you to support Maui Dragon Fruit Farm to grant their permit extension. 1 know you all want to support
agriculture on Maui. This is a good opportunity to show people of Maui that you truly care about our land use in West
Maui and not just allow all the millionaires come here to build their gentlemen's estate. Launiupoko suppose to be an
agricultural community. But all I see is swimming pools and swimming pools. How about growing some real food on our
valuable limited available land to feed the island when we are in real need of true food security.
Thank you for your consideration.
Yolanda
OQ
O "It
r—J
73CO
m1 1
-o
5^“im
O
mo-
oo <-n
mm7j X
7^ m
CO
OCO
1
Count^Oe^
Jum Hinds <jumhindsl234@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 6:17 PM
County Clerk
Support Testimony for Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email fromjumhinds1234@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members:
I am Jum Hinds and I am writing to support the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm and their application to extend their conditional
use permit.
I have known Crystal and Lawrence Schmitt for multiple years. I purchase produce from them at the wholesale
level. They have the best organic produce grown on Maui. Their dragon fruit is so delicious. I feel so lucky that we
actually have our own organic dragon fruit farmer on this island. I always thought that dragon fruit is only available in
Asia where I was originally from.
If you want to support agriculture and hope we have more farmers on the island, support them!
Thank you.
Jum Hinds
Oti
C2] CO
rn“O
m Os
OO- T1
00-i-
rn cz
C^-
1
Count^^lerk
Nancy Huang <nhproperties1006@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 9:52 PM
County Clerk
Support Testimony for Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from nhproperties1006@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Council Members:
I am sending this email to you to provide supporting testimony of Maui Dragon Fruit Farm's conditional use permit
application.
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm has successfully brought 16 best varieties of dragon fruit to Maui.
More and more people including myself are cultivating dragon fruit now on Maui because of them and people are
loving them!
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm provided educational tours to local residents and visitors on how
to grow them. A few of my other friends learned about it and obtained cuttings from them to start
to grow them too. It will be so beneficial for our island if people start to grow more food on their backyards. Dragon
Fruit uses very little water and survives in all soil conditions and is such a great crop for our state. We are very thankful
that a new crop has been introduced to our islands.
We ask you to support them. We need more farmers to be able to survive on Maui. Having different sources of income
is key considering all the challenges farmers are facing.
Thank you. ess■|
73Q
C "’’I mNancy Huang T3
Om mo
Oo -n
mop a7j - - o
1
73GO
imeshare with morno-
3=*
September 16, 2021 mmZJX
7^ m
9? aTO: Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember K.eani Rawlins- Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members for the Maui County Council
AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA Hawaii)FR:
Comments on Committee Report 21-79 ("CR 21-79") ("A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 3.47, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
IMPLEMENTING A COUNTY TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TAX")
RE:
(Sent via e-mail to county.clerk@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing ARDA Hawaii to submit testimony providing comments to the
proposed bill establishing a new chapter 3.47 to the Maui County Code, implementing a county
transient accommodations tax. ARDA Hawaii is the local chapter of the trade association for the
tiineshare industry. Timeshare is an important and stabilizing part of the tourism industry and
Maui's economy. Timeshare owners have made a long-term commitment to Maui by purchasing
and owning real property in the County. These owners are consistent and dependable visitors who
bring substantial tax dollars to the County and continue to come even during periods of economic
downturn.
CR 21-79 establishes a county transient accommodation tax of three percent (3%)
("County TAT"). The new County TAT imposes a monthly tax on the gross rental or gross rental
proceeds derived from the furnishing transient accommodations. Every transient accommodation
broker, travel agency, and tour package that arrange transient accommodations, and every
operator, and occupant of a resort time share vacation unit, must pay to the County TAT once it
takes effect upon the approval of the ordinance.
ARDA Hawaii understands the need for the County to establish the County TAT, however,
we have concerns with the timing of the application of the additional 3 percent increase. Having
the County TAT effective upon approval raises significant compliance issues. Timeshare operators
will not be able to disclose the new tax to guests in advance. Operators will not be able to collect
the County TAT as the guests have already booked their room at a specific price incorporating the
existing taxes.
1
Moreover, timeshare resorts will need to update their Hawaii disclosure statements and file
with the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs ("DCCA"). This is often a time-
consuming process requiring approval from the DCCA. Having CR 21-79 be effective upon
approval will lead to inadequate disclosure to customers. Imposing a tax with an immediate
effective date will make it impossible for developers and operators to provide full and fair
disclosure to buyers, owners and other occupants.
Accordingly, ARDA Hawaii respectfully requests the effective date of the bill be made not
earlier than 60 days after signing CR 21-29 into law to allow: 1) appropriate notice to be given
to travel partners; 2) booking engines to be updated with the new County TAT; and 3) rental
agreements to be modified with the new required language. Further, the additional 30-60 days will
provide developers and timeshare operators adequate time to update disclosure statements with
DCCA and provide consumers with full and fair disclosure.
Specifically, ARDA Hawaii recommends the following amendment to the County TAT
bill:
1. Amend Section 3 of the bill to state "This Ordinance shall be effective 60 days from
approval and signature by the Mayor."
Mahalo for your consideration of our comments. We look forward to working with the
Council on implementing a policy that will enhance the ability of developers and operators to
comply with the new existing laws and requirements that compel fair and full disclosure of the
County TAT to consumers.
Respectfully Submitted,
Mitchell A. Imanaka
Chair
American Resort Development Association of Hawaii
2
Count^^lerk
Susan <suzmarshall@gmail.com>
Thursday, September 16, 2021 9:31 AM
County Clerk
CC 21-453
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from su2marshall@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification.]
Please accept this written testimony urging the mayor to examine the public health and safety of bike tours in Maui. As
a Makawao Elementary School PTA Board Member and MMMC Emergency Dept RN, I find the bike tours to be a source
of community concern. The roadways along Baldwin Ave and also Kaupakalua/Kokomo are not fit for inexperienced
bikers. The roads have very limited shoulders and are often curvy, creating unsafe passing conditions. The riders
themselves are inexperienced on the Maui roads and upcountry weather conditions. Speaking to Maui visitors that have
participated in the bike tours, several have admitted their lack of experience on a bike in general "I hadn't been on a
bike in years, but it was all downhill so we went for it".
I've noted regularly some bikers are not escorted by an guide, thus having to navigate their way independently. Often
these unsupervised single or smaller group riders will occupy the entire lane, causing tremendous backup of traffic.
At Makawao Elementary, drivers can only access the child dropoff and pickup area from Baldwin Ave, so there are
vehicles continuously entering and exiting the road. Limiting the hours of operation to avoid school drop off and pick up
times would be help keep our community safe.
As a RN in the emergency department @ Maui Memorial it is not uncommon to see injuries from a downhill bike
accident. There are injury hotspots, as AMR paramedics can attest to better than I can. Our hospital is currently at
capacity. We are navigating a pandemic and have limited resources. I would like to see more investigation into the true
safety of the downhill bike activity.
Aloha-
Susan Marshall
Makawao Elementary PTA Treasurer
MMMC RN Ot5
c ~n
2:0H
73CO
m~o
om-< o
OO <-n
mm -i oX X a7^ m wro
1
County Clerk
Robert Mitnick <robert.mitnicktaro@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 8;27 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for Support of the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm, LLC
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from robert.mitnicktaro@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To: Maui County Council
My name is Robert Mitnick. I am the founder and president of Hawai'i Taro Company, a locally owned and
operated food producer on Maui. Our company’s mission is to develop healthy products made from all natural
ingredients while working to preserve the beauty and cultural history of our island home. Our goal is to
introduce Taro to the world though food products and export which encourages sustainable agriculture and
environmentally sensitive, minimal impact development. We believe that if we take care of our Aina, it will
provide food for our people for generations to come.
As a resident of Hawai'i for almost forty years,  Ihave seen Hawai'i struggle to balance modernization and
development with its agricultural legacy. The generations who have thrived here before us have honored and
protected the healthy balance of our islands’ eco-systems. Now it is our responsibility to be good stewards of
our land.
Crystal and Larry Schmitt embody that kind of land stewardship that our islands need. They conscientiously
choose not to use any pesticides on their crops even though that means they regularly sacrifice some of their
yields to insect attacks. They strictly use organic fertilizers so that the land and soil are always being nurtured
and renewed instead of being poisoned or depleted even though that means their fertilizer cost is higher. They
truly care about our Aina. Their organic farming practices not only produce foods that are very healthy for
people, but also very beneficial to our Aina and to our ocean and reef system. The diligently guard our fragile
eco-system on the island while supplying food for our island people. They are committed to introducing and
commercializing organic dragonfruit on Maui, which is rapidly on its way to becoming a major agricultural
crop here to benefit our state as a whole.
1 understand that Maui Dragon Fruit Farm is trying to renew their special and conditional use permits which
allow them to host weddings on their farm and to sell products at their farm stand which are not 100% produced
on the farm. I would like to inform you that 1 strongly support the renewal of these permits so that they can have
a diversified income which will help them survive in the long-run regardless of adverse farming conditions.
Your support of them will benefit our island and our organic food industry.
If you have any questions or need any more information from me, please feel free to contact me at (808) 214-
6362 or email robert.mitnicktaro@umail.com.
Aloha,
Robert Mitnick 73O-n
mFounder & President O-H m m-<
oHawai’i Taro Company, LLC O: < "Hr
mm -H GO1 ✓G ~x. OCD
Count^^leH<
Christopher Mrahunec <christopherm1811@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 5:40 PM
County Clerk
Supporting Testimony Regarding County Council Item CR 21 -85
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from christopherml81 l@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Council Members:
My name is Christopher Mrahunec. Tm writing regarding agenda item CR 21-85 pertaining to the conditional use permit
for Maui Dragon Fruit Farm. I strongly support the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm and ask you to approve their application.
I worked at the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm's lettuce production operation in Haiku for over five years. Lawrence and
Crystal Schmitt are the hardest working people I ever know. They both are smart and educated people. I know they do
not need to farm to make a living. However, they have dedicated their lives in the last 10 years to grow organic
vegetables and fruits to help support Maui's food security and to help people including myself to live a healthier
lifestyle.
I am originally from Texas. When I first Joined their farm, I was severely overweight. Ater farming with them for a year, I
lost 60 lbs in the first year. I learned how to grow lettuce from seeds to harvest. I learned how to live a healthy lifestyle
and care for the land in a very sustainable way.
I learned how to live pono. I have learned so much from them. Their aloha spirit toward all of our workers and their
dedication to organic farming is truly inspiring. They treat us like family and they are showing us the way to live in
harmony with our land. We need more people like Lawrence and Crystal Schmitt on Maui!
! strongly support their effort to get a conditional use permit to diversify their income. What they have gone through in
the last few years clearly shows that in order to survive as a farmer, income diversification is needed. I know you all
support agriculture on Maui. Please support them.
Mahalo!
Christopher Mrahunec
oooCZI
"irn
70CO
m-o
oCN-< !  ' }
oo ■n
mm -1 CO
OO
o*
1
RECEIVED^9SB
//
im SEP 16 PM 2: It I/
fSJ*<
OFFiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSTATE OF HAWAII
OFFICE OF ELECTIONS
802 LEHUAAVENUE
PEARL CITY, HAWAII 96782
WWW hawaii.QOv/elections
SCOTT T, NAGO
CHIEF ELECTION OFFICER
TESTIMONY OF THE
CHIEF ELECTION OFFICER, OFFICE OF ELECTIONS
TO THE MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
ON A RESOLUTION TO RECOGNIZE SEPTEMBER 28, 2021 AS
NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION DAY
September 16, 2021
Chair Lee and members of the Maui County Council, thank you for the
opportunity to testify in support of a resolution to recognize September 28, 2021
as National Voter Registration Day.
This resolution encourages voter registration and reminds Hawaii voters to
make sure that their voter registration record is up to date. There are many ways
for Hawaii residents to register to vote or check their registration status including
online, by submitting a voter registration application, or when receiving
government services like signing up for a Hawaii driver license or Hawaii state
identification card, or when applying to receive public assistance with the
Department of Health and Department of Human Services.
As noted in the resolution, we are also launching our annual Young Voter
Registration Program to distribute voter registration applications to high school
students statewide. Hawaii allows all eligible voters at least 16 years of age to
pre-register. When a pre-registered voter turns 18 years old, they will
automatically be mailed a ballot. This resolution brings attention to the options
and importance of voter registration.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify in support of this resolution.
Count^Cle^
Jayz Paleka-Wright <kekaimalino2@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 10:50 PM
County Clerk
Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from kekaimalino2@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha, I'm emailing regarding the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm at launiupoko. I've been working next door
the past couple months and have experienced obnoxious noise. They haven't been using this farm for
cultural purposes. I have seen many weddings, zip lining, and partying. 1 haven't seen any farming in
any sorts ever since I've started working here. I've been working there for 3-4 months and I haven't
seen any locals go there. Also their plants are overgrown and the land is dry.
If this land is meant for agricultural purposes then they shouldn't be able to hold such events.
Especially in a neighborhood where people live and want to relax. This is disrespectful to the
community and others who would love to have this chance.
Mahalo for listening to my concerns,
Kekai Paleka-Wright
ooO *T1
Cl
"i m
73CO
mZ oCN iTi-<
oo <59-
mm -I qo7)^ni
1
Count^Clerk KtU
m\ SEP 17 AH 7= 52
I...
Laurie Robello <trackshawaii@gmail.com>
Thursday, September 16, 2021 5:02 PM
County Clerk
Fwd; Support of Maui Dragon Farm
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OhFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from trackshawaii@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
9/16/21
Dear council member:
I am emailing to you to ask for your support of Maui Dragon Fruit Farm's application to extend
their conditional use permit.
I have known Crystal and Lawrence for many years. They are great dedicated farmers and have
gone through a lot trying to survive as farmers. As an island community, we need more farmers
like them and grow more food locally. Please support them and approve their request so that
they can have diversified income source to overcome unexpected obstacles in farming.
Thank you.
Laurie Robello
1
Count^^le^ f \
Karissa Sanders <karissasandersloha@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 11:10 PM
County Clerk
Support for Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
From:
Sent: ZflZI SEP 16 AH 8: 08
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don't often get email from karissasandersloha@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members:
My name is Carisa Sand and 1 was born and raised here on west Maui. My grandparents like to garden. While growing
up, each time we visited them, we would bring fresh vegetables home from their yard. They always told me that their
vegetables are organic since they did not spray any pesticides on them and they are good for me. So I always tried to
eat organic.
A few years ago, my uncle died of colon cancer. Then my best friend Dad also died of colon cancer. It seems more
and more people are getting all forms of cancer nowadays. So I did some research and I realized that eating chemically
sprayed foods are one of the main reasons people getting cancers like colon cancer. The message to me is loud and
clear: we not only need more locally grown food in our state, we also need more organically grown local food on our
islands.
I met Crystal Schmitt at one of the organic certification ,sessions on Maui since 1 am trying to get more information on
the USDA organic certification process. It turns out that Maui Dragon Fruit Farm is one of the very few USDA certified
organic farms on Maui. Crystal is not only passionate about farming, she is passionate about organic farming. She told
me she would not be farming if it is not organic. She is so knowledgeable on all the organic farming practices and I am
so glad that I found such a great organic farmer whom I can learn from.
Being living on the west side most of my life, I have witnessed a lot of changes over the years. The hill of Launiupoko
used to be all sugar cane. Now there are more swimming pools there than any other places on Maui. I have witnessed
one family hired a landscaper to plant most of their land with crops like bananas, etc. Once they got their building
permit and finished building their big vacation house, they cut off water to all the plants and just left their land with
yellow brushes, which is becoming a major fire hazard. They have no interest in farming or growing any food for the
island. All they want is their big ocean-view vacation home in a very large piece of agricultural land. Their houses sit
there empty most of the year, while local people have trouble finding affordable housing. We need to use those
valuable land to either grow food
or to build more affordable housing for our community. We need to stop those people complaining about their true
farm neighbors and ask them to do some real farming if their houses are all called " farm dwellings".
Thank you so much for reading my lengthy testimony and 1 sincerely hope you will support Crystal and Larry Schmitt
to approve their extension request.
Mahalo!
Carisa
1
PHYLLIS SHIMABUKURO-GEISER
Chairperson, Board of Agriculture
DAVID Y. IGE
Governor
MORRIS M. ATTA
Deputy to the Chairperson
JOSH GREEN
Lt, Governor
State of Hawaii
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
1428 South King Street
Honolulu, Hawaii 96814-2512
Phone: (808) 973-9600 FAX: (808) 973-9613
WRITTEN TESTIMONY
OF PHYLLIS SHIMABUKURO-GEISER
CHAIRPERSON, BOARD OF AGRICULTURE
STATE OF HAWAII
QCo r«iO
-n :x)C "t; oo
in“O
O
OH m-< CK rrooBEFORE THE MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL n
m -H
2)3:
X m
m-fis
SEPTEMBER 17, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
9:00 A.M.
Owo
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 21-443 AND 21-444 (CC 21-443 & CC21-444).
APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATES ASSOCIATION OF
COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO ALLOW COUNTY
REGULATION OF NOISE NUISANCES STRICTER THAN DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH RULES.
Chairperson Lee and Members of the Council:
Thank you for the opportunity to present testimony on the proposed legislative bill
to amend Section 46-17 by allowing the counties to regulate noise nuisances stricter
than that provided by Hawaii Department of Health administrative rules. The
Department of Agriculture is concerned whether the proposed bill would be inconsistent
with the Hawaii Right to Farm Act, Chapter 165, Hawaii Revised Statutes, which seeks
to “...reduce the loss to the State of its agricultural resources by limiting the
circumstances under which farming operations may be deemed to be a nuisance.” The
Act recognized and contemplated the future conflict between the development of
residential communities through urban expansion and the pre-existing agricultural
production activities that are often a source of smoke, odors, dust, noise, and vibration.
We are concerned that should counties enact stricter standards than that of the State,
this could have an adverse impact on the availability of agricultural lands for agricultural
production and be contrary to the State’s food sustainability goals and the Counties’
policies, plans, ordinances, and rules that support active agricultural production on
agricultural lands.
Thank you for the opportunity to present our written testimony.
Count^^lerk m
Margot Thom <margot_thom@yahoo.com>
Tuesday, September 14, 2021 9:16 AM
County Cierk
CR 21-85
From:
Sent: m\ SEP 14 AH » 59
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
[You don't often get email from margot_thom@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Hello
We are writing to request that the permit NOT be renewed for the Dragon Fruit Farm, or it be revoked.
We live on Punakea Loop near the Farm and have the following concerns:
- we live in a residential and agricultural neighborhood. It does not make sense to have a commercial zip line and
wedding venue in the neighborhood
- they do not appear to be farming the dragon fruit since the fire three years ago, so perhaps they do not meet the ag
requirements any longer
- there are multiple structures on the property which do not seem to meet the requirements of the county, state and
CPR for number of structures
- there is often loud noise/music which goes beyond the 8pm curfew. They use speakers which amplify the base
- there is high traffic at times which does not seem appropriate in a residential area
Thank you for your consideration
Margot Thom & Laurent Joly
Owners
Sent from my iPad
1
Beth-Ann Thompson <bigredbat@me.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 9:02 AM
County Clerk
Subject: CR 21-85 Please DENY
From:
Sent: RECF EDI  /
To:
m\ SEP 15 AH 9- 05Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
[You don't often get email from bigredbat@me.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
COUNTY CLERK
To whom it may concern,
I'm writing to you asking you to please DENY the request of the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm to extend their County
Special Use Permit, CUP. My husband and I have lived at 85 Lau Awa Place (down the street from the Dragon Fruit
Farm) since 2009 and watched as this property was developed. At first they planted lots of Dragon Fruit and were
able to grow lots of fruit to support the needs of the local restaurants and other venues around the Island. They
hired transient mainland and international workers that were young who worked the farm for food and lodging
(tents) but the farm was small so things weren't out of control. Now they have frequent weddings that are noisy,
lots of young workers that party at night and the land has turned into an amusement park. The whole idea of
Agricultural property Is to maintain the land as Agriculture and their property has severely diverted from this and the
land is now more focused on wedding venues and adventures. When we bought our property in 2009 there were
strict guidelines in place requiring our land to be 50% Agriculture and we were in compliance. The County should be
enforcing that requirement to all properties so that this development can remain as it was intended....Agricultural.
We are all for the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm being used for what it is designated...a Dragon Fruit Farm. If they want to
give tours to show people how the farm was created and how it is operated...that's great! We understand first hand
how expensive it can be to farm so we are all for them supplementing their income with tours of their farm. That
will give tourists and locals an understanding of how to grow agriculture on Maui and may even encourage more
people to farm.
We understand how difficult it is to monitor people's use of their own properties but something needs to be done to
protect the people who live around this property as it is not fair to them or anyone else in this Agricultural
development.
Please DENY their extension of their CUP.
Respectfully,
Beth and Kurt Thompson
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Ciet^
Elileen Welter <elileenwelter@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 10:07 PM
County Clerk
Testimony to support Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from elileenwelter@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Chair and Council Members:
My name is Elileen Welter and 1 am writing to you to support the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm's conditional permit extension.
I love dragon fruit! I am so happy that we have a dragon fruit farm on Maui and they have so many different varieties of
them. I get to know Crystal and Lawrence by attending one of their educational tours and they are so knowledgeable
and helpful! They inspired me to grow this fruit
on my small patch of land and the fruits are coming in now.
We need more organic farms and organic farmers on Maui. This COVID-19 pandemic especially makes me think that we
as a community needs to support each other to make farming a part of our lives. Our kids need to learn where the foods
are coming from and how we can grow more of our own food. By supporting farmers like Crystal and Larry, we are
making a good step toward trying to achieve food self-sufficiency in our state.
1 appreciate you reading my testimony and I hope you can approve their application.
Mahalo!
Elileen
C=9
O ~nc 73CO
m“O
oH m-< Ov moo <"n
mm 9?:u n: Oo7s m
1
County Clerk
Suinan zhong <suinanzhong@gmail.com>
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 8:41 PM
County Clerk
Written Testimony for support of Maui Dragon Fruit Farm
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
'  You don't often get email from suinanzhong@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Council Members:
I am submitting a written testimony to support Maui Dragon Fruit Farm's conditional use permit extension application.
Being a farmer myself, I would like to let you know that farming on Maui is both challenging and rewarding. Challenging
because it is hard to find workers who like to work in the field rain and shine. Especially young people, most of them
growing up on Maui now do not have much motivation to go to the agricultural field. Rewarding because we see we
need more food growers on Maui and a lot of people out there love the food that is grown here locally.
I have known Crystal and Larry for a long time since we exchange produce sometimes. They are responsible and
reliable. They are always there to help their friends. They are people 1 know I can count on when I need an extra
hand. They are devoted to organic farming and take care of our aina. They have a vision for Maui to become the dragon
fruit capital of the U.S.. We admire them for their courage to overcome obstacles and for their vision that we can grow
a lot more food on Maui.
1 sincerely ask your support of them. I know their success is our island's success.
Mahalo!
ocOSuinan Zhong  ‘T; X)CO
miQm O-< CN rnoo
n mop.73 — a7-^ m o
-si
1