MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-11-19
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1449,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
November 19, 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19. 2021,
BEGINNING AT 9:01 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
November 19, please come to order. It is approximately 9:03 this morning.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call. In
accordance with the Governor's most recent emergency proclamation related to the
COVID-19 response. Members should state who, if anyone, is present with them as
part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha kakahiaka kakou my Maui hikina. For the record, I am
at the Hana Cultural Center, with my EA Dawn Lono. Aloha, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Clerk, Mr. Clerk, one second. You may not have seen it in the chat, but
the morning greeting comes from Samoa, we actually did not have this before, its
Talofa lava, and that means hello to you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Ai, Talofa lava.
CHAIR LEE: Same to you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha, and talofa lava to you Madam Chair, my colleagues
and everyone else joining us for today's Council meeting. For the record. I'm
transmitting out of my office in the County Building and there is no one with me. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 2
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair. Good morning, Councilmembers.
Talofa lava, that's a song I want to sing, taiofa lava to all of you. I'm in the County
Building on the 8th floor with Kate Griffiths, and soon to be Stacey Moniz, my staff.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Talofa lava and aloha kakahiaka, my Maluuluolele. I'm here
broadcasting live and direct from the West Maui District Office with my EA Angela, who
is more than six feet away.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning, everybody. Talofa lava everyone I'm in
Kula, and I, there's no one in this room. I think my husband is probably on the first
floor, but that's it. Looking forward to a good meeting.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair. And talofa lava to all my fellow
colleagues. 1 am in my home, working in my work space and I am alone.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair, my Moloka'i nui ahina. I am
at the Moloka'i District Office alone on my side of the office and talofa lava kakou.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Talofa lava my dear colleagues and to the listening and viewing public. I am
home in my office by myself with my, my little baby dog about seven feet away listening
to every word we're talking about. Looking forward to a great meeting with all of you,
and I'm sure Member King will be along shortly.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 3
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI. MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN,
YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA,
VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT;
COUNCILMEMBER KELLY T. KING.EXCUSED:
(Councilmember King n/as not present when the roll ivas called; however, she arrived at
9:20 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight Members present, one Member excused.
A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Our opening remarks Members, will be provided by Councilmember Tasha
Kama, Pro Tern Kama.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern Kama, thank you for those insightful and warm remarks. Now 1 ask
that you join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 4
CHAIR LEE: Now Members, before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request
that everyone keep their microphones muted, unless it is your time to speak. Decorum
shall be maintained at all times.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on
ceremonial resolutions. The first person we have signed up to testify on ceremonial
resolutions is Keisa Lu. To be followed by Jordan Mocker.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. KEISA LU:
Good morning, everyone. Mahalo, my name is Keisa Lu and I'm here to speak on
agenda item "E. RECOGNIZING HUNGER AND HOMELESSNESS AWARENESS
WEEK". Apologies for not having a, a completely written out thing like I normally do. I
did submit written testimony on this agenda item.  Isupport this with reservation. As
we continue to move. I'm asking that as we continue to move towards holistic solutions.
Now we operate a housing first model, but it does feel a lot more like housing only.
The support is focused on housing, which of course right now is inadequate. For
example, when I spoke with Ka Hale A Ke Ola, they said that they have a 90-day
program. And when I asked them if that was sufficient to get someone through the
program and into permanent housing they said no, that takes really an average about
six months. So when we talk about our housing first model, there's I'm giving you one
example how it's not adequate.
But the other thing that we're missing is the understanding that as humans we need to
be able to move out of traumatic situations and understand that houselessness and
hunger is traumatic. And it requires a level of emotional intelligence, emotional safety,
compassion, aloha, and trauma-informed decisions, which again are lacking currently.
Now watching the interactions between the residents and our governing bodies and
whoever else is involved, I see that and seeing that we fund, and see what we fund
and how we fund services. I believe it's not enough to have services available the way
that we and the way that we offer those services is not helping enough.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 5
So as we recognize that this is an issue here on, in our County, I am going to ask our
entire community, everyone on this call, the Council, the Mayor, and everyone who
lives in Maui County to refuse, to stop using the phrase "refuser of services" as a way
or an excuse not to care about our community. Because it's incredibly inaccurate. It
places the blame on the victims when clearly there are a lot of things that get in the
way of being able to take services, and when those services are provided, it's always,
it's not always enough.
I urge leadership to stop spreading that phrase, to stop using that when you talk about
our houseless community in the media or with community members. Stop using that.
Stop. They are not jackasses. They are not people who are refusing water that's being
given to them. The path is difficult. The water is not there. Stop.
CHAIR LEE: Can you.
MS. LU: I'm going to leave, I'm going to leave this now. Yes, absolutely. I urge our community
and leadership to start recognizing that just providing shelter is not enough. That these
are humans. They are ours. They are part of our community. Mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Johnson, you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. Chair. Good morning, Ms. Lu. And I just
want to appreciate you for all your tireless efforts to help those folks that we just were,
you were speaking on. So my clarifying question is you mentioned that we can do
better with a holistic approach. Can you speak on that? Like what specifically do you
mean as far as a more holistic approach when it comes to helping people who are
houseless.
MS. LU: It's systematic or systemic issue. One of the things that we can work on is
diversifying the services that are being provided. Especially when it comes to the
housing, you know, we're talking about housing first or shelter. Right now we have
very limited shelters. They aren't 24-hours. They are limited spaces. You know, they
aren't always helpful for what is needed. So on a larger scale, I would suggest
managed encampments.
Because one of the things that happens, especially when those sweeps happen, or
clean-ups happen. Manage, we don't, the services, service providers don't have a way
to contact the people they are trying to help. So every time that happens it starts over
again, and we have to find them again. And so if we have managed encampments,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 6
we at least have a space where we can start that process and continue to keep those
touch points because the other thing I would say is that the touch points need to
happen, and they need to happen compassionately. They need to happen with people
who are trauma-informed, and do, not only are they informed, but they actually act in
that way. It's one thing to just take the training, it's another thing to actually do that
type of work. So, you know, in order to do all that, you have to do that.
So the other thing 1 would also say is to stop moving people, because ail we’re doing
is creating more work on our already strained resources. It's expensive and it doesn't
help combat the situation that we currently have. So those are a few ideas that I would
think would help.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Ms. Lu. Thank you, Chair. I have no
further questions.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Lu.
Mr. Clerk, next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The last testifier we have signed up to testify on ceremonial
resolutions is Jordan Hocker.
MS. JORDAN HOCKER;
Hello, Council and Members. Aloha mai Council Chair and Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez. My name is Jordan Hocker, I'm here on my own time and my own behalf.
I'd like to begin with gratitude for this resolution. I'd like to thank Gabe Johnson for this.
I have truly seen a cohesiveness between this resolution and the work that you and
your office are doing. So 1 really support that, and I support this resolution.
I do need to state for consideration for this body, the amount of unpaid hours that myself
and other unpaid volunteers are putting in the time away from our families, the times
out of our routine that we are putting in to figure out where we are failing our
unsheltered residents. Keisa does not get paid for the forty plus hours a week that she
does. I don't get paid for figuring out where the holes are.
I really am here to urge all Members of this government and this body to really, to be
listening to address the biases that prevent care from actually reaching our unsheltered
members. I really truly worry about lip service with a . . . addressing hunger and
homelessness that doesn't follow through with respect for our unsheltered residents.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 7
I  have been before this body multiple times to share my own experience with
homelessness and to ask you folks at what point in my experience of chronic illness
and not being able to work and thus facing eviction at an earlier point in my life, was I
not worthy of respect or was I unable to reach your hearts? Was it with . . . and I ask
these questions, was it when the eviction notice happened, was it when I needed to
sleep in my car, was it when I was living out of my car.
The other day I was sitting in a parking lot in Makawao waiting for a doctor's
appointment, and I saw MPD be called for an unsheltered resident. And they called
one of the outreach services, which I'm sure folks are familiar with. There’s really only
one funded entity that has outreach funds. And I listened to that process, and I listened
to her speak with him.
And you know I come from a background of hospitality, I worked and managed
restaurants for about a decade. And when someone would come into my restaurant, i
had things to offer them, right, and I was happy that they were there, because it was
my job to make sure that they knew everything we offered, and they had the best
experience possible.
And so as I'm sitting there listening to this, I don't hear an offering of services. I don't
hear, you know, someone, this person said this is what I need, and they said well unless
you take our whole program, we can't help you with this. And the person didn't want
to move down to Kahului, because it's not as safe there to be out of the studio. They
wanted to remain Upcountry, because it's safer .  ..  And I'll just, I have two more
sentences.
In that experience, I realized this isn't catered towards them. It's catered towards the
establishments that are providing services and it's catered towards the Federal funding
and the funding that the County is doing. We need  anew model that caters towards
people, that delivers them dignity and respect and reminds them that we are all
humans, and it doesn't matter whether we're struggling or not? We are on equal
playing-field. So I support this resolution, thank you folks so much today for letting me
speak.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions for Ms. Mocker? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, we do have one, couple of other individuals signed up to
testify on ceremonial resolutions. The next person signed up to testify is Faith Chase.
To be followed by Lisa Darcy.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 8
(Councilmember King arrived at the meeting at 9:20 a.m.)
MS. FAITH CHASE:
Good morning, Chair. Good morning. Council. Speaking to the homeless awareness
week. The resolution in paragraph 5 is incorrect. We did not have a Point In Time
Count in 2020 or 2021, so if that could be corrected. I think I've come to this body with
my thoughts enough, and I will not waste your time. I'm, I'm grateful for all the
organizations that are named in the last paragraph. I don't think our Mayor has done
enough. I don't think as the previous testifier said, this lip service will, will change any,
any behavior or his courses, his course of action he's taken over the last couple years
on this issue. But please make that correction.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for pointing that out. Mr. Clerk. Any questions, Members.
Okay, Mr. Clerk. And when you come back on could you speak a little louder please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, yes, apologies Chair. Oh, Chair before 1 proceed to the next
testifier, Councilmember King is present.
CHAIR LEE: Oh yes, welcome, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mahalo and talofa lava. I'm assuming that's a, that's the greeting
for the day and nice to be here with you all. Thank you for excusing me for the first few
minutes so I could join the iCLEI webinar for a few minutes. Happy to be here now
and, and listening to the testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Great.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And also, I guess I have to say that I am in my new district office.
We don't have any, any testifiers here with us but I do have staff Ellen McKinley and
Daniel Kanahele in the next room.
CHAIR LEE: Wonderful. Okay, now we know where to go when we're in South Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 9
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair the next individual we have signed up to testify is Lisa
Darcy. To be followed by Tamara Koller.
CHAIR LEE: Can't hear you. You're muted Lisa. Lisa, you want to try turning off your video
and turning on you mike. Now you look like you're frozen.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Lisa your microphone looks muted.
MS. LISA DARCY:
How's that? Okay, did that work?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. it did.
MS. DARCY: Yay, thank you. Aloha, Council. My name is Lisa Darcy, I'm the founder of
Share Your Mana. I am a commissioner on the Healing Solutions for Homelessness.
I am not a paid lobbyist. And I thank you very much for being able to be here today.
I'm in a car in Phoenix. I am with another individual. Thank you for the resolution. I
originally was going to testify on CR 21-117, which is the housing for human right, and
I believe that they are so closely related there’s no sense in being on both.
I'm grateful for resolutions, and I'm grateful for this, the housing as a human right to put
it forward. I think it's really, really important, and two things that I see that are, that are
missing from both of these are naming the groups and they are. And I did put some of
this forward to the, to the Council earlier, in earlier testimony regarding naming mental
illness as a vulnerable group and acknowledging that Maui County has been in a crisis
for over 20 years, like an actual dedicated crisis that's just been acknowledged by the
Department of Justice. And the fact that it is not named, and we are still afraid to say
mental illness is something that adds to the stigma, and it does not bring forward
healing and healthy solutions. And I think it gets ignored.
And I really want to put a very, very strong push in to recognize how many times I've
been in doctor's offices with individuals when they got their diagnoses. And whether
it's cancer, diabetes, or schizophrenia, there's always been a great relief when an
illness is named, because now you can actually treat it. And although it may be
something that is difficult and uncomfortable and nobody wants to hear the word
schizophrenia, I think it's probably the meanest disease on the planet. At least it
becomes treatable and until we acknowledge and put this forward, we will always
stumble.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 10
So thank you for putting this, and, and grappling with it, and trying to move it forward.
I would encourage you to be bold, be very bold, name the things we see, then we can
really start to really chip away at the very significant issues that Maui County faces.
And I thank you very much for your, your work and  Ithank Keisa Lu and Jordan who
have been really supporting and taking forward a lot of the work that I've been bringing
forward to the community. And they have taken it to an entirely different level and
really, I really hope you listen to, to their, to their testimony so, and incorporate their
suggestions. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Lisa. Members, do you have any questions for Ms. Darcy. If not
have a great time in Phoenix.
MS. DARCY: Thank you, bye. Thanks again.
CHAIR LEE: Bye.
Mr. Clerk.
Chair, the last individual we have signed up to testify onDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
ceremonial resolutions is Tamara Koller.
MS. TAMARA KOLLER:
Good morning, Council. My name is Tamara Koller and 1 am testifying on the
ceremonial resolution of hunger and homelessness awareness week. I realize that
resolutions don't have an effect of law, but 1 think it's important, particularly if, where
you recognize and appreciate and acknowledge the love, dedication and hard work
provided by so many caring individuals. Those . .  .groups and organizations. I want
to talk specifically about individuals in the community that realize that this
homelessness is, is affecting other members, not their particular situation. I don't
believe it's been recognized. 1 believe the Administration and the Mayor continues to
say that some of these other groups are helping.
But when I hear individuals telling me that they went with somebody to meet with some
of these groups, particularly the one that gets all of the funding, and they are told that
if you are an advocate here, I'm not going to help this person. That's totally
unacceptable. And as a County that, you know, you get, you provide funding to that
organization, we know that Amazon leader has provided a  lot of funding to that
organization.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 11
And I think you really need to recognize other people in the community. Lisa’s group,
Keisa, Jordan, Maya, these are just some names of individuals that have been out
there working with individual homeless, and to help them get services. It’s very
frustrating. I, I, and I listen to them, I listen to other people, and as a former County
worker, and administrator at the hospital, it disturbs me. I don't like to see what I'm,
what I'm reading in the press constantly, over and over, about these people refusing.
And they're not worth anything, they are jackasses. I mean that is, that's totally
unacceptable.
And I'm hoping that you Members on the Council can, you know, work to help make
this better for the rest of the residents. It is  adire situation. And I'm sorry this is my
first time ever testifying in front of a group, but 1 really appreciate what all of you do.
And thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for your testimony. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank
you very much, Ms. Koller.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testify on
ceremonial resolutions.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to closing public testimony on ceremonial
resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with ceremonial resolutions.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 21-179
RECOGNIZING NOVEMBER 2021 AS FAMILY
COURT AWARENESS MONTH IN MAUI COUNTY
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 12
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ENTITLED "RECOGNIZING NOVEMBER 2021 AS FAMILY
COURT AWARENESS MONTH IN MAUI COUNTY".
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Sinenci to adopt the
resolution as stated by the Member and Mr. Clerk.
Did you want the resolution read out, read in its entirety?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: That would be, that would be my preference. Chair. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, Mr. Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair and thank you, Mr. Deputy Clerk.
Domestic violence, divorce, paternity, and custody issues affect many individuals and
families in Maui County. Established in 2020 Family Court Awareness Month is an
opportunity for survivors of domestic violence, or post-separation abuse, to amplify
their voices while raising awareness of shortcomings in the family court system.
By supporting the Family Court Awareness Month, Maui County would join 200 other
cities and counties nationwide to stand with local and national advocacy groups
highlighting the importance of protecting children and other vulnerable individuals in
the family court system. 1 ask for the Members full support of this resolution. Thank
you, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 13
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, any more discussion Members? If not, all those in favor of adopting
the resolution, please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Resolution adopted.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I would like to recognize Breana Pakele, the TRO
Program Coordinator at Women Helping Women to receive and speak to this
resolution. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Pakele.
MS. BREANA PAKELE: Hi, good morning, Councilmembers and everyone present today.
My name is Breana Pakele, I'm the Temporary Restraining Order Coordinator at
Women Helping Women and I have been with the agency for about six years or so. I
would like to express my gratitude to the Maui County Council for recognizing hunger
and homelessness week, as well as deeming November as Family Court Awareness
Month.
During the shutdown in March of 2020, the Second Circuit Court, Women Helping
Women, and other agencies throughout Maui County have made some outside the box
changes that not only eliminated interruption of services, but created safer, more
efficient means for victims to obtain protective orders. Through conversation, this
partnership was able to allow TRO petitions to be faxed to the courthouse, removing
that barrier of a victim having to physically go there and process documents that way.
And they were also able to appear via Webex for their court hearings, which eliminates
that fear of being present within the courtroom.
Many see additional challenges through custody and divorce hearings with much more
support is needed. This is where great ideas are needed for safety and support for our
victims and especially for the children that continue to live in fear, despite all of these
drawn-out custody hearings. The voices of our children need to be heard and truly
listened to. And there needs to be a more deeper understanding of domestic violence
and how its present in the system. Having judges and court staff and advocates who
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 14
truly understand the dynamics of domestic violence, and the unseen effects our
systems play on victims is vital to their success.
Last year in 2020 our agency had processed 439 TROs from January to December,
and that number continues to grow larger each year. Violence is ever changing, and
ongoing education is a huge need for everybody. For many victims court isn't the end
of their journey, many need additional ongoing support to help them process and heal
from abuse, to regain their sense of self and lead better lives.
Having the programs here at Women Helping Women include court advocacy and
support allows us as advocates to support and guide these victims through the difficult
court process. The TROs that are filed, which can be as many know intimidating and
a very fearful thing to go through alone. As many know, the court system is often used
as another tool for the abuser to continue to maintain power and control over their
victim. It's important that these types of cases are recognized and treated in a manner
different from any ordinary custody or divorce case.
Our agency is very, very proud to be able to provide the assistance and support that
we do to all the victims of domestic violence through TRO processing, court advocacy,
shelter services, assistance through our transitions program and more. And I just
wanted to say thank you, Councilmembers, for highlighting the importance of two very
critical issues and systems, and while domestic violence continues to be a pandemic
in itself, we are hopeful and we continue to, you know, do our work in Maui County and
for our victims. That's alt. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Pakele. Any questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Fantastic, impressive. That's a lot of TRO's and I think this
pandemic has brought about many interesting circumstances that bring out these
hidden solutions. So once the pandemic and this, the courts go back in session, would
they be allowed to continue to have online hearings with the, with the courts or will it
go back to normal in-person. Do you know?
MS. PAKELE: I don't think they've gotten that far yet. But as of now they are planning on
continuing for some time.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's good. Tasha Kama has an item that maybe it could
fit into this, too, where it's a community court system. Where the court then goes into
community settings that makes it easier for people. So I wonder if this could be added
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 15
to that list. But thank you very much for your good work and continue on. Thank you
for testifying.
MS. PAKELE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura, adding what? Adding a person to the list?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; No, no, no, they're already on the list. But thank you. No.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any other comments or questions? If not, thank you very much
Ms. Pakele.
MS. PAKELE; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else to talk on this item?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; No, she was beautiful. I just leave it as it was. Thank you
so much.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record that is RESOLUTION 21-179.
RESOLUTION
NO. 21-180
RECOGNIZING HUNGER AND HOMELESSNESS AWARENESS WEEK
NOVEMBER 13-21, 2021
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Madam Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ENTITLED "RECOGNIZING HUNGER AND HOMELESS [SIC]
AWARENESS WEEK NOVEMBER 13-21,2021".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 16
COUNCiLMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member Sugimura. Pardon me. Oh, there must have been some
feedback. Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Sugimura to adopt the
resolution regarding homeless a\wareness week.
Discussion. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. May I please request the Deputy Clerk
to read the resolution in its entirety.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Mr. Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson. Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes, thank you, Chair. Before I get into my discussion, I
kind of want to speak to what Faith Chase was, was asking in her testimony. So can
we call upon David Raatz from OCS to clarify that specific data point.
CHAIR LEE: Sure, David.
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY DAVID RAATZ: Thank you. Chair Lee, and
Councilmember Johnson. We were able to access the 2020 Point In Time Report on
Bridging The Gap Hawaii website, btghawaii.org so we've, we've confirmed the
accuracy of that reference in the resolution. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Alright, so.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Johnson for getting that clarification.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, so thank you so much. So as reported in the
2020 Maui County Point In Time Count that was taken on the night of January 22,
homeless individuals in Maui County, there was 789, including 170 homeless children.
Our low and moderate income residents continue to struggle with the high cost of living
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 17
and the shortage of affordable housing in Maui County. These issues have only been
exacerbated by the pandemic.
In the spirit of aloha, local organizations are working diligently to educate the public
about the problems of hunger and homelessness. By recognizing November 13-21 as
Hunger and Homeless /s/cj Awareness Week, the County would join a national call to
action and bring us one step closer to eradicating housing and food insecurity in Maui
County.
If the body would allow, I would also like to make a substitution in the list of recipients
for CARE Hawai'i, replacing Dr. Tina McLaughlin and Dr. Dennis McLaughlin with Tyler
Neroes, Homeless Outreach Team Lead. I ask the Members full support of this
resolution as amended. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, I just wanted to quickly express my
sincere gratitude to Councilmember Gabe Johnson and his office staff, and all the
volunteers have been alongside his staff whenever there has been sweeps and to
address our situation. There, it brings to light their humanitarian efforts and it really
shares with the rest of our communities, puts that, that face to, to those of our
unsheltered, brings it right into our living rooms. So with that, I just wanted to mahalo
the volunteers out there. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I appreciate this also. Member Johnson. Well
said. And taking into consideration what Lisa Darcy, her testimony where she said
there's some missing people who should get certified copies of the resolution, 1 wonder
if we were able to confirm that or add it for, to this when we, when we finalize the
certification? Do you know, do you know the additional organizations we are missing?
CHAIR LEE: I don't know.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 18
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I'm sorry I don't.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, I guess we'll just have to, I’ll reach out to her and
find out for, you know, future resolutions, because I’m sure there will be. But thank you
for doing this. And yeah, it's a problem that I think is all in our hearts and minds and
thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. In reference to Member Sugimura's question,
1 think about that all the time. And 1 know that in Kihei, St. Theresa Church has their
feeding every day, 365 days a year, and they don't stop because it’s a holiday and
they're still doing it. Also 1 know that Good Shephard, every Sunday serves a hot meal
to people and that's been going on for like, what is this, for about 18 years.
But these, these are our unsung heroes that are out there, but they don't do the big,
glorious kind of stuff, and I'm not sure how to address that in the resolution? But I did
hear Member Sinenci's heartfelt mahalo to the people who have not been mentioned,
and who know who they are. So I want to be able to echo that too. So, thank you.
Chair. Thank you. Member Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Pro Tern Kama. I think I saw other hands up.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Member Johnson. I wanted to
echo the sentiment of my colleagues. I know, you know, there's sometimes feeling that
resolutions without the force and effect of law is just, you know, words. But our words
shape our thoughts, and our thoughts can become our actions.
I also looked up the Point In Time County Report online and, and there is a 2021. I
just, (think it was taken on January 26. But it's just one night, you know? And, and it's
like a snapshot. And, and similar to a resolution, it doesn’t give you the full picture, or
the full action, but the one night is to like spur us to action just like the resolution is to
spur us to action. So you know, sometimes we need to start somewhere and again
like Member Kama said, it's been going on for so many years. People have been
trying, but my hope is that this resolution will bring things together. So thank you so
much. Member Johnson, and everyone for supporting.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 19
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to say mahaio to my
colleague, Mr. Johnson, for this resolution. And plenty, plenty mahaio to all of the
organizations who are, you know, working on addressing these challenges as it relates
to homeless, and to folks like Lisa Darcy and Faith Chase, you know, Keisa and Jordan,
keep up the good work. And I had an experience with, with Lisa going out to meet with
some homeless in Paia, boy it's a lot of work and to see what you guys do every day.
We're very blessed to have all of you addressing this issue and doing your best helping
keep our homeless, you know, safe, and helping meet their needs. So just want to say
thank you from the bottom of my heart. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Molina.
Member King, them Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. And of course I want to echo the mahaio to all
the individuals and organizations who have been working so hard as volunteers to help
the situation out there with the homeless and the hungry. And I just wanted to say
along with our great mahalos is that I hope that we as a Council can use this as a
springboard for action for getting more of the resources to these organizations when
we get to the next budget session.
Because the process is so difficult for some of the smaller nonprofits that they end up
just giving, throwing their hands up and giving up on that, the application for the grant
money that we have out there. We're going to be getting some ARPA monies, so I just
want to say that I think this Council will take action and will try to help get some more
resources into more hands. Because I hear from the testimony, and I've heard from
just talking to folks on the ground, is the frustration of filling out those grant applications.
Sometimes they feel like it's not even worth it, but we want you to have those resources.
I just want you to know and, you know, I'm willing to, to help however I can. That's all
I wanted to say, and, you know, just, we just have to keep working together, find ways
to work together to help the folks out there. Thank you Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. And mahaio to my colleague Member
Johnson for introducing this resolution. Mahaio to everyone out there, who has and
continue to address the symptoms of a core problem. And it's all of our kuleana as
elected officials. And I'm proud of the work that we're doing, and we continue to do to
address this at the core.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 20
This is a systemic problem and at one point, the system was aina momona, shared
abundance. The system that we're in now allows for wealth inequality. The fact that
hunger, homelessness, and poverty in the wealthiest country, while billionaires exist is
a failure of systems. The continuation of treating this as an issue of a failure of the
individual or thinking that charity is the answer is just complacency on our part and
allowing this system to continue.
So I mahalo again Member Johnson, and mahalo to all the Members on this Council
for all of your work for addressing this systemic problem at the core. And I hope that
other elected officials will see this problem as  asystemic problem and fix this at the
core and not just address the symptoms. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Vice-Chair. I, too, want to thank you, say a thank you to Member
Johnson for offering this wonderful resolution and for all the comments made by all of
the Members. I agree that this is a systemic problem. However, unfortunately the
Council doesn't have control over the entire system.
So for what we do have control over, last budget session, the Council wisely, the
Budget Committee wisely introduced the initiative that allows for nonprofits, especially
new nonprofits to have an advance instead of having to be subject to the total
reimbursement system, which makes it really hard for any new nonprofit.
And I think maybe in the upcoming session, we need to really identify some very good
umbrella nonprofit agencies, because they can do the paperwork. They know how to
handle the red tape, unlike the, the people in the field, you know? They're, they're the
ones that need to be free to do the work and not be stymied and, and held back by
paperwork, which other nonprofits could probably handle.
So 1 know we all want to do more, and I think we will, especially in the budget
deliberations. So thank you. Members. Thank you, Member Johnson. And I hope that
everybody listening that's involved with the homeless and the hungry know that, that
we are their resource, and we, they can depend on us. Any more questions or
comments?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. I'd like to recognize Deb Lynch, President
of Board of Director for A Cup of Cold Water as well as Scott Hansen, Executive
Director at Maui Rescue Mission, who, who I have invited to receive the resolution on
behalf of the many organizations that help and support our hungry and homeless.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 21
CHAIR LEE: Okay, one, I need to check with the Clerk. Mr. Clerk, shall we take the vote now
or later?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Whop, my mistake. I jumped the gun.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The body can take the vote now and then have the speakers
after.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, if you don't mind.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I beg your pardon.
CHAIR LEE: No problem. All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and raise your
hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
motion carries. Nine "ayes", it's unanimous.CHAIR LEE; Okay, all "ayes", no "noes'
Now, would you like to, Member Johnson, introduce the, those who you invited to
receive the resolution.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Sure, sorry, I get excited when we talking about this topic
cause it's such a passion of mine. So Chair, I would like to recognize Deb Lynch,
President Board of Directors for A Cup of Cold Water and then Scott Hansen, the
Executive Director at Maui Rescue Mission who I have invited to receive this resolution
on behalf of many organizations who help and support our homeless and hungry.
MS. DEB LYNCH: First of all, well, thank you all so much for all your hard work that you do.
Thank you, Member Johnson, you're really a great asset and thank you all
Councilmembers because I know you are all very concerned about the issues of the
unsheltered people here.
Most of you probably ail know who A Cup of Cold Water, we've been around for about
seven years, and we are 100 percent volunteer and accept no government money. We
go out a few times a week, the pandemic of course limited some of our activities at
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 22
times. And we bring water, food, hygiene, first aid, clothes, blankets, towels, a lot of
compassion directly to the people, unsheltered people, we look for them.
In listening to your numbers, so far this year even with the times when we had to
suspend our runs, we've served almost 2,200 different individuals. Some of them are
the same individuals, yes. But in 2020 our numbers were just over 4,000. So there
are many people out there. Maui people that are unsheltered hide a lot so when the
point count, Point Count In Time happens there are times that they don't catch
everybody.
One thing that A Cup of Cold Water does besides bringing things is we are a great
conveyor of information to the unsheltered and likewise getting information back from
them on what their concerns are. An example was when the Salvation Army had the
vaccination clinic, we were able to share that information with the unsheltered as they
wanted to go get vaccinated.
We hear back from people who are looking for shelter, saying yes, that unfortunately
with some of the shelter placements with their funding they are restricted with how they
can accept people with certain situations going on in their lives. And that does make it
very difficult for some of the people who are unsheltered who would like to become
sheltered, and they can't get in because of restrictions.
So A Cup of Cold Water as in, as in like Maui Rescue Mission, we're sort of the bridge
between living on the streets and opportunities for people to get services and shelter.
They call us dusty boots on the ground. The other thing that we like to do at Cup of
Cold Water is invite people to come out on one of our runs. They're not long, they're
just a few hours. Come see the people, meet them. See what they need. We also
would love to have other organizations and ministries come as guest riders also, if they
have a service or something that they would like to offer to the unsheltered this way
they get to meet them, they get to have a real conversation with them, really talk. So
again, I want to thank you all so much for passing this resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And we have Mr., who's next?
COUNCiLMEMBER JOHNSON: Mr. Hansen.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hansen. Mr. Hansen.
MR. SCOTT HANSEN: Yes, aloha, good morning. Thank you. Council. I appreciate the
invite. I have spoken to you guys before, but 1 just wanted to touch on a couple
important aspects of Maui Rescue Mission. We are mobile, we bring as you probably
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 23
remember a trailer with shower and laundry capabilities to four different locations four
days a week. And we're mobile so that we can get to people that can't get to us.
There's some issues that most homeless people encounter either they have had
trauma in the past, they have struggles with mental health issues. Many of them have
transportation issues, they can't get to the resources that they need to get to. And then
there's also issues with their pride, asking for help. They feel like they can dig
themselves out of the hole that they're in by themselves sometimes and they just need
a friend to come along and say, you know, you need a little bit of help and we're here
to help you. So that's why we're mobile.
We realize that many people can't get to the resources they need to, need to get to.
So what we've done is, we've been able to collaborate with a lot of other agencies, and
individuals, some volunteers that are very dedicated, and we've created a mobile
resource center in four different locations a week that they can get to. We're really big
into collaborating, cause we can't do it all. So we have Malama I Ke Ola Health Center,
for example, they come out. We are not health professionals, we can't offer health
insurance, but they can. So that's why we create the environment to allow the
collaborations to occur. And we're willing to collaborate with anybody. We appreciate
the collaboration of the, the County as well.
So what makes it so helpful and, and so successful is that the resources are right there.
So even though someone comes, thinking they only need a shower, we invite them to
also sit down and maybe get SNAP benefits if they don't have it? Or get help with their
EBT, or just talk to us, and discuss what issues they are having. Cause the other
aspect of what we do is we try to fill in any gaps we can possibly fill in, which means
that we don't have very many boundaries of how we can help people.
And we do it with the utmost dignity and respect. So when people come onto the
property wherever we are set up, the first thing we do is we try to notice them coming
and we welcome them. We say hi, how are you doing? What can we help you with
today? What do you need help with? If they say nothing, if they just are checking it
out, then that's fine.
One of the other things that has made our outreaches so inviting is we've been able to
collaborate with different, mostly volunteers, but other agencies that will provide food.
So we serve during lunchtime, and we noticed in the past some of our guests would
leave to go get lunch, and that makes it harder for us to build a relationship with them,
it makes it harder us, for us to get the resource help to them that they need. They
might be on the list for SNAP benefits, and they need to get lunch and then they miss
their opportunity. So that has provided a great way to keep them onsite that we can
help them.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 24
So I just want, you know, a couple of the testifiers mentioned the dignity piece, and not
just walking up to people and saying, you know, do you need shelter, I can help you
get shelter. I just want to give you a quick example of why that doesn't, doesn't work.
We had a gentleman who recently became homeless, was living in his car. And our,
one of our outreach workers . . . approached him basically every week, at least once a
week, a couple times a week. She would go to where he parked his car and she would
talk to him and say, hey, we can help you, come to the shower, get, get a shower, get
your clothes washed, there are resources. It took almost six months before he finally
was able to let down his guard and convince himself to come for help. Since that, he
got his car stolen, he got his phone stolen. His car had all his things in it. He got lower
and lower and lower in the situation.
We've come to find out he is a veteran. So we hooked him up with veteran services.
He has received our compassion and our help, and he went from a very angry man to
now he is a very grateful man and loves to come to tell us how grateful he is for us.
We, he's applied for, he might even have gotten his HUD voucher so he's in line to get
housing. And we've just been able to help him with so many resources. And it's
because we took the time over and over to say hey, we're here to help. We love you.
we care about you, you're important, and when you're ready for help, we're here.
Rather than just say, we have help, do you want it? And when he said no, we just left
him and never approached him again.
They're humans, the people we deal with are humans. So we create a very, very open
door. Anyone can receive our services without giving us their actual name if they don't
want to until it's time to actually apply for something where it makes sense that they
give us their name. And we love to collaborate. So it starts with compassion,
collaboration, and that, we have seen leads to success. We've seen many people get
back up on their feet. We've sent people to the mainland to reconnect with family or to
get into a rescue mission or something on the mainland to help them. So those two
items, I think if we can adopt them across the board, 1 think we'd see a lot of change
happening. Thank you so much for, for listening to my speech.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Hansen. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Hard to summarize what all was just said there but 1 just
want to thank all of you for doing what you do. I really appreciate it; we all appreciate
it. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 25
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, apologies. I wanted to verify the vote count for that
resolution. We were unable to see Councilmember Paltin. We were unsure how she
voted, if she was present for that vote.
CHAIR LEE: Apparent, were you present for the vote, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I might have accidentally muted my camera, but if it's okay. I'd
like to vote yes.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so the vote should be unanimous.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. For the record then, that is
RESOLUTION 21-180.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next item on the agenda is setting the Consent
Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Members, at this time we will set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder, the
calendar can still be adjusted even after it is set. Are there any requested changes to
the Consent Calendar at this time?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, item No. 21-526 please to be removed.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. What is that again, 25.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 21-526.
CHAIR LEE: 21-526.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 26
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any others, Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So Chair, are we going to be allowed to remove any of the grants
or contracts? Do we do that now? From No. 21-520.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member, i mean, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Member King, you would just remove
the entire item from the Consent.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh, right now? Okay. Okay, so  Iwould like to remove 21-520.
CHAIR LEE: 21-520, did you say?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So we can do referral of grants and--
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any other requests? If that, so are there any objections to setting the
Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: The Consent Calendar is set.
Mr. Clerk, please proceed with testimony. And Members we are going to take a break
at 10:30.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 27
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will remain connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be
disconnected. The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku: Maui
Community Media or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be
disconnected from the meeting at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first individual we have signed up to testify is Keisa Lu. To be followed by
Jason Economou.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning, Ms. Lu.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. KEISA LU [testifying on Committee Report No. 21-117 and Bill No. 135 (2021)1:
Good morning. Aloha, my name is Keisa Lu and I'm here to testify on two agenda
items today. Agenda item "M.", Bill 135, and agenda item "K." CR 21-117. And I'll start
with Bill 135 really quickly. 1 just wanted to say mahalo to Councilmember King for
bringing this forward and for the rest of the Council for pushing it forward. And I
apologize for not being able to stay on top of this particular bill. I have been a little bit
preoccupied, but I am in absolute in full support of this. I love that it's changed as well,
to have a little bit more stringent things on here for us. So I'm very happy, and I just
want to mahalo everyone here for, for pushing that forward. And I am, of course, in full
support.
So the other one that 1 will be talking about a little bit, again I didn't have time to put
together a written testimony for me to say right now. So it is going to be on the fly
CR 21-17 [sicj. You know, I, again, am in support of this. This resolution 1 understand
that it is aspirational in nature, but again it's part of that work of moving forward,
changing mindsets about what adequate housing means, what, what that looks like
here on Maui and what we need to do to help move things forward. A couple of things
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 28
that I just wanted to highlight that the community, the committee noted which was the
right to adequate housing means not only a physical dwelling but housing that is
affordable, habitable, accessible, culturally appropriate, and secure. And that's a really
important designation that we need here on our island.
I am happy that it's expanded to include individuals dealing with mental health. What
I've seen is that I have yet to meet a houseless individual who doesn't struggle with
some type of mental or physical health, and it is very much a part of this population.
So acknowledging that like Lisa Darcy said is incredibly helpful in terms of making sure
those services are provided. So I mahalo for too.
And I also want to thank you for pointing out that there's a clear priority now. And that
when we move forward, that it is responsive and effective. And this is really important,
because the reality is we are in a crisis. And 1 want to highlight this one thing in
particular, why, why it is a crisis. We do have people dying in the streets on Maui
especially, but in Maui County.
And 1 want to tell you two stories before 1 get off today. The first one is, you know, in
my written testimony I explained how I am helping  ahouseless individual, and how I
needed to drop them off on the streets in order for them to qualify for homeless
verification form even though it was well-known they were from Amala and that they
were houseless. That day that I did that, they had just found out that one of their friends
who was also houseless had passed on the streets. And I was, had a lot of feelings of
guilt at that time, because I had to drop them at  atime of trauma.
The second thing I want to say is that I personally know of somebody who passed,
again, on the streets, who was from Amala. This person showed up at the sweep or
cleanup with, what's it called, those bracelets, the hospital bracelets. And 1 recognized
them immediately and 1 said oh what are you doing here? And they said well I was
worried that my stuff was going to get taken, so I'm here. So they checked themselves
out early from the hospital, to go check on their things at Amala. And it wasn't long
after that they were admitted to the hospital again, after attempting to get into a shelter.
You know, they weren't able to do that. They were, had to go into, to the hospital
because they had gotten so sick, and they ended up passing.
So when we talk about the fact that this is a crisis, I need you to understand that we
are losing our people because of the way that we're doing things right now. And I'm
going to say it one more time, because I need you to hear it. We are losing our people,
good people, because of our system right now. So, as much as I am happy that this is
moving forward, I need you to continue to recognize ... we have to push forward,
because it is a crisis. Mahalo. And one last thing is 1 did hear Chair Lee say that you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 29
are a resource, and we can depend on you. And I will be using that quite a bit. So
mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? if not, thank you very much, Ms. Lu.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next individual we have signed up to testify is Jason
Economou. To be followed by Genesis Young.
MR. JASON ECONOMQU. REALTORS ASSOCIATION OF MAUI [testifying on Committee
Report No. 21-117 and Bill Nos. 118 (2021). 135 (2021), & 136(2021)1:
Good morning, Chair Lee and Council. Thank you for this opportunity to testify. My
name is Jason Economou and I'm testifying on behalf of the Realtors Association of
Maui and our 1,900 members. I have a few items, but I'll try and keep it brief. The
items that I will be testifying on are Committee Report 21-117, Bill 118, Bill 135, and
Bill 136.
Regarding Committee Report 21-117. So RAM voiced concerns over the original
proposal that Councilmember Johnson had put forth, but we did support the concept.
And this resolution that you ultimately came up with is a concise and thoughtful
regulation of that concept and we support it. I'm heartened by this Council's focus on
meeting the housing needs of our community and I recognize that this resolution is a
valuable step towards meeting those needs. I know things aren't perfect and it'll take
some time to solve the housing needs of our community. But, you know, I, I really have
the utmost respect for this Council and especially for, for Councilmember Johnson as
Affordable Housing Chair, really taking aggressive action to provide housing. So thank
you for that.
Regarding Bill 118, RAM would like to commend the Council, and particularly Vice-
Chair Rawlins-Fernandez on this approach to helping families maintain the dream of
homeownership and to preserve their ancestral homes for future generations. Our
board is in full support of tax relief measures like this, and I encourage more innovative
approaches such as this. It's really great legislation. So thank you forthat ‘aina kupuna
legislation, well-done.
Regarding Bill 135, the sunscreen ban. You know, RAM fully recognizes the
importance of maintaining a healthy ecosystem for our islands and we thank you for
taking this step to ensure that our children, and our grandchildren can grow up to see
the natural beauty that makes Maui such a special place. So thank you,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 30
Councilmember King, for, for really bringing this forward in your Committee. And thank
you to rest of the Council for supporting this thus far. I really am encouraged by this
action that you're taking, and RAM is, is really excited to see where you go next with,
with preserving our environment for the future.
And finally with Bill 136, regarding registration numbers for TVR's in the apartment
zoning districts. So initially RAM had opposed Bill 136, because we did not agree with
the registration number system that was envisioned by the initial legislation.
Notwithstanding we appreciate that the Planning Commission, the Department of
Planning, and the Council recognized our concerns, and adapted the legislation to its
current form.
So this legislation appears to balance the importance of vested property rights of the
owners with the County's very reasonable desire to curb illegal transient
accommodations. And we greatly appreciate that you took the time to strike that
balance and that rather than infringing upon any property rights, you, you found a way
forward that recognized the importance for honoring a permitted use that is explicitly
allowed in zoning and also finding a way to monitor activities and ensuring that people
are paying the appropriate taxes and providing for our County and our State.
So with all that being said, 1 think that was maybe under three minutes for all of those.
And I'm very pleased that RAM could be in support of these very important measures.
So thank you very much for that.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Economou for that very efficient testimony. Let's see, any
Members have questions? Are there any questions? If not, thank you very much.
MR. ECONOMOU: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Genesis Young. To
be followed by Jeff Bagshaw.
MR. GENESIS YOUNG [testifying on Committee Report No. 21-130 and Bill Nos. 118 (2021),
135 (2021). & 136(2021)1:
Aloha all, thank you. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 31
MR. YOUNG: So I want to testify in support of Bill 135, banning sunscreen, other than the
mineral sunscreens, which are the safe ones. This will protect our reefs and will be
good for the regeneration of our reefs to a degree. One more factor which will help
with our tourism industry having pristine reefs, more closer to that anyway, and will help
our residents, and help fishing, and the beauty of Maui.
And it's great and I just want to say thank you for, for doing this and I fully support it
and hopefully this means that I'll no more be walking through someone spraying
sunscreen on them or having this drift over me when I'm sitting on the beach myself.
Hopefully, I don't think they make the titanium dioxide and zinc in the spray form,
although I know they make it in forms ... so it's not white, so you can put it on your
skin, it's not white. I've been using it all of my life and it works just great. So I just
wanted to support that and thank the efforts on this.
And of course, the next issue is to let's enforce it and make sure that we inform all our
tourists, all our residents with good signage and good information campaigns about
this. Because the ordinance only goes so far, we need enforcement and information.
So thank you.
And then second is Bill 136, adding the TMK's to transient vacation rentals. I support
this. 1 think it's good to be able to identify them. What I don't understand is why it's
only in the Apartment District. Maybe I'm missing something, but it seems like if you're
trying to figure out which ones have TMK's, where they are, if you don't have it on all
of them, then you're still trying to figure out which one is which. So if it was just all of
them, all TVR's have to have the TMK's applied I think that that would be less
discriminatory because then everyone would have the same burden to put those in
their advertisements, as I'm worried about that. And I also think that just then when
you go to figure it out, if they don't have a TMK, well there's something wrong there
and you can ask them to put one on. Otherwise, you'd have to still figure out whether
or not, you know, you look at them, it doesn't have it on, well is it in apartment zone is
it not, it doesn't make any sense. Just have them all do it, seems simple, seems easy
and it seems equitable too.
So, yeah, and 1 just also wanted to say 1 support CR 21-130, the moratorium and
support Bill 118, the ‘aina kupuna bill. And thank you guys for all the good work you're
doing. And I'm complete.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk is it 10:30? Almost.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: I have 10:28, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 32
CHAIR LEE: Okay, one more testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then the next testifier is Jeff Bagshaw. He will be followed by
Kawehi Kina.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Bagshaw.
MR. JEFF BAGSHAW ftestifvina on Bill No. 135 (2021)1:
Aloha, Maui County Council. Mahaio for having the courage to address the issues in
Bill 135, which I am in support of. My name is Jeff Bagshaw. I am in favor because
this bill will remove environmentally hazardous materials that have been plaguing our
island for decades. It does what we have been unable to do with thousands of hours
of outreach and education. It recognizes that relying on consumers to make the right
choices has not been enough, especially in the face of advertising campaigns and
green-washing marketing. It stops the problem where it begins, in the store. It's very
difficult to correct the issue when people arrive at the beach. And that only reaches a
minority through that education. And it, it makes it clear that we're not fooled, that
reformulating and renaming a compound does not make it safe for the environment.
This bill also, it does not only protect our reefs, but it protects our food sources for our
community. This is an issue of environmental justice because one consumer's choice
of using toxic sun protection products should not override the rights of others to foods
without benzines.
There may be dermatologists who have a vested interest in the industry or make their
own sun care products defending chemical sunscreens. But a credible dermatologist
who do not have a interest in the industry will tell you that mineral products are actually
more effective at protecting against UVA and UVB rays.
Between 2009 and 2018 the National Cancer Institute recorded a rise in skin cancer
rates of 1.4 percent annually. Yet these products have been on the market since 1978.
So if they are so effective, why are skin cancer rates still rising?
They may claim that people want, people need more choices, they may not use mineral
sun blocks because they are pasty looking. And there's even been claims that people
have sensitivity to it. Zinc oxide is used to treat diaper rash. So the number of people
who may have sensitivity to mineral sun blocks is very small.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 33
I'd like the industry to explain why, why people, we hear about numbers that people
may get skin cancer and yet we don't hear numbers from the industry about how many
people are affected by second hand benzine contamination or from these products
themselves. We don't know what the costs are to our shoreline protection, our food
resources, when we talk about loss of sales in the stores. I think those should be
compared.
ni just say that I'll just close by saying that we have always had choices that have
worked for thousands of years. Cover up. Go out, don't, seek shade between ten and
two, use mineral sun blocks. All the major manufacturers already make mineral sun
blocks, they're just not as profitable. So thank you for Bill 135. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? If not, thank you very much. Now at this time, Mr. Clerk,
let's take a 15-minute break. Okay. So we'll be back at what time, Mr. Krueger,
because my clock is off. Fifteen minutes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: I have 10:32, so it would be 10:47.
CHAIR LEE: 10:47, Members. See you then. Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:32 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:50 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of November 19 please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Kawehi
Kina. To be followed by Dr. George Martin.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. KAWEHI KINA [testifying on Bill Nos. 118 (2021) & 135 (2021)1:
Aloha, everyone. My name is Kawehi Kina, I'm here to testify on Bill 118 and 135. As
a kanaka, I am the sixth generation to live on my family aina in Waihee and so I fully
support Bill 118.
And then on Bill 135, history has shown that there has been a lot of changes and, that
are really negative changes to our ecosystem, our oceans, our waters, and so I fully
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 34
support Bill 135 to start beginning that healing process for our, our reefs and our
oceans. So, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you for your testimony. Members, do we have any questions? If
not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is
Dr. George Martin. To be follow by the individual calling in from the phone number
ending with these last four digits 6475
DR. GEORGE MARTIN [testifying on Bill No. 135 (2021)1:
Mahalo, Chair Lee and distinguished Members of the Council. I hope you can hear me
well. It's good to see familiar faces. I've lived on Maui for 32 years and I want to
provide testimony in opposition to Bill 135, which prohibits the sale, distribution, and
even use of non-mineral sunscreens without prescription.
So as you know I'm George Martin. I'm American Board certified in both dermatology
and internal medicine, and practice dermatology in Kihei, where I practiced for
32 years. I am representing two bodies of dermatologists who are all in favor of this
position: the Hawaii Dermatologic Society and the Academy, the American Academy
of Dermatology Association. 1 am not a paid lobbyist.
I’m a very concerned citizen, waterman who loves the ocean, loves the reef and I'm
also treat thousands of skin cancers. So as I mentioned, I practice dermatology since
1989. I've treated over 20,000 patients and 30,000 skin cancer. My wife and I and
children have lived on Maui, we've taught our children the beauty of the ocean and the
reefs, we fight for its safety.
I'm also President and founding member of DASIL International Society of
Dermatologist, and I lecture all over the world on skin cancer and photo protection on
the use of sunscreens. I've also been involved since 1986 on sunscreen research and
development. I've developed reef-safe sunscreen products that will launch in 2022,
80 percent of them are mineral and I understand the value of mineral sunscreens. I
also understand the value of chemical sunscreens which outperform mineral
sunscreens and where they fit.
Here is the crux of the matter, if, if mineral sunscreens worked as well as chemical
sunscreens, we would have no chemical sunscreens. With one exception when you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 35
wear a mineral sunscreen and you apply proper amounts, you kind of look like Marcel
Marceau and hence the uptick, the use of mineral sunscreens is not what it should be.
And I will tell you that as someone who’s treated over 20,000 patients, many of whom,
who don't use it.
I'm asking the following, and this is important Chairman, Chairperson Lee, and also
Councilmembers. I want you to do the following. I want you to defer voting on this bill
and wait until the release of the findings of the FDA sunscreen safety monograph and
the National Academy of Sciences Ad Hoc Task Force on Sunscreen Guidance, both
of which are to be released in early 2022. This Council is too far in front of the science
on the matter to make an informed decision. We all are well-intended, but the truth is
in the evidence and the science, and it is forthcoming.
1 want you to heed the guidance of Hawaii's own State Toxicologist, Diana Felton who
is on record in writing who feels it's not appropriate to ban all chemical sunscreen
ingredients. Has our Council consulted with her? After all, the entire State shares this
issue.
Lastly, I want you to establish an independent task force. Currently the Council is
relying basically where chemicals were poured into a tank at a thousand times the
concentration measured anywhere in the State, and it killed reef. That is not good
science. I implore you to, to dial in on good science because this is a matter of life and
death for humans who are protected by chemical sunscreens better than mineral and
our coral reefs. We can find the balance, trust me.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Dr. Martin. Questions, Members? Did, Dr. Martin, did you send in
your testimony in writing?
DR. MARTIN; Yes, I have testimony from myself, the Academy of Dermatology, the Hawaii
Dermatology Association. And i want you to pay attention to two very important
scientific papers that debunk the current study on oxybenzone and octinoxate, which
tested at one thousand times the measurable level of any of the bays and oceans in
Hawaii, including Hanauma Bay on a busy day.
So that would be like Chairman Lee giving you a kilogram of Tylenol, you'd be dead in
two to three days, as opposed to giving you two Tylenol pills, one gram to take away
your headache or maybe your fever. You see at low dose, safe, Tylenol, and a
thousand times the dose, it will kill you. And as someone who is in internist, managed
Tylenol overdoses, it does kill at high does. And yet it's one of the safest medicines
we know.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. . . going beyond the question.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 36
DR. MARTIN: Okay. Can the Council defer this until we have better science?
CHAIR LEE; We will, we will discuss it when the item comes up. Okay.
DR. MARTIN; Thank you so much. Thank you.
Members, do you have any questions for the testifier?CHAIR LEE:
Oh, I saw Member Sugimura, then Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
I'm just wondering if the Council would like to haveCOUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
Dr. Martin stay on as a resource when we discuss this.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Sure.
DR. MARTIN: --I represent the American-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, if we are going to do that, then I think we should bring, we
should ask Mr. Bradshaw to, Bagshaw to also come on. But I'm not really comfortable
with this, because we're at second reading. We've had chances for this testimony in
the past, and we haven't had it.
DR. MARTIN: I was only made aware of this, Kelly. It's good to see you again, it's been
25 years since we've seen you. But you had my full support in your election so
congratulations. All I'm asking is not to make a decision.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Dr., Dr. Martin, the question is would you be available later when we do
take up this matter? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, so if you asked if there were objections then 1
would raise my hand. I object.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 37
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Are there any other objections? One. tv\/o, three, four, five. How many
would like Dr. Martin to be a resource?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I would.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I would.
CHAIR LEE: So there's four, five of us.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Five of us.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair my yes vote would be contingent upon we have the other
person, Mr. Bradshaw [sic] as well if, if this were to go forward.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Anyway, just wanted to share that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh I wasn’t voting either way, I just thought we did committee
work not on the Council floor, that's why I recommitted the Dragon Fruit Farm issue.
But, if we're changing procedures, let me know.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think the Council does that often.
CHAIR LEE: Well, Member Paltin, and that's why 1 put it to a vote. And apparently, it's 4-4.
So yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This is not new information. This is
information that we did take up in committee, I remember discussing this.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, 1 don't recall us having an expert like Dr. Martin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, we, we did. That’s what Dr. Martin referred to.
CARE Committee Chair King did have an expert on this, and we, and we did discuss
this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 38
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, okay. But now we have, seem to have more information so that’s the
reason why people are willing to listen. They just willing to listen. Yeah.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, I was just, I wanted to say is we did have a toxicologist from
the Department of Health in our Committee meeting.
CHAIR LEE: But as you can see, some of us are also interested to hear more. And that’s,
that's the reason why we're asking if this person could be a resource person when the
time comes. And yes, this is not something that we like to do, Dr. Martin, because this
is second and normally final reading. So this is unfortunately, you didn't participate
earlier. But Members, since there's no clear majority, I'm going to ask again, Member
Paltin, you would be the fifth vote one way or the other. Don't look at me that way.
Sometimes we all have to make hard decisions.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thanks, you guys. I’m going to stick with the committee work
in committee because of the around and around merry-go-round that we might get us
into the, the expert that he referred to from the State Department of Health gave that
information. And it's a procedural thing. Like I mean, I would have liked to just taken
up dragon fruit, but you know, we got to follow a process.
CHAIR LEE: Well we also deviate from the process at times so.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, then, I guess my vote is.
CHAIR LEE: You have to vote yes or no, just vote yes or no.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No thank you. I'll vote no thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so the majority says no, not having him as a resource person. So we will
not call anybody else as a resource person. Okay.
DR. MARTIN: But please read the submitted data .  .. and I'm happy to.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Dr. Martin. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 39
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Since Mr., Mr. Martin isn't going to
be a resource person, I did have a clarifying question on his testimony. And it's
regarding the effectiveness of sun block. And so we heard in Committee the most
effective sun block really is rash guards and clothing to protect the skin.
So my question is a two-part question. One. would you agree with that assessment
that we heard in Committee? And two, clarifying your testimony, you said that the
chemical sun block is more effective. And then you further explained that it's mineral
sun block creates discoloration of your skin, makes your skin white because it's
physically blocking the skin from the sun. And so it sounds like it's more of like an
aesthetic choice for people to not want the physical block of mineral sunscreen, than
the invisible block of chemical sunscreen. So the two-part question is do you agree
with, that rash guards are the most effective way of blocking and protecting the skin,
blocking the sun, and protecting the skin; and two, if the reason that chemical
sunscreen is more effective is because people chose to have that invisible block on
their skin? Mahalo.
DR. MARTIN: Okay, allow me to provide, thank you for those insightful questions. First and
foremost, UV rated clothing is fantastic, I wear rash guard 24/7 when I'm in the water.
So that's true. Hats are important, but there's exposed areas like the face. I've had
three skin cancers on my face because I grew up without a sunscreen. And so the
face needs to be covered with a sunscreen.
Mineral sunscreens lackRegarding mineral versus chemical sunscreens,
effectiveness in the long wavelength ultraviolet spectrum, and I've sent a graph to that
effect. At that point avobenzone, a known chemical UVA filter is far more effective at
blocking UVA which are rays that not only age the skin and damage it and suppress its
immunity, but also contribute to skin cancer.
And if chemical sunscreen, or if mineral sunscreens were effective, or more effective
than, than chemical sunscreens, I, I think we would have a great statement for really
doing away with mineral sun, chemical sunscreens for one reason exception, accepted.
And that is when patients are given a chance to put on a mineral sunscreen or clear
chemical sunscreen, what do you think they prefer? Nobody wants to look like Marcel
Marceau with mineral sunscreen applied in adequate amounts to provide protection.
And so they shy away from it, and they get sunburned. The clear chemical sunscreens
that are shear and invisible, people will apply. And so we have to reach those people,
it's not one size fits all.
And I have to say this, I think we need to find a balance based on science between
protecting people and protecting our reefs. I really want to protect our reefs for my
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 40
children and grandchildren. And I fight for reef safety. I pick stuff off the reef. I support
the Surfrider Foundation. I'm caught in the middle. I want to find a common ground,
but let's get the science from the National Academy of Sciences to give you guidance,
give you guidance.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Dr. Martin. And I'm sorry, I don't know who
Marcel Marceau is.
DR. MARTIN; Oh, he's the guy with white face, the, the mime. He pants his face white and
he's, he's the white-faced mime.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh, got it.
DR. MARTIN; And, and, you know, people look like  aclown with this white stuff on, it's
unfortunate that people don't want to use it. So we have to find alternatives.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Perhaps, perhaps, choosing between that, you know
people wilt choose to wear more rash guards.
DR. MARTIN: Oh, I hope so.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Dr. Martin.
DR. MARTIN; I yell at my surfers when they come in with tan bodies, I'm like . . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you very much. Thank you.
DR. MARTIN: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any further questions? Any other questions? If not, thank you. Dr. Martin.
DR. MARTIN: Thank you. Chairman. Thank you. Chairman.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is the
person calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits 6475. To be
followed by Celeste Nip.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 41
MR. EDWARD CHANG [testifying on Bill No. 118 (202111:
Good morning, Council Chair Alice Lee and Councilmembers. My name is Edward
Chang, I'm testifying in favor of ‘aina kupuna, Bill 118. First, I want to thank
Councilperson Keani Rawlins-Fernandez for her hard work introducing ‘aina kupuna
Bill 118 and the Councilmembers for their support. I support the recent changes to
3.48.361 before you today. The changes add clarity.
1 am third generation Chang, and fifth generation Kukahiko living in Makena. This is
my home, it is also home to my children and many more family members. The Bill
enables my family to plan for a continual residence in Makena. I thank you for making
this possible. Thank you again. Mahalo, mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you so much, Ed. Members, questions? If not, thank you again.
And Mr. Clerk, who is the next one to testify?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Next individual we have signed up to testify is Celeste Nip. To
be followed by Mike Moran.
CHAIR LEE: Hello, Ms. Nip.
MS. CELESTE NIP, PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS COUNCIL [testifying on Bill No. 135
(2021)1:
Hi, good morning. My name is Celeste Nip, and I am a paid lobbyist for the Personal
Care Products Council. We submitted testimony on Bill 135 in opposition. Skin cancer
is really a public health concern, and this measure would limit the consumer choice to
effective sunscreen products for residents and visitors. So the Personal Care Products
Council respectfully requests that, I'm sorry, Bill 135 be deferred. Thank you for the
opportunity to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? If not, may we have the
next testifier, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Mike Moran. To be
followed by Lynn Miyahira.
CHAIR LEE: Hey, Mike.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 42
MR. MIKE MORAN, KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION [testifying on Committee Report
Nos. 21-118 & 2M30, and Bill Nos. 133 (2021), 135 (2021). & 136 (2021)1:
Mike Moran for the KiheiAloha, Chair, aloha Chair Lee and Councilmembers.
Community Association. We're testifying on five items, and we have been questioned
recently why aren't we testifying on more items, and why are we always in agreement?
And I, I, my answer to this, to, first was we can only do so much, and you guys can
only put up with so much testimony. And the second answer is we think this Council
is doing a much better job. We do object to many things that government is doing, but
seemingly this Council is, is doing a better job.
So first on 21-118, on that Hale Kaiola Project, we have been in support of that for a
long time, but we firmly agree with let's get it right, let's get the people who can move
into this relatively small affordable housing place, get the right people in, get the local
people in. Whatever is the right process, if it has to take another month of waiting so
be it, but let's get it right so we're looking at  amarketing plan to make this, assure us
that we get the right people in here. That certainly is the right way to go.
On 21-130, the, for transient accommodations, the moratorium on it. We have
continuously supported it, we supported the prior action on it. Unfortunately that was
vetoed, and now we have one that many folks are saying is a better action. So let's
get this done. Let's get the pause done. It's not taking away jobs, we hear all the
misinformation. It's not proposed to stop tourism today or tomorrow, it's simply taking
a pause, so we can get tourism under control. So we are in support.
And the last three items are all wrapping up second and final reading. 133 the visitor
accommodations control, again, a very similar action. If we're trying to control the
visitor industry, we have to put some kind of control on that the County government
can do. We can't limit the airlines coming in, but we can do something to adjust
accommodations. Let's make sure we do that right.
Bill 135, I thought this was a done deal until the very last-minute we have people
jumping in, I didn't know about this. Well, I don't know where they were that they were
not aware? We have to honestly say we made a kind of a misstatement at the first
reading as we weren't perfectly clear on what it is, and we said it as a good bill, but
didn't think it was great. Now that it has been clarified for us, it's a great thing. This
will have Maui in the forefront of doing something, and we, too, agree with the, the rash
guards. Yes, wear the rash guards, and then if my face is going to be a little too white,
well so what. Suck it up and help the reefs. A previous testifier said he has a product
that doesn't make it white. So I'm not sure whether, which is right or wrong, but it
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 43
seems like a minimal reason to at the last-minute say let's stop taking this step. We're
ail in favor of it, we're saying please go forward with it.
And the last one, 136, with the registration number. We still are encountering so much
confusion in our community. You guys understand it. We think we understand it. But
the confusion between the permitted short-term rentals and these that are in the
apartment zone that don't require a permit. So how can you identify them? Simply
give them a number so that when they advertise, when they have a website, you can
see they have a registration number, ora permit number. If they have no number, then
the red flag goes up and says this looks like a fraudulent one. So we think this is a
very practical step to take and I don't think we've had opposition to that one today,
hopefully we don't.
So thank you for the opportunity to testify on these five, five items. And again, we
commend this Council, and say keep up the good work. Happy weekend to all. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Same to you, Mike. Any questions for Mike? If not, thank you.
MR. MORAN: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Lynn
Miyahira. To be followed by Peter Landon.
CHAIR LEE: Hello, Lynn.
MS. LYNN MIYAHIRA. PUBLIC ACCESS TO SUNSCREEN COALITION [testifying on Bill
No. 135 (2021)1:
Hi, aloha. My name is Lynn Miyahira and I'd like to thank the Members of the Maui
County Council for the opportunity to testify. I am representing the Public Access to
Sunscreen Coalition, and I am a paid lobbyist. We're a coalition of health groups,
dermatologist, researchers, sunscreen manufacturers, and leading advocates for skin
cancer patients. We oppose Bill 135 because it will create additional barriers for people
to access sunscreens that are safe, effective, and importantly FDA approved.
And we all know that sunscreen is an important tool for sun. skin cancer prevention.
And we also fully recognize the importance of preserving our coral reefs, especially
here in Hawaii. But the science behind the purported link between sunscreen and coral
reef damage has been called into question. The earlier studies did not fully consider
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 44
the complexity of a coral reef and were based on limited laboratory results. That made
policymakers believe that by banning sun screen you would significantly improve coral
health.
And please note this is very important. A study by Dr. Carys Mitchelmore contradicts
earlier studies that have been done that widely promoted, you know, this ban of
sunscreen because they used much higher concentrations than were actually ever
found in the ocean. So, and these studies haven't been replicated. They have not
been replicated. And other studies have not shown that they support these same
conclusions where you see the same high concentrations.
So there's another study by Dr. Scott Dyers that says, and he uses epidemiology, he's
a biologist, to assess the potential risks of UV filters to corals. And he concluded that
UV filters are not a key driver of coral ecological status. Rather he found wave power,
ocean temperatures, so climate change is real and it's hurting our reefs, ocean
temperatures and turf algae, you know, nutrients going into our waters and, and
building the wrong type of ecological systems addressed about 90 percent of the
variants in his model. Just is, so to say that there is overwhelming or definitive evidence
to show that UV filters are causing coral reef damage is simply not true.
And so due to all this conflicting information about sunscreens, Congress has ordered
the National Academy of Sciences to review all the data and evaluate to give
policymakers a better idea of what to do. So the conclusion of this, this review is
expected in Spring 2022, so a few months from now. I'm hoping, and this should inform
policymakers across the nation about sunscreen legislation.
So we're asking that Bill 135 be held off until this report is published. It's also important
to recognize that the FDA still strongly advises the use of sunscreen. It still recognizes
the public health benefits of sunscreen and yes, while the FDA is doing research on
the 12 most commonly used chemical, organic . . . that they be banned from sale.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Miyahira, can you conclude your testimony, please.
MS. MIYAHIRA: Okay, so to be, to be clear, the FDA's final order that was issued on
September 24, did not recommend any changes to currently marketed sunscreens.
So, again we just ask the Council that they hold off on Bill 135 until there's more
definitive science. Thank you for opportunity to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, we have a question.
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 45
MS. MIYAHIRA: Yes.
Lynn, could you submit, or did you submit writtenCOUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
testimony.
MS. MIYAHIRA: Yes, I did submit written testimony an--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay, from you or is it from your organization?
MS. MIYAHIRA: -from me on behalf of the PASS, the Public Access to Sunscreen Coalition.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions, Members? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Peter
Landon. To be followed by Dick Mayer.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Landon
MR. PETER LANDON. DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES ftestifyinq
on Bill No. 135 (2021)1:
Hello and thank you for having me this morning. And thank you for all your hard work
on this bill and for you know suffering through the testimonies for this. It seems to be
a lot of people are jumping in here at the last-minute. And I, and I think the root of that
is that there's something to gain in the industry via sunscreen sales and things like this.
So there's a lot of opposition trying to debunk science, trying to say that you know what
I mean, you're taking choices away from people that need to protect themselves.
And you know, there may be some small truths to that, but I'm here to tell you that, you
know, I work in the field of ecology for the State of Hawaii. And we do work on coral
bleaching monitoring and things like this. And if there was a single answer to why
corals were bleaching, we would address that. But we know that it's an effect of
multiple parameters working against these corals, and one of them being sunscreen
chemicals.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 46
This, this is true, this is published in scientific journals, not just one, not just one paper;
right? There are many. And not only corals, we're talking about the entire marine
ecosystem having negative impacts from these types of chemicals. And most of them
revolve around reproduction, and that's what really sustains life; right? If we can't
reproduce, we can't keep on going right. This messes with reproduction cycles in parrot
fish, and limu. And you know, things like limu are, are some of the, the, the, the
backbones or the basis, or the start of the food chain right.
These are just things that we cannot ignore for, you know, in the name of people's
choices. You don't want to have a white sunscreen on you. You know, your choice is
yours, but wear a, wear a rash guard right, like, like Mr. Moran said, suck it up, put
sunscreen on your face it's not going to kill you; right? But it does kill things in the
oceans; right? These are known truths.
And you know, the best thing that we can do and, and I applaud the Council is just take
it off the shelf right. Make it easy for everyone, make it easy for parents, make it easy
for visitors, make it easy for residents that you can just go to the store and buy
something easily; right?
You're not going to hurt these corporations that are producing sunscreen, right? They'll
start producing mineral-only sunscreen and selling it in Hawaii. There's no issue there,
right? Like, you know, other people, local, you know, people that make, make their
own sunscreen and sell it, same thing. They'll just sell mineral versions, right?
And we can put on rash guards and things of that nature. So, you know, I, I ask you
please just to keep moving forward with the momentum that we had. We've listened
to a lot of science, you know, nobody's popping up that's saying anything new or
different. It's just that they all of a sudden have this sense of urgency that I can see
kind of, you know catching people off guard. But like I said, do this for Hawaii.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any questions. Members.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair Lee. Aloha, Mr. Landon, mahalo for
your testimony. I just wanted to clarify in your testimony you highlighted the uhu, you
know, for those that don't know what an uhu is and the role that it plays especially for
the tourism industry. Would you clarify that.
MR. LANDON: Yeah, so, you know, uhu is the parrot fish. It's really good to eat, but the most
important thing is it makes beaches right, like it consumes reef and turns that into sand.
And that's, you know, a very important process that happens in, in marine ecosystems.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 47
The sunscreens have been known to affect their reproductive cycle because these
sunscreens mess with endocrine systems and uhu, some people don't know and even
me, I'm not an uhu biologist, but at one point in their life they go through a sex change
to, in maturity that when they become like the big producers in the reproductive entities;
right? And this, the chemical sunscreens have been shown to alter that process in a
negative way. Like I said, which is affecting their reproduction overall.
And this is also another species that's, you know, being considered even on Maui, you
know, in the past five years was, you know, received more regulations from DLNR.
Now you cannot take the terminal, the terminal, I believe it's the male, the big blue
ones, because, you know, at the end of the day, that's the one that's doing the most in
the way of reproduction. So yeah, like we, you know, we don't want to mess with
reproduction, right? And so yeah, the uhu is a very important species in Hawaii and
like I said this has been shown to negatively impact them. So hopefully that answers
your question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Perfectly. Mahalo, Mr. Landon. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members any other questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual we have signed up to testify is Dick Mayer.
To be followed by Kelli Lundgren.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-130):
Good morning, Councilmembers. I would like to speak about the moratorium bill. I
would like to thank the Councilmembers who voted several months ago for a
moratorium on transient accommodations in South and West Maui. I also would like
to thank those who were not willing to override Mayor Victorino's veto at that time. The
result of your actions has produced an ordinance that is far better and more
comprehensive. It will allow Maui to reduce its dependence on a single industry, a
significant and long festering problem which became very apparent when the COVID
pandemic struck and the lives of so many residents and small businesses were
disrupted.
You now have before you an ordinance that has been reviewed by the Planning
Commission, as required by law, and is in a format that will allow Maui County to now
encourage economic diversification as called for in our General Plan. It will prevent an
increase in the effects of overtourism. It will further allow the existing tourist industry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 48
which includes hotels, restaurants, and visitor activities from seeing the product which
they are offering to be eroded by even more tourists and tourism. The result will be
greater security for our existing employees, protections for our delicate physical
environment and natural environment, future generations of Maui residents, and the
preservation of a high quality of life for Maui residents now and into the future.
I have one caveat. I would like to ask that you make one change in the very last
paragraph in Section 2. There is a loophole there that may allow transient
accommodations to slide through. 1 would urge you to modify the paragraph to state
that immediately, it immediately applies to all additional transient accommodations that
have not yet received their final approval. I believe there's, there's a hotel there, at
least one that's about to make its application and it may slide through.
I encourage you to rapidly pass this ordinance, and to support this ordinance should
Mayor Victorino again mistakenly and foolishly try to veto it. I thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mr. Mayer. Any questions, Members?
If not, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is Kelli Lundgren.
To be followed by Meredith Beeson.
MS. KELLI LUNDGREN Ttestifyina on Bill No. 135 (2021)1:
Let's see. Or can you see me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, we can.
MS. LUNDGREN; Okay, hi. Aloha. My name is Kelli Lundgren. I'm a resident of Maui, I'm
also a volunteer at ‘Ahihi-Kina'u Natural Area Reserve. I've been a volunteer since
2014 and I've been working with a lot of visitors to the, the reef over these years and
especially with the sunscreen issue. It's been an educational setting to let people know
what, what they are doing, what they could do better? And I just want to let you know
that chemicals have and are being proven to be dangerous to the reefs. And so I'm
going to leave that information to other people to talk about.
But I'm also going to talk about these visitors, because 1 talk to many of them, many
people per day. Sometimes, almost everyone wants to help Hawaii's reefs. It's, it's an
easy, it's an easy sell when you want to tell them about the sunscreen dangers to the
beach. But the most frustrating thing for these visitors is you, it's a really difficult
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 49
process to find the right sunblock on the market here. There are so many chemical
sunscreens in the stores. Even when you give them  alittle card to go into the store, I,
I run into them in the store, and they still don't know what to buy.
So the summary here is, if you just get the sunscreen chemicals out of the stores, all
these visitors will feel much better about going into the store, getting what they need,
knowing it is reef safe, even though a lot of these sunscreens are saying reef safe
without any type of definition of what reef safe is. But if you get just the, the minerals
available in the stores, it's going to help these visitors immensely.
The other thing that I wanted to say is that, you know, can Maui's reefs wait for a
deferment on this bill? I appreciate all of you putting this bill together, and I know it's a
courageous thing to do. But it's good for Maui's reefs. And minerals work. I'm going
to tell you right now I did just for this meeting, I put on zinc and titanium on my face for
this meeting. I do not look like Marcel Marceau, okay? So, and I'm just saying I've
been using it for five years now, and I have very fair skin and it works for me. I don't
think there's any evidence out there that says mineral sunscreens don't work. And,
and maybe there is some science that they're, they're debating right now, but 1 have
been very happy with this. So I'm just going to say that.
And anyway, I, I just feel like if you could get these sunscreen chemicals off the islands
completely, it's going to help everybody and mostly it's going to help the reefs. It's
going to help the fish and the coral, it's, they have so many other stresses, they just
don't need this stress. Thank you for listening.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo Chair. Aloha, Ms. Lundgren. Mahalo for
your testimony. So you said that you've been, to clarify you've been using the mineral
sunscreen on your face and you're using it right now, you, we can't even, I, I can't even
tell. And so, is, is your implication that it's been effective for you and you didn't have
skin cancer three times.
MS. LUNDGREN: Actually, I've just started using in the last five years zinc and titanium. And,
and I actually about three years ago, I've had some squamous cell carcinoma, if we
must know, but it's been treated, and on my arm, not on my face. So, you know, I have
very fair skin. I, I probably swim in the reef two or three times a week, and 1 wear a
rash guard or wet suit and I wear zinc and it works. And I don't get a sunburn.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 50
And it's, it's just these products are amazingly great. And all of these manufacturers
all sell mineral sunscreens. If they just filled up our stores with bare mineral
sunscreens, they would still gain the revenue from this island. I can't, I don't think
there's a good argument to say that you must have the chemicals because mineral
doesn't work, because mineral does work in my experience.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Lundgren. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions?
If not, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Meredith Beeson. To
be followed by Rob Weltman.
MS. MEREDITH BEESON [testifying on Bill No. 135 (2021)1:
Aloha, everyone. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. BEESON: Great. Okay, my name is Meredith Beeson and I'm testifying on behalf of the
Maui Nui Marine Resource Council in support of Bill 135 to allow only the sale of
mineral-based sunscreens to prevent consumer confusion and false manufacturing
claims about what is actually reef safe. We have testified before in support of this bill
and wish to just reinforce our message that this bill is needed to protect our coral reefs
and our nearshore ocean water quality.
The industry has put reef safe label on products that contain chemicals that are harmful
to fish, coral, and marine wildlife. The only solution is to allow only mineral-based
products. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions, Members?
If not, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Rob Weltman. To be
followed by John Simpliciano.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 51
MR. ROB WELTMAN [testifying on Bill No. 135 (2021)1:
Aloha mai kakou. (Spoke in Hawaiian.) Good morning, Councilmembers. My name
is Rob Weltman, I'm speaking for myself today as  alongtime admirer of the coral reefs
of the world. As you may know, coral is the first living organism on earth according to
the kumulipo, the Hawaiian origin story. It is that.. .to Hawaiian thinking about how
the elements for our environment fit together.
I just watched the 2017 movie "Chasing Coral" again and was again struck by the
beauty and complexity of the coral reefs, and that how much the people of the world
depend on them for their survival, also financially. And it shook me as much this time
as the first time I saw the movie, to see how massive the losses of coral have been in
a very short time. If you haven't watched it recently you can see "Chasing Coral" on
Netflix.
The main thing destroying the reefs is global warming because of climate change. And
reversing that is the biggest challenge humans have ever faced and it needs every
government, every company, every organization, every individual on the planet to do
their part. But what we can do here and now is to help our living coral resist and survive
on its own by protecting it from sunscreen ingredients that weaken it and in some cases
kill it. So please adopt Bill 135. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Rob. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is John Simpliciano. To
be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last
four digits 5170.
MR. JOHN SIMPLICIANO. INTERNATIONAL LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION,
LOCAL 142 (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-130):
I'd like to read a statement from the ILWU, Local 142Aloha, Councilmembers.
regarding the transient accommodation moratorium. The International Longshore &
Warehouse Union, Local 142 opposes the proposed bill endorsed by CR 21-130 in its
current form. The bill as written, will negatively impact our members. Specifically, our
union would like to see the following changes made to the bill:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 52
1) We would object to the use of both "lodging capacity" and "structural footprint"
language in the Section 19.98.040 and suggest replacing it with "transient
accommodation units" so union jobs relating to redeveloping properties or expanding
restaurant, lobbies, grounds, and other projects that do not increase the number of
units can still proceed;
2) We request clarification that the moratorium ends upon the passage of the first piece
legislation that adopts any recommendations of the temporary investigative group. The
current language in Section 19.98.050 of the bill uses "implementation" of
"recommendations". This is a vague and subject to different interpretation. The trigger
to the, end the moratorium must be clear.
Limiting development that does not increase the unit, number of units is not consistent
with the stated purpose of the moratorium. It is contrary to the Countywide Policy Plan,
inconsistent with General Plan and it's, and is vague. The bill needs to allow for
renovation and redevelopment that do not increase the number of units. Thank you for
your consideration of this testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions, Members?
Member Paltin and then Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Simpliciano. I wasn't clear
you wanted to allow renovations that doesn't increase the, is that, is that what you
meant? You want renovations that doesn't increase the room count?
MR. SIMPLICIANO: Yes. That is the intent.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
MR. SIMPLICIANO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Good morning, Mr. Simpliano [sic]. 1
have a question for the ILWU. So as you know on Lanai, we have the Four Seasons
which is ILWU property. There's 100 empty positions that we cannot fill.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 53
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson, you asking for clarification on \what he's testified on. okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes, yeah. So my clarification question is ho\w can ILWU
support more hotels when you can't, when we can't fill the positions that we have for
the jobs that we have now?
MR. SIMPLICIANO: I would have to defer that question to our division director. We would
submit a written response to your question.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, I look forward to receiving that written response.
Thank you.
MR. SIMPLICIANO: Alright, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you and Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual we have up to testify is the person calling
from the phone number ending with these last four digits 5170. Be followed by the
individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits 9505.
MR. STEVEN CHANG. SR. Ftestifyinq on Bill No, 118 (2021)1:
Aloha. My name is Steven Chang, Sr. Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MR. CHANG: Aloha. My name is Steven Chang, Sr. and I support the 'aina kupuna Bill 118.
I think it's one of the best things that's happened in a while. 1 want to personally thank
Keani for all her hard work and her diligence. And also, want to thank the Council for
all your support.
Excuse me. I'm not a very good speaker, but I would, I would like to ask in criteria 6 if
the wording can be changed from "majority owners" to "at least one owner living on
Maui" if possible. Anyways again my name is Steven Chang. I lived in, in Makena all
my life. I’m the third generation, my son and daughter is the fourth generation. And in
the '60s and the '70s people use to say I live in the sticks and the boonies while I was
growing up. And now they think I'm rich because the rich moved in for either investment
or profit, so that drives up all the, the taxes.
The three houses built across me was built and sold after living in it for about a year.
And the original owner of the two-story directly across me, Mr.... said if we let Verizon
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 54
set up on our property, my value would go down, and I said perfect. Because his value
is dollar and our value is just the dirt, the aina. So I just ask that the Council help
support us with that bill. And just want to tell you thank you again. God bless you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Members, questions? No questions. If not
thank you very much, Mr. Chang.
MR. CHANG: Thank you, mahalo nui loa.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is the individual calling in
from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 9505. To be followed by the
person calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 2320.
DR. CRAIG DOWNS [testifying on Bill No. 135 (2021)1:
Aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DR. DOWNS: Great. Thank you for having me. I am to support and defend Bill 135 on, on
sunscreens. My name is Dr. Craig Downs and I am one of the foremost experts on
sunscreen eco toxicology in the world. And what I'm going to do is actually defend the
bill against some of the comments from lobbyists.
One of the first things I, I want to state is the mineral sunscreens are the only safe and
effective sunscreens recognized by the FDA. And I have just emailed a, the statement
from the FDA website to Councilmember Tamara Paltin showing that ail the
petrochemical sunscreens like . . . Octisalate are not great. They are not safe or
effective. So your bill is in complete support of what the FDA recognizes as the only
safe and effective sunscreens that are out there.
The, the second comment that the, the proponents, or the opponents against this bill
is that if you take away the petrochemical sunscreens, everybody is going to get skin
cancer. And there is scientific papers out there right now that state that it is the
petrochemical sunscreens that may actually be causing the rates increase of
melanoma and other skin carcinomas because they do not protect against UV radiation
like they make the claims. And so you cannot make  aclaim with the sunscreen that it
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 55
protects against skin cancer because there is no scientific evidence that sunscreens
actually protect against skin cancer.
And so when the CDC makes a recommendation to protect against skin cancer, they
tell you to wear hats, wear clothing, get in the shade, use an umbrella. They will say
to use sunscreen. The lobbyists want you to think that the FDA is saying use our
non-GRASE, our non-safe and effective proven petrochemical sunscreens, and that's
not the interpretation. The correct interpretation of the FDA's statement is that yes, the
FDA says you should use sunscreens, and the only safe and effective sunscreens are
the mineral sunscreens, zinc, and titanium dioxide.
I've also heard some attacks on my scientific work. A lot of lobbyist like to quote
Dr. Garys Mitchelmore, and her paper is basically an attack paper on all of the scientific
papers that have published data showing that sunscreens, specifically the
petrochemical sunscreens are dangerous to corals, they're dangerous to fish, they're
dangerous to limu, they're dangerous to sea turtles, they're dangerous to mammals.
Dr. Garys Mitchelmore is-
GHAIR LEE: Excuse me, can you please conclude your, can you please conclude your
testimony?
DR. DOWNS: Sure.
GHAiR LEE: Thank you.
DR. DOWNS: Yes. So the attacks on, on the scientific work is basically attacks by the, the
lobbyists. So again, thank you for having me and  Ido hope you, you pass Bill 135.
Thank you.
CFIAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Member King.
GOUNGILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Ghair. I just wanted to clarify for the folks. Thank you
for being here Dr. Downs, really appreciate your showing up. The, the acronym that
you were using is G, I just want to clarify this and make sure I'm right G-R-A-S-E,
GRASE, which means Generally Recognized as Safe and Effective. Is that correct?
Dr. Downs, are you there?
GHAIR LEE: Mr. Glerk, is he still on the call?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 56
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, actually it appears that he is no longer on the call. I don't
see his phone number.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, anyway, I just wanted to clarify that acronym for people
who are listening who maybe not understand the way G-R-A-S-E.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is the person
calling in from the phone number with these last four digits, 2320. To be followed by
Faith Chase.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP, MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE ftestifvinq on Committee Report
No. 21-130: and Bill Nos. 118 (2021) & 133 (2021)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers. This is
Pamela Tumpap out in the field today with the Maui Chamber of Commerce, and I'm
here to testify on Bill 118, 133 and CR 21-130.
Beginning with Bill 118 on the ‘aina kupuna land, we support this bill to take care of our
long-standing families in our community so that they are not taxed out of their land and
paradise. We appreciate some of the thoughts that we raised were included in this bill
and taken into account with the definition for descendants added, and the date revised
from 80 years rolling, so that it could be rolling forward for future generations. So we
deeply appreciate those considerations.
On Bill 133 regarding short-term rentals and B&B's. We think that there are many good
elements in this bill and appreciate the provisions for transferring a permit to a family
member or successor as that benefits all local residents who want to pass their
business down to their children. We understand some of the thinking on B&B's that
new owners need to take time to get to know their neighbors. We also feel though that
the process is, you know, certainly incentivizes that because we didn't want anybody
coming into the neighborhood ... to operate appropriately .. .
CHAIR LEE: Pam, Pam. Can you speak louder.
MS. TUMPAP: Oh, sure, sorry. I'm literally outside, so I'm going to try to hide from the wind.
So we, you know, we understand that concern. And you know, it's, it's really important
to recognize that, you know, all the process that people have gone through to create
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 57
these legitimate businesses. So we want to, you know, acknowledge that there is some
concern for potential hardship that can come also from the devaluing of someone's
home and business at a time when they might really need to sell. So we, you know,
want to revisit the permit, you know not transferring over. And ask that you work with
the industry and hear their concern to address a winning solution.
And then lastly on the moratorium, you know, again we are testifying today in
opposition. We're glad that the moratorium was referred to the Planning Commission
and vetted by them first, and that the TIG has already been started because we feel
that that's very important work. And appreciate some of the changes adopted by the
Planning, you know, Department recommendations. However, we do feel that again
it's so important to have more vetting on this.
And I was listening to the testimony earlier where it was said that this bill is going to
allow for economic diversification and for job changes. And economic development
takes time, it takes significant investment. We all understood during COVID how
dependent we are on the visitor industry, and we knew that going in before COVID.
And work was starting to change in terms of looking at new ways to better manage our
visitor industry and to further economic development. But COVID really was a, a strong
slap that said we really need to do more.
But economic development doesn't happen overnight. It takes significant investment,
it. . . targeted industries that also well support our environment and our quality of life.
So we really need to have processes that allow flexibility, and not hamper our goals
and ... at a time when we are still very dependent on this industry that supports so
many industries. And we feel that really, there are so many things that could be done
right now, really investing in the destination management action plan that has been put
forward that we work with the industry and work to better manage it, but also work in
ways that we continue to allow appropriate renovations and expansions.
We also feel that, again, moratoriums are very inflexible, and if you're going to go
forward with the moratorium there should be a strong rationale with data that illustrates
the best solution, and that, that really the moratorium is the only way to move forward,
and we haven't seen that. And ultimately this is not going to stop visitors from traveling
to Maui. We believe it will have negative impacts such as reduced industry revenue,
reduced construction revenue, and increased costs per guests. Which could potentially
lead to stays in illegal units or people going elsewhere at a time when many industries
are counting on our visitor industry.
So for these reasons we ask that you defer this until compelling evidence is available,
till we've brought in leading economists to talk about the, some of the potential negative
impacts that might occur, and until we can address some of the key things that we need
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 58
to help shore our community and island up with economic development and other
projects and programs that are creating jobs for our workforce. Mahalo for the
opportunity to provide testimony today, and I hope you could hear most of that. I'm out
in the wind up in Kula.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you, Pam.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo for the opportunity.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next, the next person we have signed up to testify is Faith
Chase. To be followed by Lahela Aiwohi. Lahela Aiwohi is the last individual we have
signed up to testify.
So if there are any other individuals in the meeting who have not testified, but wish to
do so, please inform us in the meeting chat now. Thank you.
MS. FAITH CHASE [testifying on County Communication No. 21-530. Committee Report
No. 21-130: and Bill Nos. 118 (2021). 119 (20211  &135 (2021)1:
Aloha again. Chair. Aloha, Council. First of all I'd just like to say in regards to County
Communication 21-530, that I would just encourage that the homesteaders be included
in their needs as new water sources are found. I understand that the, Councilmember
Shane Sinenci's bill [sic] 21-119 addresses that as far as Department of Hawaiian
Home Land homesteaders. But I just want to make sure that they are included in that,
I just like to encourage the Mayor, Councilmember Kama to remember that.
I helped a homesteader put forward a bureau of reclamation drought emergency relief
project, and the needs for homesteaders and water are very real. I'd like to them to be
considered before new developments, hotels, swimming pools and such.
Of course, again, I support 118, the ‘aina kupuna, thank you so much. The moratorium
I do, 1 know 1 didn’t say I was going to testify on those two things, but I might as well.
I guess this is no better time, there's no better time than now to share some information
that I don't think some of my friends and fellow Councilmembers now. I am indoors
right now, but I always wear hats. And it's funny because I kind of wanted to make a
public apology to my kanaka, who, and my, my kupuna, who I run into. 1 can't always
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 59
raise my hat, hat and give a Hawaiian honi, because I'm allergic to the sun. I have
polymorphous light eruption and so I am, I am in absolute favor of Bill 135.
We can do this, rash guards, hats. If you look at Thailand and Greece, if you look at
the old style of clothing it, it, it covers your arm, it goes up to your neck, its light linen,
you know, its big hats, I mean that wasn't style, that was region-specific clothing before
we had all these sunscreens. So do not listen to all these lobbyists that are rolling up
. . . carry on.
And then in closing, you know. I'm kind of embarrassed because I am correct with the,
with the resolution this morning. What I think needs to happen is, and just so you know,
I feel like an authority on the subject. I've gone to housing homeless alliance meetings
for two years. 1 have gone to every single Affordable Housing Committee even when
it was in Councilmember Kama's, you know, purview. I'm a commissioner on the
Healing Solutions for Homelessness. There's nothing about this that I haven't taken
seriously. You need to say it's the Bridge the Gap report, it is not the Point In Time
Report. And I would like to see that change. I don't know how that's done after you
have already, you've already made the vote or something.
But it's serious to me because of this. If Catholic Charities and Family Life Center are
not doing the Point In Time Count that's required every two years, even though they
try to do it every year, and we didn't do it in 2020, and we didn't do it in 2021, and then
that report reads it was done. I, I question that? That, that's a red flag to me. I'm
already not happy with the agencies who are getting the money. That's why I'm on the
commission. 1 don’t think that they're doing their job correctly. You know, I try, I meet
you in the middle. I'm on four different TIG's. I'm on the Commission for Healing
Solutions for Homelessness. It needs to read Bridge the Gap report, not Point In Time
Report.
You go back and you look at all the records and read, and you see the meetings, there
was no Point In Time done. And I was very frustrated with that piece because during
COVID people were congregating, people were gathering. It’s the best time to find out.
When they shut down all the bathrooms, we actually knew what our count was, and we
didn't do it. And I, I was looking forward to Sharing Your Mana to maybe do that? She
had, she had philanthropy support to do that, I was going to help with the database,
and, but then she had to hit the ground and be crisis, you know, intervention because
other, other support mechanisms were in place and she wasn't able to take that, take
on that Point In Time Count sort of work like she had intended.
So that's all I got to say with that. You know, you can bring it up later or you can leave
it as it is. But if you do leave it as it is, I promise you I will, I will do whatever 1 need to
do to do a full pledged audit on the agencies that are saying that those numbers are
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 60
the numbers. And they're not the numbers. Sorry, thank you, I know it's makahiki, you
know, I'm Mexican Irish, I respect my cultural, you know, hosts, but I got to lay down
the truth when it's what it is. And I know that I said that off the beat and then I got
corrected. I am right and I just need you guys to know that. It's important to me.
Thank you for listening.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And we can check on that during the lunch break.
MS. CHASE; A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, do you have a question. Member Paltin? For Faith Chase?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Did, I just was wondering it seemed as though that she was
saying that the Point In Time Count wasn't done because of COVID. But we didn't
have like COVID-related like shut downs or actions until like late March. Were you
saying that it wasn't done for another reason, or it wasn't done because of COVID?
MS. CHASE: It wasn't done because, what, at least that's what the announce ... the
homeless alliance, which includes different agencies that participate in the ... was that
they weren't sure about safety, PPE, going out into community, it was just. . . that was
the reason. That was all new to me ... at the top of the year about what point. So yes
... a block of the timeframe, but, but it's just an estimate based on the last time they
did it.
You know and it's, and you look at the wording in the report and they're careful, you
know, they cite 2019, but then they kind of lump it in with the 2020 data because they
have to, probably because of, of, you know some administrative rules somewhere
along the. It's just, it's just, it's because I was frustrated that they didn't do the Point In
Time Count that this is important to me. You can say Bridge the Gap report, you can
leave it the way it is and just say, but it's, it's the point, because I want to make sure it
gets done. We're right around the corner from January. I don't want any more excuses.
It needs to get done this coming year. Thank you for the question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And, and to clarify, were you saying it only wasn't down on
Maui or it wasn't done statewide, or it was done in Oahu and not in Maui?
MS. CHASE: I don't know about the rest of the State. I did hear, I did sit on some meetings,
and I do know that some followed but I cannot say that for sure, but our four-island
county, we didn't do it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 61
MS. CHASE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: We'll check on that.
Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair, sorry. Aloha, Ms. Chase. Mahalofor
your testimony. So I just wanted to clarify you said that, I think that's the one, two,
three, four, fifth WHEREAS clause in the resolution where it says 2020 Maui County
Point In Time Count Topline Report. So instead of calling it a Point In Time Report, a
Bridge the Gap Report?
MS. CHASE: Bridge the Gap, yeah, that's the, that's the, let me see, do I have it open, that's
the over, that's the umbrella. Bridging the Gap, I'm sorry, Bridging, l-N-G. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Chase.
MS. CHASE: You know, I, I know that we would have experts or resources usually more
available. But Thelma right now is on Oahu for the homeless convention and she,
she's the liaison or that, you know that information point person right now, but I know
that she's on Oahu for the homeless conference that is today and tomorrow. So, you
know, she's not available, but I, an email would be able to clear this thing up, clarify
this.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And that, so you said that that's the name of the
report, the title of the report.
MS. CHASE: It says Bridging the Gap Homeless Point In Time Count, and it doesn't say the
report, but it says January 26, 2020. But the Point In Time is getting meshed in with
the Bridging the Gap, which is the umbrella program that does the Point in Time. And
so I just, to get out of this right now, and to not be incorrect, like I said, it's important to
me-
CHAIR LEE: And we can. and you know Faith and Vice-Chair, we can have our staff check
on this during the lunch break.
MS. CHASE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Because it's just words that need to be checked.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 62
CHAIR LEE: Just words.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, non-substantive.
CHAIR LEE: And, and I'm sure Tasha Kama can give our staff Thelma's cell number and
we'll handle it that way, okay.
MS. CHASE: I appreciate it. I don't mean to be botheration, but it, it’s tells, it's about a bigger
story. So thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, alright, thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. So we have one last testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, several individuals have signed up.
CHAIR LEE: I thought that would happen. Okay. Let's go.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Albert Perez. To be
followed by Clare Apana. Albert Perez, it is your time to testify.
MR. ALBERT PEREZ. MAUI TOMORROW FOUNDATION (testifying on Committee Report
No. 21-130):
Sorry, you surprised me. I thought there was one more before me. Anyway, I'm Albert
Perez and I’m testifying on the visitor accommodations moratorium. You know, local
resident sentiment about the visitor industry has fallen to an all-time low and our
overdependence on tourism leaves us at-risk from future economic downturns as well.
This is a problem that's continuing to grow, and we need to stop making it worse. We
need to pause continued expansion of the already overbuilt tourism industry. The
proposal is to pause further development for two years or when solutions
recommended by the Temporary Investigative Group are passed by the Council, and
my understanding is that that group is already close to finishing its work.
Some people say that the moratorium would lead to more illegal vacation rentals, but
that assumes a lack of enforcement and that's not acceptable policy for the County. If
tourist accommodations are limited and we have strong enforcement, then Maui will
return to being a premiere destination, and existing accommodations will be more
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 63
profitable with more benefits, more jobs, and a better quality of life for residents. Let's
be consistent with the Maui island Plan. This pause is a first step. There's broad public
support.
I would like to suggest that Dick Mayer's proposed amendment be adopted to make
sure that this ordinance applies to any application that has not received final approval.
I understand that there are some hotels that are ready to submit their applications. So
we don't want them slipping in. And anyway, with that amendment, I would hope that
you would support this proposed ordinance. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is ClareDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
Apana. To be followed by Roberta Beatty.
MS. CLARE APANA Ttestifyina on Bill Nos. 127 (2021V 128 (2021). 129 (2021) & 130 (2021)1:
Thank you. Good morning, Councilmembers. Thank you for the opportunity to testify
again. 1 support what the last testifier just said wholeheartedly and hope that we will
be able to do something to make the situation better.
1 would like to thank you. Councilmembers, and the Mayor's Office for working together
to work out the Waiale purchase. It is extremely important to us. And as 1 told the
Mayor in the early stages, it is imperative that we proceed with pono. This is about our
iwi kupuna and must come in clean and without any, any things that are unknown and
unsaid.
So we have found a few things and to make the, to make the transaction better. And
recently, there was a, a project that we were doing to help SHPD, because they have
not been able to take care of our iwi kupuna, who have been sitting on their shelves
for some decades. And the last one that I had responsibility to get ready was,
happened to be in Waikapu. And in my research, I went to an archaeology firm, and
they helped me to find the research and the actual SHPD number. And that turned out
to be right in Waikapu in the burial preserve of A&B.
And so I contacted them and the next thing we knew we were meeting with the County.
And, and I, you know, it was an opportunity to offer a chance to make this project come
together in the way that we always thought as making peace in our community. And
what has happened now is. I just found out that they are not going to acknowledge that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 64
this burial, after 17 years with a SHPD number is, belongs there. And they will want to
let the, whoever is then the landowners to, to take care of it. I feel that this tests my
feeling that everything should be pono and aboveboard. I think that we have the same
thing that we always do, which is fighting big business and corporations. And then
SHPD steps in and says, we don't know why they think that it should be in that burial.
And we, all we're doing is using their, the data they have in reports.
I feel that going forward Waiale, and especially with the assistance of Council and the
Mayor's Office that we can get this straightened out and get this back to a place of
pono. It's very easy. It's just the will to do it. A very easy thing to do. And I didn't
want, I'm not really complaining, I just wanted to tell you that because you are part of
the decision-making. And I want you to know that this is a work in progress to get this
land to pono, to get the respect for the Hawaiian people for our burials. And~
CHAIR LEE; Clare, could you please conclude?
MS. APANA: . . . half a, half a sentence. 1 feel fully confident that working together, the
Council, the Mayor's Office, the kanaka, Malama Kakanilua, we will get to that place
and have a new beginning. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you, thank you
Clare.
MS. APANA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And can we have the last testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are two testifiers remaining. The next testifier is
Roberta Beatty. To be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number
ending with these last four digits 7281.
MS. ROBERTA BEATTY ftestifyino on Bill No. 133 (2021)1:
Hello, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MS. BEATTY: Oh, hi, Aloha everyone and thank you very much for the opportunity to check
in. I'm sorry I was so late in applying. I didn't realize how to do it until the Clerk
mentioned it. So thank you for mentioning it that  Icould go in the group chat to give
testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 65
I'm here today on my own behalf to give testimony on Bill No. 133, especially the part
MCC 19.65. And this has to do with short-term vacation rental permits. I worked very
hard for three years to acquire a permit for my property out in Hana, where 1 live. And
unfortunately the specter of divorce has come up in my life and it's been quite a
whirlwind. And during the time that I was applying for the permit, it's in my husband's,
it, it, there was an error on the County planner's part, Mr. Ryan Quigless accidentally,
or well I informed him that the permit was to be in my name, and he made an error and
put it in my husband's name. And I didn't make a fuss of it at the time because we
were married, but things have changed and now my husband and I are divorcing.
And it's very important to me to ask that an amendment be made, allowing for the
permit to be transferred in the case of a divorce, which is what my situation is at this
time. You know it's, it's just, this is what it is and I, 1 have a short-term vacation rental
business started, it is how I make my living, I employ people out in Hana. And I do
want to continue living out in Hana. I've been a resident of Maui since 1994 and I've
lived out in Hana since 2013.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. BEATTY: That's it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, questions?
Yes, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Ms. Beatty for your testimony. I did read it and get
your message. I tried to call you several times yesterday. And just letting you know
that administrative errors can be corrected administratively. We don't need to amend
the bill. And a court order would also be followed as well.
MS. BEATTY: Oh, okay. So my, my, the error will be corrected. I, I am, thank you very much
for that news. Appreciate that.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It would be up to the Administration to correct their error.
MS. BEATTY: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 1 can't tell the Administration what to do.
MS. BEATTY: Oh, okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 66
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But. . . their error.
MS. BEATTY: Oh, okay, got it.
CHAIR LEE: So you're welcome. Thank you very much, Ms. Beatty. And we want to thank
Member Paltin for doing the research and being able to give you a very good answer.
So all you have to do now is work with the Administration. There's no need for an
amendment.
MS. BEATTY: I, I will.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Bye.
Mr. Clerk, where are you?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The last individual we have signed up to testify, Chair is the
person calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits 7281.
CHAIR LEE: 7281
MR. KENNY BARR Ftestifyinq on Bill No. 118 (202111:
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. BARR: Okay, Alice. This is Kenny Barr calling in from Kihei. And I wanted to just speak
in support of Bill No. 118. I don't really think there's any opposition to it, but I feel this
obligation to tell this little story before your lunch. When I first came here from--
CHAIR LEE: Kenny, Kenny, can you speak a little, Kenny, we can't hear you.
MR. BARR: Yes. Okay, can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: A little louder.
MR. BARR: Can you hear me better?
CHAIR LEE: A little louder.
MR. BARR: Okay. Okay, when I first came to, can you hear me now?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 67
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, sort of.
MR. BARR: Yeah, barely. Okay. Then I'm going to cut this really short. When I first came
here from Ne\A/ Jersey, from Zaery Park, and I, from cro\A/ded beaches, and I \A/ent, this
was back in '79 or early '80s and I went down to Po'olenalena Beach and I thought how
great this is that this area is so unspoiled, uncrowded, compared to Kihei.
So as I started to get more involved in things here, I saw that Eddie Chang Sr. was
fighting this, this, the Makena Surf going in next door. And, and then he was in a
courtroom, and I don't remember, I don't understand why I was in the court, 1 mean
obviously it may have gone to the Planning Commission and the Council before and
he was appealing it. And 1 went in this courtroom, and it was just him and an attorney,
whether it was Jonathan Waxman or Tony Rankin or Isaac Hall, I don't remember, all
I remember thinking is how sad this is that this one elderly Hawaiian man, Eddie
Chang Sr. is here trying to preserve this whole area from, from turning out to be urban,
which we all know how it has turned out now.
And obviously he lost the case, and basically that's all 1 want to say. I'm supporting the
bill because I think anything that you can do for Hawaiians who have land and need to
stay on their land, you should do. So that's really all I have to say, I just wanted to
relate that one little story as to how this haole from New Jersey became involved in this
and felt really concerned about what happens to the Hawaiians. That's it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Kenny. Members, are there any questions for Mr. Barr? If not
thanks again, Kenny.
MR. BARR: Okay, have a good lunch. Aloha. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. If an individual
connected to the meeting has not testified, but would like to do so, please identify
yourself now. This is our last call. If anybody who has not testified wishes to do so,
please identify yourself now.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the
record and to closing public testimony.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 68
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING;
1. Keisa Liu;
Jeff Bagshaw;
George Martin;
Karin Ross, Personal Care Products Council;
Lynn Miyahira, Public Access to Sunscreens Coalition;
Kelli Lundgren;
Roberto Andrion Jr., ILWU, Local 142;
Craig Downs;
Roberta Beatty;
Cassandra Abdul, Na Hale O Maui;
Chase Amouyal;
Luz Arnal;
Cynthia Au;
Derek Barona;
Lisa Bishop, Friends of Hanauma Bay;
Sheron Leihuanani Bissen;
Kevin D. Cassel;
Deashia Lei Chang;
Natasha Chang;
Nicole Critchlow;
Luella Nohea Chang Crutcher;
Joseph C. DiNardo;
Dennis K. L. Dudley;
Alison Ferguson;
BJ Fogg;
Arayanna Foster;
JoAnn Bishop Freed;
Hana Freet;
Carlos 1. Gutierrez, Consumer Healthcare Products Association;
Madilyn Hays;
Eli Hazlet;
Curtis Higashiyama, ABC Stores;
Mason Hu;
Lyndon C. Ibele, Ma'alaea Village Association;
Pam Ingram;
Carol Irwin;
Jacob James;
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 69
Keiki Chang Kawai'ae'a;
Dana Keawe;
Cynthia Punihaole Kennedy, The Kohala Center;
Puena Chang Keolanui;
John Kevan & Angela Leone;
Andrew Kohl;
Manuel Kuloloio;
Jason Lees;
Carmen Hulu Lindsey, Office of Hawaiian Affairs;
Rebecca Luria, Hawaii Dermatological Society;
Ciro Martin;
Marty Martins;
Lily Montemarano;
Ryan Nobriga, ARDA Hawaii;
Karen Lei Noland;
Nainoa Obrochta;
John E. Palmer;
Hope Patterson;
Letani Peltier;
Vienna Phillips;
Gershon Portillo;
Brandon Ramirez;
Brandon Ramos;
Karl J. ReuI, Kaanapali Golf Courses;
Jessica Rosado;
Alicia Rowell, AIM at Melanoma Foundation;
Shelby Serra, Pacific Whale Foundation;
Nicole Siegel;
Waiaulia Smith;
Miranda Somers;
Matthew Talbot;
Wayne Chung Tanaka;
Kenneth J. Tomecki, American Academy of Dermatology Association;
Wyatt Van der lee;
Leina'ala Kuloloio Vedder;
Kevin Rodriguez Velador;
Hannah Wick;
Bodhi Williams;
Kalani Wilmington;
Tina Yamaki, Retail Merchants of Hawaii; and
Lauren Zirbel, Hawaii Food Industry Association.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 70
CHAIR LEE: Okay, great. Looks like, how about come backing, come backing, this is
probably not enough sleep from yesterday. How about 1:30? Lunch until 1 ;30. Okay,
very good, very good. Recess until 1:30.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:15 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:32 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting for November 19, please reconvene. Hello colleagues,
we are ready to hit the road running now. After the minutes we'll get right straight down
to business.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of September 3, 2021
was presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
approve the minutes of September 3, 2021. Any discussion? If not, all in favor of the
motion, please say "aye" raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 71
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes", nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair proceeding v\/ith the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- MICHELE MCLEAN. PLANNING DIRECTOR
(dated November 4, 2021)
NO. 21-521
Transmitting a copy of the intent to commit letter of the grant-in-aid award from the
State of Hawaii, Office of Planning for the Coastal Zone Management Grant in the
amount of $454,605.
- DEAN M. RICKARD, ACTING CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated Novembers, 2021)
NO. 21-522
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
the Attorney General for the Focus on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault in our
Community grant for the period of June 1, 2021 to May 31, 2022 in the amount of
$109,946, which includes $27,487 in matching funds.
- DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICENO. 21-523
(dated October 25, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
the Attorney General for the Statewide Multi-Jurisdictional Drug Task Force grant in
the amount of $54,927.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 72
NO. 21-524 - DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated November 5, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
the Attorney General for the Laboratory Accreditation and Technological
Improvements grant in the amount of $51,353.
- DEAN M. RICKARD, ACTING CHIEF OF POLICENO. 21-525
(dated October 25, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant modification from the Office of National Drug Control
Policy for the 2021 High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas grant to increase the budget
by $45,000.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL COMMUNICATIONS ON THE CONSENT
CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to file the, everything on the Consent Calendar.
Discussion? Wow, Member Paltin doesn't want, doesn't have any discussion. No
contracts, wow.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order. The contracts 21-520 is, was
removed from the Consent Calendar. And our policy is that we don't discuss the
Consent Calendar.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 73
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. That's right. Thank you. I just, 1, I just when she went like this, i
thought oh, unusual. Okay, next. Anybody else? Okay. All those in favor of the
motion to file the Consent, not file the, yeah to file the Consent Calendar say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes" motionCHAIR LEE: All "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. That's nine "ayes'
carries. Right?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with County Communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 21-520 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated October 29, 2021)
Transmitting 88 contracts/grants for the month of September 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-520, EXCEPT
FOR THOSE GRANTS AND CONTRACTS THAT
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN AND THE OTHER
COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 74
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura to file the contracts except for what the Members request to move out.
Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'll defer to Member Paltin, since she put her hand up first.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair
CAN I PLEASE PULL CONTRACT 4930-8, WHICH IS THE
WEST MAUI RECYCLED WATER EXPANSION FOR
REFERRAL TO THE IT COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE: 4930-8.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Correct.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anyone, only one?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just one.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
MAY I PLEASE PULL CONTRACT C6795-2 FOR REFERRAL
TO THE CARE COMMITTEE; AND C7456 THE SOUTH MAUI
ROAD PAVEMENT REHABILITATION FOR ALSO FOR
REFERRAL SINCE THE CARE COMMITTEE HAS ANOTHER
SOUTH MAUI SIDEWALK PROJECT SO I'M GOING TO TRY
TO PUT THOSE TWO TOGETHER.
CHAIR LEE: Could you repeat that last number, please?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: C7456.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anyone else? No. Alright. These items will be referred to the IT and
CARE Committees. Any objections. Members?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 75
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered. And the rest will be filed. Oh, do we have take a, do you have to
take a vote on this.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Call for the question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, we haven't taken a vote yet.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, alright. All those in favor say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 21-526
(dated November 3, 2021)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply’s Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Reports for the month ending October 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. This is what I was asking if you could
send it to my IT Committee. Thank you. Refer it to my IT Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 76
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, you want us to take a vote on this?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No need. Chair. That’s sufficient.
- TAMARA PALTIN. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated November 9, 2021)
NO. 21-527
Relating to a Councilmember's report on a free "Halloween Drive-Thru Adventure'
event held on October 31, 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-527.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: You know, Member Paltin, these reports are not necessary if no business was
conducted at all. But anyway, fine. We were handing out candies at this Halloween
event and we weren't together. We were split up strategically for a reason to get the,
you know, the cars moving quickly. But thank you for your report, Member Paltin. Did
you want to say anything about it?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, I would love to. I’m providing this report pursuant to the
State Sunshine Law, specifically Section 92-2.5(e) of the Hawaii Revised Statutes. On
Sunday, October 31, 2021, also known as Halloween, Chair Lee, Councilmembers
Yuki Lei Sugimura, Tasha Kama and myself, Tamara Paltin attended the free
Halloween Drive-Thru Adventure at KeopuolanI Park.
Council Chair Lee, Councilmember Kama, Counciimember Sugimura, and I
participated in costume. Chair Lee was a musubi. The event was created to provide
a magical and safe night for hundreds of Maui keiki and their ohana. Director of Parks
and Recreation Karla Peters and Budget Director Michele Yoshimura along with their
staff planned and organized this event.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 77
Other highlights include experiences provided by community businesses and
organizations. Special thanks goes to Game Show Fanatics, Maui Classic Cruisers for
its vintage car showcase, Maui Pono, Mahi Pono and Kula Country Farms for a
pumpkin patch, and Lahaina Town Action Committee for its popular Mystery Maze on
the westside. In addition Maui police officers and Maui firefighters assisted keiki safely
back into their car seats and boosters before leaving the park.
A quorum of the Council was not present at the drive-thru, nor was the event specifically
and exclusively organized for or directed toward Members of the Council. No
discussion related to official board business occurred, nor any commitment relating to
a vote of any Council business was made or sought at the event. Madam Chair, that
concludes my report.
CHAIR LEE; That's a terrific report. Thank you.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So we have to add right. Because there was so many cars
and just to try to get them going, we didn't, we did social distancing. So my job was to
point to Tamara, who was the lifesaver and tell the cars go to the yellow shirt, go to the
yellow shirt just so we can keep cars moving because the backup was, you know,
accumulating.
And the highlight besides all the other volunteers, OCS staff came like Shelly. But we
met Tasha's grandson and I just want to say it was such a delight to work with him and
such a good boy, he speaks Hawaiian, so he kept on saying Happy Halloween in
Hawaiian to everybody and he was, he was a joy.
Alice Lee had a, besides herself as Spam, she also had a wolf and maybe she could
talk about that, cause that was pretty scary looking, added to the tent. And I was a
witch, every year I'm a witch, because I have this one thing, one dress I pull out and
my hat and everything. So I was glad to participate, cause it's one of my favorite
holidays. I'm just as bad as a child. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Tasha, you want to add anything? Thank goodness for your grandson, because
he provided the music for our dancing.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah. Well I just want to say how impressed i was with Chair
Lee's werewolf, very, very handsome, and she nicknamed it Gabe. So we had fun that
night.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 78
CHAIR LEE: We named the werewolf Gabe. Oh and by the way Member Kama was a witch
and Member Paltin was a lifeguard. How unique.
Yes, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yeah, I was so wrapped up in costume that Member Sugimura
never even recognized who I was when I told her hi.
CHAIR LEE: Anyway, yes Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just want to thank all the Members
and yourself, Chair, for representing the Council at the Halloween Drive-Thru and my
mahalo to the Administration, and all the organizations that helped to support this event
for our keiki.
I wanted to see if this, I know this isn't a motion, it's a report. But if we could for the
record strike that section that says pursuant to Sunshine, to HRS 92 Sunshine Law
from the report. In following up with what you stated in the beginning of this item, which
is that, that report was actually not necessary under Sunshine Law, and we don't want
to create precedent that isn't following the law.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, if Members don't mind? So that for future events, you know, nobody
needs to provide a report. Because we do have a Christmas one coming up.
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yeah so, but it's a communication. So don't we have to move to
file the communication.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We did.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ... the motion.
CHAIR LEE; But she was saying that, that in the future, there's no need to provide a report,
because it really doesn't fall under the Sunshine Law. But Vice-Chair, maybe you can
clarify your own comments.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So i think we're filing it and it's going
to be in our official record. So I've never amended anything that we intend to file.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 79
Perhaps we can get guidance from our OCS attorneys on procedure as far as striking
that section from the report?
CHAIR LEE; David, are you on the call? Or Corp. Counsel? Okay, we realize we, you know,
you haven't ever had this request before, because this is such a deep legal question.
David, what do you think?
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY DAVID RAATZ: Thank you, Chair. There’s not
really a mechanism to strike something from a County Communication. I mean the
document exists and we, we can't alter it. I think the Vice-Chair makes some excellent
points about the applicability of the Sunshine Law. You really need a discussion of
Council business to trigger any of the Sunshine Law requirements. So I think it's
excellent that we have that on the record, you know, we can use that to guide us in
future, but there's not really a mechanism that we see to actually alter the County
Communication. Thank you. Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Mr. Raatz.
CHAIR LEE; Why don't we just proceed with filing the. Pardon me? Just proceed with filing.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Mr. Raatz and mahalo. Chair. Mahalo
Mr. Raatz.
CHAIR LEE; One, one last comment. I want to thank all of you who donated candy, who
couldn't be there. We have some extra candy for the Christmas Drive-Thru. So nothing
ever goes to waste. Thank you again for everybody's participation, and all those in
favor of filing this item, please raise your hand and say "aye"
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Tamara.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 80
- TAMARA PALTIN, COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 12, 2021)
NO. 21-528
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING PROPOSALS FOR
INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES
LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-528, AND TO
FILE THE COMMUNICATION.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, second by Member King, to adopt the resolution in
County Communication 21-528. Discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. May I please request the Clerk to read the
resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. I'm just going to bring up the resolution real
quick.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Maybe in the future, if we're going to
have things read, we can let the Clerk know in advance so he can, or she can, our
Clerk can have it pulled up so that we're not radio silence in the future.
CHAIR LEE: Good idea.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 81
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies for the delay, Chair. I'm ready. Shall I proceed
reading the resolution?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you, Chair. As you just heard, as we practiced in
previous years, Section 13C of the HSAC bylaws requires all four county councils to
approve the HSAC Legislative Package before it can be submitted to the State
Legislature. Of the seven legislative proposals our County submitted, four were
deemed appropriate by the HSAC Executive Committee to be included in the HSAC
Legislative Package. Those proposals that were not included were instead supported
as legislative priorities, meaning that the HSAC Executive Committee will provide
testimony in support of similar legislation.
For the Members reference, attached to the resolution is a letter from HSAC President
Chock, Exhibit "A", which also includes all the legislative package bills, i ask the
Members full support of this resolution and invite Councilmember King to provide
additional comments as she would like to.
CHAIR LEE: Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Member Paltin. I was, you did a
great job. I just wanted to further explain that the reason we, we chose some of the
actions to do as legislative priorities, because there was a recognition that there will be
several bills, and that our bill may not be the one that's chosen. So, naming it as a
legislative priority will give our lobbyists for HSAC the ability to follow the other bills that
are similar to the content, so we can continue to support them. But it might not be the
bill in our package. So, that's why we. we did it  alittle differently this year and called
out some of the, the items as legislative priorities.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I guess I will direct my question to
Member King as our HSAC rep. So, the last one is  abill for an ordinance relating to
minimum wage. I was trying to find that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 82
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I, I actually, I think that the minimum wage bill was a legislative
priority. I don't know, did, I was surprised to hear the word ordinance as well because
we recognized in Committee that there would probably be several bills for a minimum
wage. So, I'm not sure why. Member Paltin can explain. They change something,
cause I, I had to leave that meeting early, so I'm not sure if they changed something
on that one. They don't generally do ordinances at the State level.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, yeah, urn, State level is all acts and then County
level is ordinance. So, I was wondering if HSAC took a position on an ordinance for
counties to take . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. That happened, that happened after I left, so I'll defer to
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, I wasn't even able to find the part that Mr. Krueger was
reading. It keeps taking me to a link on Human Concerns and Parks, so I'm not sure
what's going on there.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Maybe we could ask Mr. Krueger to read it again, make sure it
was right.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, oh, it's read correctly. A bill for an ordinance
relating to minimum wage. It's one of the last ones . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, when I left, I do recall that we supported the concept of
minimum wage, but I think we also had discussion that there will probably be several
bills. So, I wasn't sure if we ended up supporting the bill. The bill came from Member
Johnson into the package.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Is Ms. Apo-Takayama available for the question?
CHAIR LEE: Probably just an error.
MS. KASIE APO-TAKAYAMA: Hi, Members. This is, this is Kasie. Yeah, that is just an error
in the reso. And that one was not included in the package. It was just noted as a
proposal that came from Maui County. And so, the WHEREAS clause that Deputy
Clerk Krueger had read into the record were the proposals that Maui County put forth.
And of those seven, four were accepted. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, so, that was one of the ones that we listed as a
legislative priority. So, because the, the HSAC Executive Board did support increasing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 83
the minimum wage, just to let Member Johnson know that we did put it on our list of
legislative priorities. So, our, that means our lobbyists will be tracking the bills.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So, Member King, would we need to amend the reso
to, from "ordinance" to "act"?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I think we would just eliminate that, because we didn't put any of
the legislative priorities in that reso. We just put the, the actual bills that we were
supporting.
Is that correct. Member Paltin?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No. So, it has WHEREAS, seven proposals were
submitted to the county, by the County of Maui for possible inclusion. And so, these
are all the, the bills that we submitted for consideration. So, unless Member Johnson's
bill was a bill for an ordinance, then I think we would need to correct that to "A BILL
FOR AN ACT".
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
FRIENDLY AMENDMENT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I accept the friendly amendment. For some reason, the link on
my Microsoft Edge is not working.
CHAIR LEE: To change the word from "ordinance" to "act"? Is that your friendly amendment?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, are we back to the motion of adopting the legislative package? Okay.
All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SlNENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 84
CHAIR LEE: Opposed, no.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: zero "noes": motion carries.Motion carries. Nine "ayes'
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, that is-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just wanted to note for the record that each of the counties will
be doing this. And we have the most bills that we proposed for Maui County. So, they
do have the ability to pull out any of the bills that they don't want to include. So, if
anybody has a particular interest in any of the bills, you might want to send a letter to
the other councils just to ask them to please leave it in the Legislative Package.
CHAIR LEE: Members, did you hear that? Okay. Thank you.
Okay. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-181.
- KEANl N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-529
(dated November 12, 2021)
Transmitting proposed amendments to Bill 118 (2021) entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
REAL PROPERTY DEDICATED AS ‘AINA KOPUNA".
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, I would like
to ask that County Communication 21-529 be held until later in the calendar, to be
taken up with Bill 118 (2021), please.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections. Members?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 85
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, ordered.
(See pages 158 through 165 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications for referral. The
following county communications are recommended for referral to the following
Committees as noted;
- TASHA KAMA. PRESIDING OFFICER PRO TEMPORE
{dated November 10, 2021)
NO. 21-530
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "URGING THE MAYOR AND THE
DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY TO PRIORITIZE THE DEVELOPMENT OF
NEW WATER SOURCES".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-530 be referred to the
Agriculture and Public Trust Committee.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: To your Budget, Finance-
CHAIR LEE: Oh. hold on, Mr. Clerk.
Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
I’D LIKE TO MOVE TO FILE COUNTYCHAIR
COMMUNICATION 21-530.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member, Pro Tern Kama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to file
CC 21-530.
Discussion, Pro Tern Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 86
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. You know, this morning, as I was listening to
the testimonies regarding this, that I feel like  Iwant to be able to strengthen this bill and
make it a lot more stronger than, I mean not the bill, but this reso, to make it a lot more
stronger than it already is. I want to be able to work on that again, start all over.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the motion to file, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Members.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, continuing with county communications for referral.
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated November 12, 2021)
NO. 21-531
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX A. PART I, GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE
OF GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND
PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. (HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING
AREAS (HIDTA))".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-531 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19. 2021
Page 87
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, did you want to do anything with
this?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR COUNTY COMMUNICATION
21-531 IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF
THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by mem, Pro Tern Kama
to waive the Rule of the Council.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo. Chair. This is a grant that we are receiving.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; And then I'll-
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; -explain.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. We're just voting on the waiver. Ail those in favor of the motion, please
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 88
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-531.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Tern Kama
to pass the attached bill on first reading and filing of the communication.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, this proposed bill would
amend Appendix A, Part I, of the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget to increase the appropriation
for grant, for the grant entitled "High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA)", in the
amount of $45,000.
The Office of National Drug Control Policy has granted these additional funds for the
purchase of equipment to support the operations of HIDTA.
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer any questions the
Members might have. I ask for the Members support of this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions or comments. Members? If not, all those in favor of the motion
please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 89
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 140 (2021).
Continuing with communications for referral.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO MAYOR
(dated Novembers, 2021)
NO. 21-532
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "REMOVAL OF ERIC CUOMO FROM THE
COST OF GOVERNMENT COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-532 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
- YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 12, 2021)
NO. 21-533
Relating to access easements for Waiiele Ridge, Napili, Maui. Hawaii.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-533 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
- SHANE M. SINENCI, COUNCILMEMBER
(dated November 10, 2021)
NO. 21-534
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "REFERRING TO THE LANA‘I, MAUI, AND
MOLOKA‘1 PLANNING COMMISSIONS AND THE MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL
RESOURCES COMMISSION PROPOSED BILLS RELATING TO CULTURAL
OVERLAY DISTRICTS".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-534 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Consideration for County Communication
21-534. Requesting to be referred to the APT Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 90
CHAIR LEE: Any, any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, so ordered.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-534 IVAS REFERRED TO
THE AGRICULTURE AND PUBLIC TRUST COMMITTEE.)
CHAIR LEE: So, there, that just leaves one. two left. Mr. Clerk, is that correct? For referral.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. We just want confirmation whether there's any
objections to those referrals.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to those two referrals. Members, as read by the Clerk?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, ordered. Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceed-
CHAIR LEE: Committee reports.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-117NO. AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-182 . entitled "ESTABLISHING A RIGHT TO
HOUSING FOR MAUI COUNTY RESIDENTS," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-117.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 91
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Molina, to adopt, to approve
the recommendations in Committee Report 21-117.
Discussion, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the proposed resolution
is to establish a right to housing for all Maui County residents as a central component
to a Comprehensive Affordable Housing Plan and our objective as a County to meet
the housing needs of the Maui Nui community.
Your Committee discussed the resolution which is supported by international human
rights law and Countywide Policy Plan. It affirms  aright to an affordable, habitable,
accessible, culturally appropriate, secure, and safe residence. It also recognizes that
adequate housing enhances safety, stability, economic productivity, civic participation,
overall quality of life for everyone.
The resolution requires the Council and the County to prioritize and provide adequate
inventory of housing and shelter options, use all available resources to progressively
improve the housing situation in the County, and recognize, respect, and protect the
right of all residents living in security, peace, and dignity.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of the resolution and agreed that
additional language was needed to include persons living with behavioral health issues
among those who should be given special consideration. I have addressed this
recommendation in the Amendment Summary Forms. So, I, 1 respectfully request the
Members support of the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Member, Member Johnson, are you going to propose amendments?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes. Chair, thank you.
SO, I JUST PUT IN, ITS IN THE. THE WORDS THAT WE'RE
ADDING TO IS "PERSONS LIVING WITH BEHAVIORAL
HEALTH ISSUES".
Because we went out and we asked the folks that work with folks like that. So, that's
that's what we came up with.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 92
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Oh, second to that amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member King. So your, did you just give us your discussion, or
you have more to say?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: That's basically it. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else, Members? Comments, questions on the amendment? If
not, all those in favor of the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
Or is that a question, Vice-Chair? You have a question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's a question. Yes, I do.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's have your question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Member Johnson, for this amendment, I did receive testimony
about, oh, 1 have to look, look for it, but I think it included like psychological as one of
the, the psychological and mental development? Is  .. . not to include that? I'm not an
expert, so I'm just getting an understanding of, of why we'll be making this decision.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. We spoke with Danielle Bergan, and he works
in that field, or beg your pardon, she works in that field. So, I kind of defer, like you
said, I defer to the experts, so that's kind of where I'm going. But if the body wants to
add, I don't know, I just feel like that's the route I went with, with those, with the, it's,
that's where I stand.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Johnson.
I believe it was psychiatrically. So, not psychologically. Sorry, I correct myself. So,
that was one of the suggestions from another expert, but if we don't want to include
that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 93
CHAIR LEE; So, you're suggesting persons--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, it\A/ould be, physically including seniors, children,
the physically psychiatrically and developmentally disabled persons with terminal
illness. So, I think it's. Member Johnson is, has proposed mentally over psychiatrically.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: No, I, no, I, I proposed behavioral health. I think behavioral
health covers more of a wider. So, that's just, you know, we want to include this. The
whole point of this is inclusive language, right? That's my assumption. So, to include
people, just behavioral health as a umbrella term. So, that's, it's, I think the mental
health is kind of stigmatized and that's, that's what we're trying to avoid.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Member Johnson. Mahalo, Chair
Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Other comments? So, are we staying with, can you repeat your original phrase.
Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Certainly. So the, this, it goes "physically and
developmentally disabled, persons living with behavioral health issues", is what we
added. And I think that's more of the overall inclusiveness of it. That was the goal.
That was the intention.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any further discussion on this amendment? No? Okay. All those in
favor of the amendment, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay, the motion as amended. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. You're muted.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Oh,  Ididn't have any further motions.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. Alright. So then let's vote on the motion as amended, main motion.
All those in favor say "aye", raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 94
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I see Deputy Clerk with his hand up. Oh okay.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Deputy Clerk, did you have a question? Looks like your signal is kind of weak.
Anyway, you're muted.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, that's okay, Chair. 1 have down for the vote, nine "ayes",
zero "noes".
CHAIR LEE: Right. For, for both the amendment and the main motion.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: For the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-182.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-118NO. AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-183 , entitled "AUTHORIZING THE DIRECTOR
OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS TO ENTER INTO A MARKETING PLAN AS
PART OF THE RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE COUNTY OF MAUI AND HALE KAIOLA JOINT VENTURE", be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: 1 beg your pardon, Chair.
SO, MOVE TO ADOPT RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE CHAIR [SIC] 21-118.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Molina, to approve
the recommendations in Committee Report 21-118.
Discussion, Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 95
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. By Resolution 20, 20-122, this Council
approved, with modifications, the Hale Kaiola Project, which consists of 40 duplex units
for sale, to qualified households earning between 80 and 140 percent AMI.
Hale Kaiola was the first project proposed for development under 2.97, Maui County
Code. Chapter 2.97 does not have any provisions relating to its project marketing plan,
so this resolution for Hale Kaiola is needed to approve the proposed marketing plan
and authorize the Director of Housing and Human Concerns to incorporate the plan
into Residential Workforce Housing Agreement.
Your Committee approved of this proposal, proposed plan, as amended, including
marketing the units to each income group for 180 days; allowing the County to
purchase unsold units after the nonresident marketing period; and require the Council
to note, be notified if the County declines to purchase. It also offers the remaining units
to income qualified residents with a decreased deed restriction from 20 years to
10 years.
And in the final marketing phase with no deed restrictions. The final marketing phase
is the only time the sales price can be increased from the original AMI designated price.
50 percent of the difference in the price would go to the Affordable Housing Fund. Your
Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposal resolution. I
respectfully request the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE; Any further discussion or comments? If not, all those in favor of the motion to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-118, please raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-183.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 96
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-119NO. AGRICULTURE AND PUBLIC TRUST COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 141 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 14.12.030, MAUI COUNTY CODE, EXEMPTING DEVELOPMENT
BY THE DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS UNDER THE
HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION ACT FROM THE WATER AVAILABILITY
POLICY," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
1.
and
That County Communication 21-348, from Council Vice-Chair Keani N.W.
Rawiins-Fernandez, be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-119.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, second, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins
Fernandez, to approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-119.
Discussion, Mr. Sinenci.
Your APT Committee met on
November 2, 2021, to discuss a proposed bill amending Section 14.12.030 of the Maui
County Code, exempting development by Department of Hawaiian Home Lands from
the Water Availability Policy, under Section 221 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission
Act.
Thank you. Chair.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Your Committee noted the bill's intent is to explicitly exempt DHHL projects from the
Water Availability Policy because they were not inherently exempted under affordable
housing.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 97
After receiving a revised proposed bill from the Department of Water Supply,
comments from the Managing Director and representatives of the Department of
Hawaiian Home Lands, your Committee revised the language in the bill to ensure
projects listed under Section 230 [sic], 220.5, and 221 would be included in the
exemption instead of just projects under Section 221.
The Department of Hawaiian Home Lands representatives further supported the
revised proposed bill, noting the bill is a meaningful and tangible way for Maui County,
as an administrative subdivision of the State, to fulfill its obligations to uphold the
Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, which was a condition of acceptance of a compact
with the United States for Statehood.
Your Committee voted 4-2 to recommend passage of the revised proposed bill on first
reading and filing of the communication. Before I ask for the Members support. Chair,
I'd like to refer to the introducer of the bill. Member Rawlins-Fernandez, for additional
comment.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo. Member Sinenci, for
taking this up so quickly and getting it through your Committee. I, oh shoot, I am not
able to share screen. If the Clerk's would allow me to share screen, I can show the,
my amendment. But, oh, there we go. Okay. You should have also just received it in
your email. But in case you didn't, HI... for ease of reference.
I move to add, provided that Council approved projects, oh shucks. Oh, this isn't the
one. Sorry, one moment. Let me get . . . of the amended .... Okay. Alright, the
Clerk's just sent it. Okay. I move to add provided that Council approved projects
industrial, business, hotel and resort, or other commercial uses is designed and
intended to generate revenues. Oh, I see what happened. Alright.
OKAY, SO, I MOVE TO ADD "PROVIDED THAT INDUSTRIAL,
BUSINESS, HOTEL AND RESORT, OR OTHER COMMERCIAL
USE PROJECTS DESIGNED AND INTENDED TO GENERATE
REVENUES AS AUTHORIZED BY HAWAIIAN HOME, BY THE
HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION ACT BE APPROVED BY
THE COUNCIL".
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 98
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Discussion? Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Oh. Okay. This will require Council
approval, on a case-by-case basis, for the exemption on DHHL development projects
that are commercial-related and intended to generate revenue for the purpose of
fulfilling its mandate in accordance with Hawaiian Homes Commission of Act of 1920.
And I also see Ms., Deputy, First Deputy Corporation Counsel Thomson turn on her
video, so I'm, I'm guessing she has some feedback on my amendment. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Just one suggestion
to add to the amendment. "Provided that exemptions for", just that words "exemptions
for" industrial, business, etc. So, you're notapproving the project, you're just approving
the exemption from . . . water.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'll accept that as  afriendly amendment if there aren't
any objections.
CHAIR LEE: From our tenth Councilmember, okay. Apparently there's no objections, but we
have some questions.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I do know that from day one I've always
known, and it is our responsibility to provide water for housing for Hawaiian Home
Lands and, and because of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, and, and respect
them, you know, approval for residents. But I, 1,  Iam of the opinion that usually for
commercial . . . the water is part of the formula or was never included in this. So, I
cannot, cannot support this. I think that it's over and beyond what the County has, has
been asked to do, and we've always done in terms of providing residential, and we
should and always, you know, will continue to do that. So, 1 just wanted to make that
statement.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Before we go to you, Vice-Chair, Member Paltin had her hand up as well.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I speak in support of the amendment. You
know, in listening to the . . . and Robin Danner explain the Hawaiian Homes
Commission Act, there's so much that we're not. I'm not knowledgeable of the details.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 99
But when you hear all the details, it's really eye-opening at what, what we haven't
accomplished that's been mandated since the 1920's. And part of it is because it's not
been properly funded.
And maybe some of it is because Prince Kuhio passed away before the, the rules could
be adopted in how this would happen. But in listening to Ms. Danner and her years of,
of studying this Act, it's clear that, you know, it's, while there's the whole little end, big
end, 50 percent, not less than, or less than 50 percent and not at all, the whole Act
was to help, you know, all the people of Hawaii. And the blood quantum was not Prince
Kuhio's. It was something that he had to accept in order to get it through. And, and
the purpose of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act was to help the people of Hawaii;
big end, little end, and those that reside here.
And so, I think the amendment is good in that, you know, we can kind of see that these
projects are something that are going to help our people. And if it's something that's
going to help our people as a whole, all of us, then why wouldn't we do it? So, so,
while I personally have a lot more to learn about the Hawaiian Homes Commission
Act, I think this is one step in the right direction.
CHAIR LEE; Any more comments before I, okay, Vice-Chair, and then Member Sinenci.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just, I wanted to just quickly clarify,
in case it wasn't clear, that this amendment was  away to compromise with those who
did not support it in Committee, giving the exemption without Council approval. So,
without this amendment, we are giving an exemption without Council approval on
commercial projects. So, this, this was me trying to compromise with, with those that,
the Members that felt uneasy about giving that exemption without Council approval on
a case-by-case basis. And I, you know, I try to compromise where I can, where it
makes sense.
And as Member Paltin stated, DHHL is not in the business of profiteering. So, they're
not building commercial developments in order to make a profit. They're, they're a
governmental agency that are building houses, or getting Hawaiians on land, whether
it's residential, agricultural, pastoral. That's, that's their, their sole purpose. And
because of systemic racism, they have been incapable of fulfilling their mandate.
And while it's, you know, not necessarily Council's, you know. County Council's fault,
a lot of the blame lay on the Legislature for not sufficiently funding the department as
subdivisions of the State. We are also responsible and held to this obligation under
this Congressional Act. And so, when they need to build these projects in order to
generate revenue, it's not to, to make a profit, it's to put Hawaiians on land. It's
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 100
because they are not getting the support in order to fulfill their obligation. So, I just
wanted to make sure that's clear on the record. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. I saw Member Sinenci, and then Member Kama, and then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, just wanted to go ahead and support
the amendment. As Member Rawlins-Fernandez said, this is, this offers more
government transparency to our constituents, so everybody gets to see where and,
and how, you know, these projects are going through. We get to vet them.
Also, you know, we have dedicated our time, resources, and energies into more
affordable housing for all of our constituents. So, I believe if we can partner with the
private industries to help with this feat, we'll, you know, it'll be less for our taxpayers to
help subsidize. So, definitely in support.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. I just want to share a little bit of history about
the Act itself. At the time of the passage of the Act, there was never, ever any funding
from the Federal, or even on Territorial side for homesteader. Not until 1983 did the
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands actually get funded from the State just for the
operations of that department. So, from the time it became a State in 1959 to '83, the
Department, who was operating with a zero budget.
So today, what we're getting is people are learning how to read the Act and the Trust,
with the eyes of Prince Kuhio. Anybody can read the Trust and read the Act. You
know. I've looked this. It's a desktop reference guide. So, I bought the Hawaiian
Homes Commission Act and I've had this for like 20 years. And it tells us the story of
how Prince Kuhio looked at what his people could do on our land.
But once other people get a hold of it and they misinterpret the thinking of native
people, then they end up going in a totally different direction. Only today, and I say
today that this 21st century, have we actually been able to look at that Trust and see
how that Trust has been so ill-managed and underfunded. And so, what we're trying
to do today is to bring things up to where they should have been in 1920. So, here we
are 101 years later trying to do the right thing, 100 years later.
So, this legislation is the beginning of getting the Native Hawaiian peoples onto their
lands and to doing what exactly what Prince Kuhio wanted, was to rehabilitate his
people. And homelessness was present in 1920 for the Hawaiians, cause they were
all off their lands. They were all living in the cities on . . . street.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 101
So, this is, to me, it’s going to be very helpful to our people, because the commercial
developments that we have in Kapolei, commercial developments on the Big Island,
the Prince Kuhio Shopping Center, it's all Hawaiian Home Lands. And those were
made so that they can develop revenue to put more Hawaiians on land. But this way,
it's more helpful that you don't have to be renting out your good lands for commercial
development. You could just go right straight to building homesteads for our native
people. So, thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Sinenci and Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I just have  aquestion because I think I was a
little bit confused when I first looked at this, you know, because I wasn't here when the
discussion happened. But I looked at the bill. So, the, what, what you're talking about,
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, in this ASF the industrial, business, hotel and resort,
or other commercial use projects designed and intended to generate revenues for the
Hawaiian Home Lands Commission. Is that, that's, it's not, it's not saying that they're
going, it's going to support individual businesses on the Hawaiian Home Lands. It's,
it's businesses that are, are developed by Hawaiian Home Lands, Hawaiian Homes
Commission in order to bring them more revenue to accomplish their, their, their
mandate? Is that what I'm understanding?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The department.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. That's what I wanted to, you know, so. Okay. And that
makes more sense to me. I can support that. Not your fault--
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: --but I just misinterpreted it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Molina and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. Yeah, I appreciate this
amendment from Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. I was one of those that voted "no"
in Committee, feeling very uncomfortable with the way it was, you know, coming out of
Committee. So, yeah, I see this as a compromise. And I feel a lot better about things
now.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 102
Although, you know, it's unfortunate DHHL has had so many of these issues with
regards to management and underfunding over the years. And who suffers? It's the
Hawaiian people, you know? So, anyway, so I'll go ahead, and I'll support this. Thank,
I'll support the amendment and then eventually support the motion as amended when
we get to that, when we get to that point. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, just for clarification then. So, I'm not . . . against
providing water for our residents and to fulfill that need for their housing. So, I just
want to make that clear, that was not my intention ever. But what this amendment
does, or what happened in Committee and what passed out of Committee was to also
include commercial. Is it only the, the lands? So, any, any development that
commercial properties, commercial enterprises that come up, commercial
developments that come up on Hawaiian Home Lands then could come before the
Council to get water provided for the project to happen? Is that correct?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. That's correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, it doesn't matter if it's ABC Corporation that is going to
be, you know, using the Hawaiian Home Lands for commercial properties for
commercial business. As long as they're on Hawaiian Home Lands, then they would
get this exemption, exemption from water availability. If they come before Council to
get it approved? So, it can be any enterprise as long as it's on Hawaiian Home Lands,
just clarification, and for commercial use?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And this amendment will give, mahalo. Chair. And
this amendment will give you that discretion to determine if so? Otherwise, they have
to use the funding in the DHHL Trust. So, they're using funding that would otherwise
go to infrastructure development to put Hawaiians in houses on the land.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. One last question. So, did we talk to, and I'm not
a member of Mr. Sinenci's Committee, so I apologize for not listening to the, the tape
of the whole meeting, I guess. But was Hawaiian Home Lands at the meeting when
this was discussed? And, and they basically said that this, this is not something, well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 103
that they, they do not have this covered, so this would help them do more, I guess, for
the people? What did they say?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: They, yeah, they did not say that. They didn't say
that they have this covered. They were at the meeting, yes. They, I, ! sent this
proposed amendment to them, and they were supportive of, of this amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? Ready to vote on the amendment? All those
in favor of the amendment raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
The motion as amended. Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 141 (2021).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 104
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-120 BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 142 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, WATER SUPPLY, BOND
FUND, ACQUISITION OF 1888 WILI PA LOOP BUILDING AND PROPERTY;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL
APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROJECTS)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT;
1.
That Bill 143 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT
OF WATER SUPPLY, WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
ACQUISITION OF 1888 WILI PA LOOP BUILDING AND PROPERTY," be
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
2.
That Bill 144 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
ORDINANCE NO. 5219, BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE,
SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF WATER
SUPPLY - ACQUISITION OF 1888 WILI PA LOOP BUILDING AND
PROPERTY)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT; and
3.
21-184 . entitled "AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION OFThat Resolution
APPROXIMATELY 29,712 SQUARE FEET IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY
NO. (2) 3-4-020-049 SITUATED AT WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII, FOR AN
AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $4,000,000.00", be ADOPTED.
4.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-120.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 105
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-120.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee met on November 4, 2021, to discuss three
proposed bills and one proposed resolution relating to the Acquisition of 1888 Wili Pa
Loop Building and Property. The proposed bills amend the Budget bill, Appendix C
bill, and the Bond Authorization bill to add funding and a project description under the
Department of Water Supply, Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area for the
Acquisition of 1888 Wili Pa Loop Building and Property in the amount of $4,020,000.
The resolution authorizes the acquisition of 29,712 square feet identified as tax map
key (2) 3-4-020-049, situated at Wailuku, for an approximate, oh sorry, for an amount
not to exceed $4 million, plus customary expenses.
The Department of Water Supply informed your Committee that approximately
30 Fiscal Division employees would be relocated from the fifth floor of the Kalana o
Maui Building to the new space. Nine employees in the Water Resources and Planning
Division would then be able to move out of their current rental space at One Main Plaza
and into Kalana o Maui. This move would also allow 25 Engineering Division
employees more office space in Kalana o Maui for improved social distancing.
Your Committee noted the Wili Pa Loop Building is already set up with teller windows
and a vault to accept payments, which would then free up daily customer traffic to
Kalana o Maui. The Department also said the new space contains a conference room
large enough for the Board of Water Supply to hold meetings.
Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bills and adoption
of the proposed resolution.
Member Sugimura also scheduled an appointment to check out the conference room
and the building. And I'm excited to hear her report, if she was able to get that site visit
done. I respectfully ask the Members support of the motion. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 106
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion on this matter?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. So, as you know, I did, as well as
Member Kama do a site visit. And i will tell you that my office also sent a letter to the
Administration asking questions that were actually spurred by a question that came
from Member Kama during the Budget Committee meeting. And her question was,
what is the Administration's overall plan? What is going on? Are we going to have any
more purchase of buildings?
And that made me think. And when I vote a way, one way and 1 think about it the next
day, I thought, okay, I have more questions. So, at this time, I did send a letter to
Administration. And basically, at the meeting, I did talk about the parking, how many
parking, which is how many employees, how many parking is available there and who's
going to park where with visitors coming to pay their water bills or whatever? So, I
wanted more information on that.
I did go and visit. And I will tell you that my, my, based upon what I know of the
Planning Commission, where we hold the Planning Commission meetings and the
Board of Water Supply meetings versus this, at this new building, although very
beautiful building, has one big conference table that has 12 seats and then around the
sides there were individual seats. I'm sure you can reconfigure that. It does look
crowded, so that was one of my questions about conference space and where would
people park?
I also wondered where Administration was going. Are they going to go to the new
building or are they going to stay in the County Building, Director, Deputy, and all their
administrative staff? And then, what is an anticipated move date to the Maui County,
Maui County Federal Credit Union Building?
And then, the big important question to me for Administration is regarding the County's
overall real property holdings. What is the count, what is the Administration overall
plans for County facilities? Does Administration anticipate purchasing more real
property for use as office space? I do know that the Administration's big plan is to get
out of rentals and to go into County-owned facilities. And what is the role of the
County's land manager position? And please provide a list of all non-County-owned
facilities, the details, rents paid per year, terms of lease, terms of lease, which
departments occupy, number of employees, and other relate costs for each facility?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 107
I'm sorry for this last-minute long list of questions that I had. I, I'm just comparing, as
you know, the amount that we went through just to decide the Maui News Building,
which was a lot. We had site visits and we did this, we did that, and all of us were like
really concerned about spending taxpayer dollars. Next morning when I woke up, after
I voted "yes" for this, I had these questions. So, I thought before I vote yes on
something, I would really love to have these questions answered, because we are the
representatives for the taxpayers. And I think it is our responsibility to maybe have
these questions answered. I think, and that's, that was, you know, my long response
for the site visit.
But I did look. It is a beautiful building. And we wouldn't be able to build something,
you know, like that for this kind of cost, I don't think, in this, you know, time and, time
and money. So, glad that the Administration presented it, but I wish we could have
more information. I may be the only one that thinks, is thinking about this, but these
are the questions that I had the day after. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Rawlins-
Fernandez, for asking.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion. Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you. Chair. I just wanted to speak in support of the
Administration's proposal to purchase this. You know, kind of like Member Sugimura
said, there's no way that we could build something and purchase the land for $4 million
like this. And the fit being close to the County Building and having the vault and the
capabilities. I'm willing to trust that the Administration did do its due diligence.
But on another note, I do have an item in my Committee inventorying the County's real
property, ail the ownership, minus like roads and easements and stuff like that. So, I
can bring that up and we can start that discussion about like ail of the lands that the
County own, some intentions ... I would be willing to bet that they didn't make much
progress on the land administrator statewide description, but maybe we'll get an update
on that during the upcoming budget session.
CHAIR LEE; Any, yes. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. I will be supporting this
proposal. I thought in Committee, in Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez Committee, we
did a good job vetting it. I mean, the questions  Ihad were all answered. Everything
seemed cut and dried to me. And just in general. Madam Chair, we, we do a good job
in vetting all of the Administration's proposal. So, it's not only just certain Members do
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 108
all of this vetting, yeah. So, we, we ask the tough questions. And of course, and at
times, yes, true, the Administration sometimes will come to us without any clear-cut
plan. But the point being, since the Council is the gatekeepers for the public dollar, we
all do our part on our own to, to vet. So, anyway, just want to make that statement.
And I think this is a worthwhile endeavor for the Department as it continues to grow.
And I think the parking issues, well, anyway at least for me, have been addressed.
And since some of these meetings too with the Board of Water Supply, they may or
not meet in person, so they could be doing some of them on BlueJeans. And
sometimes they'll have some of these meetings in person. So, that may potentially
alleviate some of those parking concerns. So, anyway, that's my spiel. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I think I saw Mr. Sinenci's hand up.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you. Chair. Yeah, I just wanted to support the, the
motion. I think when you, you know, like Member Rawlins or Paltin had said, for us,
particularly living in Hawaii and Maui, just to build something is going to cost us double
or triple, particularly during the wildfires and different pandemic. We've seen just
properties and, and even Director of Finance Teruya would say Maui valuations, you
know, you, you buy up Maui properties, and your valuation immediately goes up. So,
you know, 1 think for us, as an investment, looking at it through an investment, I think
these are good actions. If we can afford it and if we can increase our, our rating, all of
those economic, you know, numbers, we can pull it through. Definitely support it.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, I just want to say that I'll be supporting this motion, because
as you know, we spend way too much money on rent. And from what I understand at
the meeting, after so many years we're going to own this building and won't have to
pay mortgage on it anymore. But it, it does seem that the numbers pencil out. And it's
a worthwhile purchase. So, are you ready to vote? So, all those in favor of the motion,
please say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, looks like eight "ayes".
Those "no".
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 109
CHAIR LEE: One "no". Motion carries. Eight "ayes", one "no"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, those are BILLS 142 (2021), 143 (2021)
and 144 (2021), respectively; and RESOLUTION 21-184.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-121NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 145 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT, WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PU\N AREA, SEWER,
SEWER FUND, KAHULUl AND WAIEHU BEACH ROAD SEWER LINE
UPGRADE; TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT
APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)", be PASSED ON FIRST READING
and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1.
That Bill 146 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX C
OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT, KAHULUi AND WAIEHU BEACH
ROAD SEWER LINE UPGRADE," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT
2.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-121.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 110
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-121, and it is seconded by Member
Sugimura.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Your Budget, Finance, andMahalo, Chair.
Economic Development Committee met on November 4, 2021, to discuss proposed
bills to amend the Budget bill, the Appendix C bill, to add funding and a project
description under Department of Environmental Management, Wailuku Community
Plan Area for Kahului and Waiehu Beach Road Sewer Line Upgrade in the amount of
$250,000, in addition, in additional Sewer Fund revenue.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Your Committee was informed that the funds would allow the Department of
Management, Department of Environmental Management to begin designing and
planning for the replacement of 800 feet of existing sewer line. Your Committee voted
7-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bills. I respectfully ask for the Members
support. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It's been moved by Member, vice,  Imean, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, seconded by, was it Member Sugimura? Okay.
Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Chair, for the record, those are BILLS 145 (2021) andDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
146 (2021), respectively.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 111
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-122 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS, ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THERecommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF MERCEDES-NICOLE RITTE TO THE COMMISSION ON
21-185
CHILDREN AND YOUTH", be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN COMMITTEE
REPORT NO. 21-122.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Councilmember Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
to adopt the resolution in Committee Report 21-122.
Discussion? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
November 2, 2021, to discuss a proposed resolution relating to the Mayor’s nomination
of Mercedes-Nicole Ritte to the Commission on Children and Youth, for a term expiring
on March 31,2025, due to the resignation of Elizabeth Fujii.
The Council has until November 23, 2021, to approve or disapprove the Mayor's
nominee.
Ms. Ritte resides on Molokai, and she said she is invested in the health and well-being
of Molokai keiki and would like to provide a much-needed voice for the youth of the
community. Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend her nomination be approved.
Mahalo, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member King, Member Molina. Any more discussion? If not, all
those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 112
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record-
CHAIRLEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -that is RESOLUTION 21-185.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-123 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THERecommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF ARNOLD WUNDER TO THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI", be ADOPTED.
21-186
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN COMMITTEE
REPORT NO. 21-123.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci, to adopt the
resolution in Committee Report 21-123.
Discussion? Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 113
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
November 2, 2021, to discuss Mr. Wunder's nomination to the Civil Service
Commission. This would be for a term expiring on March 31, 2024, due to the
resignation of Blake Takayama.
And the Council's deadline to take action on this is November 30, 2021.
Mr. Wunder is retired and is also a former board member of the Civil Service
Commission who previously served from March 2011 through March 2016. And your
Committee agreed Mr. Wunder would be a fantastic asset to the Civil Service
Commission once again. And mahalo to Mr. Wunder for willing, for willingly wanting to
take on this task as well. And your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend his nomination
be approved. Mahalo, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
(Councilmember Sugimura was excused from the meeting at 2:56 p.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-186.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-124NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERSRecommending that Resolution 21-187
TO THE CONSERVATION PU\NNING COMMITTEE FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 114
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-124.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Kama, to adopt the resolution
in Committee Report 21-124.
Discussion? Councilmember Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
January 26, 2021, September 28, 2021, and November 2, 2021, to discuss a proposed
resolution relating to the Council's appointments to the Conservation Planning
Committee.
Your Committee interviewed Mahina Poepoe of Molokai, Benjamin Ostrander of Lanai
and Samuel Akoi IV of East Maui.
Ms. Poepoe is employed with Molokai/Maui Invasive Species Committee where she is
involved in various cultural and conservation projects.
Mr. Ostrander is employed with Pulama Lanai's Cultural and Historic Preservation
Department and understands the importance of protecting and conserving the island's
natural resources for future generations.
And Mr. Akoi is the owner of Ulupono ‘Aina, LLC. He has been involved in various
conservation and preservation activities in the community.
And after determining that these individuals would be an asset to the Conservation
Planning Committee, your Committee randomly assigned terms as follows:
Ms. Poepoe for a term expiring on March 31, 2023; Mr. Ostrander for a term expiring
on March 31, 2024; and Mr. Akoi IV, for a term expiring on March 31, 2022. Your
Committee voted 8-0 to recommend the appointments be approved.
And I'd like to extend a mahalo to my colleagues Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez from
Molokai; my colleague Mr. Johnson from Lanai; as well as Mr. Sinenci from East Maui,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 115
for these excellent nominees to this Conservation Planning Committee. Mahalo
Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. 1 just\A/anted to, you kno\A/, get on the record
my appreciation that these nominees or appointees dedicated that they would reach
out to West Maui residents on issues of conservation in West Maui, and to memorialize
my appreciation for that commitment. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Paltin. But I'm sure they remember. Okay, anymore
discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", raise your hand.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aye.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aye.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aye.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. We're unable to see Councilmember
Sugimura. I'm not sure if she was present for that vote.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura? Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Maybe that's a sign it's time for a restroom break.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Members, we're going to have to take that vote again.
All those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 116
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, she's still not there.
one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE; Yeah. So, eighfayes'
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: The "excused" is Member Sugimura.
Are you, somebody throwing a hint that they want a, a recess? You want ten minutes?
Okay, let's make it to 3:15. Recess. Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 3;00 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 3:17 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of November 19, 2021, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, I think we have one more from Mr. Molina.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, may ! take
up Bills 119 through 130 on second and final reading-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -out of order?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 117
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
Please proceed. 119 and--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 119 through 130. And I'll do it all in one motion.
CHAIR LEE: Wow. Okay. 1 hope we're not giving something away. Okay. 119.
You can start, Vice-Chair.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Shall I call up the items, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Just real quickly. For the record, the resolution that was
attached to Committee Report 21-124, that is RESOLUTION 21-187.
You have before you, ordinances for second and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 119 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.08.060, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO COUNCIL SERVICES STAFF SALARIES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 120 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
ROAD IMPROVEMENTS, BOND FUND,
WAIALE ROAD EXTENSION;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 118
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 121 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
WAIALE ROAD EXTENSION
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 122 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS - WAIALE ROAD EXTENSION)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 123 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
COUNTYWIDE, ROAD IMPROVEMENTS, BOND FUND,
COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 124 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, FEDERAL-AID
AND OTHER TRANSPORTATION GRANTS
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 119
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 125 (20211
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, COUNTYWIDE,
COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 126 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS - COUNTYWIDE
FEDERAL AID PROGRAM)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 127 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5101,
BILL NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE - WAIALE LAND ACQUISITION)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 128 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
OTHER PROJECTS, BOND FUND,
WAIALE LAND ACQUISITION;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 120
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 129 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, WAlLUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
WAIALE LAND ACQUISITION
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 130 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE - WAIALE LAND ACQUISITION)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 119 THROUGH 130 ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Molina, to pass
Bills 119 through 130 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bill 119 amends Section 2.08.060.D.
to allow for annual step increases for OCS after consultation with Councilmembers.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 121
Bills 120 through 122 amend the Budget bill. Appendix bill, Bond Authorization bill to
add funding and a project description forWaiale Road Extension projects in the amount
of $3.5 million under the Department of Public Works.
Bills 123 through 126 amend budget, the Budget bill; Appendix A, Part I bill; Appendix C
bill; and the Bond Authorization bill to add funding and a project description under the
Department of Public Works for the Maka\wao Avenue Pavement Reconstruction,
Apana Road to Piiholo Road. This project will be funded use, using 9,531,400 in grant
funding from the Federal Highway Administration; and 3,871,000 [sic] \n Bond funding
for a total cost of $13,402,500.
Bill 127 amends Fiscal Year General Obligation Bond for the Waiale Acquisition in the
amount of $10,000,000 under Department of Finance.
Bill 128 amends Fiscal Year 2022 Budget by increasing the Bond revenue by 500,000
for the Waiale Land Acquisition.
Bill 129 amends Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix C, by adding the project entitled
"Waiale Land Acquisition" and project description, in the amount of 500,000.
And Bill 130 amends the Fiscal Year 2022 General Obligation Bond Authorization
ordinance by adding an appropriation for the Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area,
Other Projects, for a project entitled "Waiale Land Acquisition" in the amount of 500,000
under the Department of Finance.
As we've stated at our last Council meeting, this is historic. And I'm so proud of this
Council and the work of the Administration and the community who have stuck in there
to protect iwi kupuna and ail that is sacred.
In response to the testifiers comments this morning, 1 am, my office, is committed to
working with the Administration, the community and SHPD, as well as A&B to making
sure that all the responsibilities, all the obligations, are seen through and carried out
for the justice, for the lahui, so that the healing can begin.
Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo. Members, for allowing me to take this items out of order.
And the representatives from the Administration, as well as the Mayor is, are online
and available for comments or questions. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; I'm going to support this on one condition, that you take Thanksgiving off.
Members, discussion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 122
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You drive a hard bargain. Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I guess,  Imean, I, I kind of said the things
on the first reading. Maybe I should have waited to the second reading. It's still historic.
I'm still grateful. I, I just wanted to say, you know, whether it's the Veteran's Cemetery,
whether it's the burials at Waiale, or the burials at Olowalu, you know, I think all, all . .
. and I'm so grateful to be able to witness this at the front row seating. And for, for the
technology that brought us here with Dr. Six and all of the above, thank you everyone.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Paltin.
Any, anyone else? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Congratulations, everyone.
MAYOR MICHAEL VICTORINO: Excuse me. Madam Chair.  Ido not normally interrupt your
meetings, but I would ask for just a couple of minutes to say mahalo to all of you, to
our community, and to everyone that has made this possible. Many of you have said
this is a historic moment, yes, absolutely.
And as the first step in many steps, both the Administration, this Council, and others
will take to right some of the injustices that have occurred in the past. I am committed
and my Administration is committed to continue working in other areas to do what is
right for the kanaka maoii. And 1 want to thank all of you for your consideration, for
your approval. I am grateful for your help. And more so, I think the people of Maui and
the kanaka maoii are extremely gratified today, and our ancestors can rest in peace.
Mahalo to all of you. God bless you and have a Happy Thanksgiving.
CHAIR LEE; Same to you. Mayor. You take care. It's good work together. Thank you
everybody.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 123
MAYOR VICTORiNO: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Now, Mr. Clerk. Well, since the Mayor's here, is there anyone else who would
like to say a few words?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Oh, he's left. He’s left. Okay.
Mr. Clerk, shall we continue.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mayor. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, he's back again.
Oh okay. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Just a quick mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: i, I won't take up any more time. 1 just wanted to say
mahalo. extend all of our mahalo. Mahalo, Chair. And Mahalo Member Molina for
letting me cut in front of you in the agenda.
MAYOR VICTORINO: Again, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Happy Thanksgiving.
MAYOR VICTORINO: Happy Thanksgiving to all of you. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Happy Thanksgiving, Mayor. Aloha a hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, returning to committee reports.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 124
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-125NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 21-188 . entitled "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE
2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO
ESTABLISH CRIMINAL OFFENSES OF UNLAWFUL CHOP SHOP
ACTIVITY." be ADOPTED;
1.
entitled "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE2. That Resolution
2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL
RELATING TO HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENTS IN THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be
ADOPTED;
21-189
That Resolution 21-190 . entitled "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE
2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO
INCORPORATE KALAUPAPA SETTLEMENT INTO MAUI COUNTY," be
ADOPTED;
3.
That Resolution 21-191 . entitled "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE
2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO
LOWER THE SIZE THRESHOLD FOR HOME CONSTRUCTION THAT IS
CONSIDERED 'DEVELOPMENT' UNDER THE COASTAL ZONE
MANAGEMENT ACT." be ADOPTED;
4.
21-192 . entitled "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THEThat Resolution
2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL
RELATING TO THE USE OF INTOXICANTS WHILE OPERATING A
5.
VEHICLE," be ADOPTED;
That Resolution 21-193 . entitled "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE
2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO
ESTABLISH A GREEN FEE SURCHARGE ON TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS," be ADOPTED;
6.
entitled "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE7. That Resolution
2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO
21-194
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 125
ASSESS A CLMIATE CHANGE MITIGATION IMPACT FEE FOR TOURISM-
RELATED VEHICLES," be ADOPTED; and
That Resolution 21-195 , entitled "APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE
2022 MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL
RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS HOSTING PLATFORMS,"
be ADOPTED; and
8.
That correspondence dated August 26, 2021, relating to County regulation of
noise nuisances stricter than Department of Health rules be FILED.
9.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-125.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Councilmember Molina, seconded by Pro Tern Kama, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-125.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your GREAT
Committee met on September 14, 2021, as well of November 2 of this year, to discuss
proposed resolutions with attached State bills for inclusion in the 2022 Maui County
Council Legislative Package as read earlier by our Clerk.
Your Committee also discussed the benefits of each proposal and supported their
inclusion in the 2022 Maui County Council Legislative Package, with the exception of
the proposal relating to agricultural noise.
Your Committee instead discussed the County's existing authority to address
residents' complaints about commercial hemp production through possible
amendments through the Agricultural Zoning District ordinance.
And your Committee also revised a proposed State bill relating to the definition of
development by including a definition of floor area, which was modeled after the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 126
definition in the County's Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance, as recommended by the
Department of Planning.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend the proposed resolutions be adopted and
that the correspondence dated August 26, 2021, relating to the County regulation of
noise nuisances stricter than Department of Health rules, be filed. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, those are RESOLUTIONS 21-188 through
21-195, respectively.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-126NO. HUMAN CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE:
Recommending that County Communication 21-388, from Councilmember Kelly
Takaya King, relating to Commercial Ocean Recreational Activity (CORA) permits and
other commercial activity at County beach parks, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Presiding Officer Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT21-126.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 127
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And filing of the communication.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: And filing of the communication.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Pro Tern Kama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve
the recommendations in Committee Report 21-126.
Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Your HCP Committee met on November 4,
2021, and makes reference to County Communication 21-388, from Councilmember
Kelly Takaya King, relating to Commercial Ocean Recreational Activity, or CORA
permits, and other recreational activity at County beach parks.
Your Committee received information from the Department of Parks and Recreation
regarding the permit requirement process and prohibitions. Your Committee also
discussed the rates and fees for CORA permits. And your Committee recommend,
commended the Department of Parks and Recreation for its work in reducing the
CORA permit waitlist.
Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend filing of the communication. So, I ask for our
Members full support.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those-
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I, I just want to also commend the Parks Department,
because I've seen the change from my first term to this, in terms of the amount of
organization and I guess the established rules. So, therefore, I think they have a better
control over what's happening with the CORA permits. So, hats off to them. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand.
Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 128
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes", motion carries. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-127NO. HUMAN CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE:
Recommending that County Communication 21-389, from Councilmember Tasha
Kama, relating to Commercial Ocean Recreational Activity (CORA) permit
management and administrative rules, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-127.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Kama, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve
Committee Report 21, the recommendations in Committee Report 21-127.
Discussion? Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Your HCP Committee met on November 4,
2021, makes reference to County Communication 21-389, relating to Commercial
Ocean Recreational Activity, or CORA permit management and administrative rules.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 129
Your Committee received information from the Department of Parks and Recreation
providing a brief history of CORA, summaries of studies, and the number of current
permits issued by activity.
Your Committee noted that the continued growth in resident and visitor populations on
Maui are creating new demands on beach park capacities.
Your Committee also noted the responsibility of the Permits and Enforcement Division
to manage permits and daily monitoring of CORA operations at beach parks.
Your Committee commended the Department of, of its administration and
management of the CORA program.
Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend filing of the communication. And I ask again
for our Members support.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye’
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Members.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-128NO. INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:
Recommending that County Communication 20-318, from Councilmember Michael J.
Molina, relating to the installation of a stop sign on Haiku Road in Haiku, Maui, Hawaii,
be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 130
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
I  RECOMMEND, I MOVE TO ADOPT THE
RECOMMENDATIONS IN COMMITTEE REPORT 21-128.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sugimura. seconded by Pro Tern Kama, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-128.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Thank you. Chair. Your Infrastructure,
Transportation Committee met on August 5, 2021, November 1, 2021, to discuss the
installation of a stop sign at Haiku Road in Haiku, Maui, Hawaii.
Your Committee notes the Public Works Commission supported the Department of
Public Works site inspection findings that a stop sign for southbound traffic on Haiku
Road was not warranted.
The site inspection findings instead, instead supported the Installation of "No Parking"
signs along the shoulder areas to prevent future parking and ensure sight distance is
maintained, restriping the existing crosswalk and stop sign [sic], and using speed
tables, speed tables if vehicle speeds are a concern.
Your Committee was informed that road striping indicating "no parking" zones were
painted fronting Nuka Restaurant and Haiku Post Office. And the Department also
agreed to install "no parking" signage.
Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend filing of the communication. Members, at a
previous meeting had asked for a site visit, but once we got new information, we
decided, the Committee decided not to have a site visit. So, that's to answer Tamara
Paltin's question about that when it came up during Committee. But instead, the
Department worked with signage and site inspections, and they did a really great job.
So, thank you. Public Works. And we basically supported the recommendations of the
Public Works Commission, vote 5-0. I respectfully ask for Members support of my
motion. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 131
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE^CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-129NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 147 (2021). entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 19.06.020, MAUI COUNTY CODE, ADOPTING DIGITAL ZONING
MAP (3) AS THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FOR THE ISLAND OF MAUI," be
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
1.
That the County Clerk RECORD the First Amendment to Unilateral Agreement;2.
and
That County Communication 21-457, from the Planning Director, be FILED.3.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-21, 129.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 21-129.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 132
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, second by Member Sugimura, to approve the
Committee Report recommendations in 21-129.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee, having met on October 21, 2021, makes reference to County
Communication 21-457, from the Planning Director, transmitting a proposed bill
entitled 'A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.06.020, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, ADOPTING DIGITAL ZONING MAP (3) AS THE OFFICIAL ZONING
MAP FOR THE ISLAND OF MAUI".
Purpose of the proposed bill is to adopt digital zoning map (3) as the official zoning
map for the island of Maui. Map (3) includes two corrections to map (2) which was
adopted by the Council on November 13, 2019, Ordinance 5006.
Your Committee notes a digital zoning map provides a graphical portrayal of zoning
designations established by ordinance.
Your Committee further notes the Maui Planning Commission reviewed the proposed
bill at its meeting of August 10, 2021 and voted unanimously to support the bill with
revisions.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill on first reading
recordation of the unilateral agreement, and filing of the communication.
And this is the first correction made to the digital zoning map that wasn't an error in the
way things were mapped. This was a correction made to our Committee work when
we didn't determine, for the Paia Courtyard, that the zoning was P/Q-P1. So, that's
why this one includes a unilateral agreement. I respectfully ask for the Members
support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 133
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SlNENCi, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 147 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-130NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 148 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON
NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI," be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
1.
That County Communication 21-280, from Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins
Fernandez, be FILED;
2.
That Miscellaneous Communication dated June 29, 2021, from the County
Clerk, transmitting a copy of Resolution 21-98, be FILED; and
3.
That County Communication 21-377, from the Mayor, be FILED.4.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-130.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 134
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 21-130.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee, having met on November 3, 2021, makes reference to County
Communication 21-280, transmitting a proposed resolution "REFERRING TO THE
MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION A BILL TO ESTABLISH CHAPTERS 19.98 AND
20.41, MAU! COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI".
The purpose ofthe proposed bill is to establish Chapters 19.98 and 20.41, Maui County
Code, for a moratorium to maintain the number of transient accommodations units for
a two-year period until the Council enacts legislation addressing the findings and
recommendations presented by a Budget, Finance, and Economic Development
Committee-established Tourism Management Temporary Investigative Group, or two
years from the enactment of the bill, whichever is sooner.
Your Committee notes the Maui Planning Commission, at its meeting of September
28, 2021, recommended approval ofthe proposed bill attached to Resolution 21-98,
with revisions.
Your Committee received numerous written and oral testimony in support and
opposition to the revised proposed bill.
Your Committee received a computer-generated presentation from the Department of
Planning, entitled "Proposed Moratorium on New Transient Vacation
Accommodations," and discussed revisions as recommended to the Commission,
which your Committee supported.
Your Committee further amended the revised proposed bill to delete language
extending the moratorium in an additional six months; delete Title 20 which was
confirmed to be redundant by Department of Corp. Counsel; and add an exception to
allow modifications to permits that existed prior to the effective date of the moratorium
but do not increase the number of units.
Your Committee voted 5-2 to recommend passage ofthe proposed bill on first reading
and filing ofthe communications.
And at this time, I'd like to propose an amendment based on the testimony that we
heard today.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 135
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ifstaff-
CHAIR LEE; Would you like to make your amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure, i, there should be an ASF that Members should have
had emailed to them.
SO. I WOULD MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 2 OF THE BILL BY
STRIKING, "IS PROPERLY FILED WITH THE COUNTY", AND
INSERTING IN ITS PLACE "THAT HAS RECEIVED ITS FINAL
DISCRETIONARY APPROVAL".
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to make that
amendment.
Could you repeat the amendment again?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure. If my motion is approved, Section 2 would read as
follows: "This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does not apply to the processing,
approval, or granting of any application for the approval of a new transient
accommodation that has received its final discretionary approval, prior to the effective
date of this Ordinance".
Discussion?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. This amendment is based on testimony
received at today's Council meeting. Developers have vested rights upon receiving
final discretionary approval for a project. The moratorium should not apply to any
projects that have received their final discretionary approval, but should apply to other
transient accommodations.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 136
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Just wondering if we know how many there
are any in the queue that, that have started the permit process? You know. I thought.
CHAIR LEE; Do you know? Member Paltin. did you check on that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, I just was basing it on the testimony of Mr. Mayer and
Mr. Perez, cause they're pretty knowledgeable guys and I know that they're--
CHAIR LEE: So, do we have Director McLean on the call, or do we have Director Dagdag-
Andaya on the call?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Not to my knowledge.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? Ready to vote?
Member Sugimura.
don't have a ASF inCOUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Can you read that again?  Idon't,
my, oh, I just saw it. Sorry, I just got it. I would like to look at it.
Member Sugimura, did you want to check in with Corp.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Counsel?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Sure. Check in with Corp. Counsel on this
amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel. I think Corp. Counsel's on the line. Yes, Ms. Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON; Thank you. I’m also just trying to
take a look at that as well, see what the modification is.
CHAIR LEE: Can, can you speak a little louder, please?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Sure. So. this looks like, is the,
is the intention that this moratorium would apply to permits that are in process, or
applications that are in process, but not yet finalized.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yes, that is the intent, that the moratorium would apply to those
that are in process but have not yet received their final discretionary approvals.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 137
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: So, it would basically halt them
and kind of where they are. they could receive no further processing?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: During the two years, or until the implementation of the TIG
legislations, whichever is sooner.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Okay. 1 just wanted to make sure
that I understood the intent. So, it, it is, it is a policy call.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Everybody ready for the vote? All those in favor of the amendment, raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI. AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five, six; six "ayes".
Those opposed, raise your hand and say "no".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, the "noes" are myself. Member Sugimura, and Member Kama. The
motion carries. So, the amendment passes.
Do you have any more?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That was it. The other testifier, I think, with the ILWU, we, we
did address it. That's why I asked that clarifying question. Renovations are allowed
as long as they don't increase the number of rooms. So, I feel like that concern is
addressed in the legislation, otherwise, i would have tried to address it. But when I
clarified what he wanted, it, to me it was addressed in the legislation. So, I wouldn't,
it's already done.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 138
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, I'm really ... because one of my biggest
concerns \when we didn't pass the original moratorium bill was permits are ... . So,
this helps address the, the amendment helps address what we, that concern. But my
other concern is the timing of the TIG and possible, possible enactment of whatever
the TIG recommends. And concern for the County, for the district of South Maui that
is currently in its, its review of the community plan. Whereas the south, the West Maui
Community Plan was able to address this issue in the community plan. We won't get,
we might not get to that point in South Maui before the moratorium ends. So, I just
wanted to check with, I'm not sure, who is, Member Rawlins-Fernandez the Chair of
the TIG?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, what, any idea on your timing of the, and how that will affect
the community plan review for South Maui?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo. Member King, for the
question. So, I do have an amendment to address your question. Okay, let's see.
CHAIR LEE: Would you like to make it now?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member King, would you like me to make it now? I
don't want to take your time, but.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I would love for you to ... .
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay, okay. Alright, mahalo. Okay.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.98.010 PURPOSE, TO ADD
"WHICH ESTABLISHES A TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION
LIMIT CATEGORIZED BY ACCOMMODATION TYPE AND BY
COMMUNITY PLAN AREA".
And Clerk's Office just sent that ASF to you folks. If the, if you see typos in it, then
that, it's from me. It's not from OCS. So, at 3:52 you should have received it.
So, it will read, "which establishes", oh, i need  asecond. Okay. Yeah, so I move to
make that amendment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19. 2021
Page 139
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
I'LL, I'LL SECOND THE AMENDMENT.
I'm assuming that that means that, it would not, the moratorium would go into effect
after the community plan in Kihei is completed?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Vice-Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; More, moratorium would, would, would be in effect until the
community plan is, review is completed.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So the, this proposal would establish
a cap. So, a mechanism to create a cap. Let’s see if I can say it more. No. Okay, so
in 19.65.030, for STRs, there's a cap for each community plan area. And that's for
STRs and then for B&Bs. And so this proposal would extend that concept to
Hotel/Resort units, TVRs that require a Conditional Use Permit, and TVRs that do not
require Conditional Use Permit.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so essentially, so essentially that allows-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, let me-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Sorry, go ahead.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, that we, we could establish a cap. So, it wouldn't
be a moratorium, but it would be a cap that would enable us to pause, you know, gro\Arth
until the community plan update for South Maui has been completed.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great. Alright. Well, thank you. Thank you for that. I really
appreciate it, cause I think we're going to have something to say about this.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion on the amendment offered by Vice-Chair Rawlins
Fernandez? You can't hear me? Any more discussion? Oh, I see.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: When you went like this, I thought you meant you, you have a question. Okay.
Member Paltin. Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 140
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just, maybe v\/e can confirm \A/ith Corp. Counsel that this
is a policy decision.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel, did you hear the question, or the conversation?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Yes, I did. Yes, I would consider
this definitely a policy decision. If you don't mind, Councilmember Paltin, your first
amendment, it might be simpler just to say in Section 2, "this ordinance takes effect on
approval", and period and just leave it at that. Because the language about vest, the
vested rights . . . discretionary permits is already in the body of the bill. For
consideration.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll hear Member Rawlins’ thoughts on that, cause it looked like
she was raising her hand.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Paltin. Mahalo,
Ms. Thomson. So, we have a motion on the floor right now, which is to address
Member King's concern. And, and then, perhaps if Member Paltin would like to
consider that, we can move for a reconsideration after we take the vote on this motion
on the floor. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So, shall we continue? Members, do you have any more discussion on the
second amendment by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Okay, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Again, it's six "ayes".
Those against.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
CHAIR LEE: Three "noes"; that's myself. Member Sugimura, and Pro Tern Kama. Motion
carries.
Okay, so now going back to your first amendment. Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 141
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, ifyoudon't-
CHAIR LEE; For reconsideration.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; --mind if I could get some input from ourOCS lawyers if it would
be the same thing or not. Cause you know, I'm not  alawyer.
CHAIR LEE; You should have been. Okay. So, David. David, or Remy, or James, are you
on the call?
Yes, David. Did you hear the question?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ;  !did. Thank you, Chair
Lee. And thank you. Member, Councilmember Paltin. We've re-reviewed the body of
the bill and we agree with the First Deputy Corporation Counsel. I think just shortening
Section 2 to end it after the statement that the ordinance takes effect upon its approval
would have the same effect and would be more concise, and therefore, more
consistent with legislative drafting principles. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, can I ask one further question?
CHAIR LEE; David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Yes, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Can we do that through a friendly amendment from our tenth
member, or do I need to do a reconsideration?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; We . . .
CHAIR LEE; You mean, Richelle?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; We, we would not suggest a friendly
amendment. We would suggest a formal amendment. So, perhaps, I, I'm not clear if
there's a motion on the floor for your amendment, Councilmember Paltin. But if not,
you can just make a new motion at the appropriate time, to follow the advice of the
Corporation Counsel. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; So, David, a new motion rather than a reconsideration?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 142
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Oh, I, I'm sorry, was, was Councilmember
Paltin's motion already approved?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. Yes, under
Robert's a motion to reconsideration would, to reconsider would be in order. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, I'm going to-
CHAIR LEE: . . . would you like to--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; -reconsider-
CHAIRLEE: Pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO RECONSIDER.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Johnson, to reconsider the, the
motion, the initial motion. Do we need further discussion. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Urn, do you want me to say what the motion-
CHAIR LEE: All in favor of the motion--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; So, the, the reconsidered motion would read as Deputy Corp.
Counsel Thomson suggested.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 143
CHAIR LEE; Well, we have to take a vote on the reconsideration.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, my bad. Sorry,
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the reconsideration, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes'
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you. I move to reopen up that first amendment to
say--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, point of order.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, we're, we're, we're right where we left off. So, I
I think you don't have to make another motion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. What do I do now?
CHAIR LEE: Well, she has to correct, she has to change the language, yeah? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll change the language.
CHAIR LEE: You ready to do that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: With the, with the, she can friendly amendment her
amendment with a approval from the seconder of the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19. 2021
Page 144
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair, maybe it might be more prudent if we
take a short recess to allow Member Paltin to confer with staff to figure out how we're
going to do this, yeah? So, then that way it gives everybody a little bit more leeway
and then can work this out and come back with something that's much cleaner and
less confusing to, to the Members. So, I just throw that out as a suggestion. Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. That is a good idea, because she was relying on Corp. Counsel to come
up with the language and, and right, Member Paltin? So, this way you can get it from
her directly, and then you can propose your amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: So, you think you can do that in five minutes?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I would hope so.
CHAIR LEE: Well, you want five or you want ten?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . .
CHAIR LEE: Five? You want, what is that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Five. Five should work.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, we'll take a five-minute break. Come back at 4:10. Meeting
is in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 4:02 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 4:11 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of November 19, 2021 please reconvene. Member
Paltin, ready?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes, Chair. Okay, so we're at the point where I made the first
amendment. I made the motion. And over the break,  Iwas inundated with messages
not to change it, because folks like the clarity and redundancy.
CHAIR LEE: So, you're going back to the original amendment?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 145
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So I guess, I, 1 could move some words around, but basically
the same. I mean, if it's not illegal, people feel that Planning needs that redundancy
and clarity, 1 guess, in relation to recent event. Not sure. I mean.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, just do what you think is right.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. So, let’s take the vote.
CHAIR LEE: Well, you have to make the amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We need a new motion. There's no motion on the floor.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. We need a new motion, right. Which is the old motion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I'LL SWAP OUT THE OLD MOTION TO SAY, "THIS
ORDINANCE TAKES EFFECT ON APPROVAL, BUT DOES
NOT APPLY TO THE PROCESSING, APPROVAL, OR
GRANTING OF ANY APPLICATION FOR THE APPROVAL OF
A NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION THAT IS PROPERLY
FILED AND HAS RECEIVED FINAL APPROVAL WITH THE
COUNTY PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS
ORDINANCE".
CHAIR LEE: Second? Somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Johnson.
Discussion on your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure. So, it's-
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 146
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The point of order was because that's
the, the motion and the second already exists. Member Paltin was just repeating what
the motion is. And I think the seconder was Member King. Oh, it was Member
Johnson. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; This-
CHAIR LEE: I don't, I don't know that what you're saying is exactly correct, because we, we
went back. She didn't make the motion. She was going to consult with Counsel,
Corporation Counsel, is my recollection. She was going to get the wording from
Corporation Counsel. But in the meantime, she changed her mind and is going to go
back to the original verbiage, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well-
CHAIR LEE: So, that's why we needed a new motion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So, she withdrew her old motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Withdrew it?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We, when, when we make the recon, oh. I'll let Mr. Krueger
explain it, cause he's so good at that. He sent me . . . the break.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. So, the body reconsidered Councilmember
Paltin's original amendment to the main motion. That reconsideration motion was
successful. So, because of that, that brought the body back to that first motion right at
the moment before they took the vote. So, that motion still remains on the floor with
Councilmember Paltin's original language. So, that original motion is intact. And the
body can adjust that motion, amend that motion, or withdraw that motion. It can do
whatever. But that motion is on the floor.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. So, that means, before we, i call on you. Member King, that
means. Member Paltin, hello? Member Paltin? So, what you just said just now. is it
exactly how you said it the first time? No? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The meaning is the same. But I figured if we went through the
exercise of reconsideration.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 147
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let, let's hear from other people.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, v\/e're at the point where the, her first amendment was
on the floor, to me, that was, that was more comprehensive, I could understand. The,
the, I don't understand the new verbiage that you just tried to propose. So, my
preference would be, if we're at the point with the original motion, just to vote on the
original motion for the amendment. Cause I don't-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The second amendment is ... there was so many words in there.
I don't, it was really hard to understand.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll accept that as a friendly amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Go back to the original?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else want to chime in at this point?
Member Paltin, can you repeat your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. So, the original original-
CHAIR LEE: Which you're going to keep, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Which I'm going to keep would read, "This Ordinance takes
effect upon approval, but does not apply to the processing, approval, or granting of any
application for the approval of a new transient accommodation that has received its final
discretionary approval prior to the effective date of this Ordinance". And that's what's written
on the ASF.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, that's great. Any more comments or anything? More discussion?
Okay, all in favor of that motion, that amendment raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that's six "ayes". And "no"?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 148
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Three "noes"; myself. Member Sugimura, and Pro Tern Kama.
Alright, so we have your recommend, amendment.
Vice-ChairAnd then, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, any more amendments?
Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I have some non-substantive
amendment.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO AMEND VARIOUS PROPOSED MAUI COUNTY
CODE SECTIONS FOR NON-SUBSTANTIVE CHANGES AS
FOLLOWS:
19.98.040 EXCEPTIONS. C. 1., TO INSERT "TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS OPERATING" BEFORE THE SENTENCE
"IN ZONING DISTRICTS WHERE" AND; F. TO ADD THE
NUMBER "4." BEFORE "HOUSING CREDITS MAY NOT BE
ISSUED TO OR USED BY". AND YOU-
CHAIRLEE: Is, is that it?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. That's the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 149
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. You should have received it, yeah,
at 4:18. It just arrived in my inbox. Like 1 said, it's non-substantive. It's just
housekeeping. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more proposed amendments? Alright. On the-
Member Paltin, why are you shaking your head?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No further amendments. Thatwas-
CHAIR LEE: No further amendments?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -the "no" to your question.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, nobody else? So, we're going to vote on the main motion, as
amended. So, now we're going to have discussion.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I think we need to take the vote on
the non-substantive, because I made a motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we could do that. All those in favor of the non-substantive changes raise
your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes".
No"?
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
CHAIR LEE: Three "noes"; myself. Member Sugimura, and Member Kama.
Alright. So, no more amendments. So, now we're at discussion for the motion, main
motion as amended.
Member Paltin, first.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 150
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh. would this be-
CHAIR LEE: You don't have to say anything, but.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. I think my first discussion I maybe took it a little bit out
of order, so that'll be my discussion. Just rinse and repeat.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, are you done?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yeah. Yeah. I think we've discussed
this a lot. And I think ail the points that have been made, I will insert them here again
for the sixth time. And I think, you know, this is necessary to help us address the
community's concerns and to help find that balance that we've been trying to strike and
uphold the Maui Island Plan.
And, but we're also doing work in the TIG to diversify the economy, so that, you know,
as, as we work to control the tourism industry, we're also building up other industries
to create more and better paying, higher quality jobs for our residents. And this will
enable the South Maui community to be able to take up their community plan
amendment and address it while this kind of puts this on pause, puts the hotel and
transient accommodation on pause. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? Okay. I, I'll say something. I am not totally against a
moratorium. But under the circumstances, I can't vote for this because I really don't
have a grasp, the full fiscal implications of what we're doing today. Because it's not
only the moratorium that's moving forward, it's also restricting transient
accommodations and hotels. So, my feeling is that these transient accommodations
combined account for over $200 million in real property taxes. And we only generate
380 to 385 million. So, that's a huge amount, a huge amount.
So, be, my thinking is before we start restricting these accommodations, we need to
know what will the fiscal implications be and how do we offset them without having to
go to the home, not the, the homeowner, the owner occupant, who we've managed not
to touch all these years. So, because of that, that's one of my main concerns.
If, if we weren't trying to restrict transient accommodations while we're stopping hotel
development and everything else, that would be one thing. But we're doing it all
simultaneously and that is what worries me. The uncertainties worry me because we
have nothing to replace it with at this time. Hopefully in, in the future, and the TIG is
working hard in that direction. But how long that's going to actually take is, is another
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 151
question. Because as you know, we only come up with policies. We can't implement
them. Any other discussion before the vote?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I appreciate. I’ve been hearing, although I'm not part
of the TIG, I've been hearing that the TIG is working really hard, so thank you, Keani,
for your leadership.
And, and I will say that one of the things that's difficult is the TIG operates and we, the
rest of the Council or the community don't know really what's happening. And we're
being asked to rely on, you know, that for our future, future reveal basically and we
don't know what it is. And Member Lee, or Chair Lee brings up those points of how
important it is that we're taking, we're walking down the path and maybe jeopardizing
some of the financial security that we have as a Council by the very people that pay
for the majority of, or a big part of our taxes.
And I still remember that handwritten note from Mr. Matsuda who said don't raise my
taxes, you know. And, and, and 1 think that without us having, you know,
comprehensive information, before making this decision is a little spooky. 1 agree with
Chair Lee.
I also want to say that I know that one of the objectives of this is to stop tourism,
because there's so many, or stop the visitors from coming because there's so many.
And that Maui Island Plan ratio that we keep, kept on hearing about through the
previous bill and this bill is being talked about, you know, to keep the numbers down,
or get the numbers down of visitors. And ! don't believe there's a direct impact for that.
So, the purpose and, and what the bill is, is a little bit disjointed.
But I, I, so I'm going to vote "no" again, as I did, you know, from, in the past. So, 1 just
wanted to justify. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I'm in strong support of the moratorium for
many reasons. One is the Maui Island Plan prescribes and basically mandates us to
try to keep this ratio to . . . we're already over the ratio as described in the Maui Island
Plan.
But also, we make a commitment by resolution to a circular economy. And tourism is
one of the most extractive parts of our economy that we could have. They have multi-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 152
national corporations coming in and setting up camp and taking millions of dollars out
of our economy with the, you know, with, that go to their headquarters on a daily basis.
We have a phenomenal amount of, of greenhouse gas emissions in the aviation that
brings the tourists here. But we are going to have address those aviation issues. I
think they're purport, purported to be about 50 percent of the emissions for the total
State. And we're not even counting them right now. We're not counting any of the
flights that go in and out internationally. And we're only counting one way of the flights
that come domestically. So, we are going to have to address this one way or another.
We need to start now, as soon as possible. This is a really important move.
And this is also, the other part of this is it's going to keep us from digging ourselves in
deeper in this hole that we're in. That the over-dependence on tourism is what got us
into this big trouble when the pandemic hit. Everything came to a halt. And because
tourism was basically our, our largest and almost only part of our economy, we had the
highest unemployment rate in the country. We can't allow ourselves to keep doing
that, and we have to put a stop to that. And that's what this moratorium is about.
You know, we got to force our, if we have to force ourselves to look for other ways to
expand our economy and make it about the local people, how more local people can
participate and contribute and benefit from the economy, instead of just having $12
and $15 an hour jobs where they have to work two or three or sometimes four jobs just
to make a living. We need those family wage earning jobs. We need careers. And
you know, we talk a lot about, about people, the young people leaving our, our islands
because they can't find houses. Well, the, and just as big a reason is they can't find
career pathways. And they don't want to work for $15 an hour for the rest of their life
and have to work two or three jobs.
We have got to start building our economy in a circular way that gives those career
options. And, and we can't afford to continue to dig ourselves deeper into this tourism
economy. We're not going to get there if we do that. We're just going to build more
dependence on it. And that's, it's almost an analogy for what we've been doing with
petroleum. We've been saying we want to cut our greenhouse gas emissions, but how
many people are still driving to, driving on petroleum on their way to the environmental
meetings? You know, you got to, at some point you got to just stop it, and you gotta
start, start doing, turning things around and, and do the right things.
So, so I, this is a good ... I thought the, the original moratorium was good. But I
understand why, why there was a move to, to keep us out of court. So, if it had to be
this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 153
And I really appreciate addressing the South Maui issues as we're in the middle of our
community plan. But to me, we, we can't afford to continue building more and more
tourism. We have to stop it. We have to start forcing ourselves to diversify our
economy and look for ways that local people can be in, in a bigger participant in their
own economy.
And to me, you know, one of the number one industry's is, is agriculture. So, we've
already got a good start on that. I'm really proud of this Council for the last two terms,
how much money we've put into agriculture. We've really turned, flipped it over. We
put as much money into agriculture as we used to put into tourism, which was
something I've been talking about since I got on this Council.
Member Paltin talking about, yesterday, when she tried to pass something in her first
year and she didn't get the support. That's how I felt in my first term, you know. So,
I'm happy to see now the support for looking at a local economy. And that's, so, 1, I'm
really happy with this. I think it's the right move to do and I think it's the right time . . .
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I'll be quick. I, I, I rise in strong support
ofthis. This is a real long time coming. It's really important. I think when Nook at the
amount of people who aren't going back to work. They don't want to work in the hotels.
The amount of empty positions in, on Lanai is, is almost a third. So, it's really amazing
that this is a, this body took this on. 1 think it's important.
I know the industry doesn't like this but, you know, you can't ask a tiger to change its,
its stripes. But sometimes we gotta, we have to do it, for their own betterment. If I, if I
owned a hotel and we put a moratorium, then that means there's no more competition
and we can, we can continue to build a better product. But if you're going to open the
floodgates, the sky is the limit, right? So, we don't want to have the sky as the limit on
this, you know. We want to have controlled growth, smart growth. Those kinds of
things are really important.
And the people of our communities know that. We know that it's an extractive system,
like Councilmember Keani, or Kelly King mentioned. It's like, why are we fighting over
the crumbs when they get the cookies? That's how this industry is. So, I, 1,1 think that
this is a smart move. I, I applaud all the folks who worked hard on this. And I just want
to ... on that. Thank you. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 154
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Johnson.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know. I've never been a fan
of moratoriums, and it's certainly not an easy topic to deal with. But I've, you know,
changed my position on this. Because, you know, every so many years, every
community needs to do a self-assessment, you know, reassess things like growth and
its impact on the environment and the residents' quality of life.
So, I think, in my opinion, we are at a point in Maui County's history where we've seen
unprecedented popular, popularity of Maui County as a tourist destination, and
certainly other types of commerce has certainly grown, which is good. But however,
to use an old economics class term "opportunity costs", where every good opportunity,
there are costs that go with it. And the cost for Maui becoming so popular in terms of
tourism, it adds impacts such as more traffic congestion, more of our beach parks being
taken up so our residents, you know, don't have an opportunity to go there.
And then, of course, our keiki o ka aina and our kamaaina not having opportunities to
afford a house, that is really, really shameful. And I'm not sure if tourism is the primary
cause of that, but it is what it is. You know, as land costs go up and the rich folks come
here willing to pay anything, and of course part of it too is, you know, some of our
residents decide to sell. And sometimes you cannot blame them when someone's
going to offer millions of dollars for a piece of land. But all of that, you know, contributes
to what we're experiencing right now. All of these issues that have converged.
And maybe it is a time where we need to take that pause and reassess how we look
at tourism, how we want to manage it, and looking down the road towards economic
diversification and not be totally dependent on the tourism industry. So, I look at this
moratorium more as an opportunity to reset and make us really stop, pause, think about
what we really want to do. So, which is why, you know, I, I'm going to support this.
And, you know, the last moratorium we had was 30 years ago. So, maybe, you know,
and Maui County came, came out okay after that. And back in my first go around on
the Council, I remember a former colleague of mine Jo Anne Johnson, she always
used to talk about or try to champion carrying-capacity studies. So, we need to look
at how, how much population our County can handle. And so, that's why we need to
look at things like that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 155
And just, it's just, you know, a time where we need to just reassess things. Because,
you know, tensions have, you know, gone up, you know, amongst residents towards
the visitor industry, and we don't want that. We don't want anything to divide our
community. So, that's why sometimes just taking that pause, taking a breath, and say
okay, let's maybe do a, do a reset, you know? And hopefully we can come out of this
in spite of COVID. So, you add that to the mix, this makes it even more complicated.
So, maybe it is high time for something like this to occur. So, this is why I'm going to
support this. It's not easy, but it may be the thing to do right now at this point in time.
Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: You're welcome.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair, for my opportunity. I speak in support of
this, this moratorium. I think this moratorium will have no fiscal impact because it still
won't eliminate the existing transient accommodations. As I stated earlier, while . . .
up this last tax season, when we did raise taxes on the hotels, we did not see the
industry come up and speak against those tax increases. And I think it's because
during the pandemic, you know, hotel, the hotel industry did receive CARES Act
funding to keep those employees employed for their medical expenses.
And so, again, like I said earlier, the Finance Director has always said that Maui land
valuations are much higher than other islands with faster and larger returns for offshore
investors including hotels. So, it seems like every so often we hear in the news that
another billionaire has, has acquired more property on Maui and added that to their
personal investment portfolio. So, I think we need to focus on our housing, who's going
to, if we just put all our eggs into the tourism industry, who's going to be working for
those industries if we can't even house our, our own people?
And while Maui continues to be lucrative for offshore investments, and we continue to
experience widespread homelessness like today's ceremonial resolution
exodus of our young people and families of off-isiand and, and constantly seeing
whatever housing inventory be gobbled up by the offshore investors. So, I, this is, this
is good policy. We need to, you know, send a strong message that this type of policy
is for Maui County. Mahalo.
mass
CHAIR LEE: Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Oh, did you want to say something?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 156
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I did. I. I was, I was scratching my face, but I did
want to say something. So, I'll, I'll, but I'll make it quick. I echo what Member Sinenci
shared in that this moratorium-
CHAIR LEE: Are you sharing the fact, you being the Budget Chair, are you sharing the fact
that, that there will be no fiscal impact?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: With the moratorium?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. At, at the same-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, everything-
CHAIR LEE: -and at the same time as we cap, as we cap transition, transient
accommodations and so forth, therefore, getting less income from these places.
There's no physical, fiscal impact? Just checking.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, for this moratorium, it just
preserves status quo. So, I don't expect any impact from the moratorium. You asked
separately on the phase-out of TVR, which is not, not what we're taking up right now.
And that has a potential impact. But that's assuming that we would keep all the rates
at the same level, and not adjust as we've been working toward doing so. So, I, I don't
plan to keep it at the same rates.
And this Council has done such an amazing job at really restructuring to provide relief.
As Member Sugimura mentioned in her testimony, don't raise my taxes. Yeah, for our
residents and, you know, for those that we're trying to incentivize long-term housing,
yes. I, we have been, and we continue to provide tax relief for that.
Forthe multi-billionaires, as Member Sinenci talked about, 1 personally don't want more
multi-billionaires coming here and just grabbing up land like on Kauai with Mark
Zuckerberg, with here Jeff Bezos, Oprah's buying more land. And it's, it's really
impacting our community. And so, you know, I think together, as we create a
comprehensive tax scheme to provide relief where, where it is needed, and to create
deterrents, and fair share opportunities, we will address the rates appropriately in those
tiers, in those tier thresholds.
But what I, what I did want to say is, you know, we've been talking about sharing about
the Maui island Plan to promote a desirable island population by striving to not exceed
an island-wide visitor population of roughly 33 percent of the resident population.
Mr. Mayer shared with me other parts of the plan that are equally important, which is
the County's principle role involves regulation of land use including visitor units and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 157
relative recreational real estate in addition to commercial attractions. And that’s on
page 410.
On page 411, to protect the quality of Maui's visitor industry and the island lifestyle, the
County must carefully manage and control any future expansion of visitor units on Maui
island.
On page413, comprehensively manage future visitor unit expansion. On page [sic],
again, mitigate the impact of tourism on the host culture, I wouldn't have written host
culture, but that's what was written, natural environment, and resident lifestyles. And
again, on page 413, develop programs or regulations to: 2) cap the number of type,
cap the number and type of visitor accommodations that can be permitted; and
3) manage the number and type of visitor accommodations that can be permitted.
And while working on the TIG, we did more research. And the, we found that the 2010
County, Countywide Policy Plan in, includes the elements of early general plans of
1980 and 1990, and provides the framework for development of the Maui Island Plan
and the nine community plans. And in the 1990 General Plan, it called for provide a
concept of a hotel room limit in community plan areas as provided, sorry, as part of the
managed and directed growth plan. It also said to discourage any additional shoreline
resort development. And that was 31 years ago. And here we are finally doing what
the 1990 island plan asked us to do, or General Plan, General Plan, 1990 General
Plan. So, good job, Councilmembers, for following through on some of these
longstanding issues of finally putting in those control mechanisms. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: And thank you for thanking the Council of 1990 for doing that. That's me.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's you?
CHAIR LEE: Member-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ah, mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Member Paltin. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you. I just wanted to clarify the record on the hotel
taxes, that they actually paid less this past year because of the way that they were
valuated, which was adjusted for COVID. But that didn't happen for any other category,
so they didn't pay more. They paid less. And, and  Iguess that's like a point of
information to correct the record.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 158
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Actually, i wasn't really concerned about the hotel taxes. The transient
accommodations account for 137,908,000 by themselves without the hotels. And they
didn't get a discount.
Okay. Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; I didn’t have anything to say, Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, we should be ready for the vote. All those in favor of the main motion
as amended raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I see six "ayes".
And then, those against, raise your hand and say "no".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we have six "ayes", three "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 148 (2021).
Proceeding with ordinances for second and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 118 (20211
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO REAL PROPERTY DEDICATED AS ‘AlNA KOPUNA
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, at this time. County Communication 21-529 Is also before
the body.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 159
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-529
(dated November 12, 2021)
Transmitting proposed amendments to Bill 118 (2021) entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
REAL PROPERTY DEDICATED AS ‘AlNA KOPUNA".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'm sure you're, get, all getting tired
of hearing my voice already. Okay.
I  MOVE TO PASS BILL 118 ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to pass
Bill 118 on second and final reading.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bill 118 adds. Bill 118 (2021) adds a
section to the Maui County Code relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as ‘alna
kupuna. The bill would allow more long-time Maui residents to retain ownership and
continue to enjoy use of their family lands. If there are no objections at this time, I
would like to proceed with proposed amendments posted on today's agenda, as
County Communication 21-529.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 160
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay, so if you'll please refer to the
Amendment Summary Form. Let's see, you should have received it. Oh, sorry. The
Amendment Summary Form is CC 21-529 for the motion.
I  MOVE TO AMEND VARIOUS PROVISIONS OF THE
PROPOSED MAUI COUNTY CODE SECTION 3.48.361 AS
FOLLOWS;
IN SUBSECTION (A), MOVE THE DEFINITION OF
"DESCENDANT” TO THE END OF THE SUBSECTION
AND CORRECT THE NUMBERING;
1.
IN SECTION (A)(3), CHANGE THE DEFINED TERM
"COMMERCIAL PURPOSES" TO "COMMERCIAL
PURPOSE";
2.
IN SUBSECTION (B)(5) STRIKE "PRIOR" BEFORE "TEN
TAX YEARS" AND INSERT "PRIOR TO THE INITIAL
APPLICATION" AFTER THAT TERM;
3.
IN SUBSECTION (B)(6);4.
REPLACE "THE MAJORITY OF" WITH "AT LEAST
ONE"; AND
A.
REPLACE THE "OWNERS, TRUSTEES, BOARD
OF DIRECTORS, OR SHAREHOLDERS ARE
RESIDENTS" WITH "OWNER, TRUSTEE, BOARD,
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, OR
SHAREHOLDER MUST BE A RESIDENT";
B.
IN SUBSECTION (C);5.
STRIKE, A. STRIKE "THEIR'
REPlJ\CE "THEY" WITH "THE OWNER"; ANDB.
M.
C. STRIKE "LINEAL
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 161
IN SUBSECTION (D);6.
ADD "AND PROPERTY" AFTER THE FIRST TWO
INSTANCES OF THE WORD "APPLICANT"; AND
A.
REPLACE "DESIGNATED" WITH "DEDICATED":B.
IN SUBSECTION (E). INSERT "NO LATER THAN
DECEMBER 31" AFTER THE "THE NINTH YEAR OF
EACH DEDICATED PERIOD"; AND
7.
FINALLY, 8. IN SUBSECTION (F) STRIKE "NON-LINEAL
DESCENDANT" AND REPLACE WITH "NON-DESCENDANT .
AND MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-529.
CHAIR LEE; And all of these are non-substantive?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Urn, let's see. Most of them are, except for, well
yeah, 4 and 3.
CHAIR LEE: 3 and 4?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE; You want to explain those?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I can. Do you want, do you want to get a second first
or you want me to explain first?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member, well, I thought I did. Member King.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Well, that’s alright. That's alright. Moved by you, on the, to make these
amendments. And then, seconded by Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 162
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chair. Okay. So-
CHAIR LEE: I think Member King seconded the, the first motion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Main motion?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So. in number 3, this was a good catch. So, this is
we replaced "prior" with "prior to the initial application". And so, the way that it reads,
and it's all highlighted so that you can find the amendments easily. And then, I say
that and now 1 can't find it.
CHAIR LEE: It's under 4 on page 2? What, what page?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: it's under renewal. Let's see, B, (B)(5). There it is.
Okay.
CHAIR LEE: (B)(5)? Oh, I see.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The aggregate real property taxes assessed on the
property for the, so it said, "prior ten years". But because of the way that the renewal
is, so it's prior ten years "prior to the initial application exceeding $50,000". So, if the
dedication happens when they, when the property owner goes to renew, under the
unamended language, it would not meet this criteria because the taxes would have
been the minimum tax for the past ten years as a result of the dedication. And so-
CHAIR LEE: When you say, when the property owner goes to renew, you're talking about
renew the second ten years. The next ten years.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Exactly. And so. that, that was a really good
catch, because when after the ten-year dedication in renewing, that property would
then not qualify because of this criteria. So. that's why we added "initial", that the initial
application, and then, that way it's, it's accounted for the first time. Okay?
And then, number 4~
CHAIRLEE: On page?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -in Subsection (B)(6). (B)(6) is also on page 2. And
you heard testimony on this, this morning. The majority of owners, trustees, board of
directors, to at least one. because some of these families, because of the length of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 163
time the property was owned and then all the heirs, not necessarily all the heirs and
descendants stay on, on Maui. And so, to accommodate for the, this kind of legacy
land ownership, to have multiple descendants to be able to live elsewhere as well, their
descendants.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, does anybody else have questions. Members?
Member Paltin. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Urn, I guess my question was, how did it go from majority to
one member? How was those numbers decided upon?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member Paltin. Oh, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Sure. Go ahead.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Paltin. So, we
looked to the kuleana land ordinance, and followed the precedent there. Mahalo,
Member Paltin. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Then we have Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, this was cleared and worked with Corp.
Counsel. Is Corp. Counsel there?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Mahalo, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
That's where a lot of the non-substantive
amendments came from, and as well as OCS. But if you want to ask Corporation
Counsel, I’m . . .
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, then Corp. Counsel signed off on all of these, or the
bill, I guess, the revised bill as amended. Corp. Counsel?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Thank you. Yes. We've reviewed
both the bill and the proposed amendments and, you know, don't have any, any
additional comments on them, they seem fine. The amendments do, as well.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19. 2021
Page 164
CHAIR LEE: It’s not easy reading. You know, it's  alot of pages for somebody to. But I guess
you know, you're going to save a lot of money, so you have to make the effort to buy
to hire an attorney to figure this out.
Okay, any more questions? Ready? Ready to vote, everybody? Okay, ready to vote
to vote on these changes as presented in this ASF. All those in favor of the motion
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now, the main motion as amended. Pass this on second reading as amended.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, I thought we were voting.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you, that was the vote?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Weren't you calling for the vote?
CHAIR LEE: No more discussion. Well. Member Sinenci, is that a vote or a, you want talk?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah. Mahaio, Chair. And I just wanted to express my
mahalo to Member Rawlins-Fernandez for bringing this .... Members, we've heard
lots of testimony today on how the bill is going to affect our families, and families that
are having hard time and have held onto their properties for decades. And so, we,
we've seen how, how this is going to affect families, to help them continue to hold onto
those properties and, and eventually give them to their, their grandchildren.
For us, in East Maui, we have lots of ‘aina kupuna. And we have over 200 people that
are listed on those properties. And for us, the, the, the aina has always been a respite
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 165
of Pu‘u Honua, a safe zone for them to go to. When we're talking about homeless and
no place to go, at least for some families we do have this ‘aina kupuna that serves as
a, as a place that grandma and grandpa left not just for one, two, or, you know, any
particular child, but for all the family to, to enjoy. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Congratulations, everybody.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, heading down the homestretch.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 131 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 12.40, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, TO NAME THE GLENN H. OTANI BASEBALL FIELD (KUU\) AND THE
GLENN H. OTANI SCOREBOOTH (WAILUKU)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Here, my notes. Thank you. Historic day for the Otani
Family. Thank you. Members, for taking this up.
SO, 1 MOVE TO PASS BILL 131 ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 166
CHAIR LEE: --second by Member Kama, to pass Bill 131 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you. BilM31 amends Chapter 12.40, Maui County
Code, to name the baseball diamond located at the upper New Kula Park, Ballpark at
Kula, at the Kula Park, as the Glenn H. Otani Baseball Field; and the second booth,
and the score booth located at the Ichiro "Iron" Maehara Baseball Stadium as the
Glenn H. Otani Scorebooth, after a respected coach and leader of the Maui baseball
community. I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
Members.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye" and
raise your hand.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 132 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A DIGITAL ZONING MAP AS THE
OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FOR THE ISLAND OF MOLOKA' I
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
MOVE TO PASS BILL 132 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 167
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to pass Bill 132 on second
and final reading.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee met on
September 30, 2021. The purpose of the proposed bill is to adopt a digital zoning map
for the island of MolokaT
Your Committee notes Molokai Planning Commission supported the proposed
legislation for the exception, with the exception of correcting the alignment for lli‘ili‘6pae
Heiau. The Molokai Planning Commission recommended that future phases of the
Molokai digital map include creating a new community plan designation and zoning
district for llilli'dpae Heiau to protect sensitive cultural and historical sites.
The digital zoning maps are able to replace the County's old worn-out paper maps with
comprehensive digital zoning maps; make digital zoning maps accessible online for
public use; confirm existing zoning and accurately and efficiently for all parcels in the
County; and create a single-digital zoning map that encompasses each island. I
respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: More discussion? Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion,
please say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 168
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 133 (20211
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTERS 19.64 AND 19.65, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, REU\TING TO BED AND BREAKFAST HOME PERMITS AND
SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOME PERMITS
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 133 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to pass Bill 133 on second
and final reading.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The purposes of the proposed bill are to allow Accessory
Dwelling Units (ADUs) to be eligible for Bed and Breakfast Homes and Short-Term
Rental Home permits; limit STRH permits to one person and one per property; improve
notification requirements for B&B and STRH permit applications; establish that family
trusts may hold B&B and STRH permits; and amend Chapters 19.64 and 19.65, Maui
County Code, for clarity and consistency.
Your Committee determined ADUs should continue to be limited to residential use to
help maximize the availability of long, of housing units for County residents. Your
Committee revised the proposed bill to delete the title's referenced to Chapter 19.35,
Maui County Code; delete SECTION 1, which would have amended Chapter 19.35;
and made other corresponding revisions.
Your Committee also revised the proposed bill to establish that STRH permits be, only
be issued for single-family dwellings constructed at least 15 years prior to the
application and owned by the applicant for at least 15 years. In addition, your
Committee revised the proposed bill to establish that B&B permits may only be issued
for single-family dwellings constructed at least five years prior to the application and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 169
owned by the applicant for at least five years. Your Committee determined these
requirements should be countywide, rather than island-specific standards.
Your Committee concluded that the revised proposed bill would achieve an appropriate
balance by providing some additional benefits to B&B and STRH applicants and
permittees while also prioritizing the use of dwellings for long-term residential use.
Your Committee also noted the need to further revise the proposed bill to incorporate
recent and anticipated ordinances amending Chapters 19.64 and 19.65. I respectfully
ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 134 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 19, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
TO ESTABLISH A NEW CHAPTER 19.39, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO THE WAILUKU REDEVELOPMENT AREA, AND TO AMEND
CHAPTER 19.520, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO VARIANCES IN THE
WAILUKU REDEVELOPMENT AREA
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 134 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 170
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to pass Bill 134 on second
and final reading.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee discussed this proposed bill in response to ongoing litigation to affirm the
Council's authority over zoning regulations v^ith appropriate Planning Commission
review.
Your Committee agreed the Wailuku Redevelopment Area zoning provision should be
fully incorporated into Title 19. This will allow the Council to treat, develop, and amend
zoning standards consistently across all County districts.
Your Committee also agreed to various amendments to the bill relating to permitted
uses, development standards, variance review, and permit authority and procedures.
Uses have been designated under the purview of the Maui Redevelopment Agency,
the Planning Department or requiring a Conditional Permit.
Other amendments made by your Committee were for consistency and clarity. The
proposed bill should address the central complaint of the litigation and should also
include the framework for the Wailuku Redevelopment Area and its goal of economic,
social, and cultural revitalization of Wailuku.
And a couple other things I wanted to add is that, you know, in the litigation, win-or-
lose, we would have had to come and correct it anyway, so might as well correct it up
front. And you know, because of the time-sensitivity of the litigation, we weren't able
to do every little correction that we would have liked. But we're doing what we can do
in the time given, so that it will address the litigation concerns. There's a lot of, more
clarity and consistency needed in the future, so I'm guessing we'll see this again. And
hopefully, when we do see it again, you know, we get a lot of community input, and
feedback, and we can work with everybody to get it to their liking. So, this is where
we're at now, this point in time situation, and hopefully, it resolves the litigation. I
respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 171
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thanks for the hard work on that, Member
Paltin. I'm going to again vote no on this. Wailuku Town, Wailuku Redevelopment
was one of the projects I worked on when I was in OED. I worked on this MRA quite
a bit. And although I, I didn't quite have the opportunity to take it as far as Erin Wade,
but I do appreciate all the many, many volunteers that gave to the MRA to try to
revitalize the town based upon HRS 53, which gave it its life. And unfortunately, there's
a lawsuit that's pushing this. But I am going to standby all the volunteers that worked
very hard to take Wailuku, or tried to revitalize it and make it into a place of art and,
and whatever it's going to end up to be in future. But in general. I'm going to just vote
against this. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please signify by saying
"aye" and raising your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: I see seven "ayes". Those no. raise your hand and say "no".
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND SUGIMURA.NOES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, there are two "noes"; Members Sugimura and Kama. Motion passes.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 135 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 20.42,
MAUI COUNTY CODE. TO PROHIBIT THE SALE. USE, OR DISTRIBUTION OF
NON-MINERAL SUNSCREENS
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember King. Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ... Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 135 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 172
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member King, second by Member Sinenci, to pass Bill 135 on second
and final reading.
Member King, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Your Committee on Climate Action,
Resilience, and Environment met on July 21,2021, August 4, 2021, and October 20,
2021, to discuss the proposed bill. The Committee voted unanimously to recommend
passage on first reading. On November 5, 2021, the Council held first reading and
passed the proposed bill with a unanimous vote, with the exception of myself, who was
excused to attend COP26.
Bill 120, Bill 135 (2021) prohibits the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral
sunscreens including those containing oxybenzone, octinoxate, or both. This bill does
not prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of a non-mineral sunscreen if a person has a
prescription issued by a licensed healthcare provider.
The bill will authorize the use, sale, and distribution of sunscreens containing the active
ingredient minerals, zinc oxide and titanium dioxide only. Both, both components
designated by FDA as "generally recognized as safe and effective", which is the
acronym GRASE; G-R-A-S-E.
Bill 135 has received overwhelming support from the County Administration; the
Department of Environmental Management; State agencies including Jeff Bagshaw
and Peter Landon of the Department of Land and Natural Resources who have worked
tirelessly to educate the public about the dangers of sunscreen chemicals to the coral
reefs in the 'Ahihi-Kina'u Natural Area Reserve; the leading world expert on this issue,
Dr. Craig Downs of the Haereticus Environmental Laboratory; Maui Nui Marine
Resource Council; Hawaii Wildlife Fund; Sierra Club; Pacific Whale Foundation;
Realtors Association of Maui; Kihei Community Association; Kahaluu Bay Education
Center, a program of the Kohala Center on the Big Island; Friends of Hanaumu Bay;
and approximately 70 Kihei Charter School students who each provided written
testimony.
Finally, I would like to thank the Climate Action, Resilience, and Environment Vice-
Chair Sinenci for introducing this bill in my absence last week, and my fellow
Councilmembers for their support. I ask for the Members continued support for this
bill. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 173
CHAIR LEE; Any further discussion?
Member Sugimura. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this morning, the testifiers that came forward, they
talked about different studies. An FDA study that's going to come out in March of next
year, or in Spring of next year. I wonder if Corp. Counsel can, I don't know if, if they
have information on that. But I think it was said that final guidance expected in 2022
from the FDA and the ad hoc committee of the National Academics [sic] of Science,
Engineering, and Medicine on environmental impact of currently marketed sunscreens
and potential human impacts of changes in sunscreen usage.
And further. Consolidated Appropriations, Act 2020, the U.S. Congress directed the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to contract with the National Academy of
Sciences to conduct a scientific literature review of current sunscreens potential risk to
the marine environment.
So, my question to Corp. Counsel is this, is if something comes out in, with this study,
or if U.S. Congress, or even the State, I guess, with EPA, would this then preempt this?
Corp. Counsel? I don't know if you had a chance to--
CHAIR LEE; Corp. Counsel.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -look at it.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON: Thank you. Thanks for the
question. You know, at any time either the State or the Federal government could
enact legislation that could preempt parts of, you know. County Code provisions. So,
we will need to probably keep an eye out, and then update our ordinance, if necessary,
in the future. So, right now. I'm not certain about that now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. And then kind of interesting this one last thing, as
we're talking about this. Governor Ige did a post, and I got the post. And you'll be very
happy to see that Governor Ige, news from DLNR, the first non-chemical sunscreen
dispenser is now available to use at Hapuna Bay State Recreational Area, a site
previously identified with coral reef damage. Chemical-free sunscreen has been
shown to slow bleaching and other diseases in our, in our reefs. And there's a
dispenser, like we would see in the bathroom, you know, it looks just like that, that you
will pull on it and you can get sunscreen. So, that's amazing, right? So, the, this has
been heard from the State. So, it looks like they're also agreeing to this. Thank you
very much. I can share with all of you the picture, if you want.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 174
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Yeah, thanks for that. That announcement
actually came out a little bit earlier. But it was supposed to ... we finished this vote.
But, but I'm glad it's out there, because it is, it is really an important step.
But I wanted to say about the, the potential for the new, the new potential FDA ruling
does not automatically, and we can ask our OCS Counsel to weigh-in on this too, does
not automatically exempt anything if the, if the Federal government came out with a,
an aggressive bill that exempted it. That could happen. But we could also go back to
this, this bill that we're passing today also allows us to go back and add anything that's
deemed safe.
But I wanted to point out, too, that the FDA ruling is, is Food and Drug Administration.
So, that's not necessarily focused on the health of the reef. That's, those are safe and
effective rulings for human beings putting it on their skin.
But this bill is really about protecting the reef and the marine environment. So, that's
what we're focused on. And hopefully it won't get pre-empted by anybody. And I do
also believe that the State is waiting for us to pass this bill so that they can move on
with a stricter bill for the entire State as well. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I was going to just say real quickly that some of the testimony did get to me and
made me wonder if we should wait for the, for the study to come out in the spring. But
under the circumstances, this subject is so broad that, and the fact that we can go back
and add to this bill is making me decide to support it, again, at second reading.
Anybody else?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. And, you know, on, on this subject and the
late testimony, I did receive email that, you know, when the bill that I originally proposed
was much different, that's the reason why there was all this late testimony. But, you
know, things do change in Committee. And the reason that they change was due to
public outcry on that the bill that I had was too tame. Like, they liked it, but it's too
tame. So, that's why it changed.
And, you know, when I first met Dr. Downs down at the beach, he shared with me
about, you know, avobenzone being just slightly different than oxybenzone and how it
requires octocrylene as a product stabilizer. And octocrylene has been proven to break
down into ... in the sunscreen bottle, a known carcinogenic, endocrine disrupter, and
Monsanto-patented herbicide. Octocrylene causes developmental toxicity in fish,
metabolic toxicity in coral, and could potentially cause bleaching in coral.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19. 2021
Page 175
And so, when he first told me about this, I made every effort to reach out to Doc Martin,
emailed him, I called him, I left messages. These were, this was years ago. I did talk
to him yesterday and he apologized for not getting back to me and saying that his
email, for the last seven years, was incorrect. But the part that really swayed me in
our conversation was when he accused Dr. Downs of doing reviews of sunscreen for
personal benefit, and completely neglected that the sunscreen that he sells has
avobenzone in it and thus financial interest to this legislation. And. and that was the
turning point for me in what, what is an independent toxicologist, versus financial
interest in the subject.
And so, you know. I've also received testimony about folks who don’t use this
sunscreen in the ocean, but we've heard from numerous testifiers that the chemical
sunscreen goes through you. And what do we use on Maui? Injection wells which
eventually lead to the ocean. We've heard about the mime thing that was before some
of our times, and so I posted pictures of sunscreen behind me that are tinted and, you
know, can look like makeup even.
And so, all in all, I think that the best protection isn't even sunscreen. The best
protection is staying out of the sun. If, staying out of the sun especially between
10:00 am and 2:00 p.m. If you need to go in the sun during those hours, wear a rash
guard, or a hat, or zinc sunscreen. You can wear those, like neck mask things. And
so, there's choices. We're not saying you have to stay out of the sun. We're not saying
you can't use sunscreen. We're saying use sunscreen that has been proven safe and
effective, and like Member King said, G-R-A-S-E. So, I think this is a, a good step.
And I've, I've had a long, long history of sunscreen use. I haven't had cancer and I
haven't used sunscreen all my life. People that use sunscreen all their life use, get
cancer as well. So, I mean, there could be correlation, but it's not exact that if you use
a chemical sunscreen, you won’t get skin cancer. If you don't use a chemical
sunscreen, you will get skin cancer. There's no direct correlation. There's statistics
and percentages. And I think what we have here is  agood bill. And I think the people
on the frontline in the ocean that see what's going on would agree. Thank you. Without
financial interest.
CHAIR LEE: Our next presentation will be by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. It'll be a short presentation.
CHAIR LEE: You know, it's like 5:21. You know, we're all hungry, tired. Let's get this show
on the road.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 176
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, your clock is fast.
CHAIR LEE: What's that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Your clock is fast. It's 5:18.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, it is fast. I told you, one clock is fast, the other one is slow.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, I going make my presentation brief. I, I'll just
concur with a lot of the points that were made. The opposition was based on a lot of,
like, financial impact at the detriment of our, our reef and our marine system. And, and
sometimes they not going just do the right thing. We have to force them to do the right
thing for the commons, and for the peoples, for the health and welfare of all us,
because we live in this capitalistic system. And that's one of the externalities of, of, of
some of these companies, and their petro-based, you know.
So, it affects the endocrine system, like Member Paltin talked about. And endocrine
system is a hormones. This is my presentation, which is your, your reproduction, right?
And as we heard from Mr. Weltman this morning in testimony, Kumulipo talked about
who our first ancestor was. And that was the coral polyp. We're all connected.
Humans have an endocrine system too. So, how it affects our reef is also affecting us
similarly. We're not that different from the other living creatures.
And while this, this may not be the silver bullet, because unnatural amounts of, of
minerals is still unhealthy for our coral, it, which makes half the oxygen that we breathe.
So, we have to protect our coral so that we can continue to have oxygen. I'm also pau
with my presentation. Last sentence.
So, we need to reduce all of it all together like Member Paltin said. And to wear more
protective gear. I got some super cute long-sleeve one piece bathing suits that I'm
happy to, to share with anyone that's interested. Protects all the way up to like this.
Really good stuff. And restrict the number of people going into the ocean. And that's
what we just did by, by voting on the moratorium to help to reduce tourism amounts.
So, that's the end of my presentation. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: You know, before I used to think of this Council as the can-do Council. Now I'm
thinking it's the wala'au Council. Yakety, yakety, yakety, yak. Okay, anybody else?
Anybody else? This is second and final reading.
Oh, Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 177
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Real quick, I just wanted to add. I guess doesn't really apply
I get too much ... in me, so it doesn't really apply to me. But support it.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, very good. Anybody else want to discuss their skin conditions? All in
favor, say "aye", raise your hands.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
AYES:
LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, unanimous. Is it? Unanimous.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Thank you. Council.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Okay, heading down the homestretch.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 136 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTERS 19.04 AND 19.12, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS IN THE
APARTMENT DISTRICT
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 136 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 178
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Paltin, second, seconded by Members Johnson, to pass
Bill 136 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the proposed bill is to
provide clarification on terms and requirements for transient vacation rental use in the
Apartment Districts, and to add a register number requirement for advertisements.
Your Committee discussed the follo\A/ing revisions to the proposes bill attached to
Resolution 21-51, which were recommended by the department: 1) The property
owner or operator must hold valid general excise and transient accommodation tax
licenses for the subject property, and these taxes must be paid in full and be kept
current; 2) Advertisements for TVR must include the tax map key number, if applicable,
unit, and if applicable unit number; and 3) Add "building envelope" to Section
19.04.040, Definitions, to define the area enclosed by the three-dimensional exterior
surfaces of the building or structure, including any open air areas between the posts
or the posts and the walls that hold up a roof, such as carports and covered decks.
This term was added to 19.12.020(G)(3) in Ordinance 5126 but not to 19.04.040, and
is necessary to define the spatial limitation of transient vacation rental use in a dwelling
unit.
Your Committee agreed to amend the bill to read, "or payment of general excise tax
and transient accommodation tax" at the end of Subsection 19.19.020(G)(2). And this
was just a test, the original bill that I had sent to the Planning Commission required
registration numbers. And so, then it came back as TMK numbers. And I did hear
Dr. Young and some others say that it needs to be across the board. And now that
this test case has gone through, I, I am working on legislation to make it across the
board in terms of TMK as opposed to registration numbers, as originally proposed.
Because, you know, we don't have a big problem with using TMK numbers as opposed
to registration numbers. So, 1 respectfully request Members support of my motion.
And stay tuned for more legislation on TMK registration numbers for advertisement
purposes.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more discussion?
Yes, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this is. I'm going to speak in support of it, of course.
But this is perfect because now, as you all know with the TAT, that we have access to
TMK numbers whereas before we didn't have, quite have that relationship with the,
with the State DOT, State Department of Taxation. And 1 think in that discussion with
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 179
the TAT, we learned that we're working closer now and we'll have access to that
information. So, this is like perfect, right? So,  Isupport this.
Thank you, Keani for, I mean, thank you, well, Keani for the TAT. But thank you,
Tamara, for yeah, for working on this, cause I remember you mentioned this, I think
when you first got elected. Is that right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: One of your things that you wanted to do. So, thanks a
lot.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, second and final?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Sure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And just to add onto what Member Sugimura is saying, you
know, this will all hone us in on the illegals, even more so like dialing it in, dialing it in.
Where to clarify, if you aren't paying your taxes, it doesn't mean that you're illegal. That
took a while for me to understand. It just means you're not paying your taxes. So,
there's illegal TVRs, which you are not allowed to do. And then you're allowed to do
TVRs, but you got to pay your taxes which is a separate issue. And it, it took me quite
a while to understand that. But in order to be completely legal, you have to be legally
allowed to do your TVR and you gotta pay your taxes.
And like Member Sugimura said, we weren't able to see who wasn't paying the correct
property taxes because the State wouldn't share the TAT info with us. And now that
there's a County TAT, then we'll be able to see, and we'll be able to see who is properly
allowed to do TVR usage. Because apparently some folks used to pay taxes even if
they weren't allowed to do the usage for some reason. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 180
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk, we only have three more.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 137 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE STATE LAND USE
DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION FROM AGRICULTURAL TO RURAL
FOR 0.933 ACRE IN HAIKU. MAUI, HAWAII,
TAX MAP KEY (2) 2-9-007:032
CHAIR LEE: Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, you know, I know you're hungry. Let's just do all these
last three together.
CHAIR LEE: Good idea.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 138 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE PAIA-HAIKU COMMUNITY PLAN
AND LAND USE MAP FROM AGRICULTURE TO PUBLIC/QUASl-PUBLIC
FOR 0.933 ACRE IN HAIKU, MAUI, HAWAII,
TAX MAP KEY (2) 2-9-007:032
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 139 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING FROM
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT TO P-1 PUBLIC/QUASl-PUBLIC DISTRICT
FOR 0.933 ACRE IN HAIKU, MAUI, HAWAI I,
TAX MAP KEY (2) 2-9-007:032
CHAIR LEE: Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: This one, I'll preface this by this is like a record for PSLU, seven
bills, second and final reading, one meeting.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 181
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTiN: I move to-
CHAIR LEE: You deserve a medal.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 137 (2021), BILL 138 (2021), AND BILL
139 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, second by Member King to pass Bills 137, 138, and
139 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee meeting on October 21, 2021, to discuss three proposed bills relating to
the Door of Faith Church.
The first proposed bill. Bill 137 (2021) is to grant a District Boundary Amendment from
Agricultural to Rural for .933-acre parcel, tax map key (2) 2-9-007:032, located in
Haiku, Maui, Hawaii.
The second proposed Bill 138 is to grant a Community Plan Amendment for Agriculture
to Public/Quasi-Public for the same parcel.
And the third proposed Bill 139 is to grant a Change in Zoning from Agricultural District
to P-1 Public/Quasi-Public District for the same exact parcel.
Your Committee notes that the Council's Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee (2019-2021 Council term) previously met on this matter on September 18,
2019.
Your Committee notes it previously reported on this matter through Committee Report
19-119, which recommended adoption of the resolution related to land use entitlement
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 182
changes for the Door of Faith Church and referral of the proposed bill to the Maui
Planning Commission, Resolution 19-172.
Your Committee notes the Planning Commission reviewed the proposed bills on
August 11, 2020, and recommended approval with no conditions. The Planning
Commission also recommends the Council consider fire-flow requirements for the
area. And the Council did consider those, and we would leave it to the respective
departments to address it. And so, I respectfully request the Members support of my
motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion? If not, all those in favor, raise your hand and say "aye" to pass
these three bills on second and final reading.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Congratulations. Member, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes?
CHAIR LEE: Has your master list gone down?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, yes.
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's gone way down. Seven bills, that's seven bills that I no
longer-
CHAIR LEE: I know. I know. That's quite an accomplishment.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. I couldn't have done it without all of you.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Well, we have seven more referrals coming to you next time.
Okay, everybody. Happy Thanksgiving. Hope you have a safe holiday-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 183
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Gobble, gobble.
CHAIR LEE: --with your friends and family. Huh? Next week? 1 don't think I'm going to see
you guys, right?
Chair, yeah, sorry, but we do have a recessed GREATCOUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
meeting on the day before Thanksgiving. Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Wednesday.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, the day before Thanksgiving. Let me check my calendar.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 1:30.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: He's going to bring us turkey sandwiches.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, turkey for everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, yea, 1 see GREAT, yeah. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, we're not going to go into the building, right? Because what
happened last time you went into the building? Smoke on the ninth floor. You got
smoked out.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, 1 ordered persimmons.
CHAIR LEE: 1 hope to see you folks, but anyway.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I ordered Hashimoto persimmons. I'll have it in your, your
in-trays. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, thank you very much.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thanks, Yuki.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Everybody have a great weekend. Any announcements? Anybody getting
married? Anniversary?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 184
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Tomorrow is Maui Matsuri at Queen Kaahumanu. Tonight
at Queen Kaahumanu, and again, Maui Matsuri Japanese Festival at Queen
Kaahumanu, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Are they going to have a bon dance?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yes. You have to sign up for it because of COVID. So
it's limited.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. okay. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yeah. Bye everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll be leaving the County on-
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Just-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -Thanksgiving. Oh, sorry.
CHAIR LEE: You, you're what? You're leaving the County? What, what did you say?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. I’m going to go to the County of Hawaii, celebrate
Thanksgiving and La KG'oko'a. But I'll be back on Monday after Thanksgiving.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'll be there too.
CHAIR LEE: On the Big Island?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'll be on the Big Island as well.
CHAIR LEE: Are you guys going to the same area?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Hilo side. Are you going to Hilo?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. Maybe we'll see you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. That's where my daughter lives. We're going to do
Thanksgiving over there and maybe be at the biodiesel plant on Monday and Tuesday.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 185
And what was I, I was going to. Oh yeah, I just wanted to remind everybody that we’re
working on that video. And so, I know a couple of you, for the COVID, you know,
vaccinations. I know couple of Councilmembers have done their piece already. But
you can contact Chivo if you want to go in and just do your little PSA.
CHAIR LEE: Good. Thank you for reminding everybody. Any, anything going on in Hana?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: It looked like we just had  aakule harvest this afternoon. 1
missed it, but I'm sure I'll get to smell all fried fish tonight.
CHAIR LEE: Ooh, sounds good. How about Paia and Makawao?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Nothing at the moment that I'm, I'm aware of. But if I hear
something, I'll let you all know. Oh, yeah, just to let everybody know, we'll be opening
up our district office, I think the first or second week of December. We'll firm up that
date. So, and it will be at Heritage Hall. So, we've got everything's been signed and
everything else, so we'll be prepared for that. And everybody invited.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, yeah. You know, ours, okay, ours is going to be on
December 8, so we'll have to coordinate those. So-
CHAIRLEE; Mike?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, we're looking at a tentative-
CHAIR LEE: Can you have, can you have creampuffs from Komoda's?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: We'll see what we can do. We're looking at a tentative date
of Friday, December 10.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, good. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Friday, December 10. Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Wednesday, Decembers.
CHAIR LEE: That's in the morning. I think we have  aTIG meeting, yeah, in the afternoon?
No? Vice-Chair, TIG meeting?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 186
COUNCILMEMBER KING: On what, Wednesday?
CHAIR LEE: No. Friday, the 10th.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: On the 10, yeah, in the afternoon.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, we're looking at a-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, then we have a-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, we-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: -be out of there by then.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's going to be 8th and the 10th? Cause I wanted to
fly over. It's historic.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I hope-
CHAIR LEE: His is in the morning. His is in the morning.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I have little gifts for all of you from Scotland. So, one of them is
going to, I brought the flag back from Embo, so I'm going to present that to Keani. . .
CHAIR LEE; Oh, you know what? We already have soap, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I brought you golf balls.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Kama, what are you doing in the neighborhood?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: This week, this weekend. I'm not doing anything except doing
laundry. But next week Thursday, on Thanksgiving, one of the restaurants in Wailuku
is doing a Thanksgiving giveaway and so we're going to be doing Thanksgiving
giveaway plates that day.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 187
CHAIR LEE: Oh. I might see you. I normally pick up lunches from there and then take it to
the ranch for our guys.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah. Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Vice-Chair, anything happening on Moloka'i?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: My husband's birthday is on Sunday.
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Happy birthday.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Hau'oli la hanau.
CHAIR LEE: You gonna cook him a meal or something?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, he's going to cook for me.
CHAIR LEE: That’s good training. Good training.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, I’m going to, I'm going to cook for him, too. It's
a partnership.
CHAIR LEE: Partnership, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Give and take.
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, we had quite a historic meeting today. I mean, we had so
many groundbreaking pieces of legislation. Ellen stayed around so we can go get a
drink afterwards and celebrate.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I’m happy to, I'm also happy to report that our climate
change and sea-level rise plan for Molokai has done three out of four of its workshops
already. And so, the fourth workshop is in Kaunakakai, Monday evening at, at 4.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, awesome. That's great. Good job.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 188
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. So. they're moving right along.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, good job.
CHAIR LEE: So, who's, who's, who's doing that? Like the Planning Department?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sustainable Molokai.
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. Like sustainable, but it's . . .
CHAIR LEE: Are you on that, you're on that Committee?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, it's, it's an organization. They're a nonprofit and
they have our mobile food hub, our mobile market. So, the . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Is ... still on that? Is ... no she's not? I didn't think so. She's-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: She left the island  afew years ago.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: She left the island? Oh.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We're really becoming the Council of wala'au now.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Good night, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Well, yeah, you folks, everybody, take care.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, everybody, happy, well, we'll see you on Wednesday.
CHAIR LEE: Wednesday. See you on Wednesday.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair, you got to . . . the meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Don't worry. Don't worry.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: I'm going to adjourn. Okay, for, so the meeting of November 19, 2021 is now
adjourned.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 19, 2021
Page 189
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of November 19, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 5:38 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
211119/lks;jm
REC"iV'EDCount^CIeH<
28?! NOV 19 AH 8: 23Keisa Liu <keisaiiu@gmail.com>
Friday, November 19, 2021 8:15 AM
County Clerk
Keisa Liu - Testimony for Agenda Item E
From:
Sent:
To:
'Jr i-ICE OF TriE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
IYou don't often get email from keisaliu@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
My name is Keisa Liu and I am testifying on agenda item E: Ceremonial Resolution Recognizing Hunger and
Homelessness Awareness Week November 13-21, 2021.
I support this resolution with reservations because being aware that there is hunger and homelessness in Maui County is
not enough. We need to do more if we want to reverse this on our islands. This week, I urge the Council and everyone in
Maui County, to let go of the phrase “refuser of services", as it does not paint a complete or accurate picture of our
chronically houseless of Maui County. To justify this, I would like to share my experience walking someone down the path
out of houselessness on Maui.
At the beginning of 2021, I was tasked with learning more about the houseless in Maui County for my new job with
Councilmember Johnson. I got in contact with Lisa Darcy from Share Your Mana and she informed me there were
community meetings every Friday at the Amala encampment. I attended several of them and listened to Amala residents
talk about problems in the community, come up with solutions, and plans to implement them. This was the first time I met
Warmth (I am changing their name to a characteristic about them to protect their privacy). Warmth came with notes. They
were articulate. They were friendly and kind. I was confused as to why they were homeless. Warmth was always at the
meetings.
Warmth is chronically homeless. They are a Vet. They are older and have several health issues. They are a "refuser of
services” or "jackass" according to our Mayor.
Warmth was one of the few that did not leave Amala until the very end. I helped them move their things. I saw in their face
defeat and desperation during this time. I saw shame and hopelessness cloud their judgement. But I didn't pry. I just
moved their things.
After the "clean up", I learned they were staying near the Uhaul Storage in Kahului. I heard rumors that the area was
going to be “cleaned up” as well but I didn’t know when. 1 happened to be driving by right when the State Department of
Transportation was finishing. Further down the road, I saw Warmth. I pulled into the Uhaul parking lot and walked up to
them. Again. I saw defeat and desperation. I saw shame and hopelessness in their eyes. I saw how physically and
mentally exhausted they were. I asked for them to come sit with me in the shade. I offered my water. I called for Maya.
While we waited, the Uhaul manager came out to tell us we couldn’t stay here. They didn’t want to call the police, but they
alluded to the fact that It was within their abilities. I asked what Warmth wanted to do. Warmth was tired and thirsty and
hungry. The road made it hard to hear, let alone think. Their solution was to find a quiet spot somewhere to rest. I offered
my home.
Maya showed up and helped me load Warmth’s things into my truck. She took them to get something to eat and get a
Covid test. Then she brought them to my house. Warmth ate dinner with my family that night. They showered and slept
into the afternoon. When they woke, 1 listened to Warmth tell me why it’s been so hard for them to take help. I listened to
what they missed about not being homeless. I listened to them express themselves freely without shame or guilt imposed
by their environment. After a couple days, I heard them say they were ready to stop living this way.  Ioffered to walk the
path out of houselessness with them.
The steps to permanent housing seems simple enough:
1. Get a Homeless Verification Letter (HVL)
2, Schedule an intake with a shelter
3. Use their programs and services to obtain permanent housing
But it’s actually a lot harder.
1
For Warmth to obtain a HVL, an outreach worker from Family Life Center needs to see where they slept the night before.
Warmth would only qualify for a HVL if the last place he slept was not in a house. Because 1 brought Warmth into my
house, they no longer qualified as homeless, even though they most certainly were. So we had to come up with a plan.
We made an appointment with Family Life Center at 10am. Then, we scouted around Kahului to find what looked like a
safe space for them to sleep for the night outside. We contacted Family Life Center and described where he would be and
took a picture of the area so they could find Warmth. We went back to my house, I contacted a group of women I work
with and asked if any of them could show up around Sam to get them breakfast and take them to a bathroom so they
could clean up and be ready for their intake at 10am. Warmth ate dinner with my family and then at 8pm,  idropped them
off with their sleeping bag and a small bag of supplies.
The next morning. I received a text from the outreach worker for Warmth. I told the worker that he is at the spot and
expecting to do the intake at 10am. Maya arrived around Sam and the outreach worker from Family Life Center was
already there, two hours early. She left to get breakfast for Warmth and when she returned, both the outreach worker and
Warmth were gone. I advised her to go to Family Life Center and I would be down later.
When I arrived, Warmth saw me and ushered me over. The outreach worker was not happy with my presence and when I
greeted them they were incredibly curt. At one point, the outreach worker turned to Warmth and asked if they could talk
privately so the outreach worker could get “some honest answers”. Even after Warmth said they were fine with us being
there, the outreach worker insisted. I asked if it was ok for me to wait outside and I told Warmth I would be there when
they left.
After some time, they returned with a copy of his ID and some good news. Warmth was told their letter was in the system
and they could now attempt to seek shelter. The HVL is valid for one month, so we have one month to seek shelter.
For the majority of our houseless community, in order to receive services from the County, they need to be in one of the
sponsored organization's facilities. In order to get into the facilities, they need to schedule an intake. In order to schedule
an intake, they have to call each organization every morning and ask if there is space. Most times, the intake line is busy
and they end up having to leave a message. There is no guarantee that a person from intake will call back after a
message is left.
If they are lucky enough to be able to schedule an intake, they need a valid homeless verification form, ID, and they must
want permanent housing at the time of intake.
At the time I picked up Warmth, their phone and wallet with their ID had been stolen by another houseless individual. If I
had not picked them up, they would not have been able to do an intake at all. They would have to rely on an outreach
worker finding them on their rounds and setting up an intake.
I need to point out that many of the houseless residents I have spoken with have told me they do not see outreach
workers out enough. When they do see them, many of the houseless residents feel the interactions are cold,
transactional, and, therefore, difficult for them to invest their trust in the outreach worker. Outreach workers have not
created a space of enough emotional safety for our houseless to believe they really want to help. This was one reason
why Warmth had decided not to take services from outreach workers.
But because Warmth was with me, we used my phone to call the Intake line at a facility they were comfortable with. We
called for several days. We would leave messages. Sometimes, we got a call back to tell us the facility was full. Honestly,
it was discouraging and stressful. We stayed persistent and hopeful. When they felt down about receiving so much of their
time, I would tell them they owe me a dinner in their new place. When they were embarrassed about how much I was
helping, I would tell them stories about how others helped me. When they expected more from themselves, I reminded
them of how much they had done, in spite of how difficult this journey had been. When they felt they were undeserving, I
showed them they were.
On Wednesday, I took Warmth down for their intake at a facility. The day had been a bit stressful and  Icould tell they
were reaching their limit. I went with them to keep them focused on the work and their goals. After their intake, I took
Warmth home to decompress and have one last dinner with us as a family. I helped them move in. Even as we were
moving into the space, we both recognized that the level of compassion and respect were not at the level needed. But I
reminded them I was still going to be with them.
I am still walking the path out of houselessness with them. Just because they are in a facility doesn't mean they are out of
houselessness. Warmth wants to use the programs and services that are at the facility. They are determined to get out of
houselessness. I am determined to walk beside them.
2
I wanted to share this story with you because this person has been labeled a “refuser of services”. That phrase allows us
all to see them as stubborn, unintelligent, undeserving, and worthless. It allows us to stop trying to connect with them. It
allows us to break the trust needed to walk the path out of houselessness.
So, today, as we reflect on this “awareness” that hunger and homelessness exists, I need us all to recognize that not only
does it exist but it continues because of the way we speak about our houseless, how we treat our houseless, and how we
create systems that make the path out of houselessness more punishing than houselessness itself.
Mahalo for your time and consideration.
Keisa Liu
3
Aloha Maui County Council;
Mahalo for having the courage to address this important issue:
Bill 135 will remove environmentally hazardous materials that have been plaguing our islands for
decades. It does what we have been unable to do with thousands of hours of outreach and education.
It recognizes that relying on consumers to make the right choices has not been enough, especially in the
face of advertising campaigns and green-washing marketing.
Bill 135 solves the problem at the store - where the problem begins. Education /outreach at the
water's edge, where people may not have other alternatives or have to change plans, is difficult
and reaches only a minority.
Bill 135 makes it clear that we are not fooled: we know that just re-formulating and renaming
each newly fabricated compound from a laboratory does not suddenly make a product safe for
the environment.
Bill 135 not only protects our reefs and all species that rely on them, it protects our food
resources from contamination by products that are not necessary for sun protection in people.
This is an issue of environmental justice: one consumer's choice of using toxic sun-protection
products does not override the rights of others to sea foods without benzenes in them.
1.
2.
3.
Some dermatologists who make and sell their own sun-care products may defend chemical sunscreens,
yet dermatologists who do not make / market products say that mineral sun-bocks work to prevent both
UVA and UVB rays from reaching your lower dermal layer, where skin-cancer damage begins. Quotes
from doctors were used by the tobacco industry to promote benefits from smoking, such as "calming
nerves and lowering blood pressure." More recently, many well-meaning doctors promoted opioids.
Between 2009 and 2018 the National Cancer Institute has recorded a rise in skin cancer rates of 1.4%
annually, despite the availability of chemical sunscreens. Chemical sunscreen compounds began being
sold in 1978 - if they are so effective why are skin cancer rates rising consistently?
Industry will claim that its important to maintain "choices" for consumers because some people, for
reasons of vanity, because of the way the "pasty white stuff' looks, won't use mineral sun-blocks and
that some react badly. Zinc oxide is used to treat diaper rash - the number of people who have
sensitivity to mineral products must be exceedingly rare. There's a possibility of risk in every option
(except clothing). Can industry representatives tell us the percentage of people who have reactions to
chemical sunscreens versus the number of people who have reactions to mineral sun-blocks? Can the
industry share statistics of the number of people who suffer from second-hand exposure to benzines
(who do not have a choice) versus those who get skin cancer? Can we compare economic loss of sales
to economic costs of contaminated food, damaged reefs, loss of tourism and loss of shoreline
protection?
These compounds are based on what chemists call benzines, rings of carbon. They are designed to
absorb a photon of sunlight, then break-down, releasing heat, raising the temperature of your skin - this
is one reason why it affects corals and causes them to bleach. This is the definition of a chemical
reaction, and its happening within your skin cells. The remnants of the chemical structures, benzine
rings, are now free to travel in your body, into your bloodstream, through your endocrine system and
eventually into your urine. Mineral sun-blocks are not absorbed by your skin, they sit on the surface,
reflecting sunlight.
We have al\A/ays had choices that have worked for generations: cover-up, seek shade between 10 and 2,
use sun-blocks. All the major manufactures already make and sell mineral-based sun-protection, they
just aren't as profitable because they can't be patented.
I have talked with several thousand people, one-on-one for the last seven years on the front-lines at
beaches and parking lots. Almost all have expressed one thing: "I just wish these things were illegal to
sell / were off the market."
We ban the sale or use of many destructive products in our society. If oversight for one industry is
missing on higher levels, its prudent for local governments to protect their resources and people.
Thank you for doing this important work.
Jeff Bagshaw
Information and Outreach Specialist
ooO *n
C-n
H
Hawaii Division of Forestry and Wildlife 73
mMaui Nui Branch
om n'O-<Jeff.w.baeshaw(5)hawaii.gov j
OO <~n
{808)264-7891 mm
7^ n
CO
O
\jJ
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
George Martin MD <drmauiderm@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 7:52 AM
County Clerk
HB 135 Written Testimonies from Dr. George Martin MD and Dr Curtis Cole PhD
AADA HDS Oppose Maui County Bill 135.pdf; Urn paperoxybenzone.pdf; Mitchelmore
et al_2019_STOTEN_UV filters HI (003).pdf; Mitchelmore PCPC et al 2021.pdf; Testimony
for Dr George Martin Maui FINAL .docx; Curti Cole PhD CV 2021CC.doc; Curtis Cole PhD
Testimony HB 135 .docx
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
IYou don't often get email from drmauiderm@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha
Attached are the written testimonies and supporting documentation of Dr George Martin MD, dermatologist practicing
on Maui, and Dr Curtis Cole PhD, leading authority on sunscreens.
I, Dr George Martin, wish to present LIVE via the County Council Blue Jeans portal on the day oral presentations are to
take place before the Maui County Council.
73
niCD
With Aloha, o■)
rn: r-i CO
George O-  -n
niGeorge Martin MD
President DASIL 2019-2020
Medical Director; Dr. George Martin Dermatology Associates
161 Wailea Ike PI
Suite A-104
Kihei HI 96753
W. 808 875 0511
F. 808 875 8595
C. 808 298 5986
drmauiderm@Qmail.com
r \ a? o. I VJ-V
1
Testimony to Maui County Board
In Opposition to Bill 135
By Curtis A. Cole, PhD, Photobiologist and Sunscreen Expert
I wish to present some information and context to that information to the Maui County Board that
opposes the proposed ban to sales and use of sunscreens containing organic filters in Hawaii. I am by
training a physicist, photobiologist, and sunscreen expert whose career has spanned 12 years of
academic research in skin cancer induction, and 27 years in industry developing sunscreen testing
methodologies and sunscreen products. I am among the top global authors regarding sunscreens (CV
attached).
I believe Bill 135 will do a great disservice to the millions of residents and visitors to the beautiful Maui,
and will further promote the degradation of sunscreen products not only in Hawaii, but also for the
other 49 States in America. State and Local bans of certain sunscreen ingredients force sunscreen
manufacturers to reformulate products for all States and regions as it is not economically viable to
manufacture state specific product formulations according to these local regulations. Compliance with
both State and local regulations on top of the FDA mandated limitations on UV filters and
concentrations has led to the point where it is becoming nearly Impossible to meet the UV protection
needs of the consumer (particularly those at greatest risk of skin cancer and malignant melanoma) and
all the regulatory requirements with the best performing high UV protection broad spectrum products.
Why is it important to have ability to utilize organic UV filters In sunscreens?
Titanium dioxide and Zinc Oxide are inorganic particulate filters; however they behave the same way in
protecting skin as do the "chemical" organic filters. The biggest difference is that the organic filters have
far higher absorbance efficiency (measured by extinction coefficient) than do the particulate inorganic
filters, and they are Invisible on the skin compared to inorganic sunscreens. Below are pictures showing
visible and UV illumination of products with either 3% avobenzone or 20% nanosize ZnO, illustrating the
pasty white appearance of the ZnO product, versus the clear invisible Avobenzone. When illuminated
with UVA light, it is easy to see that the avobenzone is providing far superior blockage of the UV light
compared with the lighter appearing ZnO treated area.
In order to achieve minimal amounts of UVA protection from ZnO or Titanium dioxide, very high
concentrations of these filters to achieve the same protection provided by just a few % of the organic
UVA filter. At such high concentrations, even the nano particle size Titanium Dioxide and ZnO give a
pasty white appearance. As a result, consumers apply less of the sunscreen than is intended for use,
and then continue to rub the sunscreens on the skin in attempt to make them less visible, effectively
removing them in the process - resulting in even less protection.
Addition of iron oxide particulates to try to blend them to skin tones helps alleviate some of appearance
issues but results in staining of clothes and car seats and anything that touches the skin - further
alienating consumer use.
- *,r-
T
3%AvQbafuon«
X t-0
X
If$20SnmZnO
%
3% Aiobanrona
I
fI  30%2nO
X
This graph illustrates the potency of avobenzone compared with zinc oxide at the same concentration.
Both curves also contain 10% of the organic filter octocrylene as a UVB filter for the purpose of
comparison. Avobenzone provides far superior breadth of protection as well as magnitude of
protection in a sunscreen.
AVOBENZONE IS MORE EFFICIENT THAN ZNO FOR BROAD
SPECTRUM PROTECTION
20
10% Octocryiene +
— 3%ZnO UVA-PF3.5
18
♦ ♦16
3%Avobenzone UVA-PF 10.4
14
o
12ufO
co 10
uCD
8o
Q.
6
4
2
0
390 410330 350 370290 310
Wavelength nm
If the organic filters are banned from use in the US by state and local regulations such as the proposed
bill, consumers will have no choice but that of poorer, less protective and unattractive sunscreen
products, and many will likely opt for no sunscreen at all or choose to vacation at a location where they
are permitted to use their preferred organic based sunscreen products.
Meanwhile, the science alleging that organic sunscreens are responsible for damage to coral reefs is not
proven, and in fact the latest critique of these allegations demonstrate that sunscreens are not present
in sea water in sufficient concentrations anywhere to cause damage to coraF (which others will submit
for your consideration).
I ask that you oppose Bill 135 and await further research needed to establish the true causes of coral
reef damage before restricting the use of organic sunscreen that are essential to good UV protection on
the beaches of Maui.
Sincerely,
Curtis Cole, PhD Photobiologist
^ Mitchelmore C.L, Burns E, Conway A, Heyes A, Davies lA. A critical review of organic ultraviolet filter exposure,
hazard and risk to corals. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 40{4), 967-988. 2021.
Curtis Cole, PhD
227 Wintergreen Way
New Holland, PA 17557
(908)392 6165
curtcolephd@comcast.net
Education:
Gordon College, Wenham MA, BA Physics, 1974
Temple Univ., Phila. PA., MS Physiology & Biophysics, 1982
Temple Univ., Phila. PA. Ph.D. Physiology & Biophysics, 1986
Sun & Skin Consulting, LLC - 2014 to present. Principal Member/Consultant. Providing
technical insights in the fields of sun protection, skin photobiology, skin aging and general skin care
based on 40 years of experience in discovery, and basic and applied skin research while working
with some of the world’s best skin care experts and dermatologists. Expertise includes experience
with skin care devices, regulatory processes, and development of regulatory standards (local: US-
FDA) and international (ISO)). US delegate to ISO TC 217 WG7 developing harmonized
standards for sun protection over 13 years, serving as Project Leader for the development of ISO
24443, 24442, and 24444 (2019) sunscreen testing standards. Active member of the Photomedicine
Society for 17 years with numerous publications in the area of photobiology. Provided sunscreen
testing and training consulting services to numerous testing laboratories, global sunscreen
manufacturers, and to the prime manufacturer of sunscreen testing solar simulators and
measurement equipment. Pioneered development of hybrid diffuse reflectance (HDRS)
spectroscopy for sunscreen testing purposes (UVA and SPF) and invented a polychromatic
approach to HDRS testing currently in development for ISO standard (IS023698).
Johnson & Johnson Consumer and Personal Care Companies -- 1986 to 2013
Vice President R&D, Open Innovation -- Responsible for identifying and engaging external
partnerships capable of delivering business growth to the J&J Global Skincare Franchise
Prior leadership role as Research Vice President, managing an organization of approximately 60
individuals dedicated to basic skincare research, Pharmacology/Discovery, Applied Research, and
Method Development.
Development roles leading to the Research VP position included:
● Development of in vitro and in vivo SPF and UVA test methodologies to screen prototypes
for innovation and product development for J&J businesses.
● Discovery and development of stabilized avobenzone sunscreen technology (Helioplex®)
● Significant experience as leader of virtual teams in a highly matrixed organization as well as
traditional structured organizations and cross functional teams.
● Extensive experience in leading key opinion leader dermatologists sessions (Symposia and
Round Table formats)
● Globally recognized expert and leader of suncare science and invited speaker at numerous
scientific and medical conferences
● Project Leader for the development and publication of two ISO standards for sunscreen
testing (UVA in vivo - ISO 24442 and invitro - ISO 24443), and revision of ISO 24444
(2019) in vivo SPF).
Temple University -- 1974-1986
Research Associate, Temple University Medical School- Center for Photobiology
● Employed at the Skin and Cancer Hospital while pursuing Masters and Ph.D. degrees.
Responsible for developing radiometric measurement instrumentation and methodologies
employed in skin cancer basic research.
● Research led to the development and publication of the first definitive biological action
spectrum for the ultraviolet radiation induction of skin cancer. This finding was the basis of
existing safety standards of the CIE organization for evaluation of lighting hazards for skin
cancer safety (see publications 2006).
Granted Patents:
US 5,340,567
US 5,747,010
Sunscreen Compositions
Photoprotective lipophilic anti-oxidant compounds and their use to prevent
UVA mediated lipid peroxidation
Sunscreen Compositions
Topical Oil-In-Water Emulsions Containing Retinol
Cosmetic Compositions
Topical Compositions
Sunscreen Compositions Containing a Dibenzoymethane Derivative
Topical Compositions
Skin Care Composition
Sunscreen Compositions
Skin Care Compositions
Method for Reducing the Apprearance of Dark Circles Under Eyes
Method of measuring skin anisotropy
Topical Composition Detection
Skincare Compositions
Compositions Comprising An Ultraviolet Radiation Absorbing Polymer
Compositions Comprising An Ultraviolet Radiation Absorbing Polymer
Composition Comprising An Ultraviolet Radiation Absorbing Polymer
Phototherapy compositions and methods
Sunscreen Compositions Comprising an Ultraviolet Radiation-Absorbing
Polymer
Phototherapy compositions and methods
In Vitro diffuse reflectance spectroscopy
US 5,980,871
US 5,976,555
US 6,068,847
US 6,193,956
US 6,444,195
US 6,461,622
US 6,521,237
US 6,540,296
US 6,544,531
US 6,607,735
EP 1 634 532B1
EP 1 874 261B1
US 7,396,526
US 7,993,680
US 8,003,132
US 8,025,868
US 8,057,785
US 8,475,774
US 8,481,008
US 10,962,472
30+ pending US patents, (with equivalent EP and WO applications and granted patents)
Awards;
Johnson Medal Recipient, Nov. 1997 "Development of Retinol Technology"
Johnson Medal Recipient, Nov. 2007 "Development of Stabilized UVA Sunscreen Technology"
Life Time Achievement Award for Suncare Advancement, Clinical Dermatology Conference, 2014
Organization Membership:
Photomedicine Society
Publications
Forbes, P.D., Davies, R.E., D'Aloisio, L.C., Cole, C.A. (1976) Emission spectrum differences in
fluorescent blacklight lamps. Photochem. Photobiol. 24:613-615.
Cole, C.A. (1979) Solar simulation with a 6.5 kW xenon arc lamp for skin cancer research. Atlas
Sun Spots. 9:20, pp. 1-3.
Cole, C.A. (1982) Interspecies comparison of action spectra for acute cutaneous ultraviolet
damage: Man and mouse. Master's Thesis, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA. Packard Press.
Kossol, J., Cole, C.A., Barker, P.D. (1982) Spectral irradiances and maximal exposures to two
indirect ophthalmoscopes. American Journal of Optometry and Physiological Optics, 60:616-621.
Forbes, P.D., Davies, R.E., Urbach, F., Berger, D., Cole C.A. (1982) Simulated atmospheric ozone
depletion and increased UV radiation: Effects on photocarcinogenesis on hairless mice. Cancer
Research, 42: 2796-2803.
Cole, C.A., Davies, R.E., Forbes, P.D., D'Aloisio, L.C. (1983) Comparison of acute spectra for
acute responses to ultraviolet radiation: Man and mouse. Photochem. Photobiol. 37:623-631.
Cole, C.A., Sambuco, C., Forbes, P.D., Davies, R.E. (1984) Response to ultraviolet radiation: Ear
swelling in hairless mice. Photodermatology 1:114-119.
Cole, C.A., Forbes, P.D., Davies, R.E. (1984) Different biological effectivness of blacklight
fluorescent lamps available for PUVA therapy. J. Am. Acad. Dermatol. 11:599-606.
Davies, R.E., Cole C.A., Sambuco, C., Forbes, P.D. (1984) Evaluation of sunscreens in animal
models. Photochem. Photobiol. 39:44S.
Sambuco, C.P., Forbes, P.D., Davies, R.E., Cole, C.A., Urbach, F. (1984) Ultraviolet radiation
responses in pig skin and sun-protection with a sunscreen-psoralen product. Photochem. Photobiol.
39:44S.
Cole, C.A., Forbes, P.D., Davies, R.E., Urbach, F. (1985) Effects of indoor lighting on normal skin.
Annals N.Y. Acad. Sci. 453:305-316.
Forbes, P.D., Davies, R.E., Urbach, F., Cole, C.A. (1985) Photocarcinogenesis. J. Toxicol. Cut. &
Ocular Toxicol. 4:219-236.
Cole, C.A., Forbes, P.D., Davies, R.E. (1986) An action spectrum for UV photocarcinogenesis.
Photochem. Photobiol. 43:275-284.
Urbach, F., Cole, C.A. (1986) Effects of light source and photosensitizer on predicted protection
factors of UVA sunscreens. Photochem. Photobiol. 43:86S.
Brainard, C., Podolin, P.L., Leivy, S., Rollag, M.D., Cole, C.A., Barker, F.M. (1986)
Near-ultraviolet radiation suppresses pineal melatonin content. Endocrinology, 119:2201 -2205.
Brainard, G.C., Rollag, M.D., Northrop, B.A., Cole, C.A., Barker, F.M. (1986) The influence of
light irradiance and wavelength on pineal physiology of mammals. In: Pineal and Retinal
Relationships. Academic Press.
Cole, C.A. (1986) The physiological components of ultraviolet radiation induced ear swelling
phenomena in albino hairless mice. Doctoral Dissertation, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA.
19140.
Forbes, P.D., Davies, R.E., Urbach, F., Cole, C.A. (1989) Inhibition of radiation induced skin
tumors in hairless mice by topical application of the sunscreen 2- Ethylhexyl p-Methoxycinnamate.
J. Toxicol. Cutaneous and Ocular Toxicology, 8(2): 209-226.
Cole, C.A., Van Fossen R. (1988) Rapid in-vitro evaluation of sunscreens: SPF and PFA.
Photochem. Photobiol. 47:73S.
Cole, C.A. (1990) Animal models for UVB Photoprotection. In: Sunscreens: Development.
Evaluation and Regulatory Aspects. N. Lowe and N Shaath Eds. Merkel Decker, New York.
pp.447-457.
Cole, C.A., Van Fossen, R. (1990) A rapid in vitro model for UVB and UVA sunscreen testing. In:
Sunscreens: Development. Evaluation and Regulatory Aspects. N. Lowe and N Shaath Eds.
Merkel Decker, New York. pp. 395-404.
Sambuco, C.P., Cole, C.A., Forbes, P.D., Urbach, F. (1989) Photobiologic effects of cosmetic
tanning enhancers in miniature pigs. pp. 399-407. In: Psoralens: Past, Present and Future, of
Photochemoprotection and other Biological Activities. Eds. T.B. Fitzpatrick, P. Forlot, M.A,
Pathak, F. Urbach., J. Libbey Eurotext Pub., Paris, 1989.
Cole, C.A., Forbes, P.D., Hubman, K. (1989) Sunscreen testing using the mouse ear model.
Photoderm. 6:131-136.
Cole, C.A., (1990) How Much UVA Protection is Enough? In: Insights into Photochemotherapv
and Photobiology. R. Berger Ed. Markel Dekker Publishers.
Sayre, R.M., Cole, C.A., Billhimer, W., Stanfield, J., Ley, R.D. (1990) Spectral comparison
between solar simulators and sunlight. Photodermatol. Photoimmunol. Photomed. 1990: 7:159-165.
Cole, C.A. Van Fossen, R. (1992) Measurement of sunscreen UVA protection: An unsensitized
human model. J. Amer. Acad. Dermatol. 26:178-184.
Cole, C.A. Van Fossen, R. (1992) Testing UVA protective agents in man. In: Biological Responses
to Ultraviolet A . F. Urbach, Ed. ValdenmarPubl. Co., Overland Park, KS.
De Gruijl F., Henricus J., Sterenborg C.M., Forbes P., Davies R., Cole C., Kelfkens G., van
Weelden H., Slaper H., van der Leun J. (1993) The wavelength dependence of skin cancer induction
by ultraviolet irradiation of albino hairless mice. Cancer Research, 53:53-60.
Cole, C.A. (1994) Multicenter evaluation of sunscreen UVA protectiveness with the protection
factor test method. J. Am. Acad. Dermatol. 30:729-736.
Cole, C.A., Aleles, M.A., Payonk, G. (1997) Retinol improves appearance of photodamaged skin.
Abstract - 19th World Congress of Dermatology, Sydney Australia, June 1997.
Geesin, J.C., Nebus, J. A., Cole, C.A. Effects of retinoids on ultraviolet-mediated oxidative effects
on cultured fibroblasts. Abstract - Society for Investigative Dermatology, 1997.
Geesin, J.C., Wildnauer, T., Nebus, J.A., Cole. C. A. Prevention of untraviolet-induced oxidative
effects on cultured fibroblasts by antioxidants. Abstract - Society for Investigative Dermatology,
1997.
Cole, C.A. Measurement of sunscreen UVA protectiveness. Review article. Photodermatology,
Photoallergy, Photomedicine, Volume 17:Issue:l, pp 2-10. 2001.
Cole C., Natter F., Ruvolo E., Issachar N. Validation of in vivo and in vitro methods to measure
UVA protectiveness of sunscreen (Abstract). Photodermatology, Photoallergy, Photomedicine,
18:2, p. 104.
Forbes P. Donald., Beer Janusz Z., Black Homer S., Cesarini Jean-Pierre., Cole Curtis A.,
Davies Ronald E., M. Davitt John., deGruijl Frank., Epstein John., Fourtanier Anny., Green
Adele., Koval Thomas., Ley Ronald D., Mascotto Romano., Morison Warwick., Osterberg
Robert., Sliney David., Urbach Frederick ,18. van der Leun Jan C., and Young Antony R.
Standardized Protocols for Photocarcinogenesis Safety Testing. Frontiers in Bioscience, 8:848-
854,2003.
Agin, P., Cole, C.A., Corbett, C. Sanzare C., Marenus K., Tedeshi J., Wills C. Balancing UVA
and UVB Protection in Sunscreens: Proportionality, Quantitative Measurement of Efficacy, and
Clear Communication to Consumers. In: Sunscreens: Regulations and Commercial
Development Third Edition. Nadim Shaath Editor. Taylor and Francis Group, Pub. Boca
Raton FL. 2005. pp. 808 - 825.
Cole Curtis, Berlin Christiane. Dimethylaminoethanol - A New Skin Care Ingredient for Aging
Skin. Textbook of Cosmetic Dermatology. Robert Baran, Howard Maibach Eds. London,
2005. pp. 95-101.
Cole CA., Forbes PD., Sambuco CP., Arocena M., Hoberman AM., Learn DB. Comprehensive
analyses demonstrate the validity of the SCUP-m action spectrum for UVR-induced skin cancer.
Proceedings of the 2"^“ CIE Expert Symposium on Light and Health, CIE x031:2006, CIE,
Vienna, 2006.
Rigel DS., Ceilley RL, Berson DS., Cole CA., Draelos ZD. Photoprotection: Recent Advances
in sunscreen stability. Skin & Allergy News Supplement, pp 1-11. 2006.
Cole CA., Vollhardt J., Mendrok C. Formulation and Stability of Sunscreen Products. In: Lim HW,
Draelos ZD, editors. Clinical Guide to Sunscreens and Photoprotection. New York: Informa
Healthcare; 2008. p. 39-52.
Ruvolo E., Chu M., Grossman F., Cole C., Kollias N. Diffuse Reflectance Spectroscopy (DRS)
for UVA Protection Factor Measurement: Correlation studies between in vitro and in vivo
measurements. Photodermatology, Photoimmunology & Photomedicine. 25(6):298-304, 2009.
Tucker-Samaras S., Zedayko T., Cole C., Miller D.,Wallo W., Leyden J^A stabilized 0.1% retinol
facial moisturizer improves the appearance of photodamaged skin in an eight-week, double-blind,
vehicle-controlled study. Journal ofDrugs in Dermatology Vol. 8:10, 2009.
Ou-Yang H., Stanfield JW., Cole C., Appa Y. An evaluation of ultraviolet A protection and
photostability of sunscreens marketed in Australia and New Zealand., Photodermatology.
Photoimmunology, Photomedicine 26:336-337.
Stanfield J., Ou-Yang H., Chen T., Cole C., Appa Y. Multi-laboratory validation of very high sun
protection factor values. Photodermatol, Photoimm. Photomed. 27, 30-34, 2011.
Ou-Yang H., Stanfield J., Cole C., Appa Y., Rigel D. High SPF sunscreens (SPF>70) may provide
ultraviolet protection above minimal recommended levels by adequately compensating for lower
sunscreen used application amounts. J. Amer. Acad. Dermatol. 67:6, pp 1220 - 1227. 2012.
Shapiro S., Seiberg M., Cole C. Vitamin A and its Derivatives in Experimental
Photocarcinogenesis: Preventive Effects and Relevance to Humans. J. Drugs Dermatol. 12:4, pp
283-288. 2013.
Ouyang H., Stanfield J., Cole C. Appa Y., Rigel D. Sun-protection factor confounded by anti
inflammatory activity of sunscreen agents ? Letter to the Editor. J. Amer. Acad. Dermatol.
69:3, 481 -482.2013.
Ruvolo E., Kollias N., Cole C. New non-invasive approach assessing in vivo Sun Protection
Factor (SPF) using Diffuse Reflectance Spectroscopy and in vitro transmission Photoderm.
Photoimmun. Photomed. 30:4 202-211, 2014.
Cole C. Sunscreens - What is the ideal testing model? Review Article. Photoderm. Photoimmun.
Photomed. Volume 30, Issue 2-3, pages 81-87, 2014.
Cole C., Appa Y., Ou-Yang H. Broad spectrum high SPFwith High UVA-PF photostable
sunscreens can protect against cellular damage even under intense UVR. Photoderm.
Photoimmunol. Photomed 30:4, 212-219, 2014.
Cole C., Shyr T., Ou-Yang H. Metal oxide sunscreens protect skin by absorption, not by reflection
or scattering. Photomed. Photoimmunol. Photodermatol. 2016 32:1, 5-10.
Cole C., Silverman J., Bonitatibus, M. Evaluating sunscreen ultraviolet protection using a
polychromatic diffuse reflectance device. Photomed. Photoimunol. Photodermatol. 35(5):436-441,
2019.
Ruvolo E., Aesheliman L., Cole C. Evaluation of sunscreen efficacy over time and
re-application using hybrid diffuse reflectance spectroscopy, Photoderm. Photoimunol.
Photomed. 36:3, 191-199, 2020.
Cole, C. Global Data of Unprotected Skin Minimal Erythema Dose Relationship to Individual
Typology Angle (ITA°), Photoderm. Photoimmunol. Photodermatol. 36:6, 452-459, 2020.
Forbes, PD., Cole, CA, deGruijl F. Origins and evolution of photocarcinogenesis action spectra,
including germicidal UVC. Photochem. Photobiol. In press, 2020.
Ruvolo E, Rohr M, Oliveira S, Nogueira L, Carvahlo J, Cole C. Multi-laboratory study of
hybrid diffuse reflectance spectroscopy to assess sunscreen SPF and UVA-PF . Photoderm.
Photoimmunol. Photomed. 36(7), 511-520, 2021.
Hughes SNG, Lowe NJ, Gross K, Mark L, Goffe B, Hughes H, Cole C. Assessment of Natural
Sunlight Protection Provided by 10 High SPF Broad Spectrum Sunscreens and Sun Protective
Fabrics. Curr Probl Dermatol. 2021; 55. in press. DOI: 10.1159/000517666
Testimony by George Martin, MD, FAAD
on behalf of the Hawaii Dermatological Society and the American Academy of
Dermatology Association
Maui County Council
In Opposition of Bill 135
November 19, 2021
Thank you Chair Lee, and distinguished members of the Council, for the opportunity to
provide testimony in opposition of Bill 135, which would prohibit for sale, distribution and
even use any non-mineral sunscreen without a prescription. My name is Dr. George Martin
and I am a board-certified dermatologist from Kihei. I am here representing the Hawaii
Dermatological Society and the American Academy of Dermatology Association.
I have practiced dermatology on Maui since 1989 and during that time have treated over
20,000 patients and over 30,000 skin cancers. My wife and I have raised our 7 children on
Maui and now have 4 grandchildren living on Maui, all of whom share our passion and
concern for the health of our ocean and coral reefs. I am an avid waterman who finds his
way into the ocean several times a week. I have also been involved in sunscreen research
and development since 1986 and plan to launch a line of "reef safe" sunscreen products
under the brand Doc Hawaii in the first quarter of 2022.
As dermatologists, we dedicate our lives to promoting habits in our patients that ensure
healthy skin. UV radiation damages the skin's DNA, which is the beginning stage of skin
cancer. We oppose this legislation and urge you to strongly consider the broad implications
of banning the use of sunscreens containing certain ingredients, bearing in mind the grave
dangers of sun exposure without adequate protection that the residents and visitors of
Maui County face.
Chemical (organic) sunscreen filters are an important component of many sunscreen
products. They are efficient and provide ample broad-spectrum protection against UV
radiation. This legislation would remove access to chemical filters, leaving only mineral
filters, which are known to be less effective filters. The testimony of Dr. Curtis Cole PhD
provides graphic evidence of this fact. Further, mineral sunscreen products often leave a
whitish residue on the skin that many, especially individuals with darker skin tones, find to
be unacceptable for use.
UV light exposure is a risk factor for all types of skin cancer and sunscreen use is one
photoprotection method to protect against it. UVA damages deeper layers of the skin and
contributes to the development of melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer. UVB is the
primary cause of sunburn and plays a key role in the development of skin cancer in the
skin's more superficial layers. In addition, both types of rays can cause suppression of the
immune system. Unprotected sun exposure is the most preventable risk factor for skin
cancer. According to current estimates, at least one in five Americans will develop skin
cancer in their lifetime. Melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer, is now the second
most common form of cancer for females aged 15-29 years old, and Caucasian men over
50 years of age are at a higher risk of developing melanoma than the general population.
In 2021,460 new cases of melanoma are expected to be diagnosed in Hawaii. Further, the
annual cost of treating nonmelanoma skin cancer in the U.S. is estimated at $4.8 billion,
while the average annual cost of treating melanoma is estimated at $3.3 billion.
To prevent skin cancer, the AADA recommends a comprehensive sun protection plan that
includes seeking shade; wearing protective clothing, including hats and sunglasses; and
generously applying a broad-spectrum, water-resistant sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or
higher to exposed skin.
Dermatologists have an interest in patient and public access to safe and effective
sunscreen ingredients. The FDA is currently working with industry on safety testing for
currently marketed sunscreen ingredients. The FDA is also considering several time-and-
extent applications (TEAs) for new sunscreen ingredients to be added to the FDA over-the-
counter (OTC) sunscreen monograph. The FDA's conclusion from recent studies on
sunscreen ingredient absorption "supports the need for further studies to determine the
clinical significance of these findings." FDA further stated that "these findings do not
indicate that individuals should refrain from the use of sunscreen." It should be noted that
sunscreen ingredients have been used since the 1970s without any reported systemic
adverse side effects. This issue highlights the urgent need for new safe and effective
ingredients to be introduced in the United States. With the approval of ingredients that
utilize alternative UV filters available to sunscreen product manufacturers, the public's
health will be increasingly protected. The AADA continues to take part in the discussion
with the FDA and manufacturers regarding availability of current and new ingredients.
We are aware of and concerned about the potential environmental impact of UV-filters.
However, the potential adverse effects, if any, related to the levels of UV-filters in the water
supply and marine life (as well as humans) is an emerging science. In a recent 2021 review^
by Mitchelmore (article attached in my written submission) of this topic, 12 studies
evaluating up to 14 different organic UV filters in seawater near coral reefs were critically
analyzed. The authors concluded that the majority of concentrations found in seawater
were in the nanograms per liter range. Nine papers report toxicological findings from no
response to a variety of biological effects, however, these effects were detected in the
micrograms per liter to milligrams per liter range, namely, at least 1000-fold higher than
those reported in seawater in real life. The review concludes "there is currently limited
evidence to suggest that corals are adversely impacted by environmental exposure to UV
filters."
Our organizations advocated for the enactment of the Further Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2020, under which the U.S. Congress directed the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) to contract with the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to conduct a scientific
literature review of current sunscreens' potential risk to the marine environment. The study
will also consider scientific literature on the potential public health implications as a result
of reduced use of sunscreens. This type of further research is required in order to
definitively understand how UV-filters may affect the environment. We encourage you to
consider these ongoing efforts before taking any action to remove a product that has been
proven effective to protect humans from skin cancer. Based on current data, removing
specific sunscreen active ingredients and products from the market would be premature,
and would deprive the public of an integral component of photoprotection to decrease the
risk of skin cancer.
Speaking as a concerned citizen and scientist, I feel that we need to step back and await the
final guidance expected in 2022 from the FDA and the "od hoc Committee of the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine on Environmental Impact of Currently
Marketed Sunscreens and Potential Human Impacts of Changes in Sunscreen Usage" We all
share the same concerns about the health of our ocean and coral reefs as well as the
health and safety of children and adults who are "at risk" for skin cancer. Let us move
forward in a spirit of "malama pono"an6 find the common ground for reef and human
safety.
Please consider the public health consequences of removing access, banning use, or
attaching stigma to sunscreens containing certain ingredients. We oppose Bill 135 for the
reasons above, and we request that Hawaii give the FDA more time to add new sunscreens
for public use and for the NAS to conduct its review and publish a report. Should this bill
gain the support for passage, we urge the Council to 1) remove the word "use," so the ban
only applies to sale and distribution and 2) extend the effective date to allow
dermatologists and other physicians and clinicians and pharmacies time to develop and
implement a prescribing infrastructure.
In summary, it is my scientific opinion that the Maui County City Council is prematurely
engaged in decision making on HB 135, a bill that is based on faulty science as evidenced
by the critical review by Mitchelmore et al published in 2021. I implore our council
members to defer voting on this bill and wait for the release of the findings FDA Sunscreen
Safety monograph and National Academy of Science ad hoc Task Force on Sunscreens
guidance, both of which are to be released in 2022.
I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on this important public health issue.
Malama pono!
With aloha,
George Martin MD, FAAD
Dermatologist, Kihei, Maui, Hawaii
^ Mitchelmore C.L, Burns E, Conway A, Heyes A, Davies lA. A critical review of organic ultraviolet filter exposure,
hazard and risk to corals. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 40{4), 967-988. 2021.
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry—Volume 00, Number 00—pp. 1-22, 2021
Received: 3 July 2020 | Revised: 22 September 2020 | Accepted: 24 November 2020 1
Critical Review
A Critical Review of Organic Ultraviolet Filter Exposure,
Hazard, and Risk to Corals
Carys L Mitchelmore,®'* Emily E. Burns,^ Annaleise Conway,* Andrew Heyes,* and lain A. Davies**'*
'University of Maryland Center tor Environmental Science, Chesapeake Biological Laboratory, Solomons, Maryland, USA
‘’Personal Caro Products Council, Washington, DC, USA
Abstract; There has been a rapid increase in public, political, and scientific interest regarding the impact of organic ultra
violet (UV) filters to coral reefs. Such filters are found in sunscreens and other consumer products and enter the aquatic
environment via direct (i.e., recreational activities, effluents) or indirect (i.e., land runoff) pathways. This review summarizes
the current state of the science regarding the concentration of organic UV filters in seawater and sediment near coral reef
ecosystems and in coral tissues, toxicological data from early and adult life stages of coral species, and preliminary envi
ronmental risk characterizations. Up to 14 different organic UV filters in seawater near coral reefs have been reported across
12 studies, with the majority of concentrations in the nanograms per liter range. Nine papers report toxicological findings
from no response to a variety of biological effects occurring in the micrograms per liter to milligrams per liter range, in part
given the wide variations in experimental design and coral species and/or life stage used. This review presents key findings;
scientific data gaps; flaws in assumptions, practice, and inference; and a number of recommendations for future studies to
assess the environmental risk of organic UV filters to coral reef ecosystems. Environ Toxicol Chem 2021 ;00:1-22. © 2021 The
Authors. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of SETAC.
Keywords: UV filters; Corals; Sunscreen; Environmental chemistry; Hazard/risk assessment; Personal care products
Coral reefs are highly productive and economically vital
ecosystems, providing an array of ecosystem services and
biodiversity (Moberg and Folke 1999; Woodhead et al. 2019).
In recent years, coral reef health globally has significantly
declined as a result of climate change impacts (sea level rise,
ocean acidification), and repeated bleaching events from
sustained elevated temperature events have occurred (Hoegh-
Guldberg et al. 2017; Hughes et al. 2018). Meanwhile, local-
scale stressors including municipal and industrial wastewater
effluents, overfishing, recreational activities, and overland
runoff (urban and agricultural inputs) have also been shown to
directly contribute to coral decline and/or reduce the resilience
of corals to global stressors (Owen et al. 2005; Negri and
Hoogenboom 2011; Spalding and Brown 2015; Duprey
et al. 2016). In particular, heavy metals, nutrients, and various
organic chemicals can adversely impact corals at potentially
environmentally relevant levels (e.g., van Dam et al. 2011;
Forbes et al. 2016; Kroon et ai. 2020), particularly in densely
populated areas or those that experience significant tourism,
especially when combined with sheltered beach environments
(Wood 2018),
Toxicological effects resulting from coral exposure to
organic UV filters is an emerging hypothesis first proposed
by Danovaro et al. (2008) and subsequently explored by
INTRODUCTION
Organic ultraviolet (UV) filters are used in a diverse array of
consumer products to inhibit the infiltration of UV light to
prevent sunburns or photodegradation. Examples include sun
protection products (e.g., sunscreens), personal care products,
plastics, paints, and textiles (Fent et al. 2010; Ramos
et al. 2015). Recently, growing scientific, public, and regulatory
concern over the presence of organic UV filters, primarily those
used in sun protection products, in the environment has
emerged (Kim and Choi 2014; Wood 2018; Schneider and
Lim 2019). The presence of organic UV filters in the marine
environment, primarily released during recreational activities
(e.g., swimming), has been highlighted because they are
suspected of adversely impacting ecologically important coral
communities (Raffa et al. 2019).
Thi$ article comalns onlir^e-only Supplemerttal Data.
This is an open access article under the terms o( the Creative Commons
Attribution Ucense, which permits use. distribution and reproduction in any
medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
' Address correspondence to mitchelmoreOumces edu; daviesiS
personatcarecouncil org
Published online 2 February 2021 in Wiley Online Library
(wileyonlinelibrary.com).
DOI: 10.1002/etc.4948
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry—^Volume 00, Number 00—pp. 1-22, 2021
Received: 3 July 2020 | Revised: 22 September 2020 | Accepted: 24 November 2020 1
Critical Review
A Critical Review of Organic Ultraviolet Filter Exposure,
Hazard, and Risk to Corals
Emily E. Burns,Annaleise Conway,® Andrew Heyes,® and lain A. Davies^®'*
'University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science, Chesapeake Biological Laboratory, Solomons. Maryland, USA
'’Personal Care Products Council, Washington, DC. USA
Carys L. Mitchelmore,a,*
Abstract: There has been a rapid increase in public, political, and scientific interest regarding the impact of organic ultra
violet {UV) filters to coral reefs. Such filters are found in sunscreens and other consumer products and enter the aquatic
environment via direct (i.e., recreational activities, effluents) or indirect (i.e., land runoff) pathways. This review summarizes
the current state of the science regarding the concentration of organic UV filters in seawater and sediment near coral reef
ecosystems and in coral tissues, toxicological data from early and adult life stages of coral species, and preliminary envi
ronmental risk characterizations. Up to 14 different organic UV filters in seawater near coral reefs have been reported across
12 studies, with the majority of concentrations in the nanograms per liter range. Nine papers report toxicological findings
from no response to a variety of biological effects occurring in the micrograms per liter to milligrams per liter range, in part
given the wide variations in experimental design and coral species and/or life stage used. This review presents key findings;
scientific data gaps; flaws in assumptions, practice, and inference; and a number of recommendations for future studies to
assess the environmental risk of organic UV filters to coral reef ecosystems. Environ Toxicol Chem 2021 ;00:1-22. © 2021 The
Authors. Environn)ental Toxicology and Chemistry published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of SETAC.
Keywords: UV filters; Corals; Sunscreen; Environmental chemistry; Hazard/risk assessment; Personal care products
Coral reefs are highly productive and economically vital
ecosystems, providing an array of ecosystem services and
biodiversity (Moberg and Folke 1999; Woodhead et al. 2019).
In recent years, coral reef health globally has significantly
declined as a result of climate change impacts (sea level rise,
ocean acidification), and repeated bleaching events from
sustained elevated temperature events have occurred (Hoegh-
Guldberg et ai. 2017; Hughes et al. 2018). Meanwhile, local-
scale stressors including municipal and industrial wastewater
effluents, overfishing, recreational activities, and overland
runoff (urban and agricultural inputs) have also been shown to
directly contribute to coral decline and/or reduce the resilience
of corals to global stressors (Owen et al. 2005; Negri and
Hoogenboom 2011; Spalding and Brown 2015; Duprey
et al. 2016). In particular, heavy metals, nutrients, and various
organic chemicals can adversely impact corals at potentially
environmentally relevant levels (e.g., van Dam et al. 2011;
Forbes et al. 2016; Kroon et al. 2020), particularly in densely
populated areas or those that experience significant tourism,
especially when combined with sheltered beach environments
(Wood 2018).
Toxicological effects resulting from coral exposure to
organic UV filters is an emerging hypothesis first proposed
by Danovaro et al. (2008) and subsequently explored by
INTRODUCTION
Organic ultraviolet (UV) filters are used in a diverse array of
consumer products to inhibit the infiltration of UV light to
prevent sunburns or photodegradation. Examples include sun
protection products (e.g., sunscreens), personal care products,
plastics, paints, and textiles (Pent et al. 2010; Ramos
et al. 2015). Recently, growing scientific, public, and regulatory
concern over the presence of organic UV filters, primarily those
used in sun protection products, in the environment has
emerged (Kim and Choi 2014; Wood 2018; Schneider and
Lim 2019). The presence of organic UV filters in the marine
environment, primarily released during recreational activities
(e.g., swimming), has been highlighted because they are
suspected of adversely impacting ecologically important coral
communities (Raffa et al. 2019).
This article contains online-only Supplemental Data.
This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any
medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
* Address correspondence to mitchelmore@umces.edu; daviesi®
personalcarecouncil.org
Published online 2 February 2021 in Wiley Online Library
(wileyonlinelibrary.com).
DOI: 10.1002/etc.4948
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
2 Environmenta/ Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22—C.L Mitchelmore et al.
Median effective concentrations (EC50s) and median lethal
concentrations (LC50s) were not converted because these
endpoints are suitable for risk assessment. A cumulative end
point ecotoxicity distribution was created to help visualize the
variability in effect concentrations based on UV filter and
endpoint studied. Finally, risk assessments were summarized in
a single figure by plotting the risk quotient reported for
each compound assessed, as described in Supplemental Data,
Text S4.
Downs et al. (2016) and McCoshum et al. (2016). In response to
these findings, legislators in the United States have invoked
the precautionary principle to ban the use of 2 organic UV
filters in beach sunscreen products, namely, oxybenzone
(benzophenone-3 [BP-3]) and octinoxate (ethylhexyl methox-
ycinnamate [EHMC); Sirois 2019). These bans include Hawaii
(SB 2571; State of Hawaii Senate 2018), the US Virgin Islands
(Bill 33-0043; US Virgin Islands 2019), and a locally proposed
ban in Key West, Florida (Ordinance File 18-3253; Key West
City Commission 2019). Palau (Remengesau 2018) and Bonaire
(Ministries of The Netherlands 2020) have enacted similar
sunscreen ingredient bans.
Since the initial 3 organic UV filter coral toxicity papers were
published, 6 additional investigations have increased the amount
of data available and expanded the number of organic UV filters
studied (Fel et al. 2019; He et al. 2019a, 2019b; Stien
et al. 2019, 2020; Wijgerde et al. 2020). Two studies have
reported on the concentrations of UV filters in coral tissues
(Tsui et al. 2017; Mitchelmore et al. 2019). In addition,
12 exposure studies (i.e., chemical monitoring) that collected
seawater samples near coral reefs have been reported (Goksoyr
et al. 2009; Tashiro and Kameda 2013; Bargar et al. 2015; Downs
et al. 2016; Kung et al. 2018; Schaap and Slijkerman 2018;
Mitchelmore et al. 2019; Tsui et al. 2019), with  ahandful of
them also conducting preliminary coral risk assessments
using the existing empirical data (Tsui et al. 2014, 2017; He
et al. 2019a, 2019b). A few studies have also reported concen
trations of organic UV filters in sediment near coral reefs
(Tsui et al. 2015, 2017; Apel et al. 2018; Mitchelmore et al. 2019).
In this article, we critically review the exposure, hazard, and
risk that organic UV filters pose to coral reefs. Major findings
are summarized along with recommendations for future
research to enhance our understanding of the sources,
exposure, fate, and toxicity of organic UV filters on coral
environments. It is our hope that the results will help focus
future research efforts toward critical knowledge gaps and
provide decision-makers with a state-of-the-science summary
to aid in the protection of coral reefs.
SOURCES AND OCCURRENCE OF UV
FILTERS IN THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT
The pathways of UV filter environmental exposure are varied
and source-dependent. In this review, we focus on UV filters
used in sun care products (i.e., sunscreens), which aligns with
the findings from a recent monitoring and modeling study
(Labille et al. 2020), although efforts to verify this assumption
should be undertaken. However, it is important to note that UV
filters are used in a wide range of products and that their UV
filter content, their leaching potential, and the extent of their
contribution to environmental concentrations are virtually un
known, complicating the environmental source apportionment
of these compounds from sunscreens. What we can say is that
given the diversity of organic UV filter sources, there are
multiple point and diffuse sources of UV filters to the aquatic
environment (e.g., see Giokas et al. 2007) including from
recreational use (i.e., swimmers), wastewater-treatment plant
effluents, industrial effluents, and terrestrial runoff (Figure 1).
In sun protection products, UV filters are usually added as a
mixture at various concentrations to protect the skin from the
negative consequences of UVA (315-400 nm) and UVB
(280-315 nm) light exposure including sunburn, premature
aging, and skin cancer (Chisvert and Salvador 2007; Giokas
et al. 2007). Organic UV filters protect skin by absorbing UV
light, and those available for formulation in sun care products
vary regionally along with their percentage permitted. For ex
ample, US cosmetic products can contain up to 6% oxy
benzone (BP-3) and 7.5% octinoxate (EHMC), whereas their
inclusion levels are higher in the European Union (i.e., 10%, for
BP-3 and EHMC; Table 1). However, ingredients not used in a
certain country may be brought in and used by visitors and
tourists from other countries (Schaap and Slijkerman 2018).
Many of the UV filters in Table 1 have yet to be investigated in
terms of coral toxicity (48%) or appear in an environmental
exposure study (45%). For those that have been studied, dif
ferent names and acronyms have been used to identify them.
For example, the acronym for "octisalate," also "ethylhexyl
salicylate," has been cited as "OS" (Mitchelmore et al. 2019)
and "EHS" (ethylhexyl salicylate; Danovaro et al. 2008;
Tsui et al. 2014). We propose identifying all UV filters by their
International Nomenclature of Cosmetic Ingredients (INCI)
name and using the proposed acronyms in subsequent re
search efforts (Table 1).
Finally, Table 1 and Supplemental Data, Table SI, demon
strate that UV filters are a physiochemically diverse group of
METHODS
A review was conducted of papers published up to the end
of June 2020, as described in Supplemental Data, Text SI.
Papers that reported toxicological effects on coral (n = 9), UV
filter exposure in seawater (n=12) or sediment (n  =4) near
reefs, or UV filter concentrations within coral tissues (n = 2) or
conducted coral-specific risk assessments (n = 5) were in
cluded. To assess trends in UV filter exposure, data were
summarized in box plots containing the range and median of
concentrations reported per UV filter, per study, as detailed in
Supplemental Data, Text S2. To summarize toxicity data,
lowest-observable-effect concentrations (LOECs) were con
verted to no-observable-effect concentrations (NOECs) for
consistency and to be more suitable for risk assessment
according to guidance provided by the European Chemicals
Agency (2008), as detailed in Supplemental Data, Text S3.
© 2021 The Authors wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
3Impact of organic UV filers on coral—Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22
(1) Wastewater (2) Point exposure
Septic tank
*●●●*
Bathers/recreation
i  iCesspool
Groundwater Industrial effluents
Sewage / wastewater
treatment plant t
SURFACE WATERS
(3) Storm water/
land run-offFood sources Dissolved and
particulateSediment
Organism exposure
%
FIGURE 1: Potential sources and routes of entry of organic ultraviolet filters into the aquatic environment. Images are from the Integration and
Application Network, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science (ian.umces.edu/imagelibrary/), with specific author credits being
Caroline Wicks (wastewater treatment plant), Jane Thomas (septic), Joanna Woerner (snorkler and coral), Jane Hawkey (factory, sediment, and
shrimp), and Tracey Saxby (runoff and coral).
environmental occurrence and distribution of UV filters in and
around reef systems. By limiting the data set to relevant reef
exposure, we aim to characterize the exposure that coral
is most likely to experience, which from a risk-assessment
perspective is desirable.
chemicals, indicating that once in the environment their fate
will be UV filter-specific. This is evidenced by the large range in
log octanol-water partition coefficients (Kqw) arid solubility.
Solubility estimates (predicted or measured) are variable even
for the same UV filter and are reported for freshwater rather
than seawater, which is expected to result in lowered UV filter
solubility (Xie et al. 1997). Furthermore, the fate of UV filters in
the environment is influenced by a number of chemical and
physical factors (e.g., salinity), as described in Supplemental
Data, Text S5. The differences in physicochemical parameters
in a particular environment, in addition to the structural dis
similarity between UV filters (Supplemental Data, Table SI), are
likely to affect the relative toxicity of these compounds, limiting
the ability to "read across" effect or fate information between
data-rich and data-poor compounds. Overall, relatively little is
known about the fate of UV filters in the environment despite
the importance of these fate processes in determining their
bioavailability to aquatic organisms, and further studies are
recommended.
Methods of UV filter sampling and analysis. The most
common analytical instrument used to detect and quantify UV
filters was liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass
spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), accounting for 75% of studies, with
the remainder analyzed by gas chromatography-MS. Details
on all analytical detection and extraction methods used
for seawater analyses can be found in Supplemental Data,
Table S3. 33% of these studies were based on the methods
repotted by Tsui et al. (2014). Limits of detection (LOD) were
largely similar among studies, although varying levels of an
alyte recovery (as percentages) were observed when reported
(Supplemental Data, Table S4). Differences in recovery could
be explained by the specific extraction method employed
(see Cadena-Aizaga et al. 2020). Ideally, recovery should
fall between 70 and 120%, and outside this range the reli
ability of results is impaired (Boix et al. 2015). Bargar et al.
(2015) noted significant analyte losses for 3 analytes (ethyl-
hexyl dimethyl para-aminobenzoic acid [EDP], octocrylene
[OC], and homosalate [HMS]), with recoveries falling below
11%, and so did not correct data sets for analyte recovery.
Tsui et al. (2014) reported acceptable recoveries for all com
pounds except EHS (63%), whereas Mitchelmore et al. (2019)
reported low recoveries for both EHS and HMS in seawater
from some sites, although actual recoveries for all UV filters
UV filter environmental occurrence near coral
reefs
We have identified only a handful of exposure studies re
porting measured environmental concentrations (MECs) of UV
filters in the water column near coral reefs (n = 12), in sediment
(n = 4), and within coral tissue (n = 2), which are summarized in
Tables 2 and 3 and Supplemental Data, Table S2. The current
data set is limited but can still provide initial insight into the
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
TABLE 1: Detailed summary of the commori types of organic ultraviolet (UV) filters used in sunscreens and cosmetics globally^oM
Physicochemical
properties^
Maximum product
Inclusion levels (%)3"
(D
Abbreviations reported
in other studies
Standardized
abbreviation
>c
AUS Log Kow Solubility (mg/L)USA EU JPNINCI name (INN/USAN/ANN)3"
0
BMDMB^; BMDM'Butyl methoxydibenzoylmethane (avobenzone)
Menthyl anthranilate (meradimate)
Disodium phenyl dibenzimidazole tetrasulfonate
(bisdisulizole disodium)
Diethylamino hydroxybenzoyl hexyl benzoate (none listed)
Ethylhexyl dimethyl PABA (padimate O)
Cinoxate (cinoxate)
Homosalate (homosalate)
Ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate (octinoxate)
Ethylhexyl salicylate (octisalate)
Phenylbenzimidazole sulfonic acid (ensulizole)
Triethanolamine salt of salicylate (trolamlne salicylate)
Benzylidene camphor sulfonic acid (none listed)
Tcrophthalylidene dicamphor sulfonic acid (ecamsule)
Para-aminobenzoic acid (aminobenzoic acid)
PEG-25 PABA (none listed)
4-Methylbenzylidene camphor (enzacamene)
Camphor benzalkonium methosulfate (none listed)
Ethylhexyl triazone (octyl triazone)
Polysilicone-15 (polysilicone-15)
Polyacrylamidomethyl benzylidene camphor (none listed)
Isoamyl p-methoxycinnamate (amiloxate)
Octocrylene (octocrilene)
Bis-ethylhexyloxyphenol methoxyphenyl triazine (bemotrizinol)
Phenylene bis-diphenyltriazine (none listed)
Tris-biphenyl triazine (none listed)
Drometrizole trisiloxane (drometrizole trisiloxane)
Diethylhexyl butamido triazone (iscotrizinol)
Benzophenone-3 (oxybenzone)
Benzophenone-4 (sulisobenzone)
Benzophenone-8 (dioxybenzone)
Methylene bis-benzotriazolyl tetramethylbutylphenol
(bisoctrizole)
AVO 3 5 5 10 6.1 0.027
0.074‘
l/i
6.28"MA 5 NA 5 NA
BPDT NA 10 10 10 -2 2000
10 10 6.2 0.016DHHB NA 10
ODPABA®'9; OD-PABA^6.2 0.11EDP 8 8 10
f2.65" .127.4" CIN6 5CIN 3 NA
f-hHMSHMS 15 10 15 10 6.34 0.5
EHMC®●^ OCT9; OMC'j
OS^; EHS9
EHMC 7,5 10 10 10 6.1 0.051
0.5EHS 5 5 5 10 6.36
fESZ-1.42
2.06"*
2.22"
-1,8"
109PSA 4 4 3
fTEAS12 NATEAS
BCSA
TDSA
PABA
PEG-25
4-MBC
CBM
12 NA
119.5"
6x10 Se
8 6 6NA
NA 10 10 10
610015 NA 15 4 0,68
NA 10 10 10
4MBC': 4-MBC3^NA 5.1 1.08NA 4 4
NA 6 6 6
7® 0.006"5 5 3ET NA
PS-15 10 10 10 0.1NA
PBC NA 6 6 6 m
lAMC^
OC^'^ OCT'
0.8IPM NA 10 10 NA 4.78 3
10 6.1 0.04OC 10 10 10 o3
NA 10 10 3BEMT 3<b
PBD NA 5 NA NA 3
Ql
10 10 10 5.6 0.00003
<0.04"
0.005
TBPT NA
>6"
4.1-5.9
DT NA 15 15 NA o
NA 5 oDBT NA 10 o
f-h. :  BZ'BP-3 oBP-3 6 10 10 5 3,45 6
SSB^; BP-4^
BP8^: BP-8^
0.52 300000
0.013
0.007
BP-4 10 5 10 10 eua
NA 2.33BP-8 3 NA 3 a
n3NA 10 10 10 4.2MBBT -
(0
3
'Organic UV filters are listed in terms of their International Nomenclature of Cosmetic Ingredients, alternative names, and acronym; select physicochemical properties and their maximal product inclusion levels in the
countries they are approved are also reported, and organic UV filters studied thus far are identified by the abbreviation used by the respective authors.
‘’Experimental physicochemical properties obtained from publicly available Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals technical registration dossiers maintained by the European Chemicals
Agency unless otherwise noted (European Chemicals Agency 2020).
"Physicohemical property estimated using EPISuite Software (US Environmental Protection Agency 2020a).
“^Predicted physicochemical property reported by the US Environmental Protection Agency Chemistry Dashboard (US Environmental Protection Agency 2020b).
"Reported by Pel et al. (2019; names used in paper are uvinul T150 (for ET], mexoryl XL [for DT), mexoryl SX [for TSDA]).
'Reported by Mitchelmore et al. (2019).
^Reported by Bargar et al. (2015).
’’Reported by Tsui et al. (2014).
'Reported by Horricks et al. (2019).
'Reported by Danovaro et al. (2008).
Benzophenone-1 is not marketed as a sunscreen agent and therefore not included in this table. It is included in subsequent analysis because it is a known metabolite of BP-3 (He et al. 2019b).
AUS = Australia; EU = European Union; INCI = International Nomenclature of Cosmetic Ingredients; INN/USAN/ANN = International nonproprietary name/United States adopted name/Australian approved name;
JPN = Japan; Kqw = octanol-water partition coefficient; NA = not available.
roorv)
oo
S I
to NJ><0
3 o3
(0
O"
n0) 3*
^5 (D
3n oO
3 o
m
Ql
n
5Impact of organic UV filters on coral—Env/ronmenta/ Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021 ;00:1-22
TABLE 2: Concentrations of organic ultraviolet filters reported in sediments (nanograms pergram dry wt) at sites near coral reefs: The median,
range, and detection frequency are provided for each compound at each site reported
Apel et al. (2018)^Mitchelmore etal. (2019)^ Tsui et al. (2015) Tsui etal. (2017)
DF (%) Median (Range) DF (%) MedianCompound Median DF (%) Median (Range) DF(%)(Range) (Range)
BP-3 <LOD
<LOQ (<LOD-0.24) 21
0.83 (<LOD-25) 46
<LOQ (<LOD-0.94) 32
<LOD (<LOD-0.004) 4
<LOD
0.16 (<LOD-1.35) 45
0
0
0.05 (<LOD-4.3)
(<LOD-12.7)
(<LOD-19.8)
(0.08-38.5)
79 (<LOD-39.8)
(<LOD-447)
(<LOD-15.6)
32 8.1 (4.2-17.8) 1004.1
EHMC 85<LOD 37 7.4 <LOD 0
OC 19 (<LOD-3.1) 570.64 68 5.0 2.1
HMS 5.05 100 <LOD
19.5 (<LOD-150)
<LOD
<LOD
9.7 (<LOD-64.5)
0
EDP <LOD
<LOD (<LOD-<LOQ)
2.65 (0.16-19.6)
<LOQ (<LOD-6.9)
<LOD (<LOD-<LOQ)
70 3.4 (<LOD-8)
<LOD
570
4-MBC 0 011
EHS 0100
AVO 7253
TEAS 5
BP-1 (<LOD-14.6)
(<LOD-62.2)
66 <LOD
<LOD
02.1
BP-8 <LOD 0 10.5 81 0
^Mitchelmore et al. (2019) found <LOD for cinoxate, phenylbenzimidazole sulfonic acid, BP-4, and isoamyl p-methoxycinnamate (IPM).
^Apel et al. (2018) also found <LOD for IPM.
Sample sites included per study; n= 19, Mitchelmore et al. (2019); n = 47, Tsui et al. (2015); n = 7. Tsui et al. (2017); n = 74, Apel etal. (2018). A detailed explanation for
how these data were summarized is provided in Supplemental Data, Text S6.
AVO = avobenzone; BP = benzophenone; DF = detection frequency; EDP = ethylhexyl dimethyl para-aminobenzoic acid; EHMC = ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate;
EHS = ethylhexyl salicylate; HMS = homosalate; LOD = limit of detection; LOQ = limit of quantification; 4-MBC = 4-methylbenzylidene camphor; OC = octocrylene;
TEAS = triethanolamine salt of salicylate.
Supplemental Data, Text S2 and Table S4). The study of Downs
et al. (2016) exemplifies why defining both parameters is crit
ical. For US Virgin Island seawater samples analyzed via LC-MS,
the reported LOD was 100 ng/L, whereas the LOQ was 50 times
higher (5000 ng/L). Firstly, this is an extraordinarily large margin
between these parameters; and secondly, it meant that 46% of
their samples could not be confidently quantified, just de
tected, albeit at much higher concentrations than reported in
other studies (Figure 2). Another common issue was a lack of
blank reporting, necessary to distinguish cross-laboratory or
field contamination. Only 25% of studies reported  ameth
odological blank, whereas a field blank was only reported in a
single study (Mitchelmore et al. 2019). Furthermore, matrix
spikes, essential for quantifying matrix effects that commonly
occur in environmental samples and can significantly impair the
reliability of quantitative results, were conducted in only 50% of
studies (see Supplemental Data, Table S3).
were not provided. Interestingly, analytical difficulties with
both EHS and HMS were also reported in a recent freshwater
study by O'Malley et al. (2021); neither could be quantified
because of poor calibration and sensitivity resulting in LODs
>10 000 ng/L.
The reporting of key elements needed to determine the
reliability of the analytical methods and, hence, data quality
varies. The LOD or method detection limit (MDL) was either
missing (Horricks et al. 2019) or reported as a range for all
compounds (Goksoyr et al. 2009; Tashiro and Kameda 2013;
Kung et al. 2018), both of which are problematic because an
LOD is essential to put nondetect results in context or to left-
censor data (Antweiler 2015). Also absent from several studies
was a limit of quantification (LOQ), the lowest concentration at
which acceptable repeatability of measurements is achieved.
Many calculations are used to generate LOQs, but generally
they are 2 to 5 times higher than the LOD (Furlong et al. 2014;
TABLE 3: Concentrations of organic ultraviolet filters reported in corals (nanograms per gram wet wt or dry wt)^
Mitchelmore et al. (2019)*’ Tsui et al. (2017)=
DF (%)Compound Median DF (%) Median (Range)(Range)
(5.1-21.4) 100BP-3 (5.8-241) 100 9.933.8
0EHMC 0 <LOD
<LOD
<LOD
100 (<LOD-3.7) 43OC (31.3-262)
(189-441)
48.4
HMS 100341
0 <LOD
<LOD
(<LOD-4.1) 14EDP <LOD
<LOD 21 04-MBC (<LOD-32)
(210-527)
(<LOD-170)
EHS 100331
63AVO 43.5
(3.8-12.3) 100BP-8 0 8.3<LOD
“The median, range, and detection frequency are provided for each compound at each site reported.
'’Mitchelmore et al. (2019) found <LOD for cinoxate, triethanolamine salt of salicylate, phenylbenzimidazole sulfonic acid, and BP-4. Values are for dry weight.
'Tsui et al. (2017) also found <LOD for BP-1 and BP-4. Values are for wet weight.
Sample sites included per study: n = 19, Mitchelmore et al. (2019); n = 7, Tsui et al. (2017). A detailed explanation of how these data were summarized is provided in
Supplemental Data, Text S7.
AVO = avobenzone; BP = benzophenone; DF = detection frequency; EDP = ethylhexyl dimethyl para-aminobenzoic acid; EHMC = ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate;
EHS = ethylhexyl salicylate; HMS = homosalate; LOD = limit of detection; 4-MBC = 4-methylbenzylidene camphor; OC = octocrylene.
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22—C.L Mitchelmore el al.6
10 000 OOOl o73% long KongaE1 000 000-
ftO
D
study
BBargaret al. (2015)
□Downs et al. (2016)
a He et al. (2019a)
OMorricks et al. (2019)
□ Kung et al. (2018)
□ Mitchelmore et al. (2019)
OTashiro and Kameda (2013)
□Tsuiet al. (2014)
OTsuiet al. (2017)
□Tsuiet al. (2019)
□Schaap and Slljkerman (2018)
C B
100 OOOl
OO
I.10 000-: 73% 89% ©
Oc 17%69%100% - MapbOJI o OSMc 1000^a 67%
m(B) (C)(0 100% 43%c 100 ^ oS 100%_ 100%C
Ooo 10-
1 ■
Concentration (ng/L)
<LOD
0.1 -1
1 -10
10-100
● 100-1000
0 1000-10 000
J? >10 000
(90.1 ’
M.ipbOtCOSM
0.01 t
(E)(D)
●  ● ●
e 9
I
t.fa ■  ●i4-
Mjpcrr T OS^.'t Mapfeo x c' ' ● ●
FIGURE 2: Summary of oxybenzone near-reef water column concentrations globally. Left: Box plots include the median and are comprised of the
minimum to maximum sample concentrations reported in each study (for values, see Supplemental Data, Table S2). The percentage detection
frequency is provided above each box. Samples per study; n = 12, Downs et al. (2015); n = 8, Kung et al. (2018); n = 3, He et al. (2019b); n = 22,
Bargar et al. (2015); n = 36, Tsui et al. (2014);  n= 7, Tsui et al. (2017); n = 32, Tashiro and Kameda (2013); n = 36, Tsui et al. (2019); n = 19,
Mitchelmore et al. (2019); n = 7, Horricks et al. (2019). 1) Six values fell between the limit of detection (100 ng/L) and the limit of quantification
(5000 ng/L); 2) 36 samples were collected, but the paper only reported median, range, and detection frequency. Right: Global distribution of
oxybenzone samples collected: (A) Hong Kong, (B) Hawaii, (C) Taiwan, (D) US Virgin Islands, and (E) Japan. Circle colors correspond to the study,
while size provides an indication of concentration magnitude. LOD = limit of detection.
there are any visible particles and that the sample should be
treated as a 2-phase sample, dissolved and particulate frac
tions. Many studies did not conduct this filtration or report
whether filtration had been conducted (see Supplemental
Data, Table S3). Therefore, comparisons between studies are
complicated because hydrophobic UV filters are likely to be
present in both the dissolved and the particulate fractions
(Benede et al. 2014). Extracting whole (total fraction) water
samples represents an unknown exposure given that the
proportion from each fraction is not known and analytical is
sues including column blockage or incomplete extraction may
occur. Furthermore, bioavailability for filter feeders (e.g.,
corals) could constitute both fractions. Ultimately, implications
include the under- or overreporting of coral exposure and
ultimately toxicity through passive or dietary routes. However,
it is common for toxicity thresholds to be related to the dis
solved fraction (e.g.. Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development [OECD] standard tests on daphnia, fish,
and algae) because this is considered to be the readily
bioavailable fraction.
Although sampling designs varied, all studies collected
individual grab samples, in most cases without replication
(Supplemental Data, Table S2). This is problematic because
replicate samples are necessary to help determine whether
Important components of analytical method quality assur
ance and control, such as internal standards, standard addition,
or matrix-matched calibration, were lacking in 5 studies, raising
concerns over the reliability of their results (i.e., Tashiro and
Kameda 2013; Downs et al. 2016; Shaap and Slijkerman 2016;
Kung et al. 2018; Horricks et al. 2019). Issues with sample
storage and collection were also noted. For example, pre
cleaned glass bottles should be used to collect organic con
taminant samples to reduce the possibility of losses due to
sorption to the container walls or leaching of chemicals from
the container. Horricks et al. (2019) reported using a plastic
container, whereas this detail was absent from 2 studies
(Tashiro and Kameda 2013; Tsui et ai. 2017). Furthermore,
storage temperatures and timing between collection, proc
essing, and analysis are often not reported. In some studies,
excessive storage times may have influenced the results (e.g.,
Tsui et al. 2019).
Another major analytical issue is whether concentrations
reported in seawater represent the total or dissolved fraction.
This is particularly important because several of the UV filters
(e.g., OC, EHMC, EHS, and HMS) are highly hydrophobic
(log/Cow >6), indicating a high likelihood of partitioning to
particulates or organic matter. Method 1694 (US Environ
mental Protection Agency 2007) recommends filtration if
wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC© 2021 The Authors
7Impact of organic UV filters on coral—Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22
28% (BP-8) to 85% (OC), but mainly they were below 60%. The
only compounds with detections that exceeded lOOOng/L (with
the exception of BP-3) were EHMC, OC, and HMS, all reported
by Tsui et al. (2014) and, in the case of HMS, Bargar et al.
(2015). The variable detection frequencies could be indicative
of regional patterns of UV filter occurrence, possibly driven by
differences in UV filter usage and/or environmental inputs. The
median concentration for all compounds in all studies con
ducted fell near or below lOOng/L, indicating that for all UV
filters studied thus far, concentrations present near coral reefs
are in the low nanograms per liter range (Figure 3; Supple
mental Data, Table S2). However, it is clear that there is high
variability among samples and studies. This variability could be
attributed to numerous factors including sampling location,
time, depth, and sample collection and analysis.  Ahandful of
authors have attempted to attribute their obsen/ed UV filter
variability to anthropogenic activity. For example, Tsui et al.
(2014) found higher concentrations in the dry as opposed to
the wet season, which correlated with recreational activity.
Bargar et al. (2015) also reported higher values in the high-
versus low-tourist season, and Mitchelmore et al. (2019)
observed the highest concentration of BP-3 at the most rec-
reationally impacted site, Waikiki Beach (Oahu, HI, USA). On
the other hand, the correlation between beachgoers and UV
filter concentrations was not always present. For example,
some of the highest concentrations of OC, EHS, and HMS were
observed at a site where no people were present (Mitchelmore
et al. 2019), which suggests other sources of UV filters at that
location. Although temporal variations have been shown, sea
sonal and finer-scale temporal analyses (i.e., diurnal) have been
limited (e.g., Labille et al. 2020).
Although limited, investigations into sampling depth and
distance from shore have also been conducted, highlighting
spatial variation in UV filters. Two studies found concentrations
decreasing with increasing distance from shore (Bargar
et al. 2015; Mitchelmore et al. 2019). Tsui et al. (2017) found
that BP-3 concentrations at coral depth were 30 times less
compared with their previous surface water study (i.e., Tsui
et al. 2014), highlighting that using surface concentrations to
estimate coral exposure is likely an overestimate and therefore
conservative. It has been suggested that UV filter concen
trations would be highest at the surface microlayer, but the
evidence to date is limited and unclear (e.g., Goksoyr
et al. 2009; Bargar et al. 2015; Schaap and Slijkerman 2018).
The majority of coral reefs would not be exposed to this layer
except possibly in shallow, well-mixed, high-energy locations;
but the surface microlayer has direct implications for coral
larvae because gametes and larvae are released into the very
shallow surface layers at night during spawning activities
(Downs et al. 2016; Schaap and Slijkerman 2018). These find
ings have implications for the robust design of coral monitoring
programs because samples collected in the nearshore beach
zone may not reflect those concentrations at reefs located
farther from the immediate beach area, particularly in open and
well-mixed, high-energy coastal locations. Shorter-term tem
poral trends (e.g., diurnal) should also be considered, to gain a
better understanding of local environmental fate (e.g..
sample contamination or degradation has occurred during
collection, storage, processing, and analysis. In addition,
replicates capture the inherent variability within the system
over short time frames and/or distances, improving sample
representativeness (US Geological Survey 2006). The grab
sampling approach is considered a "snapshot sampling" (Imhof
et al. 2017); therefore, it is important to improve the
representativeness of this approach by including replicates. To
date, only 2 studies have included sample replicates: Tsui et al.
(2014) used duplicates, and Mitchelmore et al. (2019) used a
triplicated sampling regime at each site (Supplemental Data,
Tables S2 and S3).
Overall significant issues were identified in the reporting
and sampling design of several monitoring studies, reducing
confidence in the concentrations reported and significantly
diminishing their appropriateness for characterizing exposure
within a risk assessment (Leonards et al. 2013).
Occurrence of organic UV filters in seawater near coral
reefs. The occurrence (exposure) data for UV filters in
seawater near coral reefs are mainly shallow and nearshore:
2 studies (Tsui et al. 2017; Horricks et al. 2019) reported
concentrations at the depth of the coral, and an additional
3 studies collected surface microlayer samples (Goksoyr
et al. 2009; Bargar et al. 2015; Schaap and Slijkerman 2018). In
total, the occurrence of 14 UV filters has been investigated,
with BP-3 being the only compound to be included in all
studies (see Supplemental Data, Table S2).
Chemical monitoring (exposure) data for BP-3 are summar
ized in the left panel of Figure 2 and the global distribution of
these measurements in the right panel (e.g.. Figure 2A-E). The
average detection frequency of BP-3 per study was 76%,
making it the second most frequently detected compound; OC
was higher, 85% (Figure 3B). The median concentration of BP-3
generally fell roughly between 1 and lOOng/L, with a couple
exceptions (e.g., Downs et al. 2016; Kung et al. 2018), in
dicating that in general BP-3 concentrations near reefs are low.
Besides Downs et al. (2016), Tsui et al. (2014) reported the
largest concentration range at their near reef sites near Hong
Kong, but this level of variability was not observed in their later
sampling of similar sites (Tsui et al. 2019). The study by Downs
et at. (2016) appears to be an outlier because their 5 quanti
tative detections range from 1 to 3 orders of magnitude higher
than any other BP-3 measurement. Mitchelmore et al. (2019)
studied similar sites in Hawaii and Bargar et al. (2015) in the US
Virgin Islands (Figure 2B). Both reported significantly lower
maximum BP-3 concentrations, 143 and 6143 ng/L, re
spectively, compared with Downs et al. (2016) at 19 200 and
1 395 000 ng/L for Hawaii and the US Virgin Islands, re
spectively. This latter value is exceptionally high given that total
dissolved organic carbon in seawater near coral reefs typically
ranges from 0.8 to 1.0 mg/L (Hata et al. 2002; Yahel et al. 2003;
de Goeij and van Duyl 2007; Nelson et al. 2011; Tanaka
et al. 2011).
The remaining UV filter concentrations reported per study
are summarized in Figure 3. The average detection frequency
was variable between studies and compounds, ranging from
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22—C.L Mitchelmore et al.8
(D)(B) (C)(A)
lOOOOi 97% lOOOOl 100001100001 94% 94%73% 72%1000^33%1000- 1000: 68%1000:
i 100-j i 100-
63% 63%100: H fil 53%84%
●S' 100" E3 67%g^^ ]  75%1 95%56% 31%S  10:8
A -- 100%
114% ●a
?  10' 10- 10-e 2 2
c 16% 1nc c
i 1 8 8 88 1- 1- 1:C
<3 T  2 8
0.01-
0.001-
0.1-0.1- 0.1:
0%
0.010.01 0.011 T IT T r T r r I T t I I I
0?
c?^''o'*'#
(F) (G) 1000(E) (H)i000 97%
lOOOi 10001
19% 17% 97%
_ 100-J ^100^10072%d 100^ tc61%57%
- - i 89% £  10
Ig  10- ig .s
100% scg 10: 22
c c 1c 9%11- 888 8 c
8c
8c
5 c
8 1- T 0.10.10.1-
0% 0% 0% 0% 0%0% 0%0% 0% 0% 0% 0.010.010.01 0.1 T II  r
<lP. <V\<]^v.‘T? <v^
T tT T TT T T
<1?
<*>● v^'<1?
A
● ®''
.V®'-
cJ'”
A
FIGURE 3: Summary of near-reef water column ultraviolet (UV) filter concentrations globally for (A) ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate, (B) octocrylene,
(C) homosalate, (D) ethylhexyl salicylate, (E) benzophenone-8, (F) 4-methylbenzylidene camphor, (G) ethylhexyl dimethyl para-aminobenzoic acid,
and (H) avobenzone. Box plots include the median and are comprised of the minimum to maximum sample concentrations reported in each study
(for values, see Supplemental Data, Table S2). The percentage detection frequency is provided above each box. Samples per study: n = 12, Downs
et al- (2015); n = 8, Kung et al. (2018); n = 3. He et al. (2019b); n-22, Bargar et al. (2015); n = 36, Tsui et al. (2014); n = 7, Tsui et al. (2017); n  =32,
Tashiro and Kameda (2013); n = 36, Tsui et al. (2019); n = 19, Mitchelmore et al. (2019); n = 7, Horricks et al. (2019). 1) Six values fell between the
limit of detection (100 ng/L) and the limit of quantification (5000 ng/L); 2) 36 samples were collected, but the paper only reported median, range,
and detection frequency. The UV filter abbreviations are listed in Table 1.
degradation, flushing time) and assessing exposure during key
spawning activities in the surface microlayer.
(2015) also reported the highest median sediment concen
trations across studied UV filters with only one, EDP, ex
ceeding 10 ng/g dry weight. A consistent pattern of detection
for any one compound does not emerge across the studies;
however, OC was the only compound detected frequently
enough for the median concentration to be above the LOD in
each study (Table 2). Generally, the more hydrophobic UV
filters (EHMC, EDP, OC, and EHS) were more frequently de
tected, but this was not consistent. For example, HMS and
EHS (log/<ow > 6.3) were detected in 100% of samples by
Mitchelmore et al. (2019) but at a much lower frequency and
concentration by Apel et al. (2019) and not at all by Tsui et al.
(2015, 2017). This could in part be due to regional differences
in UV filter emissions between these studies. The type of
sediment sampled may also play a role. For example.
Occurrence of UV filters in sediment. Currently, there are
far fewer monitoring data available for UV filters in marine
sediments rather than the water column, and they are sum
marized in Table 2 (also see Supplemental Data, Text S6).
Coral uptake from sediment could be an important pathway of
UV filter exposure, particularly in areas of high wave activity
where sediments can be continually resuspended. Overall,
12 UV filters have been investigated in sediment among the
4 studies, with concentrations generally in the low to sub
nanograms per gram dry weight-range. Tsui et al. (2015) re
ported the highest maximum sediment concentrations: EHMC
(447 ng/g dry wt) followed by EDP (150 ng/g dry wt). Tsui et al.
© 2021 The Authors wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
9Impact of organic UV filters on coral—Environmental Toxicology and Cf?emistry, 2021 ;00:1-22
compounds. Bioaccumulation of UV filters is beyond the scope
of this review because modeling approaches and controlled
laboratory uptake and depuration studies in coral species (e.g.,
Pawlowski et al. 2019) need to be conducted and analyzed
along with the field data presented herein prior to refining and
estimating coral uptake and bioaccumulation.
Mitchelmore et al. (2019) reported no correlation between
seawater and sediment concentrations. However, sediment
concentrations did significantly differ between sites, likely as a
result of variable sediment organic fractions. Mitchelmore
et al. (2019) anecdotally observed that finer, siltier, more or
ganic sediment corresponded with higher concentrations
of many UV filters compared to the more sandy, organic
material-poor sediments at the other sites.
Overall, in sediments more hydrophobic compounds appear
in higher concentrations, but one of the least hydrophobic UV
filters studied, BP-3 (log /Cow 3.45), was detected in all 4 of the
studies. Many questions in terms of UV filter sediment exposure
and fate are yet to be answered, particularly from a risk-
assessment perspective where the implication of the sediment
exposure pathway is unknown.
TOXICITY OF ORGANIC UV FILTERS TO
CORAL
A total of 9 studies (6 since 2019) have investigated the
toxicity of organic UV filters on larval and adult (fragments/
nubbins) life stages of intact corals employing a range of bio
logical endpoints including mortality, growth, photosynthetic
yield, and most commonly, bleaching (Supplemental Data,
Table S5). Coral is a nonstandard ecotoxicological test species,
and no standardized guidelines exist to conduct toxicity tests
and identify or quantify the responses to chemical exposure.
Furthermore, coral availability, permitting requirements, and
suitability to laboratory culture may limit their use as well. In the
present section we review the nature of coral toxicological test
systems and the results obtained for UV filters.
Occurrence of UV filters in coral. Concentrations found in
the tissues of resident aquatic organisms can be seen as a
necessary prerequisite for an adverse effect to occur. There are
only 2 studies that have investigated the concentration of UV
filters in field-collected coral tissues (Table 3; Supplemental
Data, Text S7; Tsui et al. 2017; Mitchelmore et al. 2019).
Oxybenzone was detected in 100% of the coral samples
collected by both authors, but neither study found a median
concentration above detection limits for EHMC, EDP,
4-methylbenzylidene camphor (4-MBC), BP-4, triethanolamine
salt of salicylate, or phenylbenzimidazole sulfonic acid. This
could be explained by relatively lower concentrations and
more nondetects in the water column compared to BP-3
(Figure 3). Further, relative coral tissue concentrations of EHS
and HMS coincide with the trends observed in the water
column (i.e., highest medians) in Mitchelmore etal. (2019), but
they also have the highest log/<ow (i-S-- >6.3). In contrast to
Mitchelmore et al. (2019), Tsui et al. (2017) recorded fewer
coral tissue UV filter detections for OC and 4-MBC; but direct
concentration comparisons are complicated because of dif
ferent reporting values (i.e., concentration per dry or wet wt of
coral tissue). When corrected to wet weight, similar tissue
concentrations emerged despite regional differences in
sampling location and species (see Mitchelmore et al. 2019).
For example, BP-3 concentrations per site reported by
Mitchelmore et al. (2019) ranged from 5.8 to 241ng/gdry
weight (estimated as 1.1-46.3 ng/g wet wt). This is similar to
the 2.8 to 31.8 ng/g wet weight range reported for BP-3 by Tsui
et al. (2017). The second highest detection and concentration
reported by Tsui et al. (2017) was for BP-8 (i.e., up to 24.7 ng/g;
detection frequency 86%), which was not detected by
Mitchelmore et al. (2019). It is possible that UV filter concen
trations in corals may be influenced by biotic factors relating to
the coral species or time of year; for example, lipid content, an
important factor in driving uptake of organic chemicals, is
known to vary both temporally and between species of coral
(Imbs 2013). Furthermore, differences may relate to metabo
lism, as suggested by Tsui et al (2017), with BP-8 and BP-1
being derived from BP-3. Additional research is recommended
to address this metabolic potential and to determine the
toxicity of these products in comparison to the parent
Exposure and test conditions. Toxicity studies have been
conducted in 7 coral species using either adult fragments,
early-life stages (i.e., larvae/planula), or both. They include
short-term (acute) and longer-term (chronic) exposures, al
though the concentrations used, exposure times, solution re
newal, and endpoints assessed vary significantly among
studies (see Figures 4 and 5; Supplemental Data, Table S5).
The majority of experiments were conducted using Pocillopora
damicornis (36% of endpoints) and Seriatopora caliendrum
(31% of endpoints; Figure 4), which can be mainly be attrib
uted to the studies of He et al. (2019a, 2019b) although Stien
et al. (2019, 2020) also worked with P. damicornis. Fel et al.
(2019), Downs et al. (2016), and Wijgerde et al. (2020) all
worked with Stylophora pistillata. Danovaro et al. (2008) chose
to work mainly with Acropora at the genus level, whereas
Wijgerde et al. (2020) worked with Acropora tenuis. The variety
of species and life stages tested is beneficial from a risk-
assessment perspective because they provide insight into the
interspecies and life-stage sensitivity of coral to UV filter ex
posure. Corals are often described as sensitive compared to
other marine species, although species sensitivity distribution
curves have not always shown that (see Bejarano 2018).
Furthermore, the early life stages of organisms have also been
described as more sensitive compared to adults. Differential
impact of UV filters in 2 species was highlighted by He et al.
(2019a, 2019b), who also concluded that adult was tiie most
sensitive life stage, in contrast to the discussion by Downs et al.
(2016). Similarly, although both species were unimpacted by
exposure to 0.06 pg/L BP-3 (i.e., no mortality or impact on
growth after 6-wk exposure), Wijgerde et al. (2020) demonstrated
that A. tenuis was more sensitive to temperature elevations than
was S. pistillata.
In terms of number of studies and endpoints reported, BP-3
was studied the most often (i.e., in 67% of the studies, 28% of
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22—C.L. Mitchelmore et al.10
BP-3 1=3 ET
[=3 OC BEMT
BP-1 C=1 DBT
Ea BP-8 CJ DHHB
Em BP-4 Em DT
Em EHMC Em HMS
Em 4-MBC im MBBT
Em AVO TDSA
EHS
Total = 116Total = 117
Bleaching
m Mortality
Algal density
ESI Polyp retraction
m Metabolomic changes
im Photosynthelic efficiency (PSII)
im Settlement
m Deformity
Growth
DNA damage
Microbiome changes
Total = 117
FIGURE 4: Summary pie charts of coral toxicity test characteristics including (A) species tested, (B) endpoints per ultraviolet (UV) filter, and (C)
endpoints studied. Note: McCoshum et al. (2019) could not be included in plot B because they used a formulation which included multiple UV filters
in their experiment. Species are Pocillopora damicomis, Seriatopora caliendrum, Stylophora pistillata, Acropora pulchra, and Acropora tenuis.
AVO = avobenzone; BEMT = bis-ethylhexyloxyphenol methoxyphenyl triazine; BP = benzophenone; DBT = diethylhexyl butamido triazone;
DHHB = diethylamino hydroxybenzoyl hexyl benzoate; DT = drometrizole trisiloxane; EHMC = ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate; EHS = ethylhexyl
salicylate; ET = ethylhexyl triazone; HMS = homosalate; MBBT = methylene bis-benzotriazolyl tetramethylbutylphenol; 4-MBC =
4-methylbenzylidene camphor; OC = octocrylene; TDSA = terephthalylidene dicamphor sulfonic acid.
Protection Agency 2016), 4-d tests for algae (Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development 2011), and
approximately 30-d tests for fish (Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development 1992); and either a NOEC or
an EC10 is derived. Interestingly, a growth endpoint was in
cluded in only 2 studies (McCoshum et al. 2016; Wijgerede
et al. 2020), whereas He et al. (2019b) included endpoints
related to reproduction in their acute exposures (i.e., larval
settlement). The He et al. (2019a, 2019b) experiments,
despite being 7 to 14d in length, appear to be defined as an
acute study given that assessment factors to convert their data
in the risk assessment are used. In contrast, acute endpoints
are normally associated with short-term, up to 4-d, exposures
and aim to derive either an EC50 or more usually an LC50.
Mortality was included in longer-term exposures, for example,
by He et al. (2019a, 2019b) in their 7- to 14-d tests in both
larvae and adult corals and by Wijgerde et al. (2020) in their
41 -d study. Meanwhile, Fel et al. (2019) reported mortality but
instead as a validity criterion for their 5-wk exposures rather
than a NOEC or an LC50. Meanwhile, Downs et al, (2016)
characterized mortality in coral larvae exposed to BP-3 in an
acute exposure (24 h), whereas Danovaro et al. (2008) failed
to report exposure duration for characterization of their
bleaching endpoint entirely. These differences in test length
could be necessary depending on the particular coral species;
however, studying lethal and sublethal endpoints over the
endpoints; Figure 4B), followed closely by OC, BP-8, and BP-1,
largely because of the numerous ecotoxicological responses
studied by He et al. (2019b) in both larvae and adults in 2 coral
species. Five different authors studied OC, resulting in 12% of
the total endpoints in Figure 4B. On the other hand, EHMC,
despite being included in regulatory developments sur
rounding UV filters and coral, has only appeared in 2 studies
(i.e., 22% of studies and 10% of endpoints in Figure 4B) to date
(Danovaro et al. 2008; He et al. 2019a).
A variety of acute (i.e., mortality) and chronic endpoints were
studied in the toxicity tests; however, the duration of these tests
were variable, and the justification for these durations, biological
endpoints, and toxicity thresholds reported is unclear. For ex
ample, the duration of the chronic tests varied from 35 to 41 d,
and endpoints included mortality, growth, algal density, micro
biome changes, and photosynthetic efficiency (Fel et al, 2019;
Wijgerde et al. 2020). Meanwhile acute studies ranged from 8 h
to 14d and included the endpoints of mortality, larval settle
ment, algal density, bleaching, deformity, DNA damage, me
tabolomic changes, and polyp retraction (Danovaro et al. 2008;
Downs et al. 2016; He et al. 2019a, 2019b; Stien et ai. 2019,
2020). Chronic studies aim to capture a representative portion of
a sensitive life stage and generally study sublethal endpoints
pertaining to reproduction and growth. For example, 7- to 21-d
tests are conducted for invertebrates (Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development 2012; US Environmental
wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC© 2021 The Authors
Impact of organic UV filters on coral—Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22 11
the setup reported by the authors indicates a static renewal. A
typical flow-through system would renew the new test solutions
fora complete exposure renewal of 100% a number of times a
day and would be beneficial because it would reduce the
complications of UV filter loss and potential increases in de-
gradates/metabolites and maintain water quality parameters
for optimal coral health.
lOOj ^ Pholosynthelic efficiency (PSII)^j
A ^ SelUement
i] PofyPrsiracii
& c«//efldrvm
■ P. dwn/comf*
● S-pItOItu
BP-ir BP-31 BP-v BP-ai oa
EHUa AV(U TOSA/ /FT
on90- Pholosynthebc efficiency (PSIl) C
80
MoAetity
70
I
Bleaching
Common methodological issues with characterizing UV
filter hazard to coral. After reviewing the study designs and
methodological details of the limited number of coral ecotox-
icological studies, several major themes emerged that together
could limit their usefulness for reliably characterizing the impact
of UV filters on coral and thus their adequacy for risk assess
ment and ultimately decision-making.
One of the most significant problems identified with the
ecotoxicity studies was a tack of analytical verification of ex
posure concentrations with the exception of the 2019 and 2020
studies, although even these studies conducted verification at a
frequency that does not permit accurate assessment of the ex
posure concentration over the duration of the exposure (Fel
et al. 2019; He et al. 2019a, 2019b; Wijgerde et al. 2020). For
example, Fel et al. (2019) collected a sample 2h after analyte
introduction to the test system (which was once a week), but the
frequency of sample collection beyond that is unclear because it
varied from 3 to 20 measures over the 5 wk depending on the
UV filter under study. This is key information because significant
losses in several analytes were observed, for example, 91 and
48% of avobenzone (AVO) and OC, respectively, from an initial
lOOOjjg/L exposure. He et al. (2019b) sampled at the beginning
(day 0) and the end of the 7-d adult and 14-d lan/ae experi
ments. They demonstrated that day 0 values closely matched
nominal values for the larval exposures, although they ranged
from 100 to 280% in the adult tests. In the adult exposure after
7d, all BP-4, BP-1, BP-3, and BP-8 treatments (i.e., up to
lOOOjig/L) were <LOD. Similarly, He et al. (2019a) reported day
0 concentrations 90-265% of nominal, but loss over time was
again apparent because EHMC concentrations were 50 to 87%
of nominal on day 1 and <LOD to 2% on day 7. Loss of OC was
not as great: at concentrations of 1 pg/L and higher values were
66 to 200% at day 1 and 24 to 61% at day 7. Loss of BP-3 was
also observed in the Wijgerde et al. (2020) study, reporting a
measured value of 0.06 compared to the nominal 1 pg/L.
These results indicate 2 issues that need to be addressed in
future toxicity testing. Firstly, UV filters are significantly lost
from test systems, and strategies to maintain exposure
concentrations throughout the test need to be undertaken.
Otherwise, efforts to observe a significant dose-response re
lationship could become significantly hampered (Moermond
et al. 2017). Secondly, the actual exposure concentration in
studies that did not conduct analytical verification is unknown,
which is particularly important considering the substantial
derivations from nominal values at the start and end of tests
observed. Because exposure is not known, over- or under
estimations of toxicity could inadvertently be reported,
substantially diminishing the reliability of the toxicity data for
risk-assessment purposes.
60-
I3
§soO
Q
AJQdd
.  O ^ Moftahty (LC50. dark)
^ SatUemanurcS))
.
MorlahtyA
SetUament (EC50L A “40 Bleadiing
K Mortalrly (LCSO. light)
■ n Deformity (EC50, Oark)
Polyp retraction30
Mortality
20
Bleachii>g
10 S;] Algal density
®Delormily (EC50. light)A Mortality
4 Bleaching
* Algal density
Pofyp retraction
PQ/L 190
FIGURE 5: Coral cumulative endpoint distribution for ail ultraviolet
(UV) filters. Symbol shape indicates the test species, symbol color
represents the test compound, and when a symbol is hollow it indicates
the endpoint is a larva rather than adult. All endpoints are no
observed-effect concentrations (NOECs) unless otherwise stated in
parentheses. A cumulative distribution can be interpreted as where
along the x-axis a NOEC is likely to fall. For example, the 25th per
centile NOEC is approximately 100ng/L, whereas the 75th is approx
imately lODOpg/L. Endpoints pertain to both acute and chronic tests.
Danovaro et al. (2008), McCoshum et al. (2019), Stien et al.
(2019, 2020), and Wijgerde et al. (2020) did not derive suitable end
points to include. See Supplemental Data for all endpoint details. All
UV filter abbreviations are listed in Table 1. Species are Pocillopora
damicornis, Seriatopora caliendrum, and Stylophora pistillata. AVO =
avobenzone; BP = benzophenone; DT = drometrizole trisilioxane;
EC50=:median effect concentration; EHMC = ethylhexyl methox-
ycinnamate; ET = ethylhexyl triazone; LCSO = median lethal concen
tration; OC = octocrylene; TDSA = terephthalylidene dicamphor
1000 10 000
sulfonic acid.
1 10
same test duration signals an exploratory investigation rather
than a definitive toxicological test.
The specific design of the toxicity test directly impacts the
exposure concentration and duration of exposure, which are
critical variables in defining toxicity. How test exposure sol
utions are made and how often they are renewed or maintained
ultimately influence the concentration that the organism is ex
posed to, particularly for chemicals that may rapidly hydrolyze,
photodegrade, or bind to test chambers or are taken up rapidly
by the test organism. The majority of coral UV filter studies
(89%) have employed a static (no renewal of test solution; e.g..
Downs et al. 2016; He et al. 2019a, 2019b) or a static renewal-
type exposure (i.e., once a week; Fel et al. 2019). This is
problematic for maintaining analyte concentration and poten
tially coral health (discussed in the section Common meth
odological issues with characterizing UV filter hazard to coral).
An exception to this is the study by Wijgerde et al. (2020),
which states using a flow-through exposure system; however.
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22—C.L Mitchelmore et al.12
to get them into solution at the high concentrations required
for the test (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development 2019b). Solvents could exert an unintended ef
fect; therefore, a solvent control in addition to  anegative con
trol (i.e., seawater only) is needed to distinguish between any
unintentional abnormalities or effects induced by solvent ex
posure. A number of solvents have been employed:  3studies
used methanol (Pel et al. 2019; He et al. 2019a, 2019b), whereas
Danovaro et al. (2008) used propylene glycol. Three studies
(Downs et al. 2016; Stien et al. 2019; Wijgerde et al. 2020) used
dimethysulfoxide (DMSO), which is problematic because it can
enhance biological uptake of the test substance, an issue that
cannot be addressed with a solvent control. For example, Kais
et al. (2013) found that >0.1% DMSO increased the uptake of
fluorescein into fish embryos and recommended that a max
imum of 0.01% DMSO be used in the fish embryo test, as in
dicated by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (2019b). The studies by Stien et al. (2019, 2020)
used very high concentrations of DMSO (i.e., 0.25% v/v con
centration) in comparison to the 5x10"“*%v/v used by Downs
et al. (2016) and the 0.01% v/v used by Wijgerde et al. (2020),
although it should be noted that the latter study did not include
a negative control in its experimental design. A 33% mortality of
Acropora tenuis was observed in the solvent control for the
study; but without a true negative control (i.e., no solvent), it is
unclear if this mortality is due to the solvent or just the unsuit
ability of the species to long-term laboratory exposures. This
brings back the need for the development of a standard toxicity
test for coral species because a >20% mortality rate is un
acceptable in any chronic standard invertebrate test species
test (e.g., US Environmental Protection Agency 1996, 2016;
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
2012). Furthermore, DMSO is a powerful antioxidant (Sunda
et al. 2002); therefore, its inclusion in a test investigating oxi
dative stress (e.g,. Downs et al. 2016) is a confounding factor.
Another problem identified was a lack of clarity over the
concentration and/or mixture of sunscreen ingredients to which
coral were exposed. The Danovaro et al. (2008) study is of
limited utility because the concentrations of BP-3 and EHMC
are unclear; they report nominal volume to volume concen
trations with no information on preparation or purity of the
dosing stock. A similar problem was encountered with
McCoshum et al. (2016), where volume to volume exposure
concentrations of a sunscreen are reported. Their study design
also renders their data of limited value given that the coral is
exposed to 2 concentrations of a sunscreen product containing
BP-3, HMS, EHS, OC, and AVO, so it is impossible to determine
whether any effects observed were specifically attributable to
any particular UV filter and/or other inactive ingredients.
Only 2 of the 3 acute studies derived an EC50 or LC50
(Downs et al. 2016; He et al. 2019b). This is a result of the
concentration spacing, number, and range of test treatments
included. For example. He et al. (2019b) included  avariety of
endpoints using a single dosing range (0.1-1000jjg/L) and
number of treatments which resulted in either a NOEC at the
highest concentration tested (HNOEC) or a LOEC, with the
exception of larval settlement which resulted in an EC50 for
Further, compared to standard test species, coral are chal
lenging organisms to keep healthy and thriving in  alaboratory
setting, particularly for chronic tests that often require longer
durations for growth differences to be teased out. Usually hard
coral symbiotic species are tested where the animal hosts are in
tightly controlled symbiotic relationships with dinoflagellate
algae of the genus Symbiodinium (in addition to bacteria
forming the holobiont association). Stressors to either one of
the partners have significant impact on the other; for example,
under stress corals often lose their algal symbionts, resulting in
bleaching. Corals require specific lighting conditions, temper
atures, feeding and nutrition, water quality and flow for
optimal health, which are often species- and life stage-specific;
and acceptable variations are often very tightly bound ranges
(e.g., Watanabe et al. 2007). For example, light quantity,
quality (spectral range), and photoperiod impact coral growth
rate, symbiont density (bleaching), photosynthetic efficiency,
oxidative stress, and DNA damage (e.g., see Smith and
Birkeland 2007; Schutter et al. 2012; Kuanui et al. 2020). An
essential element many adult corals require is adequate water
flow, influencing bioenergetics (metabolic rates) and ultimately
rate of growth (Sebens et al. 2003; Smith and Birkland 2007;
Schutter et al. 2010). Only 2 studies (Fel et al. 2019; Wijgerde
et al. 2020) maintained flow with pumps and the rate stated
(i.e,, 4 or 2.7 mUmin, respectively). The studies by He et al.
(2019a, 2019b) and Stien et al. (2019, 2020) used bottles or
beakers and <1 L of exposure medium that was aerated, al
though it is not clear if the bubbling of air provided any sig
nificant water flow. Strict temperature control and monitoring
are also required during coral toxicity tests. Brown et al. (2000)
discussed the additive or synergistic influence of warming
seawater and pollutant exposure in the process of coral
bleaching. Indeed, Amid et al. (2018) found additive impacts in
Acropora formosa on photosynthetic capacity when temper
ature and herbicide exposures were combined. Recently,
Wijgerde et al. (2020) also investigated the impact of elevated
temperature and BP-3 toxicity to highlight the complexity
of multiple stressor effects in coral and the argument for
multiscale coral reef management (i.e., local through global).
Only in 2 chronic studies were the corals fed (i.e., with
Artemia sp. once a day or week in the Fel et al. [2019] and
Wijgerde et al. [2020] studies, respectively), yet feeding is
known to impact growth and calcification rates and other bio
logical parameters often reported in coral toxicity tests (i.e.,
chlorophyll content as a proxy for bleaching, protein content;
Ferrier-Pages et al. 2003). Overall these findings highlight the
essential need for the monitoring and reporting of water quality
and test conditions, which have been limited or missing in
many studies to date. As with other standard tests, both neg
ative and positive controls should be included to ensure that
coral health and response are optimal and within expected test
ranges. To date, no study has included a positive control or
repeated an experiment to ensure reproducibility.
Ultraviolet filters are challenging compounds to work with, as
evidenced by their substantial losses from coral test systems, as
previously discussed in this section. Several UV filters are
also poorly soluble (Table 1), so a solvent may be required
© 2021 The Authors wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
13Impact of organic UV filters on coral—Environmenta/ Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021 ;00:1-22
et al. 2010), and implications for the health of the intact coral
containing multiple cell types need further investigation. The use
of in vitro data rather than whole organisms will in future become
an important aspect of environmental risk assessment, as dis
cussed in the 21st-century toxicity testing paradigm (National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine 2017); how
ever, much work needs to be done before this is a robust alter
native to whole-organism testing. For example, the fish embryo
test (OECD 236; Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development 2013) has taken lOyr to develop, and a
strong correlation with the whole-fish acute test (OECD 203;
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
2019a) has been demonstrated. Despite this, the test has yet to
achieve ubiquitous regulatory acceptance (Sobanska et al. 2018).
In addition to in vitro data, molecular endpoints were reported
by Downs et al. (2016), such as DNA damage, are of limited use
in their current form because correlations with known toxico
logical outcomes are missing. On the other hand, Stien et al.
(2020) recently published a metabolomic profiling technique to
detect stress in coral nubbins exposed to emerging pollutants.
Two out of the 10 UV filters studied showed a metabolomic
signature related to a stress response. Similar to the molecular
endpoints reported by Downs et al. (2016), this stress response is
presented without any correlation to a measurable toxicological
outcome; and therefore, the information the assay provides is of
limited use in a risk-assessment context.
More generally, positive controls would have been  awel
come addition to all of the studies to demonstrate that coral
respond appropriately to a known toxicant for a particular
endpoint because these test systems are not well established.
Moving forward, incorporating ecotoxicological good practice
(e.g., Harris et al. 2014; Moermond et a!. 2016) would sig
nificantly improve the quality of future studies, making them
more appropriate for risk assessment and decision-making.
BP-1 and BP-8. This demonstrates that, for the majority of their
endpoints, the dosing range needed to be adjusted for de
finitive statistical endpoint derivation (i.e., EC[LC]50). Indeed,
the authors report that their exposure is acute based on their
risk assessment and derivation of a single EC50. On the other
hand, the length of their exposure (7-14d) and the variety of
sublethal endpoints mixed in with the lethal adult and larval
endpoints provide further confusion over the nature of this test.
This is an important consideration because chronic and acute
data are used differently in a risk assessment; different end
points are derived, NOEC and EClO (chronic test) or EC(LC)50
(acute test); and assessment factors are used, which could
significantly impact the outcome of a risk assessment. Downs
et al. (2016) studied mortality and deformation in planulae,
deriving an LC50 and EC50 under both light and dark con
ditions. Under light conditions, BP-3 was more toxic, but it
should be noted that the reliability of these endpoints is di
minished because the test concentrations do not adequately
bracket the EC50/LC50 (e.g., the endpoints fall between the
2 lowest concentrations tested, whereas all higher-concentration
treatments resulted in 100% mortality or deformation) impairing
the accuracy of their results (Moermond et al. 2016).
Furthermore, the study highlights statistical problems and
toxicological data reporting inconsistencies between the text,
figures and tables. For example, in 8-h BP-3 in the light ex
posures a sub-lethal endpoint (i.e. deformation ECSOs) occurs at
higher concentrations than mortality (LCSOs) and  a24-h light
LC50 is listed at 2 orders of magnitude lower (i.e., 1.39|jg/L)
than reported in the text (see Table 1 in Downs et al. 2016).
These study designs highlight the need for a range-finding test
to be followed by a definitive test where a suitable spacing
factor and treatment number can be applied that will appro
priately bracket statistical endpoints. It also signals a need for a
clear definition of suitable chronic and acute endpoints and
exposure durations to derive coral toxicity thresholds.
A final issue observed is a lack of environmental relevance.
For example, Danovaro et al. (2008) placed coral fragments in
sealed plastic bags containing ultrafiltered (0.02 pm) seawater
and left them in situ so that important parameters like temper
ature, dissolved oxygen, light, and flowing water could not be
controlled. Another aspect not discussed by authors, with the
exception of Fel et al. (2019), was the relevance of their results
considering solubility. Several endpoints exceed the solubility of
the UV filter under study, a situation highly unlikely to occur in the
environment. For example. He et al. (2019a) reported a polyp
retraction LOEC in response to OC exposure of lOOOpg/L, while
the solubility of OC in freshwater is 40pg/L (Table 1). Lastly,
Downs et al. (2016) reported data from a coral cell toxicity assay
using isolated calicoblast cells to demonstrate coral species
sensitivity. The 4-h LC50 values observed in the cell lines were
much lower than the LC50 observed for planulae by the author
for the same species, 42 and 139 ng/L, respectively. The inclusion
of in vitro data is a novel approach, but without  apositive control
to demonstrate that the assay works, the validity of the cell lines
as a surrogate measure for whole-coral toxicity is uncertain, es
pecially considering the use of the solvent DMSO. Furthermore,
calicoblast cells do not contain the symbiont (see Downs
Distribution and types of ecotoxidty endpoints
and their toxicological significance
The distribution of all ecotoxidty endpoints from the studies
reviewed are presented together in Figure 5 irrespective of test
type (acute or chronic), exposure time, and biological endpoint
tested. All data points correspond to nominal exposures and
are NOECs based on nominal exposures unless otherwise
stated (i.e., LC50, EC50). In total, endpoints from only 4 studies
could be included (Downs et al. 2016; Fel et al. 2019; He
et al. 2019a, 2019b). As discussed, the nature of the He et al.
(2019a, 2019b) studies is not clear (i.e., acute or chronic).
Therefore, in the interest of providing a conservative dis
tribution of coral toxicological thresholds, the data from these
studies are reported as NOECs, with the exception of the EC50
for larval settlement for BP-1 and BP-8 (Figure 5). Two studies
could not be included because the exposure concentration was
not reported in mass to volume or the exposure was to a
sunscreen formulation (Danovaro et ai. 2008; McCoshum
et al. 2016). Wijgerde et al. (2020) could not be included be
cause it consisted of a single UV filter treatment concentration
(also the case for McCoshum et al. 2016) and was not a limit test;
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22—C.L Mitchelmore et al.14
Other UV filters for comparison. Overall, limited trends emerge
from the ecotoxicity endpoint distribution, but generally, BP-8
appears to be the most potent. What is clear is that many of the
endpoints reported correspond to concentrations greater than
the solubility of the UV filter (Table 1), indicating a very low
likelihood of occurring in the environment.
Many of the NOECs reported for coral actually correspond
to the highest concentration tested (HNOEC), indicating that
the true NOEC could be higher. Although not an ideal com
parison, because of the limited amount of coral toxicity data
currently available, we used this information to provide some
insight into which UV filters and endpoints each coral species is
most sensitive to. For all endpoints studied, exposure to BP-4
resulted in an HNOEC (Figure 6). Also, DT, ET, and TDSA re
sulted in HNOECs; but because this only includes  asingle
endpoint, it would be premature to comment on their relative
potency in comparison to other reviewed UV filters. On
the other hand, proportionally BP-8 and BP-1 resulted in the
smallest fraction of HNOECs, 15 and 31%, respectively, pro
viding further preliminary evidence that they might be more
potent than other studied UV filters. In terms of the endpoints
studied, only deformity had no HNOECs; but this was only in
cluded in the experiment by Downs et al. (2016; Figure 6, inset).
Meanwhile, polyp retraction resulted in an HNOEC only 25% of
the time, suggesting that this endpoint may be more sensitive
than larval settlement or bleaching, which both resulted in an
HNOEC for 50% of tests, although it is unclear what the ram
ifications of polyp retraction may be and the relationship with
individual- or population-level toxicity (Swain et al. 2015).
Overall conclusions regarding the toxicity of UV filters to
corals are hampered by the limited amount of data, particularly
given the variability in test designs. For risk identification it is
important to identify the most sensitive species, life stage, and
therefore, no meaningful statistical endpoints can be derived
(e.g., NOEC, LOEC). Another 2 studies only qualitatively eval
uated a polyp retraction endpoint because they focused on
metabolomic changes rather than deriving a statistical ecotox-
icological endpoint (Stien et al. 2019, 2020). The cell line data
reported by Downs et al. (2016) were not included in Figure 5
because the assays were not validated and it is currently unclear
how in vitro data relate to whole-organism data, and this should
be further investigated. Bleaching and DNA damage (8h)
NOECs were not included because the appropriate toxicological
endpoint (EC50) could not be calculated. Conversely, the 24-h
deformity (EC50) and mortality (LC50) endpoints are included
rather than the 8-h counterparts because of problematic results
and shorter test duration (discussed previously in the section
Common methodological issues with characterizing UV filter
hazard to coral).
The majority of NOECs from the reported endpoints
fail within the range of 1 to 1000|ag/L (Figure 5). This is influ
enced heavily by the few studies that are available and the
concentrations the authors chose to test. For example, of
the 75 endpoints in Figure 5, 88% were derived by He
et al. (2019a, 2019b). Based on the currently available data,
S. caliendrum (triangles. Figure 5) appears to be more sensitive
to UV filter exposure than P. damicornis (squares), for which a
similar data set is available (He et al. 2019a, 2019b). The most
sensitive endpoint for BP-3, BP-8, and EHMC was S. caliendrum
polyp retraction (i.e., LOEC 10|ag/L, NOEC 1 pg/L; He et al.
2019a, 2019b). This is closely followed by algal density,
bleaching, and mortality in S. caliendrum in response to BP-8
exposure and S. pistillata deformity (24-h EC50 in light) in re
sponse to BP-3 exposure as reported by Downs et al. (2016). In
terms of settlement, S. caliendrum larvae appear to be more
sensitive to BP-1 and BP-8 (184 and 530pg/L EC50, re
spectively) rather than BP-3 or BP-4 (1000 (ig/L NOEC). With the
exception of bleaching when exposed to BP-3, adult coral do
appear to be more sensitive to UV filter exposure; however, this
trend is based on limited data. This result is surprising because
it is usually the early life stages of species that are more sen
sitive to contaminants. This point was discussed in Downs et al.
(2016), where the 24-h LC50 for S. pistillata planulae exposed to
BP-3 in the light was 139|ig/L, although this is more sensitive
than the LCSOs for larval and adult corals exposed to BP-3 in the
He et al. (2019b) study (i.e., LC50 > 1000 |ag/L) for longer-
duration exposures (7-14d). Furthermore, the response of
adult S. pistillata exposed to BP-3 was recently investigated by
Wijgerde et al. (2020), who found no mortality after a 6-wk
exposure to 0.06|jg/L measured (1 m9^I- nominal). The least
sensitive endpoint appears to be photosynthetic efficiency; Fel
et al. (2019) reported a 5000|ig/L NOEC for terephthalylidene
dicamphor sulfonic acid (TDSA), drometrizole trisiloxane (DT),
and ethylhexyl triazone (ET), organic UV filters that are on the
European Union market but not currently authorized for use in
the United States (Table 1). Meanwhile, the AVO NOEC for
photosynthetic efficiency, which is authorized for use in the
United States, was 1000|ig/L (87fjg/L measured), which ex
ceeds solubility for this compound (27jig/L; Table 1). Un
fortunately, data for this endpoint have not been reported for
25-
■ HNOEC endpoirtts■ NOEC/EC50/LC50 cndpoinls
BP-3 BP-S BP-1 BP-4 OC EHMC AVO TDSA DT
FIGURE 6: The proportion of coral no-observed-effect concentrations
observed at the highest concentrations tested to the total number of
endpoints presented in Figure 5 per ultraviolet (UV) filter. Data are
presented by endpoint for all UV filters in the inset. The UV filter
abbreviations are listed in Table 1. AVO = avobenzone; BP =
benzophenone; DT = drometrizole trisilioxane; EC50 = median effect
concentration; EHMC = ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate; ET = ethylhexyl
triazone; HNOEC = highest NOEC; LC50 = median lethal concen
tration; NOEC = no-observed-effect concentration; OC = octocrylene;
TDSA = terephthalylidene dicamphor sulfonic acid.
© 2021 The Authors wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Impact of organic UV filters on coral—Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. 2021;00:1-22 15
biological endpoint(s) for future testing in addition to assessing
the relative sensitivity of new test species in relation to the
commonly used standard test species.
applying an assessment factor. The resulting PNECintemai was
then comparable to their MEQntemai- In all 4 studies, an as
sessment factor of 1000 was applied. This value was derived
from outdated guidance from the European Commission
(2003), which has now been replaced by guidance developed
for the implementation of the Registration, Evaluation, Au
thorization and Restriction of Chemicals program (European
Chemicals Agency 2008). By not following these guidelines,
existing data were not considered that could impact the as
sessment factor applied and provide a more holistic marine UV
filter risk characterization. According to this guidance, the
PNEC should be based on the NOEC rather than the LOEC.
Therefore, according to these established approaches, the
PNECs derived by He et al. (2019a, 2019b) were not sufficiently
conservative for preliminary risk-screening purposes; however,
this was likely overcome by applying such a large assessment
factor to chronic empirical data. Beyond the assessment factor,
there appear to be significant data reliability issues across
toxicity studies used to derive PNECs (see previous section
Common methodological issues w/th characterizing UV filter
hazard to coral). This could be due to the lack of established
guidance for the toxicological assessment of coral, but re
gardless, several aspects key to any toxicological study were
missing (Moermond et al. 2016) including missing controls, lack
of analytical confirmation of exposure concentrations, and
missing mass to volume exposure concentrations (Danovaro
et al. 2008; Downs et al. 2016). The reliability of the Downs
et al. (2016) coral toxicity data has been questioned previously
(Schaap and Slijkerman 2018), which was used for PNEC
derivation by Tsui et al. (2014, 2017).
In each of the reviewed studies, risk quotients were derived
deterministically (i.e., MEC/PNEC), and the results are sum
marized in Figure 7. As mentioned, He et al. (2019a, 2019b)
used Tsui et al. (2014) monitoring data; therefore, it is mainly
the differences in PNEC that are driving the differences in risk
quotients between the studies. Based on the median risk
quotient, EHMC presents the greatest risk, followed closely by
BP-3 (Figure 7). All median risk quotients fail below 1, in
dicating that possible risks are minimal; however, the existence
of particular study sites where risk quotients exceed 1 indicates
that further investigations into the impacts UV filters may pose
to coral are warranted (Figure 7).
We must acknowledge the limitations of the current data set
in terms of methodological issues and completeness (as re
viewed) for both monitoring and toxicological data, so much so
that drawing any conclusions pertaining to risk of these com
pounds to coral would be premature. However, regardless of
these concerns, a paucity of coral toxicological data restrains
the ability of risk assessors and decision-makers to derive reli
able PNECs for coral. Alternatively to calculating a PNEC and
an risk quotient, a margin of safety could be calculated by di
rectly comparing a NOEC to the environmental concentration
(NOEC/M[P]EC). This permits conclusions over the magnitude
of the margin of safety (e.g., 1, 10, 100) rather than high versus
low risk. Use of the margin of safety is also a reasonable alter
native to the not-fit-for-purpose large assessment factors (i.e.,
1000) used in all of the coral risk assessments reviewed despite
PRELIMINARY CORAL ENVIRONMENTAL
RISK CHARACTERIZATION
A small subset of the exposure studies reviewed conducted
a complementary preliminary environmental risk character
ization for EHMC (Tsui et al. 2014; He et al. 2019a), benzo-
phenones (Tsui et al. 2014, 2017; He et al. 2019b), and
OC (He et al. 2019a). To conduct a risk assessment, it is critical
to use high-quality and reliable environmental exposure
(e.g., predicted or monitoring) and toxicological (hazard) data
(Leonards et al. 2013; Moermond et al. 2016). Often, risk is
calculated deterministically, where an risk quotient is calculated
by dividing exposure (e.g., predicted or measured) by a
predicted-no-effect concentration (PNEC). When an risk quo
tient is >1, a risk is present. Regulatory environmental risk-
assessment (ERA) methodologies applied in the United States
and Europe are generally aimed at the temperate freshwater
environment (Fantke et al. 2018). Assumptions that are based
on freshwater species are leveraged to the marine environment
simply by increasing the assessment or uncertainty factor
applied to toxicity data when no marine data are available
(European Chemicals Agency 2008). However, these assess
ments are designed to protect the environment as  awhole,
rather than a particular species or taxon (e.g., coral). Currently,
there is no established ERA approach specifically for coral (e.g.,
toxicity test recommendations, endpoints to include, appro
priate assessment factors), but the studies reviewed mark an
initial step toward how we can assess the impact of chemical
stressors on coral.
To characterize UV filter exposure, Tsui et al. (2014) used a
worst-case scenario by taking the highest MEC from their
monitoring data set (referred to as MECworst)- He et al.
(2019a, 2019b) calculated a best- and worst-case MEC using
the minimum and maximum MECs collected in their studies
and/or the previous data set reported by Tsui et al. (2014). Tsui
et al. (2017) took a different approach to characterizing ex
posure: rather than using a surface-water MEC, they used in
ternal coral concentrations (MEC;
tissue they collected. Overall, a limited amount of monitoring
data were considered or are even currently available for coral
exposure characterization.
In terms of hazard characterization, a PNEC is calculated by
dividing an LC(EC)50 (acute data) or NOEC/EC10 (chronic data)
by an assessment factor (accounts for inter- and intraspecies
variability; European Chemicals Agency 2008). Tsui et al. (2014)
derived PNECs using data available in the literature (Danovaro
et al. 2008; Downs et al. 2016), whereas He et al.
(2019a, 2019b) calculated a PNEC based on each endpoint in
their toxicity studies (rather than just the most sensitive). Tsui
et al. (2017) took a nonstandard approach by multiplying ex
isting toxicity data (Downs et al. 2016) by their field-based coral
bioaccumulation factors to get an EC(LC)50|ntem3i and then
i) derived from coralnterna
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Environments! Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22—C.L Mitchelmore et al.16
responses to be variable, and as such, an effect observed on an
individual may not translate into a change in the population.
Therefore, careful consideration must be paid to endpoint se
lection such that it is relevant to an impact on the population
rather than the individual. Research is needed to understand
how the common coral toxicological endpoints translate into
population-level effects. In the context of the coral endpoints
studied in response to UV filters thus far, mortality and larval
settlement are population-relevant endpoints, whereas the
relevance to population-level effects from larval deformity or
polyp retraction endpoints is less clear. Those relating to the
health of coral symbiosis (i.e., bleaching and loss of algae) and/
or the impact to the symbiont itself (i.e., photosynthetic effi
ciency) are often used as precursors to coral mortality, although
it is possible for corals to recover if the stressor is removed.
100-1 o BP-1 o OC
o BP-8 o EHMC
O BP-3 o 4-MBCo o
o10-
o
oo
o o^ 1 o(1)
o ooo3
8O' oo
fl¬ee0.1- 0 0eo0
8 0 ot o
o o o
o o o
0.01- oo o
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONSe
Organic UV filters do occur in the environment, but ac
cording to our analysis, there is limited evidence to suggest
that their presence is causing significant harm to coral reefs.
Although toxicity studies have observed effects, the majority of
studies result in NOECs or LOECs, often observed at the
highest concentrations tested. A few EC50 concentrations have
been derived and, in the case of BP-3, an LC50. The lowest
EC50 across the UV filters was reported for BP-3 (deformity,
49 |jg/L), and the second lowest was for BP-1 (larval settlement,
184.1 ng/L). These toxicological thresholds exceed 98 and
100%, respectively, of environmental concentrations observed
thus far near coral reefs. But it should be noted that 2% of BP-3
reef concentrations that exceed the EC50 are clear outliers, as
reviewed. However, based on the current data set, it would be
premature to conclude that environmental concentrations of
UV filters do not adversely impact coral reefs. This is due to
both extensive data gaps in terms of reliable and relevant en
vironmental exposure and toxicity data. The major recom
mendations based on the findings from our analyses pertain to
research needed on the following 3 aspects: environmental
exposure and fate, toxicity testing, and risk assessment. These
are summarized in Tables 4 and 5. Table 4 outlines our findings
and provides recommendations for lower-tier studies that
should be addressed prior to conducting a preliminary risk
assessment. If unacceptable risks are identified in the prelimi
nary assessment, further refinement is needed, per the
recommendations for higher-tier studies presented in Table 5.
The first aspect, addressed in Table 4, concerns UV filter
environmental exposure. Although representative monitoring
studies with adequate quality control are useful for establishing
UV filter exposure in coral habitats, efforts to model these
concentrations are encouraged to predict concentrations that
can be used in a preliminary risk assessment. If needed, these
predicted data can also inform higher-tier targeted monitoring
programs (Table 5). These higher-tier monitoring studies
should adequately capture temporal and spatial fluctuations,
particularly in relation to where coral is found within the envi
ronment. This includes studying depth distribution and
0.001
BP-1 BP-3 8P-a EHMC OC EHMC BP-3 4-MBC BP-3
T
Heetal.(2019a) He etal. (2019b) Tsui et al. (2014) Tsui et al. (2017)
FIGURE 7: Summary of preliminary coral risk characterizations re
ported in the literature. A line is drawn aty= 1 to indicate when risk
quotients exceed 1 (i.e., risk present), but note the multiple data
quality issues with the underlying toxicity and exposure data identi
fied in the review. The median risk quotient is identified per study per
ultraviolet (UV) filter by the horizontal line. All risk quotients were
retrieved from the supplemental data files provided in each study,
with the exception of Tsui et al. (2017) where internal coral risk
quotients were recalculated for the water column to make them
comparable with the other data sets (see Supplemental Data
for details). The UV filter abbreviations are listed in Table 1.
BP = benzophenone;
4-MBC = 4-methylbenzylidene camphor; OC = octocrylene.
EHMC = ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate;
the risk assessments being species-specific (not whole eco
system) and using coral-specific toxicity data. Others have cir
cumvented this issue by deriving PNECs for closely related
taxonomic groups, such as algae (Office of Protected Resources
2016; Schaap and Slijkerman 2018). To address this issue, reli
able coral hazard data need to be generated (see Moermond
et al. 2016). In addition, efforts should be made to investigate
and justify the most sensitive and ecologically relevant coral test
species and acute and chronic toxicological endpoints for
hazard- and risk-characterization purposes. Earlier analysis
of toxicological data in the present review indicated that
S. caliendrum along with larval settlement and adult coral polyp
retraction endpoints were most sensitive (He et al. 2019a,
2019b), but data reliability issues related to these studies mean
that their findings should be considered with caution.
A key point to consider when conducting ecotoxicological
tests and subsequent ERA for coral is the paradigm in which we
approach ERA. Priority is placed on higher levels of biological
assemblage (individual < species < population < ecosystems)
such that population-level effects are of greater importance
than effects on the individual. We know environmental
© 2021 The Authors wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
17Impact of organic UV filters on coral—Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. 2021;00:1-22
TABLE 4: Summary of findings and proposed recommendations for ultraviolet filter exposure studies and coral toxicity tests for the purpose of
conducting a preliminary coral environmental risk assessment
RecommendationsCategory Finding or conclusion
There are limited or no environmental exposure data
available for many UV filters in coral habitats including both
the water column and sediment.
● The majority of data available are only representative of a
snapshot in time. Sample replication is also limited.
● Several data sets are lacking critical quality assurance/
control components (e.g., matrix recovery and
compensation strategy, limits of detection/quantification,
lab and field blanks, inappropriate sampling containers
and storage).
● Lack of filtering prior to extraction, difficult-to-relate
results to dissolved fraction because many UV filters are
highly hydrophobic.
Many studies currently available are of unknown relevance to
population-level endpoints, and all contain significant flaws
that reduce their reliability and thus suitability for risk
assessment.
● Existing endpoints may under- or overestimate toxicity
thresholds.
● Most coral toxicity studies do not analytically verify their
exposure concentrations, and those that do are of limited
utility given their sampling design but do demonstrate
significant losses of the parent compound.
● Many UV filters are relatively insoluble, and multiple
solvents have been used in toxicity tests.
Conduct marine environmental exposure modeling with
limited refinements (e.g., excluding site-specific dilution,
wash-off, etc.) to generate conservative predictions suitable
for lower-tier ERA.
● If small monitoring campaigns are conducted, ensure
methods, quality assurance/control, and data reporting are
complete and transparent; making use of supplementary
files in publications should be encouraged,
o Focus monitoring studies at various coral reefs sites
(e.g. for the United States in Hawaii, Florida, and
Puerto Rico).
Exposure
Develop a standard coral toxicity test that can generate
reliable acute and chronic endpoints from dose-response
relationships using appropriate test durations.
● Evaluate UV filters to identify the most suitable and
sensitive population-relevant biological endpoints (e.g.,
bleaching, growth, reproduction) and life stages for coral
toxicity assessments (i.e., LC50, NOEC).
● Ensure use of appropriate solvents that do not enhance
chemical uptake or potentially alter conditions of oxidative
stress (e.g., MeOH, not DMSO).
● A comprehensive and robust test setup that ensures
consistent toxic-dose delivery,
o A strategy to maintain UV filter concentrations
throughout the exposure should be included, for
example, a flow-through design,
o An analytical sampling plan suitable to calculate
robust time-weighted exposure concentrations to
derive reliable toxicity thresholds.
Environmental monitoring and toxicity testing
recommendations should be implemented, resulting in a
robust data set for preliminary deterministic ERA calculation,
which would allow for a more accurate risk determination of
UV filters to corals.
● Develop a tiered coral-specific ERA framework. The
framework should incorporate existing data where
possible, including leveraging data for other species with
suitable assessment factors. If using coral data, apply the
margin-of-safety approach rather than assessment
factor-driven risk quotients. The lower tiers of the
assessment should be deterministic rather than
probabilistic because that requires higher-tier modeled
exposure data.
Toxicity
A limited number of coral ERAs have been conducted but
utilize generalized (large) assessment factors and measured
environmental concentrations and coral toxicity data that
are not robust.
● Current research suggests risks of UV filters to coral could
be present, and further investigation and refinement of
the risk assessment is needed. Reliable and relevant
toxicity and exposure data are currently lacking but
essential for well-informed decision-making/risk
mitigation.
Risk assessment
ERA = environmental risk assessment; LC50 = median lethal concentration; NOEC = no-observed-effect concentration; UV = ultraviolet.
filter source apportionment. Greater effort should also be put
into describing both the particulate and dissolved phases of
water samples collected because this could enhance the un
derstanding of exposure pathways of these particularly hydro-
phobic chemicals. Together, this UV filter fate and occurrence
information can be fed into spatially explicit coastal exposure
modeling activities, which should be explored as  acomple
mentary approach for assessing coral exposure.
In addition to field monitoring, a series of laboratory-based
fate studies could provide a wealth of information on the parti
tioning, persistence, and degradation of UV filters in simulated
reef conditions (e.g., salinity, temperature, and light). For ex
ample, incubation experiments of UV filters in seawater, with and
characterization of the surface microlayer, both important as
pects for understanding the true exposure of coral through its
various life stages. Temporal variability also needs to be better
understood; this could be achieved through the study of ex
posure on various timescales (e.g., tidal, daily, monthly, sea
sonal). Also important is the characterization and selection of a
variety of sites that include varying levels of anthropogenic
(e.g., wastewater effluent impacted, recreational, pristine) and
hydrodynamic (e.g., low and high tidal influence, sheltered)
influence. Ideally, additional chemical tracers could be used to
help determine potential source inputs (e.g., sucralose for
wastewater effluent; Oppenheimer et al. 2011). This in
formation can also be used to gain an understanding of UV
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Enwronmenta/ Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22—C.L Mitcheltnore et al.18
TABLE 5: Summary of findings and proposed recommendations for ultraviolet filter exposure and fate studies and coral toxicity tests for the
purpose of refining a coral environmental risk assessment^
RecommendationsFinding or conclusionCategory
Conduct environmental monitoring studies at varying depths in
the water column at various coral reef sites with repeated
sampling at the same sites over various timescales (tidal cycle,
day, week, month, and season). Include hydrological, water
quality, and other potential covariable descriptions at sites.
Conduct comprehensive monitoring programs at sites that differ
in anthropogenic influence (i.e., WWTP, recreation, urban
versus rural land runoff, or remote sites). Include potential
chemical tracers for source apportionment studies (e.g.,
sucralose as a wastewater tracer).
● Conduct follow-on UV filter source apportionment studies.
These could include coupling isotopic analysis and leaching
studies from common household products to determine the
potential sources, for example, from plastics or textiles.
Assess the partitioning of UV filters between the dissolved and
particulate phases (using filtration techniques) in seawater
from laboratory and environmental settings.
Concentrations of UV filters are highly variable through
space and time, and there are limited data at
environmentally relevant depths (i.e.. at coral reef
depth or in the surface microlayer where coral
larvae live).
There is some evidence that UV filter concentrations
are correlated with recreational activity, although it
is limited and study-dependent, with some studies
showing high UV filter concentrations in areas of no
or limited recreational activity.
● There are multiple sources of UV filters in marine
environments including plastics, textiles, paints,
wastewater effluent, and overland runoff.
Exposure and fate
Many UV filters are highly lipophilic and likely to partition
to particles in seawater or organisms. The distribution
between the particulate and dissolved phase is
understudied and has implications for exposure
modeling and uptake by corals.
Multiple studies have found loss of UV filters in toxicity
test exposure solutions and variability in field
concentrations during the course of the day.
Corals were shown to bioaccumulate some UV filters; but
the rate of uptake is unknown, and limited data exist
only for a few UV filters in 2 studies.
There are limited data on the acute and chronic toxicity
of UV filters to intact hard coral species in both adult
and larval life stages.
● Impacts of UV filters differ with species and life stage
and are not consistent (i.e., some UV filters are more
toxic to larvae, whereas others are more toxic to
adult fragments).
● Obtaining sufficient adult hard coral fragments and
coral larvae for exposure experiments is challenging
given permitting requirements, large numbers
required for toxicity tests and for larvae the
limited potential sampling window of time for
collection.
Deterministic lower-tier coral environmental risk
assessment oversimplifies coral UV filter exposures
and assumes the worst-case exposure scenario.
A holistic multistressor risk assessment could be
important for ensuring effective management
and conservation of reef environments given that;
● Multiple UV filters are present in seawater and
sediment near coral reefs and in coral tissues.
● Exposure of corals to chemical contaminants and
costressors (e.g., temperature) results in increased
toxicity, although there is very limited evidence for
this with UV filters.
● The relative risk of known coral stressors can be
ranked against risks from UV filters or other
organic pollutants.
Study the persistence, degradation (e.g., by photolysis), and
metabolism of a variety of UV filters in laboratory studies under
conditions pertinent for tropical coral reefs (e.g., spectral
quantity and quality, interaction with dissolved organic matter).
● Conduct laboratory or in situ coral transplant
bioaccumulation studies, determine uptake and depuration
rates for UV filters in adult coral fragments, and identify
metabolites generated.
Standard tests should be developed using at least  2coral
species and multiple life stages and require toxicity tests for
each compound to be conducted in multiple coral species
using adult fragments and larvae.
● Assess species for development of a standard cnidarian test
species for the rapid screening of UV filter toxicity (e.g., the
symbiotic tropical anemone [Aiptasia spp.], the symbiotic
soft coral [Xenia spp.], or the fast-growing symbiotic hard
coral [Ga/axea sp.j).
Toxicity
A probabilistic approach could be a suitable strategy to refine
coral exposure. This would require higher-tier marine
exposure modeling but would provide a more realistic
indication of exposure and risk probability.
An eco-epidemiological approach could be a useful strategy for
evaluating combinations of physical, chemical, and
environmental conditions through time to identify dominant
stressors.The approach can help optimize management
strategies, reveal potential causal relationships, or target site
selection for monitoring. This approach is also consistent with
the decision framework presented for the persistence and
resilience of coral reefs.*^
* Based on the outcome of the eco-epidemiological
approach:
o Toxicity studies could be conducted to assess the
impact of multiple UV filters to corals,
o Studies could be conducted to assess the synergistic
or additive effect of costressors (e.g., temperature
changes) on the toxicity of UV filters to corals.
Risk assessment
^These studies should be considered after tower-tier recommendations have been filled (Table 4) and a potential risk is demonstrated.
‘’Posthuma et al. (2016), Kapo et al. (2014).
'^National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine (2019).
UV = ultraviolet; WWTP = wastewater-treatment plant.
wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC© 2021 The Authors
19Impact of organic UV filters on coral—Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. 2021;00:1-22
This brings us to the third major research aspect, conducting a
risk assessment. There is a need to develop a targeted and
suitably protective coral ERA framework. This framework could
be based on existing marine ERA frameworks (e.g., European
Chemicals Agency 2008) and tiered, leveraging data from
standard species into the assessment while also addressing coral-
specific concerns, thereby enabling researchers and decision
makers to put environmental exposures and coral hazard in the
context of risk for corals and marine ecosystems more generally.
A systematic framework to determine the risk of UV filters will
also help to prioritize risk in terms of other coral contaminants,
thereby directing resources to where they will have greatest
impact. Ultimately, the environmental risk of UV filters may be
realized as a costressor with other factors, such as ocean tem
perature. In addition, the relative risks of UV filters compared to
costressors may be evaluated. There is a potential to investigate
these interactions through the eco-epidemiological approach
(Table 5), which could provide a mechanism for conducting a
holistic ERA for coral. This would allow regulators, policymakers,
and scientists to optimize conservation and management activ
ities while enabling the identification of priority stressors that
should be most urgently addressed.
There is currently limited evidence to suggest that corals are
adversely impacted by environmental exposure to UV filters;
however, these major data gaps immediately need to be ad
dressed with high-quality monitoring, fate, and toxicity studies.
Together these studies can be used to appropriately quantify
the risk of coral to UV filters, thus enabling assessors to make
informed, evidence-based decisions that will truly be of benefit
for coral health.
without simulated "natural" UV light conditions and dissolved
organic carbon, could be conducted to assess stability, parti
tioning, and degradation in seawater. Laboratory fate studies
with coral also need to be conducted to determine the uptake,
bioaccumulation, and metabolism of UV filters in  avariety of
coral species. Because there is evidence to suggest that coral UV
filter metabolism occurs (Tsui et al. 2017; Stien et al. 2019),
analytical detection of metabolites when conducting analyses of
coral tissue and/or exposure media would be useful to de
termine the extent of UV filter metabolism and its role in toxicity.
More coral tissue data from the field are also needed and can
provide complementary information to laboratory studies to aid
in the assessment of exposure, uptake, and bioaccumulation
(i.e., partitioning between the dissolved and particulate phases).
Characterization of coral dietary exposure (e.g., zooplankton) is
also required for this purpose. Finally, a complementary coral
health assessment should be completed with any environmental
samples near reefs to serve as a reference when discussing ex
posure. This information could also form a key data set to use
within an eco-epidemiological approach (Table 5).
The second major research aspect is a need to conduct
more controlled laboratory toxicity tests with justified toxicity
endpoints and robust study designs. Based on the studies re
viewed, a standardized protocol for coral toxicity testing would
be of great value because there is currently no standard toxicity
test for corals (Table 4). Research should be conducted to
identify sensitive and appropriate coral model species or even
surrogate species (e.g., anemones) for toxicity studies using
multiple life stages (i.e., adults and larvae). Selected species
should be easily cultured and maintained in a laboratory setting
for weeks (for chronic tests), provide adequate material for
regular testing, and result in minimal variation between tests
and species with respect to negative and positive control re
sponses. It is imperative that these studies follow good eco
logical testing practice to generate reliable data suitable for
risk assessment. Acute and chronic tests need to be differ
entiated and have endpoints included that are suitable for ERA.
Acute {<96 h) exposures should focus on lethality and derive an
LC50. These acute toxicity tests would ideally include 2 or more
species of stony coral and expose adult coral fragments gen
erated from multiple, genetically different individual "parents."
Higher-tier chronic exposures should include a suite of sub-
lethal endpoints, preferably those related to growth and re
production, although research is needed to determine
additional suitable and sensitive endpoints (e.g., bleaching,
photosynthetic activity, and chlorophyll content); but the goal
should be to derive an EC10/NOEC suitable for ERA (e.g.,
European Chemicals Agency, US Environmental Protection
Agency). Because it is still unclear as to the most sensitive life
stage to use for a coral, the acute and chronic toxicity studies
outlined above could also be conducted in the early life stages
(larvae/planulae) of 2 or more coral species including additional
developmental endpoints and assessment of life-stage sensi
tivities. Assessing single-compound toxicity should be the pri
ority for all UV filters. As the body of robust toxicity data
develops, investigations into UV filter mixtures, major metab
olites, or degradation products could be considered.
Supp/ementa/ Data—^The Supplemental Data are available on
the \A/iley Online Library at https://doi.org/10.1002/etc.4948.
Acknowledgment—We thank Dr. Bargar and Dr. Tsui for
providing expanded data sets for our analyses. This is con
tribution number [UMCES] CBL 2021-037 of the University of
Maryland Center for Environmental Science.
Data Availability Statement—All data are available within the
article and Supplemental Data.
REFERENCES
Amid C, Olstedt M, Gunnarsson JS, Le Lan H, Tran Thi Minh H, Van den
Brink PJ, Hellstrom M, Tedengren M. 2018. Additive effects of the
herbicide glyphosate and elevated temperature on the branched coral
Acropora formosa in Nha Trang, Vietnam. Environ Sci and Pollut Res
25:13360-13372.
Antweiler RC 2015. Evaluation of statistical treatments of left-censored
environmental data using coincident uncensored data sets: II. Group
comparisons. Environ Sci Techno/49:13439-13446.
Apel C, Tang J, Ebinghaus R. 2018. Environmental occurrence and dis
tribution of organic UV stabilizers and UV filters in the sediment of
Chinese Bohai and Yellow Seas. Environ Po//ut 235:85-94.
Bargar TA, Alvarez DA, Garrison VH. 2015. Synthetic ultraviolet light filtering
chemical contamination of coastal waters of Virgin Islands National Park.
St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands. Mar Pollut Bull 101:193-199.
Bejarano A. 2018. Critical review and analysis of aquatic toxicity data on oil
spill dispersants. Environ Toxicol Chem 37:2989-3001.
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. 2021;00:1-22—C.L. Mitchelmore et al.20
Section B, Methods of the National Water Quality Laboratory. Book 5,
Laboratory Analysis. US Geological Survey, Reston, VA.
Giokas DL, Salvador A, Chisvert A. 2007. UV filters: From sunscreens to
human body and the environment. Trends Anal Chem 26:360-374.
Goksoyr A, Tollefsen KE, Grung M, Loken K, Lie E, Zenker A, Pent K,
Schlabach M, Huber S. 2009. Balsa raft crossing the Pacific finds low
contaminant levels. Environ Set Technol 43:4783-4790.
Harris CA, Scott AP, Johnson AC, Panter GH, Sheahan D, Roberts M,
Sumpter JP. 2014. Principles of sound ecotoxicology. Envriron Set
Technol 48:3100-3111.
Hata H, Kudo S, Yamano H, Kurano N, Kayanne H. 2002. Organic carbon
flux in Shiraho coral reef (Ishigaki Island, Japan). Mar Ecol Prog Ser
232:129-140.
He T, Tsui MMP, Tan CJ, Ma CY, Yiu SKF, Wang LH, Chen TH, Fan TY, Lam
PKS, Murphy MB. 2019a. Toxicological effects of two organic ultraviolet
filters and a related commercial sunscreen product in adult corals.
Environ Pollut 245:462-471.
He T, Tsui MMP, Tan CJ, Ng KY, Guo FW, Wang LH, Chen TH, Fan TY, Lam
PKS, Murphy MB. 2019b. Comparative toxicities of four benzophenone
ultraviolet filters to two life stages of two coral species. Sci Total Environ
651:2391-2399.
Hoegh-Guldberg O, Poloczanska ES, Skirving W, Dove S. 2017. Coral reef
ecosystems under climate change and ocean acidification. Front Mar
Set 4:158.
Horricks RA, Tabin SK, Edwards JJ, Lumsden JS, Marancik DP. 2019.
Organic ultraviolet filters in nearshore waters and in the invasive lionfish
(Pterois voi/tans) in Grenada, West Indies. PLoS One 14:e0220280.
Hughes TP, Anderson KD, Connolly SR, Heron SF, Kerry JT, Lough JM,
Baird AH, Baum JK, Berumen ML, Bridge TC, Claar DC, Eakin CM,
Gilmour JP, Graham NAJ, Harrison H, Hobbs JPA, Hoey AS,
Hoogenboom M, Lowe RJ, McCulloch MT, Pandolfi JM, Pratchett M,
Schoepf V, Tordda G, Wilson SK. 2018. Spatial and temporal patterns of
mass bleaching of corals in the Anthropocene. Science 359:80-83.
Imbs AB. 2013. Fatty acids and other lipids of corals: Composition, dis
tribution and bio-synthesis. J Mar Biol 39:153-168.
Imhof HK, SigI R, Brauer E, Feyl S, Giesemann P, Klink S, Leupolz K, Loder
MGJ, Lbschel LA, Missun J, Muszynski S, Ramsperger AFRM, Schrank I,
Speck S, SteibI S, Trotter B, Winter I, Laforsch C. 2017. Spatial and tem
poral variation of macro-, meso- and microplastic abundance on a remote
coral island of the Maldives, Indian Ocean. Mar Pollut Bull 116:340-347.
Kais B, Schneider KE, Keiter S, Henn K, Ackermann C, Braunbeck T. 2013.
DMSP modifies the permeability of the zebrafish {Danio rerio) chorion—
Implications for the fish embryo test (FET). Aquat Toxicol 140:229-238.
Kapo KE, Holmes CM, Dyer SD, de Zwart D, Posthuma L. 2014. Developing
a foundation for eco-epidemiological assessment of aquatic ecological
status over large geographic regions utilizing existing data resources
and models. Environ Toxicol Chem 33:1665-1677.
Key West City Commission. 2019. Details of ordinance file #18-3253. Key
West, FL, USA. [cited 2020 April 30]. Available from: https://keywest.
leg istar.com/Legislation Detail.aspx?ID=3763135&GUID=EFF5%20D76E-
F043-4AFF-A898-42EB20/\25953
Kim S, Choi K. 2014. Occurrences, toxicities, and ecological risks of
benzophenone-3, a common component of organic sunscreen products:
A mini-review. Environ /nt 70:143-157.
Kroon FJ, Berry KLE, Brinkman DL, Kookana R, Leusch FDL, Melvin SD,
Neale PA, Negri AP, Puotinen M, Tsang JJ, van de Merwe JP, Williams
M. 2020. Sources, presence and potential effects of contaminants of
emerging concern in the marine environments of the Great Barrier Reef
and Torres Strait, Australia. Sci Total Environ 719:135140.
Kuanui P, Chavanich S, Viyakam V, Omori M, Fujita T, Lin C. 2020. Effect of
light intensity on survival and photosynthetic efficiency of cultured corals
of different ages. Estuar Coast Shelf Sci 235:106515.
Kung TA, Lee SH, Yang TC, Wang WH. 2018. Survey of selected personal
care products in surface water of coral reefs in Kenting National Park,
Taiwan. Sci Total Environ 635:1302-1307.
Labille J, Slomberg D, Catalano R, Robert S, Apers-Tremelo ML, Boudenne
JL, Manasfi T, Radakovitch O. 2020. Assessing UV filter inputs into beach
waters during recreational activity: A field study of three French Medi
terranean beaches from consumer survey to water analysis. Sci Total
Environ 706:136010.
Leonards P, Eadsforth C, Schowanek D. 2013. Monitoring base
surfactants—A database specifically for storage of environmental data
on surfactants in Europe. Tenside Surfactants Detergents 50:325-331.
Benede JL, Chisvert A, Salvador A, Sanchez-Quiles D, Tovar-Sanchez A.
2014. Determination of UV filters in both soluble and particulate frac
tions of seawaters by dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction followed
by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Anal Chim Acta 812:50-58.
https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.aca.2013.12.033
Boix C, Ibanez M, Sancho JV, Rambla J, Aranda JL, Ballester S, Hernandez
F. 2015. Fast determination of 40 drugs in water using large volume
direct injection liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.
Talanta 131:719-727.
Brown BE, Dunne RP, Goodson MS, Douglas AE. 2000. Bleaching patterns
in reef corals. Nature 404:142-143.
Cadena-Aizaga ML, Montesdeoca-Esponda S, Torres-Padrdn ME, Sosa-
Ferrera Z, Santana-Rodriguez JJ. 2020. Organic UV filters in marine
environments: An update of analytical methodologies, occurrence and
distribution. Trends Environ Anal Chem 25:e00079.
Chisvert A, Salvador A. 2007. UV filters in sunscreens and other cosmetics:
Regulatory aspects and analytical methods. In Salvador A, Chisvert A,
eds, Analysis of Cosmetic Products. Elsevier, Oxford, UK, pp 83-120.
Danovaro R, Bongiorni L, Corinaidesi C, Giovannelli D, Damtani E, Astolfi P,
Greci L, Pusceddu A. 2008. Sunscreens cause coral bleaching by
promoting viral infections. Environ Health Perspect 116:441-447.
de Goeij JM, van Duyl FC. 2007. Coral cavities are sinks of dissolved organic
carbon (DOC). Limno/ Oceanogr 52:2608-2617.
Downs CA, Fauth JE, Downs VD, Ostrander GK. 2010. In vitro cell-toxicity
screening as an alternative animal mode! for coral toxicology: Effects of
heat stress, sulfide, rotenone, cyanide, and cuprous oxide on cell via
bility and mitochondrial function. Ecotoxicology 19:171-184.
Downs CA, Kramarsky-Winter E, Segal R, Fauth J, Knutson S, Bronstein O,
Ciner FR, Jeger R, Lichtenfield Y, Woodley CM, Pennington P, Cadenas
K, Kushmaro A, Loya Y. 2016. Toxicopathological effects of the
sunscreen UV filter, oxybenzone (benzophenone-3), on coral planulae
and cultured primary cells and its environmental contamination in Hawaii
and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Arch Environ Contam Toxicol 70:265-288.
Duprey NN, Yasuhara M, Baker DM. 2016. Reefs of tomorrow: Eutrophi
cation reduces coral biodiversity in an urbanized landscape. G/ob Chang
Biol 22:3550-3565.
European Chemicals Agency. 2008. Chapter R.10: Characterisation of dose
[concentrationj-response for environment. In Guidance on Information
Requirements and Chemical Safety Assessment Helsinki, Finland.
European Chemicals Agency. 2020. Registered substances. Helsinki,
Finland, [cited 2020 June 3]. Available from: https://echa.europa.eu/
information-on-chemicals/registered-substances
European Commission. 2003. Technical guidance document on risk as
sessment in support of commission directive 93/67/EEC on risk assess
ment for new notified substances, commission regulation (EC) No.
1488/94 on risk assessment for existing substances, and directive 98/8/
EC of the European Parliament and of the Council Concerning the
Placing of Biocidal Products on the Market. Part II. EUR 20418 EN/2.
Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy.
Fantke P, Aurisano N, Bare J, Backhaus T, Bulle C, Chapman PM, De Zwart
D, Dwyer R, Emstoff A, Golsteijn L, Holmquist H, Jolliet O, McKone TE,
Owsianiak M, Peijnenburg W, Posthuma L, Roos S, Saouter E,
Schowanek D, van Straalen NM, Vijver MG, Hauschild M. 2018. Toward
harmonizing ecotoxicity characterization in life cycle impact assessment.
Environ Toxicol Chem 37:2955-2971.
Fel JP, Lacherez C, Bensetra A, Mezzache S, Beraud E, Leonard M,
Allemand D, Ferrier-Pages C. 2019. Photochemical response of the
scleractinian coral Stylophora pistillata to some sunscreen ingredients.
Coraf Reefs 38:109-122.
Pent K, Zenker A, Rapp M. 2010. Widespread occurrence of estrogenic
UV-filters in aquatic ecosystems in Switzerland. Environ Po//ut 158:
1817-1824.
Ferrier-Pages C, Witting J, Tambutte E, Sebens KP. 2003. Effect of natural
zooplankton feeding on the tissue and skeletal growth of the scler
actinian coral Stylophora pistillata. Coral Reefs 22:229-240.
Forbes VE, Galic N, Schmolke A, Vavra J, Pastorok R, Thorbek P. 2016.
Assessing the risks of pesticides to threatened and
using population modeling: A critical review and r
future work. Environ Toxicol Chem 35:1904-1913.
Furlong ET, Kanagy CJ, Kanagy LK, Coffey U, Burkhardt MR. 2014.
Determination of human-use pharmaceuticals in filtered water by direct
aqueous injection-high-performance liquid chromatography/tandem
mass spectrometry: U.S. Geological Survey techniques and methods. In
I endangered species
recommendations for
wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC© 2021 The Authors
21Impact of organic UV filters on coral—Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 2021;00:1-22
McCoshum SM, Schlarb AM, Baum KA. 2016. Direct and indirect effects of
sunscreen exposure for reef biota. Hydrobiologia 776:139-146.
Ministries of The Netherlands. 2020. Plan for land & water: Nature and
environmental policy plan Caribbean Netherlands. The Hague, The
Netherlands, (cited 2020 April 30]. Available from: https;//english.
rijksdienstcn.com/documents/publications/ezk/nature-and-environment-
policy-plan/nature-and-environment-policy-plan/index
Mitchelmore CL, He K, Gonsior M, Hain E, Heyes A, Clark C, Younger R,
Schmift-Kopplin P, Feerick A, Conway A, Blaney L. 2019. Occurrence
and distribution of UV-filters and other anthropogenic contaminants in
coastal surface water, sediment, and coral tissue from Hawaii. Sci Total
Environ 670:398-410.
Moberg F, Folke C. 1999. Ecological goods and services of coral reef
ecosystems. Ecol Econ 29:215-233.
Moetmond C, Beasley A, Breton R, Junghans M, Laskowski R, Solomon K,
Zahner H. 2017. Assessing the reliability of ecotoxicological studies: An
overview of current needs and approaches. Integr Environ Assess
Manag 13:640-651.
Moermond CTA, Kase R, Korkaric M, Agerstrand M. 2016. CRED: Criteria for
reporting and evaluating ecotoxicity data. Environ Toxicol Cfiem
35:1297-1309.
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2017. Using
27st Century Science to Improve Risk-Related Evaluations. National
Academies, Washington, DC.
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2019. A
Decision Framework for Interventions to Increase the Persistence and
Resilience of Coral Reefs. National Academies, Washington, DC.
Negri AP, Hoogenboom MO. 2011. Water contamination reduces the tol
erance of coral larvae to thermal stress. PLoS One 6:e0019703.
Nelson CE, Alldredge AL, McCliment EA, Amaral-Zettler LA, Carlson CA.
2011. Depleted dissolved organic carbon and distinct bacterial com
munities in the water column of a rapid-flushing coral reef system.
/SMEJ5:1374-1387.
Office of Protected Resources. 2016. Biological opinion on EPA Pesticides
General Permit for Discharge of Pollutants into U.S. Waters. FPR-2016-
9154. National Marine Fisheries Service, Silver Spring, MD, USA.
O'Malley E, McLachlan MS, O'Brien JW, Verhagen R, Mueller JF. 2021. The
presence of selected UV filters in a freshwater recreational reservoir and
fate in controlled experiments. Sci Total Environ 751:142373.
Oppenheimer J, Eaton A, Badruzzaman M, Haghani AW, Jacangelo JG.
2011. Occurrence and suitability of sucralose as an indicator compound
of wastewater loading to surface waters in urbanized regions. Water Res
45:4019-4027.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 1992. Test No.
210: Fish, early-life stage toxicity test. OECD Guidelines for the Testing
of Chemicals. Paris, France.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 2011. Test No.
201: Freshwater alga and cyanobacteria, growth inhibition test. OECD
Guidelines for the Testing of Chemicals. Paris, France.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 2012. Test No.
211: Daphnia magna reproduction test. OECD Guidelines for the
Testing of Chemicals. Paris, France.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 2013. Test No.
236: Fish embryo acute toxicity (FET) test. OECD Guidelines for the
Testing of Chemicals. Paris, France.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 2019a. Test
No. 203: Fish, acute toxicity test. OECD Guidelines for the Testing of
Chemicals. Paris, France.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 2019b. Guid
ance document on aquatic toxicity testing of difficult
mixtures. OECD Series on Testing and Assessment, No. 23. ENV/JM/
MONO(2000)6/REV1. Paris, France.
Owen R, Mitchelmore C, Woodley C, Trapido-Rosenthal H, Galloway T,
Depledge M, Readman J, Buxton L, Sarkis S, Jones R, Knap A. 2005. A
common sense approach for confronting coral reef decline associated
with human activities. Mar Pollut Bull 51:481-485.
Pawlowski S, Lanzinger AC, Dolich T, Ful3l S, Salinas ER, Zok S, Weiss B,
Hefner N, Van Sloun P, Hombeck H, Klingelmann E, Petersen-Thierry M.
2019. Evaluation of the bioaccumulation of octocrylene after dietary and
aqueous exposure. Sci Total Environ 672:669-679.
Posthuma L, Dyer SD, de Zwart D, Kapo K, Holmes CM, Burton GA. 2016.
Eco-epidemiology of aquatic ecosystems; Separating chemicals from
multiple stressors. Sci Total Environ 573:1303-1319.
substances and
Raffa R8, Pergolizzi JV, Taylor R, Kitzen JM. 2019. Sunscreen bans: Coral
reefs and skin cancer. J C/in Pharm Trier 44:134—139.
Ramos S, Homem V, Alves A, Santos L. 2015. Advances in analytical
methods and occurrence of organic UV-filters in the environment—A
review. Sci Total Environ 526:278-311.
Remengesau TE Jr. 2018. Subject; Signing statement SB no. 10-135, SD1,
HD1 (the Responsible Tourism Education Act of 2018). [cited 2020 April
30). Available from: http://extwprlegs1.fao.org/docs/pdf/paul81409.pdf
Schaap I, Slijkerman DME. 2018. An environmental risk assessment of three
organic UV-filters at Lac Bay, Bonaire, southern Caribbean. Mar Pollut
Bull 135:490-495.
Schneider SL, Urn HW. 2019. Review of environmental effects of oxybenzone
and other sunscreen active ingredients. J Am Acad Dermatol 80:266-271.
Schutter M, Crocker J, Paijmans A, Janse M, Osinga R, Verreth AJ, Wijffels
RH. 2010. The effect of different flow regimes on the growth and met
abolic rates of the scleractinian coral Ga/axea /ascicu/aris. Coral Reefs
29:737-748.
Schutter M, van der Ven RS, Janse M, Verreth JAJ, Wijffels RH, Osinga R.
2012. Light intensity, photoperiod duration, daily light flux and coral
growth of Ga/axea fascicularis in an aquarium setting: A matter of
photons? J Mar Biol Assoc UK 92:703-712.
Sebens KP, Helmuth B, Carrington E, Agius B. 2003. Effects of water flow on
growth and energetics of the scleractinian coral Agario'a tenuifo//a in
Belize. Coral Reek 22:35-47.
Sirois J. 2019. Examine all available evidence before making decisions on
sunscreen ingredient bans. Sci Total Environ 674:211-212.
Smith LW, Birkeland C. 2007. Effects of intermittent flow and irradiance level
on back reef Por/tes corals at elevated seawater temperatures. J Exp
Mar Biol Ecol 341:282-294.
Sobanska M, Scholz S, Nyman A-M, Cesnaitis R, Gutierrez Alonso S, Kluver
N, KCihne R, Tyle H, de Knecht J, Dang Z, Lundbergh I, Carlon C, De
Coen W. 2018. Applicability of the fish embryo acute toxicity (FET) test
(OECD 236) in the regulatory context of Registration, Evaluation, Au
thorisation, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). Environ Toxicol
Criem 37:657-670.
Spalding MD, Brown BE. 2015. Warm-water coral reefs and climate change.
Science 350:769-771.
State of Hawaii Senate. 2018. Details of Bill S.B. No. 2571, S.D. 2, H.D. 2, C.D.
1. A bill for an act. Hawaii State Capitol, Honolulu, HI, USA. [cited 2020
/ifiril 30). Available from; https://wvw.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2018/bills/
SB2571_CD1^.HTM
Stien D, Clergeaud F, Rodrigues AMS, Lebaron K, Pillot R, Romans P,
Fagervold S, Lebaron P. 2019. Metabolomics reveal that octocrylene
accumulates in Pocillopora damicornis tissues as fatty acid conjugates
and triggers coral cell mitochondrial dysfunction. Anal Criem 91:
990-995.
Stien D, Suzuki M, Rodrigues AMS, Yvin M, Clergeaud F, Thorel E, Lebaron
P. 2020. A unique approach to monitor stress in coral exposed to
emerging pollutants. Sci Rep 10:1-11.
Sunda W, Kieber DJ, Kiene RP, Huntsman S. 2002. An antioxidant function
for DMSP and DMS in marine algae. Nature 418:317-320.
Swain TD, Schellinger JL, Strimaitis AM, Reuter KE. 2015. Evolution of an-
thozoan polyp retraction mechanisms: Convergent functional mor
phology and evolutionary allometry of the marginal musculature in order
Zoanthidea (Cnidaria: Anthozoa: Hexacorallia). BMC Evol Biol 15:123.
Tanaka Y, Miyajima T, Watanabe A, Nadaoka K, Yamamoto T, Ogawa H.
2011. Distribution of dissolved organic carbon and nitrogen in a coral
reef. Coral Reefs 30:533-541.
Tashiro Y, Kameda Y. 2013. Concentration of organic sun-blocking agents in
seawater of beaches and coral reefs of Okinawa Island, Japan. Mar
Pollut Bull 77:333-340.
Tsui MMP, Chen L, He T, Wang Q, Hu C, Lam JCW, Lam PKS. 2019. Organic
ultraviolet (UV) filters in the South China Sea coastal region: Environ
mental occurrence, toxicological effects and risk assessment. Ecotoxicol
Environ Saf 181:26-33.
Tsui MMP, Lam JCW, Ng TY, Ang PO, Murphy MB, Lam PKS. 2017.
Occurrence, distribution, and fate of organic UV filters in coral com
munities. Environ Sci Techno/ 51:4182-4190.
Tsui MMP, Leung HW, Kwan BKY, Ng KY, Yamashita N, Taniyasu S, Lam
PKS, Murphy MB. 2015. Occurrence, distribution and ecological risk
assessment of multiple classes of UV filters in marine sediments in Hong
Kong and Japan. J Ha2ard Mater 292:180-187.
© 2021 The Authorswileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistfy, 2021;00:1-22—C.L. Mitchelmore et al.22
van Dam JW, Negri AP, Uthicke S, Mueller JF. 2011. Chemical pollution on
coral reefs: Exposure and ecological effects. In Sanchez-Bayo F, van den
Brink PJ, Mann RM, eds, Ecological Impacts of Toxic Chemicals. Sharjah,
United Arab Emirates, Bentham, pp 187-211.
Watanabe T, Utsunomiya Y, Yuyama I. 2007. Long-term laboratory culture of
symbiotic coral juveniles and their use in ecotoxicological study. J Exp
Mar Bio Eco/352:177-186.
Wijgerde T, van Ballegooijen M, Nijiand R, van der Loos L, Kwadijk C,
Osinga R, Murk A, Slijkerman D. 2020. Adding insult to injury: Effects of
chronic oxybenzone exposure and elevated temperature on two reef
building corals. Sci Total Environ 733:139030.
Wood E. 2018. Impacts of sunscreens on corals. International Coral Reef
Initiative, Ministry of the Environment and Energy, Stockholm, Sweden,
[cited 2020 April 30]. Available from: https:/Avww.icriforum.org/icri-
documents/icri-publications-reports-and-posters/impacts-sunscreens-
coral-reefs
Woodhead AJ, Hicks CC, Norstrom AV, Williams GJ, Graham NAJ. 2019. Coral
reef ecosystem services in the Anthropocene. Funct Ecol 33:1023-1034.
Xie W-H, Shiu W-Y, Mackay D. 1997. A review of the effect of salts on
the solubility of organic compounds in seawater. Mar Environ Res 44:
429-444.
Yahel G, Sharp JH, Marie D, Hase C, Genin A. 2003. In situ feeding
and element removal in the symbiont-bearing sponge Theonella
swinhoei: Bulk DOC is the major source of carbon. Limnol Oceanogr
48:141-149.
Tsui MMP, Leung HW, Wai TC, Yamashita N, Taniyasu S, Liu W, Lam PKS,
Murphy MB. 2014. Occurrence, distribution and ecological risk assess
ment of multiple classes of UV filters in surface waters from different
countries. Water Res 67:55-65.
US Environmental Protection Agency. 1996. OCSPP 850.1350: Mysid
chronic toxicity test. EPA-712-C-96-120. Washington, DC.
US Environmental Protection Agency. 2007. Method 1694: Pharmaceuticals
and personal care products in water, soil, sediment, and biosolids by
HPLC/MS/MS. EPA-821-R-08-002. Washington, DC.
US Environmental Protection Agency. 2016. OCSPP 850.1300: Daphnid
chronic toxicity test. EPA-712-C-16-005. Washington, DC.
US Environmental Protection Agency. 2020a. Estimation Programs Interface
Suite'^'^ for Microsoft® Windows, Ver 4.11. Washington, DC.
US Environmental Protection Agency. 2020b. Chemistry Dashboard: Trol-
amine salicylate. Washington, DC. [cited 2020 June 3). Available from:
https://comptox.epa.gov/dashboard/dsstoxdb/results?search=Trolamine%
20salicylate
US Geological Survey. 2006. Techniques of water-resources investigations.
Book 9: Handbooks for water-resources investigations. Reston, VA.
[cited 2020 April 16], Available from: https://pubs.usgs.gov/twri/
index090905.html
US Virgin Islands. 2019. Bill no. 33-0043. Legislature of the United States
Virgin Islands, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, [cited 2020 April 30].
Available from: https://stthomassource.eom/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/
2019/05/33-0043-1.pdf
© 2021 The Authors wileyonlinelibrary.com/ETC
Science of the Total Environment 670(2019) 398-410
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
,  .^Science . ●
To^EnmronrrowiIVi.
fScience of the Total EnvironmentMHAJgl
my
miC'
EL'^EVIER journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/scitotenv
H)Occurrence and distribution of UV-filters and other anthropogenic
contaminants in coastal surface water, sediment, and coral tissue
from Hawaii
ChaA lot
updiM
Carys L Mitchelmore Ke He Michael Gonsior Ethan Hain ^ Andrew Heyes Cheryl Clark
Rick Younger Philippe Schmitt-Kopplin Anna Feerick Annaleise Conway ^ Lee Blaney ^
‘ Univerzity of Maryland Center for Environmental Science. Chesapeake Bioloffcat Laboratoiy. Solomons, USA
*● L/nIversfiy of Maryland Baltimore County. Department of Chemical Biochemical and Environmental Engineering. 1000 Hiliwp Circle. Engineering 314. Baitimore, MD 21250. USA
^ UniversityofMaryland School of Medicine, Department of EpidemiolOQi and PublicHeaiiK Baltimore. 660 West Redwood Street, Howard Hall 103, MD 21021. USA
“ PO Box 376, Solomons, MD, USA
* Research Unit Analytical BioCeoChemlstjy. Helmholtz ZentnimMilnchen German Research Center for Environment Health, Neu/ierbergD-85764, Germany
/Ina/yricoi Food Chemistry. Technische Universitdt MOnchen, Freising-Weihenstephan D-85354, GermanyI
GRAPHICAL ABSTRACTHIGHLIGHTS
● First report of UV-filters in coral tissue
from a USA coral reef
● At least 8 UV-filters detected in matched
surface seawater, sediment and coral
tissue from 19 sites in Oahu, Hawaii.
● UV-filterconcentrations in the parts per
trillion (ng L*') in surface seawater and
in ng g'' dw. in sediment and corals.
* Octinoxate, 11 hormones and sucralose
were not detected in surface seawater
but surfactant degradation products
were.
● Overall highest UV-filter concentrations
in all matrices were for homoslate and
octisalate.
UV-ftU«f Souriet;
- Recreational activities {sunscreens!
- Natural Sources {plants, fur>gi)
> Wastewater & land run off
● Industrial / other products
UV-filters '.a ● - --N
SA/^^'RlsRtpW
coral? JIM
£ All se*««ter is
surface «r«ic<
«the same sees
eicoraiUsswe
(me«o tsWev.l
I● no
? ● »e-)C0«UL
s
Coreleoiecbpr
tromshaaowe
or Oteper watiIs
■U .y ■ J] Ji
spr%
HOCxiOO
M»S.S|Ote444 9<«l
24.91^ 11Dies
IOfep s«iSbiii
IJ II WidAIOtKh
ARTICLE INFO ABSTRACT
The occurrence of UV-filters in the environment has raised concerns over potentially adverse impacts on corals.
In this study, the concentrations of 13 UV-filters and 11 hormones were measured in surface seawater, sediment,
and coral tissue from 19 sites in Oahu, Hawaii. At least eight UV-filters were detected in seawater, sediment, and
coral tissue and total mass concentrations of all UV-filters were <750 ng L“', <70 ngg“’ diy weight (dw), and
<995 ng g“' dw, respectively. Four UV-filters were detected in water, sediment, and coral tissue at detection fre
quencies of63-100*, 56-91*. and 82-100*, respectively. These UV-filter concentrations generally varied as fol
lows: water, homosalate (HMS) > octisalate (OS) > benzophenone-3  (BP-3, also known as oxybenzone) >
octocrylene (OC): sediment, HMS > OS > OC> BP-3; coral, OS ss HMS > OC « BP-3. BP-3 concentrations in surface
seawater were <10 ngL~' at 12 of 19 sites and highest at Waikiki beach (e,g., 10.9-136 ng L“'). While BP-3 levels
were minimal in sediment (e,g.,<l ngg“' dw at 18 of 19 sites), and ranged from 6.6 to 241 ngg“' dw in coral
tissue. No quantifiable levels of 2-ethylhexyl 4-metho?^cinnamat e (also known as octinoxate) were recorded
in surface seawater or coral tissues, but 5-12.7 ng g"’ dw was measured for sediment at 5 of 19 sites. No
Arfide histofy:
Received 10 December 2018
Received in revised form 2 March 2019
Accepted 3 March 2019
Available online 13 March 2019
Editor: Damla Barcelo
keywords;
UV-filters
Oxybenzone
Octinoxate
Hormones
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: mitchelmore9umces.edu (CL Mitchelmore).
Co-first authors.I
^Hf^^/doiorg/iai016^sdtDtenv2019D3.034
^B697/0 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
W
CL Micchelmore etaL/Science of(he Total Environment 670 (2019) 398-410 399
hormones were detected in seawater orsediment, but 17ct-ethinylestradiol was present in three corals from Ka
neohe Bay. Surfactant degradation products were present in seawater, especially at Waikiki beach. These results
demonstrate ubiquitous parts-per-trillion concentrations of UV-filters in surface seawater and is the first report
of UV-filters in coral tissue from U.SA coastal waters. These data inform the range of environmentaily-relevant
concentrations for future risk assessments on the potential impacts of UV-filcers on coral reefe in Oahu. Hawaii.
C 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Coral
Sunscreen
et al., 2015; Downs et al., 2016; Tashiro and Kameda, 2013; Slnchez
Rodriguez et al., 2015; Tsui et aL, 2014a, 2014b; Tsui et al., 2017).
Many UV-filters are hydrophobic {e.g the log Kow values for BP-3,
HMS, OS. EHMC, ODPABA, and OC are 3.79, 5.00, 5.43, 5.77,5.8 and
6.88, respectively; Tsui et al.. 2017; MarvinSketch) and are, therefore,
expected to partition into organic sediment and the tissue of marine or
ganisms. However, only a few studies have shown the presence of UV-
filters in sediments from coral reef locations (Tsui et aL. 2014a, 2014b;
Tsui et al., 2017) and. in one case, bioaccumulation of UV-filters in
coral tissues (Tsui et al., 2017). This study reported UV-filters in coral
tissues (e.g., 2.8-31.8 ng g“’ wet weight (ww) for BP-3, <MDL of
14.7 ng g~’ ww for OC and <MDL of 12.4 ng g”’ ww for ODPABA:
Tsui etal., 2017) and calculated bioaccumulation factors (logioBAF) to
be 2.21-3.01, 2.34-2.75, and 2.61-2.88 for BP-3, OC, and ODPABA,
respectively.
Only four studies that have investigated the effects of UV-filters on
corals (Danovaro et al.. 2008; Downs et al., 2014, 2016; McCoshum
et aL, 2016). Laboratory-based acute toxicity studies with coral planula
and in vitro cell cultures using a range of concentrations from 0.570 to
228,000 pg L~ ’ have shown bleaching (e.g., loss of algal symbiont cells
from the host coral) and mortality following exposure to BP-3 (Downs
et al., 2016) and benzophenone-2 (Downs et al.. 2014). Placing plastic
bags containing coral, sunscreen and/or active ingredients, including
BP-3 and EHMC at 33-100 pL L“* concentrations, in the field,
Danovaro et al. (2008) found coral bleaching caused by increased viral
infections. A study by McCoshum et al. (2016) exposed the soft coral
Xenia spp. to a sunscreen product, containing BP-3 and other active
and inactive ingredients, and found a growth reduction after 28 days ex
posure to 026 mL L“’ product
Toxicity thresholds of effect typically used in risk assessment have
only been reported for BP-2 and BP-3. For example, toxicity thresholds
were reported for BP-3 by Downs et al. (2016) for coral planulae mortal
ity (24-h LCso; 139,000 ng L"’) and deformity (24-h ECgo;
49,000 ng L“’) and in vitro coral cell mortality (4-h LC50:
8000-340,000 ng L“’), although exposure concentrations were not an
alytically verified.
In 2018, BP-3 and EHMC were the focus of legislative action in Ha
waii, US/V, that banned the sale of sunscreens with these two products
starting in 2021 (Hawaii. 2018). To calculate the environmental risk of
a chemical, environmentaily-relevant concentration data need to be
used in toxicity studies to determine chemical exposure, uptake, and ef
fects in the species of interest To date, only one study has reported mea
surable concentrations of BP-3 and at only one site in Hawaii (Downs
et al., 2016). The occurrence of EHMC and other UV-filters has not
been reported in seawater from Hawaii, and UV-filters have not been
measured in coral tissues from any U.S./\. coral reef. Importantly, no
studies have investigated the environmental concentrations, distribu
tion, and partitioning of UV-filters in matched water, sediment and
coral tissue in coastal US waters, although similar work has been con
ducted for water, sediment, and oyster tissue in the Chesapeake Bay
(He et al., 2019). To address these data gaps, we comprehensively
assessed the concentrations of 13 UV-filters in matdied surface water,
sediment, and coral tissue from multiple coral reefs around the island
of Oahu, Hawaii.
Recent studies in Hong Kong indicated that recreational activities
and wastewater discharges were the major sources of contamination
1. Introduction
Over the last few decades, coral reefs around the world have experi
enced more frequent and extended bleaching episodes and many are
now facing serious decline (Hughes et al. 2018). Human activities
have been directly and indirectly implicated as major causes of reef de
cline at global, regional, and local scales (Owen et al, 2005). Climate
change (e.g., elevated temperatures, ocean acidification, sea level rise,
storm frequency and intensity, and increased freshwater runoff) and
human development discharge of municipal and industrial waste-
water effluent, over-fishing, and agricultural runoff) play a role in coral
reef decline (Spalding and Brown, 2015). Elevated temperature is
regarded as the main reason for the global decline of coral reefs
(Hughes et al.. 2018); however, an array of physical (e.g., boat anchor
damage, destructive fishing practices and breakage from human recrea
tional activities), biological (e.g., bacteria, viruses and invasive species)
and chemical pollutants (e.g. nutrients, metals and organic chemicals)
have been shown to adversely impact corals (e.g., van Dam et al,
2011). New threats from chemical contaminants of emerging concern
may pose challenges for coral reefs in areas with high-density popula
tion, tourism, or recreational activity. Recreational activities increase
both physical and a potential array of chemical threats to coral reefs
since visitors use personal care products (PCPs), release detergent resi
dues from clothes, and increase the wastewater load.
Recently, sunscreens and other PCPs that contain UV-filters have re
ceived attention regarding their potential impact to corals. Ultraviolet-
filters (UV-filters) are common ingredients in PCPs, such as, sunscreens
and cosmetic products, that are added to protect the skin against sun
burn, premature aging and skin cancer by absorbing UVA, UVB, and
UVC light These skin care products usually contain a mixture of individ
ual UV-filter chemicals, which are present at various concentrations to
provide the desired protection (Chisvert and Salvador, 2007). The max
imum percentage of the individual UV-filters that can be contained in
products varies by country. For example, in the USA a product can con
tain a maximum of6% BP-3 (OVS number 131-57-7) of the total volume,
whereas in the European Union (EU) up to 10% BP-3 can be used. In the
USA products can also contain up to 15% HMS (CAS number 118-56-9),
10% OC (CAS number 6197-30-4). 7.5% EHMC and 5% OS (CAS number
118-60-5). UV-filters are also added to various other products, including
textiles, plastics and paint to prevent photodegradation (Pent et al,
2010). The potential for natural sources for some UV-filters is an
overlooked area of research. For example, BP-3 is described by the Cen
ters for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as being derived from
higher plants (CDC, 2017) and hundreds of natural benzophenones
are produced by flowering plants and marine fungi (e.g., Wu et al.
2014).
UV-filters can enter the aquatic environment via industrial or mu
nicipal wastewater effluent discharges, stormwater runoff, or recrea
tional activities (e.g., swimming or diving) (Giokas et al, 2007). While
UV-filters have been widely reported in the aquatic environment
(Hopkins and Blaney,2016), only a few studies have reported environ
mental concentrations of UV-filters, including, BP-3,2-ethylhexyl-4-
methoxycinnamate (EHMC; also known as octinoxate), homosalate
(HMS). octocrylene (OC), and octyl dimethyl-p-aminobenzoic acid
(ODPABA), in seawater surrounding coral reefs located around the
world, mostly in the ng L“* to low |jg L“’ concentration range (Bargar
400 CL MitcheUnore ei aL / Science ofthe Toml Environment 670 (2019) 398-410
ofUV-filters in coral reeflocations (Tsui et aL, 2014a, 2014b; Tsui et aL,
2017). Therefore, to investigate alternate sources to recreational activi
ties such as. wastewater effluent, land-run off or direct sources into the
aquatic environment, additional organic chemicals, such as sucralose
and surfactants (in surface water samples), synthetic hormones (in all
environmental matrices), and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons
((PAHs) in sediment samples) were also analyzed in this study. In addi
tion. many of these chemicals, including steroid hormones, PAHs and
surfactants, have also been shown to impact corals, (e.g. Kegler et al.,
2015; Mitchelmore and Hyatt, 2004; Tarrant et al., 2004). This study
represents the first attempt to simultaneously detect and quantify a
large suite of UV-filters and other contaminants of current and emerg
ing concern (e.g., hormones) in multiple environmental compartments
from Ui.A. coral reefs. Study locations were chosen to represent differ
ent hypothesized loadings of UV-filters from municipal, recreational,
and tourism activities.
To our knowledge, this study is the first report of UV-filters in coral
tissues from the U.SA and the occurrence of multiple UV-filters in
coastal waters, sediment, and coral tissue from Hawaii.
Results from this work provides insight to the environmentally-
relevant concentrations and partitioning behavior of UV-filters in sea
water, sediment, and coral tissue in Hawaiian coral reef locations for fu
ture risk assessments of the potential toxicological effects of UV-filters
on coral reefs and other marine organisms in Oahu. Hawaii.
Table SI of the Supporting Information (SI) and additional details can
be found in the SI supporting text (Text SI).
22. Sampling locations
Samples were collected from Oahu, Hawaii at three locations,
namely Ka'a'awa (October 12, 2017), Waikiki Beach (October 16,
2017), and Kaneohe Bay (October 18,2017), which were chosen for
their hypothesized contamination by UV-filters from recreational activ
ities (see Rg. 1 and Tables S2 and S3 in the SI for additional details). At
each location, three samples were collected from shallower (e.g.,
0.9-1.8 m) waters and three to four samples were collected from deeper
(4.5-10 m) waters. For Ka'a'awa and Waikiki Beach, the shallow and
deep waters corresponded to nearshore and offshore sites, respectively.
The Ka'a'awa area on the northeast side of Oahu was selected to repre
sent a location with low potential input of UV-filters to the coastal eco
system due to the low number of houses along the shoreline and the
lack of recreational activity at the beaches during the sampling period.
Waikiki Beach represented a developed area with high recreational ac
tivity and, presumably, a large mass input of UV-filters from beach and
water use. The third location, Kaneohe Bay, was chosen to represent an
additional area with potential input of UV-filters from popular water-
based recreational activities at coral reef outcrops and a large sand-bar
site. Water depth at this location varied due to coral outcrops, so the
shallow and deep locations at this site do not correlate with distance
from the shoreline like at Ka'a'awa and Waikiki Beach. Surface water,
sediment, and coral samples collected from the shallow (S) or deeper
(D) waters are noted by their site ID (e.g., KB-D4 is Kaneohe Bay, deep
site 4). An additional deep water site (KB-D4) was included from the
deep end of the sand bar site (KB-S3). The two surface water samples
were essentially collected from the same area to compare temporal
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Chemicals
Salient information for the 13 UV-filters, sucralose, 11 hormones,
and their 12 isotopically-labeled internal standards is summarized in
Oahu,
Hawaii Sites
BKa'a'awaA
Ka'a'awa
Kaneohe Bay
P:
Waikiki Beach
i Vj
DC Kaneohe BayWaikiki Beach -●VT
iTHn
UHIJ
i
mmKBD3
,vA
'^g
Fig. 1. Location of the three main sampling site locations in Oahu. Hawaii, A. Three main locations, B. Six site locations in Ka’a'awa area. C. Six site locations in Waikiki Beach area. D. Seven
site locations in Kaneohe Bay.
401CL Mltchelmore el aL / Science of the Total Environment 670 (2019) 398-410
UMBC, sediment samples were lyophilized and stored at -80 °C until
extraction. Exp'action of all analytes from sediment samples and prepa
ration of the extracts for LC-MS/MS analysis was conducted using the
protocols reported by He et al. (2019) with minor modifications (see
Text S3 in the SI) to account for the additional analytes. For PAH analy
sis, sediment samples were transported as above, but to the Chesapeake
Biological Laboratory (CBL) for extraction (see Text S6 in SI).
variations in UV-filter concentrations before (KB-S3) and after (KB-D4)
recreational activities at the sand bar.
23. Sample collection
All water, sediment, and coral samples were obtained with assis
tance from a local charter boat and crew except for the three nearshore
sites at Waikiki Beach, where samples were collected by the research
team after wading out from the shoreline. Corals were collected under
special activity permit number 2018-73. During sample collection, the
research team did not use sunscreen or PCPs with organic or inorganic
UV-filter active ingredients. Nitrile or latex gloves were used by all sam
pling personnel, including the divers and onboard teams, when
colleaing and/or processing samples. Surface water (n = 3). sediment
(n = 3), and coral tissue (n = 2-4) samples were collected from six
sites at each location. At each site, a global positioning system (GPS) de
vice was used to record the coordinates, and a Yellow Springs Instru
ment (YSl) probe was placed in the surface water to record salinity,
temperature, and pH. Seawater (1 L) was passed through a pre
combusted glass-fiber filter (Whatman®, GF/F, 0 .7pm). The filters
were frozen and transported to Chesapeake Biological Laboratory for
chlorophyll analysis by the Nutrient Analytical Services Laboratory. De
tails on sample collection times, depths. GPS coordinates, and water
quality are provided in Tables S2, S3, and S4 of the SI, respectively.
For all UV-filter. hormone, and sucralose analyses, water samples
were collected from the surface in 1 -L amber glass bottles. Bottle caps
were removed when the bottle was approximately 10 in. below the
water surface, and the bottles were filled to the top and recapped
under water. Similar techniques were used to fill 20 L low-density poly
ethylene cubitainers (1-CHEM, Thermo Fisher Scientific) with -10 L of
water for ultrahigh resolution negative mode electrospray ionization
(ESI) Fourier Transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry
(FT-ICR-MS) analyses. Using a stainless-steel scoop, sediment was de
posited into 250 mL or 500 mL amber jars and the lid was immediately
replaced. After identification ofan appropriate coral specimen, namely a
-2-4 cm finger or lobe of ftjrifes compressa or ft)rites tobota. a steel wire
cutter was used to collect the coral fragment, which was placed in a
500 mL amber jar, filled with water from the site, and capped. For
each site, the water, sediment, and coral samples were immediately
returned to the boat and placed on ice in a cooler. The sampling time
and other notes about the site (e.g.. number of people, weather condi
tions. etc.) were recorded in photographs taken at each site.
2.43. Coral tissue
Upon arrival in the laboratoiy at Hawaii, coral tissue was removed
from the fragments by air-brushing with D1 water to avoid interference
from the seawater matrix on gravimetric analyses. In Hawaii, the coral
tissue was frozen and stored at -80 *C These samples were shipped
to UMBC overnight on —80 “C freezer blocks. At UMBC, coral tissue sam
ples were lyophilized and stored at —80 "C until extraction. The final
freeze-dried mass of individual samples was recorded, and 20-50 mg
subsamples were processed for extraction in 15 mL centrifuge tubes.
Due to the low mass of lyophilized tissue recovered from some coral
fragments, most samples were analyzed with one unaltered subsample
and one spiked subsample; however, some samples were not analyzed
due to the low mass of recovered tissue. When an adequate mass of
freeze-dried tissue was available, six subsamples were employed
using the protocols from He et al. (2019). The dried extracts were
reconstituted and stored according to He etaL (2019). Additional details
are included in Text S4 of the SI.
25. LC-ESI-MS/MS methodsfor UV-filter, hormones and sucralose analyses
All analytes were measured using an UltiMate 3000 LC coupled to a
Thermo TSQ Quantum Access Max triple quadrupole tandem mass
spectrometer (Thermo; Waltham, MA). The method for UV-filters, hor
mones, and the isotopically-labeled standards following previously re
ported methods (He et al„ 2017,2019). For sucralose and sucralose-
dg. 50 pL of the reconstituted sample was injected onto an XBridge
C18 column (3.0 x 150 mm. 2.5 pm) with a guard column (2.1
X 5 mm. 3.0 pm) containing the same material. A 7-min isocratic elution
scheme was employed with (i) 50% LC-MS grade water with 0.1%
NH4OH (pH 10.5) and (ii) 50% MeOH with 0.1% NH4OH.
Both positive and negative ESI modes were employed at the same
time for UV-filters, hormones, and the isotopically-labeled compounds.
Sucralose and sucralose-dg were analyzed separately and ionized in
negative mode. The analytical parameters were described in He et al.
(2017, 2019) and are documented in Text S5 of the SI. All analyses
were reported as mean ± standard deviation for the water and sedi
ment samples, while one measurement was conducted for most of the
coral samples due to limited tissue mass. Table S5 in the SI details the
limits of detection (LODs) and limits of quantitation (LOQs) for analytes
that were detected at least once in the water, sediment, and coral tissue
matrices. Table S18 reports the UV-filter concentrations in quality assur
ance samples.
2.4. Sample processing and analyte extraction
2.4.1. Surface water
Surface water quality parameters at each of the sampling sites are
detailed in Table S4 of the SI. Upon arrival at the laboratoiy in Hawaii,
water samples were filtered through a 1.2-pm glass-fiber filters and
acidified with 0.1% (v/v) 3 M HQ (Fisher Scientific, reagent grade).
Solid-phase extraction (SPE) of all analytes from water samples was
conducted using the protocol reported for estrogenic hormones and
UV-filters in He et al. (2019) with some minor modifications to include
additional analytes. A detailed description is provided in Text S2 of the
SI. The SPE extraction process was completed in Hawaii, and the extracts
were shipped overnight (on ice) to the University of Maryland Balti
more County (UMBC). At UMBC, the extracts were evaporated to dry
ness with nitrogen gas in the dark. Each sample was reconstituted
with 0.5 mL MeOH containing isotopically-labeled internal standards
and then mixed with 0.5 mL deionized (DI) water. The final
reconstituted samples were stored at -20 ‘C until liquid chromatogra
phy with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis.
2.6. Anafytical methodsfor other organic chemicals
The analysis of 49 individual PAHs (parent and alkylated congeners)
in sediments at all three locations followed the methods of Pie et al.
(2015) and is detailed in the SI. SPE of dissolved organic matter
(DOM) was used to isolate and identify potential wastewater-specific
compounds from seawater at the sampling locations. DOM analysis
was performed by FT-ICR MS according to the methods described in
the SI (TextS7 in the SI).
2.7. Calculations and statisrical analyses
2.42. Sediment
In Hawaii, sediment samples were kept at -80 "C Whole sediment
samples were shipped to UMBC overnight on -80 “C freezer blocks. At
To calculate average UV-filter concentrations, replicate measure
ments that indicated concentrations lower than the LOD and LOQ
were assigned values of 0 and the corresponding LOD (see Table S5 in
402 CL MiKhelmoiv etai / Science ofthe Total Environment B70 (2019) 398-410
11.2 (W-D3) ngL“’, respectively.Trolaminesalicylate (TEAS), EHMC,
and 4-methylbenzylidene camphor (4MBC) were detected in 26X,
16%, and 5% of samples, respectively: however, all concentrations
were below the LOQs. No detectable levels of avobenzone (BMDBM)
were recorded for surface water.
The most commonly reported organic UV-filter in seawater sur
rounding coral reef habitats has been BP-3 with concentrations typically
in the ng L"' to low pg L“’ range {e.g., 2.7-5429 ng (Tsui et al,
2014a, 2014b): 13.2-31.7 ng L"' (Tsui etal., 2017): <LOD-3.8 ngL
(Tashiro and Kameda, 2013); <LOD-3317 ng (SSnchez Rodriguez
et al. 2015): and. <LOD-6073 ng L"’ (Bargaretal, 2015)), although
Downs etal (2016) reported BP-3 concentrations of <5 to 19.2 pgL
in Hawaii and 75 pg L“’ to 1395 pg L"’ at coral reef locations in the
US Virgin Islands. The 1395 pg concentration is questionable since
total dissolved organic carbon concentrations in seawater from coral
reef locations typically range between 0.8 and 1.0 mg (de Goeij
and van Duyl 2007: Hiroshi et al, 2002; Nelson et al, 2011; Tanaka
et al. 2011: Yahel et aU 2003).
The aqueous UV-filter concentrations of BP-3 found in the present
study are generally on the lower end of previously reported ranges. Of
the 19 sites, only seven exhibited BP-3 concentrations >10 ng L“'.The
highest BP-3 concentration at Waikiki Beach (W-S3; 136 ng L“') was
two orders of magnitude lower than the previously reported concentra
tion in Oahu. HI (e.g., 19.2pgL“\ Downs etal, 2016).
The average BP-3 concentrations in seawater (n = 6-7 sites per lo
cation) from Waikiki Beach (48.5 ± 47.7 ng L~’) were significantly
higher than those at Ka'a'awa (4.3 ± 2.3 ng L“’) and Kaneohe Bay
(8.6 ± 6.9 ng L“‘). suggesting the aqueous UV-filter concentrations
corresponded to the number of people on the beach and in the water.
Previous studies have also attributed seasonal and temporal differences
in UV-filter concentrations to the number of people present on beaches
and/or in the water (Bargar et al, 2015: Tsui et al, 2014a, 2014b; Tsui
et al, 2017). Indeed, the highest BP-3 concentrations were observed at
shallow, nearshore sites at Waikiki Beach (f.e., sites W—SI and
W—S3 at 65.4 ± 9.0 ng L“’ and 136.2 ± 10.1 ng L"’, respectively).
These sites were located adjacent to beaches that contained a large
number of people on the sand and in the water (e.g.. >80 people at
W—SI and >580 people at W—S3, see Table S3 in the SI). The W—S2
site was located further away from the main tourist activity areas and
< 15 people were present on the beach at this site.
Other UV-filters have been reported in seawater near coral reefs:
HMS, 43-1413 ng L“‘: EHMC, <100-4043 ng L"’; ODPABA,
10.8-22.7 ng L"'; and, OC, <MDL-13.1 ngl“’ (Bargaretal,2015;Tsui
et al. 2014a, 2014b; Tsui et al. 2017). The average HMS
(53.0-625.7 ng L"'). OC (33.1-96.0 ng L"’). and ODPABA (<LOQ.-
11.2 ng L“’) concentrations per site for the present study were similar
to or lower than those previously reported in other coral reef habitats
(see Tables S6 and S7 in the Si). Despite the recent legislative action in
Hawaii that has introduced a ban on the sale of sunscreen products con
taining BP-3 and EHMC (Hawaii, 2018), no published studies have re
ported EHMC in seawater around Hawaii. To our knowledge, this
study is the first report of EHMC in surface seawater from Hawaii.
EHMC was detected at 3/19 sites (i.e.. K—SI. K-S2, and W-S3) but
all concentrations were below the LOQ,
Higher concentrations of some UV-filters were measured in the sur
face seawater at the shailow/nearshore sites compared to the deep/off-
shore sites. The UV-filter concentrations in water samples from the
shallow sites were significantly different (p < 0.05) only for BP-3 at Wai
kiki Beach with both Ka'a'awa and Kaneohe Bay; no location-based dif
ferences in UV-filter concentrations were observed between locations
for the deep sites (p > 0.05). FOr the shallow and deep sites within a spe
cific location, BP-3 concentrations were significantly difierent (p <0.05)
only at the Waikiki Beach sites with concentrations of 70.8 ±
62.8 ng L~’ and 26.2 ± 15.6 ng L”’. respectively (Table S7 in the SI).
At Ka’a'awa, significantly different concentrations (p < 0.001) were ob
served for OS and HMS between the shallow and deep sites, albeit
-1
-1
the SI), respectively. Full data sets for each surface water, sediment, and
coral tissue sample are provided in the SI in Tables S6, S7, S8, S9, SIO and
SI 1 of the SI respectively. Bioaccumulation factors for BP-3, HMS, OC,
and OS at each site were calculated using Eq. 1.
[UV-filterk^BAF = (1)[UV-filter]wiier
BAF calculations used the concentration in coral tissues (mg kg“‘)
and water (mg L“’). Log BAF values were calculated to compare with
published values in coral species. Statistical analyses were run using R
(Version 3.42) and R studio (Version 1.1.456) with significance deter
mined at the p = 0.05 level for all analyses. One-way analysis-of-
variance (ANOVA) tests were used to investigate location- and also
site-specific differences between UV-filter concentrations in each of
the three matrices. The model assumptions were assessed with the
Levene's and Shapiro-Wilk tests. If the assumption of normality was
not met, data were analyzed with the non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis
test and differences between groups were visualized with Dunn's test
of Multiple Comparisons. If all assumptions were met, the differences
were visualized with Tukey's Honest Significant Differences test. For
site-to-site comparisons, significant differences are designated using
different letters: the absence of letters indicates the lack of statistically
significant differences.
Although the detection and concentration of UV-filters depends on
their physical-chemical properties and environmental fate in addition
to their use and input into the environment, we performed correlation
tests to see if there were any relationships between the concentrations
of the most frequently detected UV-filters, namely BP-3, HMS. OC, and
OS. in each matrix. No correlation test satisfied the assumption of nor
mality. as tested by the Shapiro-Wilk test, so non-parametric
Spearman's Rank Correlations were used. Given the variable number
of coral tissues analyzed at each site, the average UV-filter concentration
in sediment or water was compared to the average UV-filter concentra
tion in coral tissue. All correlation results were plotted in a scatterplot
with the corresponding p-value and Spearman's rho. In addition, corre
lations between the individual UV-filters were performed for all three
matrices to investigate if two or more UV-filters were commonly de
tected together and at what ratio. Significant results are presented in a
table showing the p-value and Spearman's rho (ts).
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Occurrence and distribution of UV-filters in surface seawater
A sample-by-sample summary of average concentrations for all UV-
filters detected in surface seawater is detailed in Table S6 of the SI (n =
57 discrete samples). Eight of the 13 UV-filters were detected in water
from at least one site with five of the UV-filters, namely, BP-3, OC,
padimate 0 (or octyl dimethyl-p-aminobenzoic acid; ODPABA), HMS.
and OS detected at the majori^ of sites at concentrations in the <LOD
to 626 ng range and with detection frequencies of 100%, 95%, 89%.
65%, and 63%, respectively (forn = 57 samples). The concentration dis
tributions for HMS. OS. flP-3, and OC which were present at the highest
concentrations, are detailed in Figs. 2a, 3a. 4a, and 5a, respectively, and
statistical differences between concentrations are indicated. Location-
specific UV-filter average concentrations and statistical differences in
UV-filter concentration between locations are summarized in Table S7
in the SI. In general the magnitude of the average UV-filter concentra
tions decreased as follows: HMS> OS > BP-3 > OC. HMS and OS were de
tected at all sites and were present at the highest concentrations
compared to the other UV-filter analytes, with levels ranging from
53.0 (K—SI) to 625.7 (W—SI) ng L"' and 33.1 (K-D3) to 96.0
(K—S2) ng L"’, respectively. The next highest UV-filter concentrations
were for BP-3, OC, and ODPABA with average concentrations per site
ranging from below the LOQs to 136.2 (W—S3). 26.9 (W—S3), and
CL Micchelmore ct ot / Science of Che Tocal Environmenc 670 (2019) 398-4W 403
A o
[^*] Waikiki Beach Kaneohe BayKa’a'awa"I ShalVM
Dt*p
^ §-C
*? i -CL
d
m cd cdo
c
a2 s - bedre
c So> "=f bed d
ioc abco
R 8 -O abed abedabed abed abed abed ^abc aOctl I bedab —  ■ a
O
T T T T  1 T T TT T T T T T T T T T T
aM (A U> O O O <A <0 (A O O O (/> </> (0 OaO
ye ^ X
SiteB
Kaneohe Bay aKa'a'awa Waikiki BeachSh«Bow
D*«pI - - bO)
"Sic
Q.
CQ
O
c
o
re
c aba> ab abab _
I  I ab
u ab ababc
o
ab aba  ab ab ab ab aO
Q abo
T  1 r1  r T T  T T T  1 T T  1 1 1 T T T
aO O O in M M O O O M OT IA O O O
X  X 2«:2 2 2 2 2 2 g g § § g §
V) (fi v>
X X X gSite
C
Kaneohe BayKa'a'awa Waikiki BeachShaBo*
5 o
1 S-]
s s
D**p
Q.
m 8 -
o
c
S 8 .<N<0
c
8O
sC
(3 g|yI I
o -
T T  1 T T  1 1 1 rTT T T T
O Q 2(/) W </> Q Q O W £0 <n O Q O W » « Q
X  X X X =^ ^ 2 2 2 2 2 2 9 9 9 9 3 9 8Site
Fig. 2. Concentrations of BP-3 by site in (A) water, (B) sediment, and (C) coral tissue. Letters designate statistically significant differences (p < 0.0S) between sites using Dunn's test of
Multiple Comparisons.
heads at this site and concentrations of BP-3 and OC increased to 27.0
± 18.4 ng L“^ and 23.6 ± 19.0 ng L“\ respectively. Without including
KB-D4, the average UV-filter concentrations at the deeper sites would
have been 3.9 ± 2.5 ng L~' for BP-3 and 3.5 ± 5.5 ng L“’ for OC.
These results, along with the relatively high UV-filter concentrations re
corded at the popular nearshore Waiidki Beach sites, suggest that use of
sunscreen products was a primary source of UV-filters in coastal water;
however, the similar concentrations of HMS and OS at all sites and the
higher concentrations of HMS at the Ka'a'awa deeper sites, where
there was no recreational activity located does not suggest this and war
rants further studies into source (including natural) identification and
transport of UV-fillers.
As with this study, the majority of UV-filter concentrations reported
in seawater surrounding coral reefs have stemmed from surface
with opposite trends. OS concentrations were higher in the shallow
sites, and HMS concentrations were higher at the deep sites. These find
ings are similar to those reported by Bargar et a). (2015), who found de
creasing BP-3, EHMC, and HMS concentrations with increasing distance
from the shoreline at two beaches in the US Virgin Islands. Ultimately,
the BP-3 and OS concentration trends suggest the source of UV-filters
involved recreational activities associated with beach and nearshore
water use. Similarly, the concentration of BP-3 and OC at Kaneohe Bay
site KB-D4 (co-located with KB-S3) was significantly higher (p < 0.05)
before water-users arrived at this site than later in the morning after
people arrived. The first surface seawater sample was measured at
8 am (KB-S3) and contained 6.6 ± 0.7 ng L”' BP-3 and 2.8 ±
0.1 ng L”' of OC. Later in the morning at 10 am (KB-D4), more than
120 people were using the sand bar to snorkel around the coral reef
CL Mia-/ie/more et aL/Science ofihe Toat Environment 670 (2019) 398-410<<04
A 8 -● Kaneohe BayWaitak) BeachKa'a'awa  ShNtoo
D«»p8 -
fc
eCO
o
o
c o
s ■ d ccj(0
o abc bedc be0> Q«3 dbcabco abc oo o ao
o
T  1 1 T"'"n 1 1 1 r T T T  1 rT T TT
o □ 2u) V> </> 0 0 0 (/> V) (/) 00 0 (A (^ (A O^  ^ ^ ^ s: s: S 2 2 2 5 5 g g g § § ® gSit e
B
'j ■
Kaneohe BayWaikiki BeachKa’a'awa beShUlow
0»*p bsTO be
o> oO)c
abc
I o abc To
c;
.9
15 abc abc abco abcc
aabcabcabc01 abc abc abcabc abc acco a ^5U
T  1 r T 1  1 1 1 1 rT T  1 r T T TT T
O O Si/> a a o v> u) ut ou) OT v> o Q a^  ^ ^ ic ^
(/> (/)
2 2 2 2 2 2 § g g §§ g gSit e
C
o Waikiki Beach T Kaneohe BayKa'a'awao - ShatoolOS 0*«p■D
o> o
■a s -c i ^ B
^ -Oo -
X
Bto
co
●b
oc o4)ucO
o oo
1—r 1—rT T T T T TT T T T T T
<N S 5 Q Q 2u^ O O d v> <n <'> o o o <n v>
:< 5c 2 2 2 2 2 2 § § 29 g g gSite
U> M
X  'X X
Fig. 3. Concentrations of HMS by site in (A) water, (B) sediment, and (C) coral tissue. Letters designate statistically significant differences (p< 0.05) between sites using Dunn's test of
Multiple Comparisons. Note; Ail water concentrations at Kaneohe Bay sites (except KB-D3] could not be quantified.
measurements since UV-filters are formulated into waterproof sun
screens that can be present in films at the water surface. Nearshore
reefs are in well-mixed waters, and so coral exposure to UV-filters
may differ between shallow and deep sites.
Based on our results and context from previous studies, seawater
around coral reefs demonstrates a spatiotemporal variability in aqueous
UV-filter concentrations, highlighting the challenges associated with se-
lealon of environmentally-relevant concentrations for use in risk as
sessments for marine organisms, particularly benthic or microlayer
dwelling organisms. Environmentally-relevant concentrations are
needed to contextualize environmental risk with toxicity thresholds:
therefore, more data are required to understand UV-filter concentra
tions over time and depth in coastal locations, particularly those with
sensitive habitats, such as coral reefs. These findings also raise impor
tant questions about the concentrations, persistence, and transport of
seawater collections. Tsui et al. (2017) suggested that UV-filter concen
trations in surface seawater are conservative values for estimating ex
posure to coral reefs, especially in recreational areas where UV-filters
are most likely entering the aquatic environment by partitioning off of
the skin of swimmers and divers. For example, previous studies have re
ported much higher BP-3 concentrations in surface waters from Hong
Kong beach and snorkeling locations than in ambient water collected
at coral depth (Tsui et al.. 2014a, 2014b; Tsui et aL, 2017). The maximum
BP-3 and OC concentrations in Hong Kong surface water near coral reefs
were 1190 and 674 ngL-1 respectively (Tsui etal, 2014a), over 30 times
higher than those detected in bottom water samples collected near the
corals (Le.. 13.2-31.7 ng L“’ BP-3 and 13-23 ng L“’ OC: Tsui et al.,
2017). To fiilly assess the risk of these chemicals to corals, more detailed
depth studies are required to inform potential exposure to benthic
corals. These assessments should also consider microlayer
CL Miahebnore etoL/Science ofthe Total Emtronmenc 670 (2019) 398-4W 405
A
Kaneohe BayWaiiaKt BeachKa'a'awaShaVcw
Detpo
c cd
O P -
o ^ c
5o 1
uco o
IQ
acdc acd4)
acd acdoc abed
ab —
abed cdabed abedoo abed abd b  ab ab ab  ab
o
T T T  ) r \ rT  r 1  rT T T T T T T T
s(/) </) i0 O OO V> U> (0 O O O </> <A U) O O O
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 5 5 2 5 5 5 2 2 5 ® “ m
Sit
 o
e
B
T Waikitti Beach Kaneohe BayKa'a'awaSlulow
I Dmo
oi cd
OI O _
c
O
o o
o bedc do'» o
m bed Abed
T rac
abed TSUc abed -Lo abed abedU abc a ab a a ab abed ab abed abed
T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T
O Q 2O Q Q tfl in Crt Q Q Q tn tn tA Q
^ ^ ^ 2 5 5 2 S g g § § a 9 9 §Site
(/>(/>(/>^  'X )£
C
8 4 Kaneohe BavKa'a'awa Wailaki Beach TOD
t DmB
■o
c» o
OI >oc
oO
o
O OH
co
(0
C O
<N
C
5 . Q
O -
1  1 1 1 1 r T—I—I 1 1 r T  r T  1 1 r
(A □ o
2 2 S S S
T
Q 2q Q Ul WI Ul Q O O Wl OT
5^ 5^ 5 2 2 5 5 5 2 “Sit
V) (/) (/> Q
^  ^ ^
e
Rg. 4. Concentrations of OC by site in (A) water. (B) sediment, and (C) coral tissue. Letters designate statistically signilicanc differences (p<0,05) between sites using Dunn's test of
Multiple Comparisons.
UV-filters in coastal waters through dilution, abiotic and biotic degrada
tion, and sorption, organism uptake, and bioaccumulation processes.
The variability in aqueous UV-filter concentrations over short spatial
and temporal scales also complicates calculation of bioaccumulation
factors for aquatic species as discussed in Section 3.4,
OC, BP-3, BMDBM, and EHMC were detected in 91%, 88%, 65%. 56%. 51%.
and 42%, respectively, ofindividual samples (see Table S8 in the SI). The
average concentrations and detection frequencies for the four UV-filters
detected at the highest concentrations (i.e., BP-3, HMS, OC, and OS) are
summarized for the 19 sampling sites and three locations in Table S9 of
the SI. For these four UV-filters, the average concentrations in sediment
increased in the following order: HMS > OS > OC > BP-3. The UV-filter
concentrations at individual sites ranged from below the LOQs to
38.5 ngg“’ dw for HMS, 19.6 ng g"' dw for OS, 19.8 ng g“’ dw for
OC. and 4.3 ng g“ ‘ dw for BP-3 (see Table S9 in the SI). The EHMC and
BMDBM UV-filters were also present at measurable conirentrations in
at least one sample. Figs. 2b, 3b, 4b, and 5b contain boxplots showing
the concentration distributions for BP-3, OC, OS, and HMS. respectively,
and statistical differences for concentrations measured at the 19 sites.
The highest sediment-phase concentrations were recorded for HMS
and OS. HMS levels were significantly different at all locations (p < 0.05),
32. Occurrence and distribution of UV-filters in sediment
Few studies have measured the distribution of UV-filters in sedi
ment near coral reefs. A sample-by-sample summary of average con
centrations for all UV-filters detected in sediment is detailed in
Table S8 of the SI (n = 57 discrete samples). To date, only one other
study has reported UV-filters in sediment from a location with coral
reefs (Tsui et al., 2017). The present study is the first to report
sediment-phase UV-filter concentrations near U.S A coral reels. Overall,
nine of the 13 UV-filters were detected in at least one sample. HMS, OS.
CL Mitchelmore et oL / Science of[he Total Environment 670 (2019) 398-410406
A
o Kaneohe BayKa'a'awa Watkiki Beach   Sh»Bo<«
D«*p
i s -w beOr  g -o ab ababc abS c
g -re
c abQ>
ao o I——I abc ab abo abO
S - TT T TT T  T T T T T T T T T T T
Q 8 SQ ca O (/> «> <n O OQ
5 2 5
in o<n in<n in in
X  ^ ^
Site
B
Kaneohe BayWaikiki BeachKa’a'awaShjKM
D«po _
I<7)
s g -wo
c S-o
re
ac o0>o
InB-pc
(3 Bo -
1  rT T T  1 T TT T T T T T T T
Q O 2Q O O W W th Q O Q ia ih io ci
!^ ^ 2 2 2 2 2 2 g g g g 5 g §Sit
in in in
^  ^ k
eC
I i-
I §wo
° 8 -,2
re
c«)oco
O
S
2—  fM O
<0 (0 in
X
a o o M in in a o o in in in a QO
i«: :^ :c 2 2 2 2 2 2 9 99 S 9 9 9
Site
Fig. 5. Concentrations of OS by site in (A) water, (B) sediment, and (C) coral tissue, Letters designate statistically signifleant differences (p < 0.05) between sites using Dunn's test of
Multiple Comparisons. Note: All water concentrations at Kaneohe Bay sites could not be quantified.
At Kaneohe Bay, the HMS concentrations in sediment from the shal
low sites were significantly lower than those from the deep sites (p <
0.01). The inverse trend was observed for select UV-filters in sediment
from Waikiki Beach, namely higher BP-3 (p < 0.001) and OC (p < 0.05)
concentrations were observed in sediment from the shallow sites com
pared to the deeper sites.
The higher sediment-phase concentrations of UV-filters measured at
sites in Kaneohe Bay were not the sites with the highest aqueous-phase
concentrations of these UV-filters (see Tables S7 and S9 in the Si). How
ever, significant correlations between the concentrations in surface
water and sediment were observed for HMS and OS (p < 0.01 with rj
of 0.3711 and 0.7176 respectively; Fig. SIA and SIB in the SI). The
especially between Kaneohe Bay and Ka'a'awa (p < 0.001). These differ
ences were driven by the much higher concentrations measured at the
deep sites in Kaneohe Bay. OS concentrations in sediment were signifi
cantly different between Kaneohe Bay and both Waikiki Beach and
Ka'a’awa (p < 0.001), but there was no difference in sediment-phase
OS concentrations between Waikiki Beach and Ka'a'awa (p > 0.05). Sig
nificant differences were also observed for OC concentrations in sedi
ment from Ka'a'awa sediment and both Waikiki Beach and Kaneohe
Bay {p < 0.001), but the sediment-phase OC levels were not different be
tween Kaneohe Bay and Waikiki Beach. No differences in BP-3
sediment-phase concentrations were identified between any of the lo
cations (p>0.05).
CL Mitcfielmore et aL / Sd«n» of the Total Environment 670 (2019) 398-410 407
overall higher values of UV-filters observed at Kaneohe Bay may stem
from differences in the composition of sediment from Kaneohe Bay
and the other locations. The Kaneohe Bay sediment was finer, siltier,
and more likely to contain a higher fraction of organic matter compared
to the coarse and sandy sediment collected at Waikiki Beach and
Ka'a'awa. These sediment properties may also explain EHMC deteaion
at 5/19 sites, all of which were situated in the Kaneohe Bay location.
As discussed above, the high log Kow values for HMS, EHMC, and OS
favor UV-filter partitioning into oiganic-rich sediment
BP-3 was detected in sediment at 16/19 sites, but the concentrations
were fairly low, namely <LOQ to 4.3 ng g“’ dw. The aqueous- and
sediment-phase concentrations of BP-3 were not significantly corre
lated across the sites (Fig. S2B of the SI). The highest concentration of
BP-3 in sediment was measured at KB-D3 (4.3 ng g"' dw), whereas
only 1.6 ng of BP-3 was detected in surface water samples from
this site, much lower than the highest concentration of 136 ng L-1 at
Waikiki Beach (W—S3). Sediment from sites W—SI and W—S3,
which exhibited the highest aqueous-phase BP-3 concentrations (e.g.,
65.4 and 1362 ng L"’ respectively), contained <0.56 ng g”’ dw of BP-
3. As the log Kow of BP-3 is lower than the other frequently detected
UV-filters, the relatively low accumulation in sediment was expected.
On the other hand, the highest sediment-phase concentrations of OC
were recorded at the W~-S2 and W—S3 sites (e.g., 12.22 and
19.79 ngg”’ dw).and the W—S3 site exhibited the highest OC concen
tration in seawater (e.g:. 29.2 ng L“'); however, no significant correla
tion (p > 0.05) was found between the water- and sediment-phase OC
concentrations (Fig. S3A in the SI).
As the number of coral tissue samples (n = 2-4) differed from the
number ofsediment and water samples (n = 3). the average concentra
tions at each site were used to examine correlations between matrices
(see Figs. S4, S5, S6, and S7 in the SI for matrix-based correlations of
HMS, OS, OC, and BP-3 concentrations, respectively). For these four
UV-filters. no significant correlations (p > 0.05) were identified between
coral tissue concentrations and water- or sediment-phase concentra
tions. In addition, no significant differences (p  >0.05) were observed
for coral-phase concentrations of HMS, OS, or BP-3 between the three
sampling locations (see Figs. S3, S4 and S6 in the SI respectively). Al
though OC levels in coral tissue were similar at most sites, statistically
different higher concentrations (p < 0.05) were observed for coral col
lected from Ka'a'awa compared to Kaneohe Bay (Table Sll in the SI).
Site W—S3 exhibited the second highest reported OC concentration in
coral tissue (f.e. 139.2 ±81.2 ngg“’ dw) and the highest seawater con
centration (U., 26.9 ± 2.3 ng L”^) but no statistically significant corre
lation between water and coral tissue concentrations existed for the
complete dataset (p > 0.05; Fig. S5 in the SI). Interestingly, the highest
concentration of OC in coral tissue was measured at the W-Dl site (i.e.
261.8 ± 360.1 ng g" * dw). where a lower seawater concentration was
recorded (f.e. 7.0 ± 1.9 ng L”') compared to other sites in Ka'a'awa
and Kaneohe Bay.
BMDBM was detected in coral tissue collected from  5of 6 Ka’a'awa, 6
of 6 Waikiki Beach, and 1 of the 7 Kaneohe Bay sites with a high detec
tion frequency of 58% across all samples. No significant differences were
observed between locations (p > 0.05). Interestingly, the highest
BMDBM concentrations were recorded in coral tissue from the K'a'a’awa
sites (e.g.. 170.3 ± 116.8ngg~' dwatK—SI), which experience lower
levels of recreational activity.
BP-3 concentrations in individual coral tissue samples ranged from <
LOD to 570.5 ngg“* dw (see Table SIO in the SI). While the highest site
average BP-3 concentrations in seawater and coral tissue were found at
Waikiki shallow sites, no significant correlation (p > 0.05) was found be
tween coral- and aqueous-phase concentrations, for this UV-filter
(Rg. S6A in the SI). This observation may be reflective of the sample de
sign. Three water and up to four coral samples were collected from each
site at the same time. However, based on the temporal data colleaed at
Kaneohe Bay, aqueous UV-filter concentrations vary throughout the
day, depend on the number of recreational beach users, and are likely
impacted by tidal transport. The sampling design of this study did not
capture the potentially large variation in the fate and transport of BP-3
across spatiotemporal scales. Although sediment and coral tissue are
more likely to reflect time-averaged UV-filter concentrations, no corre
lations were found between BP-3 concentrations in sediment and coral
tissue (p > 0.05: Fig. S6B in the SI). The only other study that has mea
sured BP-3 in coral tissue was conduaed in Hong Kong, where concen
trations ranged from 1.0 to 38.4 ng g~’ ww (Tsui et al., 2017). To
compare data from the present study with those reported by Tsui
et al. (2017), the dw concentrations from this study were converted to
ww concentrations. Atkinson and Grigg (1984) used  afactor of 52 to
convert dw concentrations to ww in P. compressa. Using this conversion
faaor, the BP-3 concentrations measured in the present study were es
timated to be 3.2-51.0 ng g" ’ ww, which was reasonably similar to the
range reported byTsuiet al. (2017) of 2.8 to 31.8 ngg”’ ww.
The BP-3 concentrations between individual coral tissues were more
variable than the aqueous- and sediment-phase concentrations. Two of
the highest BP-3 concentrations in coral tissue were recorded for the
shallow, nearshore samples collected at Waikiki Beach. Relatively high
BP-3 concentrations (e.g:. up to 2393.9 ng g~’ dw) were also measured
in corals at the three deep, offshore sites at Ka'a’awa (see Table SIO in
the SI). The variability of BP-3 concentrations between individual corals
and the higher concentrations in corals from deeper water sites that re
ceive less tourist/recreational activity raises additional questions re
garding other BP-3 sources (e.g., wastewater effluent and naturally-
produced compounds: CDC, 2017: Wu et al., 2014) in this area. These
topics warrant further study. The lack of correlation (p > 0.05: Fig. S6A
33. Occurrence and distribution of UV-filters in coral tissue
A sample-l^-sample summary of average concentrations for all UV-
filters detected in coral tissue is detailed in Table SIO of the SI (n = 67
discrete samples). This study is the first to report UV-filter concentra
tions in corals from US waters. Eight different UV-filters were detected
in at least one coral tissue sample. Four UV-filters, namely OS. HMS,
OC and BP-3 were detected in coral from all 19 sites with detection fre
quencies of 100%, 100%, 96% and 82%, respectively, indicating the ubiq
uitous presence of these compounds in Hawaiian coral reefs sampled in
this study. The average concentrations of these UV-filters in coral tissue
from each site are presented in Table Sll of the SI; furthermore, statis
tical differences in coral-phase concentrations between locations are
noted.
The average UV-filter concentrations in coral tissues from individual
sites varied as follows: 5.8-240.9 ngg~* dwfor BP-3:31.3-261.8 ngg
dw forOC: 210.4-491.0 ngg“' dw for OS; and, 188.7-441.1 ngg“' dw
for HMS. Corals are often lipid-rich (Imbs.2013: Koetal.,2014) and are
expected to bioaccumulate organic chemicals, particularly those with
higher Kow values. Indeed, the reported coral-phase concentrations
generally align with relative trends in log Kow Figs. 2c, 3c, 4c and 5c re
port the distribution and significance of BP-3, OC, OS. and HMS concen
trations across the 19 sites, respectively.
Unlike Tsui etaL (2017), we did not detect benzophenone-8 (BP-8)
in any of the coral tissue samples (< LOD of 3.03 ngg"’ dw). BP-8 has
been described as a common metabolic product of BP-3. The two
highest UV-filter concentrations in coral tissue from the Tsui et al.
(2017) study were BP-3 (31.8 ± 8.6 ng g“’ wet weight (ww)) and
BP-8 (24.7 ± 10.6 ng g“’ svw) although they did not measure HMS
and OS which were the two UV-filters found at the highest concentra
tions in this present study. The different results regarding BP-8 concen
trations between these two studies may stem from differences in
metabolic activity in corals from HI compared to those in Hong Kong:
however, BP-8 was detected in five different coral species, including a
Porires spp. at most sites (Tsui et al., 2017). For this reason, additional
work Is recommended to understand metabolism and other transfor
mation reactions of UV-filters in coastal ecosystems.
-1
408 CL MiC/ielmoreetfli/Sdence of the Totnl Envinmment 670 (2019) 398-410
and B in the SI) between surface water concentrations and coral tissue
concentrations precludes any useful assessment of the bioaccumulation
of BP-3 in corals: however, these data are included in the following sec
tion for reference and contextualization with ongoing and future stud
ies. As it is not known if corals are exposed to UV-filters through the
aqueous-phase, suspended particles, ingestion of sediment particles,
and/or ingestion of food, further studies are recommended to investi
gate (i) the partitioning of UV-filters between the dissolved and partic
ulate phases and (ii) UV-filter concentrations in prey species to further
inform coral exposure pathways.
3.6. Occurrence and distribution ofotber organic contaminants in seawater,
sediment and coral tissue
All of the sites demonstrated influence from other anthropogenic
stressors. For example, 6-9 PAHs (of the 49 congeners investigated)
were detected in sediments at all three locations, indicating general an
thropogenic contamination and some capacity for sediment to harbor
organic contaminants despite the sandy properties and, presumably,
low organic matter. Total PAH concentrations averaged 3.8 ±
1.8 ngg”’,2.5±2.1 ngg”’, and 11.1 ± 14.9 ngg“’ at Ka’a'awa, Waikiki
Beach, and Kaneohe Bay. respectively (see Table S14 in the SI). Specific
details and discussion of the detected PAHs and their potential impact to
corals are presented in additional text (in the SI, Text S8). A detailed
breakdown of PAH concentrations is listed in Tables S15-S17 of the SI.
The FT-ICR-MS data revealed that the overall contributions ofdegra
dation products of anthropogenic sulfonic acids (surfactants) varied
across locations, indicating the distinct influence of wastewater, runoff
from streets and beaches, or direct input from beach users. The high
abundance of sulfophenyl carboxylic acids (SPCs), which are degrada
tion products of aromatic linear alkyl benzene sulfonates (LAS), sug
gested that the Waikiki Beach location was likely the most impacted
by treated wastewater effluent (Gonsior et al., 2011) and/or runoff
from beaches (Fig. 6A and additional text in the SI). The MS-MS frag
mentation pattern of the SPC with the formula C^HigOsS showed a
3.4. Bioaccumulation of UV-filters in coral tissue
Few data have been reported on bioaccumulation of UV-filters in any
marine organisms, especially corals. To date only Tsui et al (2017) have
reported BAFs in coral tissue. This calculation assumes steady state con
ditions, which are unlikely to exist in the current study due to the tem
poral variability in UV-filter concentrations at the same sites. Tsui et al
(2017) reported log BAF values for BP-3, OC, and ODPABA of 221-3.01,
234-2.75, and 2.61-2.88, respectively. Table SI 2 in the SI shows log BAF
values calculated using the coral- and water-phase UV-filter concentra
tions measured at individual sites and locations. The overall average log
BCF values for BP-3 and OC calculated using the estimated coral wet
weight were 3.92 (range per site from 3.44 to 6.11) and 4.65 (range
per site from 4.03 to 5.65) respeaively. These values are higher than
those reported by Tsui et al (2017) but followed expected trends
from the Kow for the UV filters (e.g., BP-3 and OC Kow's are 3.79 and
6.88 kg L“’ respectively). The lipid content in corals is known to vary
between coral species and time of year and it is unclear if and which
of these variables may explain our values compared to Tsui et al
(2017) (Imbs, 2013). The overall location average log BAF values for
OS and HMS were 4.16 (site range from 4.28 to 4.89) and 3.77 (site
range from 3.30 to 4.45) kg 1“’. respectively, which was lower than ex
pected according to the relative values of log Kow for the UV-filter
analytes.
A
Sulfuphcnvl carlHi»ylic acidi (SPC)
«ni>iii205s
■ cmil405S
■ CI2HI605S
■ a.'IIIM)5S
■ C't4li:(K)5S
fi.'IK
.9
U.h
^114
33. Correlation between UV-^fters in each environmental matrix 03
Ii.As two or more UV-filters are often present in sunscreens, correla
tions between individual UV-filters were investigated for all environ
mental matrices. Table S13 in the SI presents the significant
correlations for concentrations of individual UV-filters found for each
matrix using Spearman's Rank correlations (p < 0.05); furthermore,
the mass ratio of the mean concentrations of the two UV-filters was cal
culated to determine the relative abundance, which may inform source
based on active ingredient ratios in consumer products. In surface sea
water. significant correlations were found between the OC concentra
tion and the OS and BP-3 concentrations (p < 0.05) at 1.0:6.6 and
1.0:3.1 ratios, respectively although the ratio of means did not match
the maximum concentrations that could be found in USA products.
These results are not surprising given the array of produas with differ
ing UV-filters, UV-filters in products at lower than maximal levels, tour
ists from other countries that have differing maximal percentages of
each UV-filter in products and the unknown fate and breakdown of
these various UV-filters. In coral tissue, a highly significant (p < 0.001)
1:1 ratio was observed between OS and HMS concentrations. In sedi
ment. OC concentrations were significantly correlated (p < 0.01) with
OS, BP-3, HMS, and BMDBM concentrations: furthermore. BP-3 concen
trations were correlated with4MBC levels (p< 0.001) and HMS concen
trations were correlated with OS levels (p < 0.001). The sediment OC:
HMS and OS:HMS ratios were the closet ratio ofmeans compared to ex
pected (e.g., highest percentage ratios expected are 1:1.5 and 1:3 re
spectively compared with the actual values of 1:2.8 and 1:1.5
respectively).
liji mrn^
K.SI K.S2 K.S3 K.DI W.SI W.S2 W.S3 W.DI KU SI KB 1)1
U
Unknown hrominatcd aromatic compound(%)
0 12
u I
● OIIKI)r30)
>.<inK
8.9
II IK,
0.04
<102
K.SI K.S2 K.S.) K.UI WSI W.S2 W’.S.) W 1)1 KBSIKIIDI
Hg. fi. Normalized intensity of (A) the m/z ions corresponding to sulfophenyl carboxylic
acids (SPCs) as degradation products of LAS and (B) a brominated aromatic compound
of unknown origin. NOTE: measured by negative electrospray ionization non-targeied
FT-ICR MS and intensity was normalized to an average intensity of all assigned CHO
molecular signature in each individual MS spectrum.
CL Mitchebnort et aL / Sa'ence of the Total Environment 670 (2019) 398-410 409
Q^pical loss of CfiHijOj (see Fig. S7 in the SI), and the spectrum matched
well the published record ETS00018 in Mass Bank (Horaiet aL. 2010). In
contrast, Kaneohe Bay. Ka'a'awa Bay. and the W-Dl site at Waikiki
Beach showed much less influence from SPCs. In addition, an m/z ion
with the neutral formula CgHgBr^Os was confirmed by isotope simula
tion. The origin of this halogenated compound is not clear, but it was
only present at the nearshore Waikiki Beach sites and a shallow site at
Kaneohe Bay (KB-Sl) (Fig. 6B). also suggesting an anthropogenic
source. Halogenated aromatic compounds have been demonstrated to
show substantial toxicity to aquatic organisms (Mucdni etal., 1999);
however, the effect of halogenated aromatic compounds on corals cur
rently remains unknown. Overall, the non-targeted analysis of DOM col
lected from the study locations supports the presence of a complex
mixture of chemical stressors in the coastal ocean of Oahu, Hawaii. Sur
factants. in particular, are regarded as problematic compounds for corals
and have been shown to cause severe coral tissue losses in Indonesia
(Kegleret aL. 2015).
The synthetic hormone, 17a-ethinylestradiol, was deteaed in coral
tissue at 2/19 sites in three coral tissue samples. These detections oc
curred at the shallow KB-Sl (<LOQ-368 ngg"' dw) and KB-S2 (<LOD-
413 ng g~ ^ dw) sites located at Kaneohe Bay, again suggesting potential
wastewater influences at this site. Synthetic hormones have previously
been reported at Kaneohe Bay and laboratory experiments have shown
impacts to coral growth rates and reproductive output at
environmentally-relevant concentrations (e.g. Tarrant et al„ 2004). No
other hormone detections were recorded for water, sediment, or coral
tissue samples. Sucralose, which is often used as  atracer for wastewater
and septic systems (Oppenheimer et aU 2011), was not detected in any
of the surface water samples and it would argue against a continuous in
fluence ofwastewater, but sporadic wastewater exposure is still feasible
giving that sucralose is very hydrophilic and does not bioaccumulate.
Maryland Center for Environmental Science (PI: Mitchelmore). We
would like to thank Captain Benson and his crew for taking us to the
sites and to the staff and scientists at the Hawaii Institute of Marine Bi-
olo^, especially to the laboratory of Dr. Ruth Gates for providing bench
space for sample processing. This is contribution 5560 from the Univer
sity of Maryland Center for Environmental Science, Chesapeake Biolog
ical Laboratory.
Appendix Supplementary data
The supporting information contains additional information on sam
pling sites, additional sampling, extraction and analytical protocols, per
sample results tables, correlation analyses, data and an expanded dis
cussion on the PAHs detected in sediment and potential effects on
corals. Supplementary data to this article can be found online at
https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.03.034.
References
Atkinsoa M. Crigg. R.W., 1984 Model of a coral reereco^stem IL Gross and net benihic
primary production at French Frigate Shoals, Hawaii Coral 3 (1), 1S-22.
Bargar. Alvarez. DA, Garrison. Vil, 2015. Synthetic ultraviolet light filtering chemi
cal contamination of coastal waters of Virgin Islands national park. SL Joha U.S. Vir
gin islands. Mar. Pollut Bull. 101 (1). 193-199.
CDC 2017. https://www.cdc.gov/biomonitoring/Benzophenone-3_FactSheet.html,
Accessed date: 2 July 2018.
Chisvert. A.. Salvador. A 2007. UV-filters in sunscreens and other cosmetics. Regulatory
aspects and analytical methods. Anal. Cosmct. Prod. 83-120.
van Dam, J.W.. Negri. A.P., Uthicke. S, Mueller. Jf.. 2011. Chemical pollution on coral reefs:
e:q]osure and ecological effects. Ecological Impact ofToxic Chemicals, pp. 187-211.
Danovaro, R., Bongiorni, L. Corinaldesi. C„ Ciovannelli, D„ Damiani, E, Astolfi. P., Greci. L.
Pusceddu. A.. 2008. Sunscreens cause coral bleaching by promoting viral infections.
Environ. Health Peispect 116 (4). 441-447.
Downs. CA Kramarsky-Winter, E. Fauth.JA Segal. R., Bronstein, 0., Jegcr, R.. Lichtenfeid,
Y.. Woodley. CM, Pennington, P„ Kushmaro. A Loya. Y, 2014. Toxirological effects of
the sunscreen UV-filter. benzophenone-2. on planulae and in vitro cells of the coral.
Styfophoru pistiflota Ecotoxicology 23 (2). 175-191.
Downs. CA Kramarsky-Winter. E, Segal. R. Fauth, J, Knutson. S, Bronstein. 0, Ciner. FJl,
Jeger. R, Lichtenfeid, Y.. Woodley. CM.. Pennington, P.. Cadenas. K.. Kushmaro, A..
Loya. Y.. 2016. Toxicopathological effects of the sunscreen UV-filter, oxybenzone
(benzophenone-3), on coral planulae and cultured primary cells and its environmen
tal contamination in Hawaii and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Ach. Environ. Contam.
ToxicoL 70 (2). 265-288.
Fent, K, Zenker, /i, Rapp. M., 2010. Widespread occurrence of estrogenic UV-fi!ters in
aquatic ecosystems in Switzerland. Environ. PolluL 158 (5). 360-374.
Giokas. Di-. Salvador. A, Chisvert, A. 2007. UV-filters: from sunscreens to human body
and the environment TrAC Trends Anal Chem. 26 (5). 360-374.
de CoeiJ, J.M., van Duyl, F.C, 2007. Coral cavities are sinks of dissolved organic carbon
(DOC). Umnol. Oceanogr. 52 (6), 2608-2617.
Gonslor. M.. Zwartjes. M„ Cooper, W.J., Song. W., Ishida. K.P.. Tseng, LY.. Jeung. M.K.,
Rosso, D, Hertkom, N.. Schmitt-Kopplin, P„ 2011. Molecular characterization ofefflu
ent organic matter identified by ultrahigh resolution mass spectrometry. Water Res.
45 (9). 2943-2953.
Hawaii. 2018. https://www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2018/bills/SB2571_.htm, Accessed
date: 29 July 2018.
He, K. Timm. A. Blaney. L, 2017. Simultaneous determination ofestrogens and UV-filters
in aquatic tissues by sonication assisted liquid extraction and liquid chromatography
tandem mass spectrometry.]. Chromatogr. A1509.91-101.
He. K, Hain. E. Timm. A Tamowskl M, Blaney. L, 2019. Occurrence ofantibioiics. estro
genic hormones, and UV-fllten in water, sediment, and oyster tissue from the Ches
apeake Bay. Sd. Total Environ. 650 (2). 3101-3109.
Hiroshi. H.. Selsuko. K, Hiroya, Y„ Norihlde, K, Hajime. K, 2002. Organic carbon flux in
Shiraho coral reef (Ishig^ Island, Japan). Mar. Ecoj. Prog. Ser. 232.129-140.
Hopkins. Z, Blaney. L. 2016. An aggregate analysis of personal care products in the envi
ronment: identifying the distribution of environmentally-relevant concentrations.
Environ. Int 92-93,301 -316.
Horai. H, Arita, M, Kanaya. S, Nihei, Y„ Ikeda. T, Suwa. K, Ojima. Y.. Tanaka. K, Tanaka, S,
Aoshima. K, Oda, Y, Kakazu, Y, Kusano. M, Tohge. T, Matsuda. F, Sawada, Y., Hirai,
M.Y., Nakanishi. H„ Ikeda. K.. Akimoto. N.. Maoka, T, Takahashi, H, Aa. T„ Sakurai,
N.. Suzuki. H.. Shibata, D, Neumann. S, llda, T.. Tanaka. K, Funalsu. K, Matsuura, F.,
Soga, T„ Taguchi, R., Saito, K.. Nishioka, T., 2010. MassBank: a public repository for
sharing mass spectral data for life sciences.]. Mass Spectrora 45 (7), 703-714,
Hughes. T.P.. Keny.J.T.. Baird. A.H., Connolly, S.R, Dietzel. A. Eakia CM.. Heron. S.F, Hoey.
AS.. Hoogenboom, M.O, Uu. C, McWllliam, MJ, Pears. R.J.. Prachett. M.S., Skirving,
WJ.. Stella. J.S, Torda. G, 2018. Global warming transforms coral reef assemblages.
Nature 556,492-496.
Imbs. AB. 2013. Fatty adds and other lipids ofcorals: composidon, distribution and bio
synthesis. Russ.]. Mar. Biol 39 (3). 153-168.
Kegler. P, Baum. G, Indriana, LF., Wild. C, Kunzmana A 2015. Physiological response of
the hard coral Podllopora verrucosa from Lombok. Indonesia, to two common
4. Conclusions
This study reported the ubiquitous presence of many UV-filters in
coastal seawater, sediment, and coral tissue from sites around Oahu,
HI, vastly expanding the current state of knowledge. The measured con
centrations were similar to or lower than previously reported values
from HI and other coral reef locations. The seawater and sediment UV-
filter concentrations reported in this study can be used in conjunction
with toxicological studies to estimate environmental risk to corals and
other species. Given the spatiotemporal variability and limited data at
coral depth of UV-filter concentrations, more monitoring studies are
recommended to determine environmentally-relevant concentrations
for inclusion in risk assessments. /\1though few studies document the ef
fects of UV-filters on coral species and toxicological thresholds, the
aqueous BP-3 concentrations at all of the sites in this study are below re
ported toxicity thresholds of effect that are used in risk assessments. No
toxicity thresholds have currently been reported for EHMC, and EHMC
was not present at quantifiable concentrations in seawater for any of
the sites included in this study. The impact of UV-filters on corals is an
emerging field of research and much more data is required to character
ize environmental concentrations in seawater around coral reefs
together with laboratory studies using analytically-verified environ
mentally relevant concentrations and biological endpoints suitable for
risk assessments. More effort is also needed to contextualize UV-filter
concentrations with other anthropogenic chemicals, including those re
ported in this study, that have been detected in seawater, sediment, and
coral tissues to identify local management and policy strategies that pri
oritize the most important chemical contaminants of concern for the
health of coral reefs.
Acknowledgements
This research was funded by the Personal Care Products Council
(PCPC), Washington. DC as a research grant to the University of
CL MiahelmortetaL/Science ofthe Toal Environment 670(2019) 398-4 W410
Spalding. M.D.. Brown. B.E, 2015. Warm-water coral reeft and climate change. Science
350 (6262). 769-771.
Tanaka. Y.. Miyajima. T.. Watanabe, A.. Nadaoka. K. Yamamoto, T.. Ogawa. H.. 2011. Distri
bution of dissolved organic carbon and nitrogen in a coral reef. Coral Ree& 30 (2).
533-541.
Tarrant. A.M., Atkinson. MJ.. Atkinson. S„ 2004. Ejects of steroidal estrogens on coral
growth and reproductioa Mar. Ecol. Prog. Set. 269.121-129.
Tashiro, Y.. Kameda. Y.. 2013. Conantration oforganic sun-blocking agents in seawater of
beaches and coral reefs ofOkinawa Island.Japan. Mar. PoUut. Bull. 77 (1-2). 333-340.
Tsui. M.M.. Leung. H.W., Wai T.C. Yamashita. N.. Taniyasu, S, Liu, W„ Lam, P.K.. Murphy.
M.B.. 2014a. Occurrence, distribution and ecologi^ risk assessment of multiple clas
ses of UV-filters in surface waters from different countries. Water Res. 67,55-65
Tsui. MJW., Leung. H.W.. Lam. P.K.. Murphy. M.B, 2014b. Seasonal occurreiKe, removal ef
ficiencies and preliminary risk assessment of multiple classes of UV-filters in waste
water treatment plants. Water Res. 53,58-67.
Tsui. M.M.P., Lam,J.CW.. Ng, T.Y.. Ang. OA. Murphy, M Urn. P.K.-S, 2017. Occurrence,
distribution and fate of UV-filters in coral communities. Environ. Sd.Technol. 51.
4182-4190.
Wu. S.-B., Long, C, Kennelly, E.J.. 2014. Structural diversity and bioactivities of natural
benzophenones. Nat Prod. Rep. 31,1158-1174.
YaheL C, Sharp, Jil, Marie. D., H9se2. C, Genin. A, 2003. In situ feeding and element re
moval in the symbiont-bearing sponge Theonello swinhoei: bulk DOC is the major
source for carbon. Umnol. Oceartogr. 48 (1), 141-149.
pollutants in combination with high temperature. PLoS One 10 (11). eOI42744.
htlps;//doix)rg/10.1371/joumaLpon&0142744
Ko. F.-C. Chang. C-W. Cheng J.-O.. 2014. Comparative study of polycyclic aromatic hy
drocarbons in coral tissues and the ambient sediments from Renting National Park,
Taiwan. Environ. PoUuL 185.35-41
McCoshum. SAl, Schlarb, AAl, Baum. KA. 2016. Direct and indirect effects ofsunscreen
exposure for reef biota. Hydrobiologia 776(1). 139-146.
Mitchelmore, CL. Hyatt. S.. 2004. Assessing DNA damage in cnidarians using the Comet
Assay. Mar. Environ. Res. 58 (2-5). 707-711.
MucdnL M, Layton. AC, Sayler. Ci, S<dm]cz.T.W.. 1999. Aquatic toxidties ofhalogenated
benzoic adds to Tetrahymeno pyr^onnis. Bull. Enviroa Contam. Toxicol. 62 (5).
616-622.
Nelson. CE. Alldredge. AL. McOiment. EA, Amaral-Zettler, LA, Carlson, CA. 2011. De
pleted dissolved organic carbon and distina bacterial communities in the want col
umn of a rapid-flushirtg coral reef ecosystera I5ME J. 5 (8), 1374-1387.
Oppenheimer, J, Eaton. A Badruzzamaa M.. Haghani. AW, Jacangelo. J.G, 2011. Occur
rence and suitability of suaalose as an indicator compound ofwastewater loading to
surface waters in urbanized regions. Water Res. 45 (13), 4019-4027.
Owen, R.. Mitchelmore, C, Jones. R, Readman. J, 2005. A common sense approach for
confronting coral reef decline associated with human activities. Mar. Pollut Bull. 51
(5-7), 481-485.
Pie. H.V.. Heyes, A Mitchelmore, CL. 2015. Investigating the use of oil platform marine
fouling invertebrates as monitors of oil exposure in the Northern Gulf of Mexico.
Sd. Total Environ. 508.553-565,
Sanchez Rodriguez, A, Rodrigo Sanz. M„ Betancort Rodriguez. J.R., 2015. Occurrence of
eight UV niters in beaches of Gran Canaria (Canary Islands). An approach to environ
mental risk assessment Chemosphere 131,85-90.
Accepted Manuscript
Review of environmental effects of oxybenzone and other sunscreen active
ingredients
Samantha L. Schneider, MD, Henry W. Lim, MD
Pll: 30190-9622(18)32189-3
10.1016/j.jaad.2018.06.033
YMJD 12616
DOI:
Reference:
Journal of the American Academy of DermatologyTo appear in:
Received Date:7 June 2018
Revised Date: 11 June 2018
Accepted Date: 15 June 2018
Please cite this article as: Schneider SL, Lim HW, Review of environmental effects of oxybenzone and
other sunscreen active ingredients, Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology (2018), doi:
10.1016/j.jaad.2018.06.033.
This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to
our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo
copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final form. Please
note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all
legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain.
Review of environmental effects of oxybenzone and other sunscreen active ingredients
Samantha L. Schneider, MD and Henry W. Lim, MD
1
2
3
Department of Dermatology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan4
5
Corresponding Author:6
7
Henry W. Lim, MD
Department of Dermatology
Henry Ford Medical Center - New Center One
3031 W Grand Boulevard, Suite 800
Detroit, Michigan 48202
Phone:313-916-4060
Fax: 313-916-5334
Email: hliml@hfhs.org
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
Funding Sources: None17
18
Conflict of Interest Statement: Dr. Samantha Schneider has no conflicts of interest to disclose.
Dr. Henry Lim is an investigator / co-investigator for Fcrndalc, Estce Lauder, Allergan and
Incyte.
19
20
21
22
This article has not been previously presented or published.23
24
Abstract Word Count: 183
Text Word Count: 2404
References: 46
Figures / Tables: None
25
26
27
28
29
Abbreviations:
4-MBC: 4-methylbenzylidenc camphor; UV: ultraviolet; waste water treatment plant (WWTP),
parts per million (ppm), parts per billion (ppb), parts per trillion (ppt).
30
31
32
2
Abstract33
34
With increasing awareness regarding the risks of sunburn, photoaging and skin cancer,
the use of sunscreens has increased. Organic and inorganic filters are used in sunscreen products
worldwide. Concerns have been raised on commonly used organic UV filters including
oxybenzone {benzophenonc-3; BP-3), 4-methylbcnzylidene camphor (4-MBC), octocrylene
(OC), and octinoxate (cthylhcxyl mcthoxycinnamate; EHMC) on their effects on the
environment. Studies have identified UV filters such as oxybenzone, octocrylene, octinoxate and
cthylhexyl salicylate (ES) in almost all water sources around the world and have commented that
these filters are not easily removed by common waste water treatment plant techniques.
Additionally, in laboratory settings, oxybenzone has specifically been implicated as a possible
contributor to coral reef bleaching. Furthermore, UV filters such as 4-methylbenzylidene
camphor, oxybenzone, octocrylene and octinoxate have been identified in various species of fish
worldwide, which has possible consequences for the food chain. As dermatologists, it is
important for us to continue to emphasize the public health impact of excessive sun exposure,
and to advise our patients about proper photoprotection practice, which consists of seeking
shade, wearing photoprotcctive clothing including hats and sunglasses, and application of
appropriate sunscreens.
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
3
Introduction51
Skin cancer is the most common malignancy in the United States.' Non-melanoma skin
cancer (NMSC) affects millions of Americans annually with increasing incidence of both basal
and squamous cell carcinomas.^ Ultraviolet (UV) radiation is a main risk factor for skin cancer
development as well as erythema and photoaging. With increasing awareness regarding skin
cancer, photoprotection has been widely advocated; sunscreen use is an integral part of
photoprotection.
Active ingredients of sunscreens arc divided into inorganic (physical) or organic
(chemical) filters. Inorganic filters include titanium dioxide and zinc oxide that reflect and refract
UV photons; nanosized titanium dioxide also absorbs UV. Organic filters are designed to absorb
UVA, UVB, or both. Aside from being used in sunscreen, several UV filters [oxybenzone
(bcnzophenonc-3; BP-3), 4-mcthylbenzylidene camphor (4-MBC), octocrylene (OC), and
octinoxate (ethylhexyl mcthoxycinnamatc; EHMC)] are used in cosmetics, shampoos,
fragrances, flavors, and as photo-stabilizers in personal products and plastics,
applications, it’s no surprise that that the Centers for Disease Control suggested that ~96.8% of
the US population is exposed to oxybenzone.
UV filter in the European Union, but it is not a listed filter in the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration monograph.
Researchers have examined the impact of these organic filters. In vitro, oxybenzone has
anti-androgenic and pro- and anti-estrogenic effects.^ Oxybenzone, avobenzonc (butyl
methoxydibcnzoylmethanc; BMDM), homosalate, octyl dimethyl-p-aminobenzoic acid
(padimate O), and octinoxate increased cellular proliferation of breast cancer cells (MCF-7) in
vitro. Additionally, 4-MBC induced the pS2 protein (a protein regulated by estrogen) in MCF-7
cells and the effects were blocked using an estrogen antagonist, which highlights the hormonal
regulation of this process. In rats, 4-MBC and octinoxate applied topically and administered
orally led to increased uterine weight.^ A human study with 32 patient volunteers (men and post
menopausal women) examined hormonal effects of systemic absorption of oxybenzone, 4-MBC
and octinoxate. The volunteers applied 2mg/cm^ of sunscreen with 10% active ingredients (one
sunscreen formulation for each of the active ingredients) over their entire body for four days.
Luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone remained unchanged; however, the male
patients had minor changes in other sex hormones including testosterone, estradiol and inhibin B.
3,4With such wide
4,5
It should be noted that 4-MBC is an approved
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
4
These ehanges were thought to be biologieally inconsequential.^ In humans, the rate of systemic
absorption of oxybenzone has been estimated as 1-2% with topical application
have reported it as high as 10%.'^ Oxybenzone has the highest percutaneous absorption and has
been identified in human urine, serum and breast milk^
reported toxic effects in humans since 1978 when it became commercially available,
mathematical modeling study estimated that it would take 35-277 years of daily usage for
humans to achieve the equivalent serum levels of oxybenzone seen in rat models.^
Effects on the environment have become a pressing topic. UV filters have been identified
in water sources worldwide^’*^'^’ with oxybenzone noted as the most frequently detected in the
largest concentrations.^^ Organic filters enter the environment through different mechanisms.
They are absorbed percutaneously and excreted in the urine, which enters the plumbing. Only ~
4% of the applied dose was excreted in the urine^'^ leaving the majority of the filter on the skin to
be washed off in natural water sources or in the shower - all of which enter the water supply.^’'^
Manufacturing and waste run-off produced from factories also places organic filters into the
water supply.^’'* In fact, one study found higher concentrations of oxybenzone in the water supply
in metropolitan areas with both commercial and industrial water run-off compared to recreational
water sites.^ Organic filters are prevalent in waste from manufacturing facilities particularly
those for sunscreens and cosmetics. With growing awareness of the importance of
photoprotection and increasing usage of sunscreens, it’s no surprise that these filters have been
identified broadly in our water sources. This review article will examine the prevalence of UV
filters in water as well as their proposed environmental impacts. To conclude, we will propose
potential solutions and alternatives.
5,8-14
though others
,4,6,15-18.; however, there have not been any
5,11A
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
5
Water Sources106
Waste water treatment plants (WWTP) are critical in the water recycling process. Water
utilized by humans passes through these facilities for treatment before re-entering rivers and
streams. WWTPs worldwide have been tested for UV filters in their influent (incoming water
sources) and effluent (water that has been treated). In Brazil, oxybenzone, ethylhexyl salicylate,
octinoxate and octocrylcnc were identified in raw and treated watcr.^^ Oxybenzone, 4-MBC,
octinoxate and octocrylene were all found in WWTPs in Switzerland^^ with oxybenzone
concentrations of 69g per 10,000 people per day.^^ Studies performed in Korea, China, U.S.,
Japan and Thailand yielded similar results.
WWTPs have difficulty treating organic filters due to their innate chemical properties.
WWTPs were designed to treat particulates in the water. UV filters, however, have low water
29
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
solubility, high lipophilicity, and a high organic carbon-water coefficient, which makes it
challenging for WWTPs to remove them.^® It has been shown that oxybenzone was not
21,26
sufficiently removed by the treatment process allowing it to re
117
118
effluent.
-enter the water supply as the119
120
The concentrations of organic filters in different water sources has seasonal variations,
22,29,31
In a study done in Korea
121
, an increase of UV
filters in the WWTP effluent of over 25% during the summer was reported.This suggests the
impact of human behavior on water concentrations both due to recreational activities and the
with higher concentrations in the summer.122
123
124
likely increased manufacturing to meet the increased demand. Furthcnnorc, concentrations of
filters in the water were higher in densely populous areas.3,19
Interestingly, UV filters have bee
125
n
identified in the Arctic, which suggests that water currents arc dispersing the filters beyond their
initial deposition. This has potential significant implications for the environment.^
126
127
128
Aside from natural water sources, UV fillers have been identified in chlorinated water129
such as swimming pools. Organic filters can react with chlorine to create hazardous by-products
3,32,33
called brominated transformation products A study examined chlorinated salt water pools
130
.
for the presence of dioxybenzone, oxybenzone, avobenzone, octinoxate and octocrylene; the only
UV filter studied that did not react with chlorine was octocrylene.” Chlorinated oxybenzone
leads to a higher rate of cell death when studied in vitro compared to unchlorinatcd controls.
The ultimate human health impact of chlorinated byproducts will require more studies.
32
131
132
133
134
135
136
6
Coral Reefs137
Coral reefs are a critical component of our environment supporting as many as one
million species of fish, invertebrates and algae. Coral belong to the Cnidaria family, which are
soft bodied animals that engage in symbiosis with algae (Zooxanthellae). Zooxanthellae live on
coral. Their photosynthesis gives coral energy and the algae itself provides the coral’s vibrant
colors.^"* As coral grows, it forms branching structures culminating in reefs. When coral reefs
face oxidative stress from warming ocean temperatures and/or pollutants, they expel algae from
their surface turning the coral white (also known as “bleaching”). This process often leads to the
coral’s demise.34
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
Coral reefs are endangered with wamings/watches imposed by oceanic societies
worldwide. Reasons for their endangerment are multifactorial. Arguably, the most important
factor is warming ocean temperatures; however, additional factors include pollutants and
decreasing ocean salinity.^^ Specifically, oxybenzone has been named a threat to coral reefs
worldwide. It has been estimated that as many as 14,000 tons of sunscreen, some containing as
much as 10% oxybenzone, is released into coral reef areas annually,
snorkeling/diving sites occur on 10% of the world’s reefs,which puts approximately 10% of
global reefs and up to 40% of coastal reefs at risk for coral bleaching.
Because coral reefs are so diverse, species will be affected differently by organic filters.
Juvenile coral (also known as coral larva) is very susceptible to pollutants as are newly settled
coral.In contrast, coral that grows more slowly is more resistant as these species have lower
bioaccumulation rates.
Researchers utilized Chlamyodomonas reinhardtii (a species of green algae) as a model
to study the effects of oxybenzone. In vitro, C. reinhardtii was exposed to varying levels of
oxybenzone with the lowest concentrations akin to those encountered in the environment (0.01-
0.1 parts per billion (ppb)) up to as high as 5,000 ppb. The higher concentrations of oxybenzone
resulted in decreased chlorophyll content and overall growth - though it is notable that these
concentrations were higher than currently measured environmental levels.^^ In Okinawa, Japan,
oxybenzone levels are elevated at sites of public swimming beaches (0.4-3.8 parts per trillion
(ppt)); these levels continue to remain elevated up to 600m away, demonstrating the role of
diffusion and ocean currents in dispersal of chemicals. Concentrations at reefs were higher than
beaches or rivers.
34,36
Ninety percent of
34
36
31
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
7
Danovaro et al. propose a mechanism for coral reef bleaching where UV filters activate
coral viruses, which culminates in oxidative stress, expulsion of symbiotic algae and thus coral
In vitro, at concentrations of 33-50 parts per million (ppm), oxybenzonc induces
The measured lethal concentration 50 (LC50) for seven
Concentrations of oxybenzone in
the ocean surrounding US Virgin and Hawaiian islands ranged from 75-1400 ppb and 0.8-19.2
respectively. In Chile and Colombia, oxybenzonc was elevated in sediment from nearby
coral reefs, with levels up to 2.96 ppb in Chile and 5.38 ppb in Columbia. In Colombia,
octinoxate levels reached 47 ppb and 4-MBC, 17.2 ppb. Clearly, these values are in the low to
zero toxicity ranges for coral bleaching.
3,34,38
bleaching,
coral reef bleaching and death,
different species of coral cells in vitro ranges from 8-340ppb.
3,38
36
3,36
ppb,
39
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178
179
8
Food Chain180
UV filters have been studied in fish and mammals. In rats, 4-MBC interferes with sexual
behavior and reproductive practices,
and liver.^® In rainbow trout and Japanese medaka, laboratory studies demonstrated that exposure
18,29
In zebrafish, octocrylene alters development in brain
181
182
183
to high concentrations of oxybenzone led to decreased egg production with significantly fewer
hatchings as well as induction of vitellogenin protein in males (a precursor of the egg yolk found
only in females).'^'^ The presence of vitellogenin in male fish suggests possible feminization,
which has obvious implications for reproduction.
In Switzerland, white fish, roach and perch found in Swiss lakes had low but detectable
In Norway, cod liver contained UV filters.
40
22
amounts of UV filters, mostly 4-MBC.
184
185
186
187
188
Octocrylene was the most commonly identified filter (found in 80% of specimens) with
oxybenzone being the next most common (50%).^^ White fish also contained oxybenzone and
In Spain, similar UV filters were identified in white fish, rainbow trout, barb, chub.28octinoxate.
189
190
191
perch and mussels.
192
3,20193
The concentrations present in fish were low; however, one must consider the concepts of
bioaccumulation and biomagnification. Bioaccumulation describes the phenomenon where
chemicals reach higher concentrations in organisms over time compared to their environment.
Brausch and Rand examined bioaccumulation and found that oxybenzone levels were higher in
Biomagnification refers to the concept that chemicals become morefish compared to water.^’^^
194
195
196
197
concentrated and detrimental as one moves higher up the food chain. Chemicals are not removed
198
199
or broken down by lower organisms; thus, when an animal ingests these lower order organisms,
they obtain a higher concentration of the chemical. This suggests a possible negative implication
for humans who ingest seafood, although at this time no clear adverse effects in humans have
been reported.41
200
201
202
203
204
205
9
Solutions206
Given the growing concerns regarding UV filters present in the environment, the public
and agencies have been searching for solutions. Legislation has been proposed to ban chemicals
On May 1, 2018, the Hawaiian state legislature passed a
bill that bans the sale and distribution of sunscreens containing oxybenzone and octinoxate. At
the time of this writing, the bill is awaiting the signature of Governor David Y. Ige.'^^ If the bill is
signed or proceeds without a veto, the law will go into effect in 2021. Additional states have
considered similar legislation.
Several aquatic parks have published literature to educate the public regarding the risk of
organic filters for the marine environment. Xelha in Mexico advises tourists to travel with
chemical-free sunscreen” when visiting their park*’*’; and, the US National Park Service
published an educational pamphlet stating “Remember if it’s on your skin, it’s on the reef. Be
reef friendly! Reduce the amount of sunscreen you leave behind...
joined the cause by showing, during the flight, a documentary about reef bleaching and
distributing reef-safe sunscreen {containing only inorganic filters).
Photoprotection should include seeking shades when outdoors, wearing photoprotective
clothing including swim-wear, wide brimmed hats and sunglasses; only on exposed areas should
sunscreens be applied. Practicing photoprotection with the above guidelines, and applying
sunscreens with inorganic filters (titanium dioxide, zinc oxide) are an alternative means of
protecting oneself from UV radiation.
Aside from limiting continued leaching of UV filters into the environment, means of
optimizing their removal from the water supply have been explored. Studies have been done with
Cyperus alternifolius L, a common wetland plant that absorbs oxybenzone into its root system
and accumulates the chemical in its tissues. The plant ultimately converts oxybenzone to
chemical conjugates with lower toxicity. This mechanism was evaluated as a means of possibly
removing oxybenzone from the environment, with the caveat that these plants would need to be
extracted before they undergo natural decay.
3,42
that have impacted our food supply.
m34 Hawaiian Airlines has
45
46
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
10
Conclusion235
With the known effects of UV radiation on erythema, photoaging, and skin cancer
development, photoprotection is paramount. However, we must also take into account the impact
of our efforts on the environment. UV filters have been identified in many water sources; they
arc extremely difficult to remove using traditional WWTP practices. With continued use of
organic filters, one can surmise that concentrations in our water sources will continue to rise. The
effect on coral reefs is clearly multifactorial; however, at increasing concentrations UV filters
may play a more instrumental role in bleaching. Furthermore, increasing ocean concentrations
will accentuate bioaccumulation and biomagnification, ultimately raising potentially negative
consequences in humans. Fortunately, the current detected levels in the environment have been
in the lower toxicity ranges for the species of coral studied in vitro, and there have been no
identifiable toxic effects on humans.
It seems clear that with this growing body of evidence of the negative impacts of organic
UV filters in our environment that we should actively explore alternative forms of
photoprotection and novel water filtration methods. The effects of inorganic filters on the
environment is still being studied but, at this time, physical blockers are recommend as
photoprotection alternatives. The concern about the environmental impact of organic UV filters
should not detract from educating the public on the importance of photoprotection, namely, to
seek shade, wear photoprotective clothing and swim-wear when outdoors, and applying
appropriate sunscreens on sun exposed areas. This would allow us to protect our skin from the
deleterious effects of sunlight, and at the same time, protect our environment.
236
237
238
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
11
References257
CDC. Skin Cancer Statistics. 2017; https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/skin/statistics/index.htm.
Accessed 03/25/2018.
258 1.
259
American Academy of Dermatology A. Skin Cancer.
https://www.aad.org/media/stats/conditions/skin-cancer. Accessed 03/25/2018.
260 2.
261
3. DiNardo JC, Downs CA. Dermatological and environmental toxicological impact of the
sunscreen ingredient oxybcnzone/bcnzophcnone-3. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2018; 17( 1): 15-
262
263
19.264
Calafat AM, Wong LY, Yc X, Rcidy JA, Needham LL. Concentrations of the sunscreen
agent benzophenonc-3 in residents of the United States: National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey 2003-2004. Environ Health Perspect. 2008;116(7):893-897.
265 4.
266
267
Wang SQ, Burnett ME, Lim HW. Safety of oxybenzone: putting numbers into
perspective. Arch Dermatol. 201 l;l47(7):865-866.
268 5.
269
Kim S, Choi K. Occurrences, toxicities, and ecological risks of benzophenone-3, a
common component of organic sunscreen products: a mini-review. Environ Int.
2014;70:143-157.
270 6.
271
272
Schlumpf M, Cotton B, Conscience M, Haller V, Stcinmann B, Lichtenstciger W. In vitro
and in vivo cstrogcnicity of UV screens. Environ Health Perspect. 2001;109(3):239-244.
7.273
274
Janjua NR, Kongshoj B, Andersson AM, Wulf HC. Sunscreens in human plasma and
urine after repeated whole-body topical application. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol.
2008;22(4):456-461.
275
276
277
Hayden CG, Roberts MS, Benson HA. Systemic absorption of sunscreen after topical
application. Lancet. I997;350(9081):863-864.
278 9.
279
Sarveiya V, Risk S, Benson HA. Liquid chromatographic assay for common sunscreen
agents: application to in vivo assessment of skin penetration and systemic absorption in
human volunteers. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2004;803(2):225-
231.
280 10.
281
282
283
Janjua NR, Mogensen B, Andersson AM, et al. Systemic absorption of the sunscreens
bcnzophenonc-3, octyl-methoxycinnamate, and 3-(4-mcthyl-bcnzylidenc) camphor after
whole-body topical application and reproductive hormone levels in humans. J Invest
Dermatol. 2004;I23(l):57-6l.
284 11.
285
286
287
12
Gustavsson Gonzalez H, Farbrot A, Larko O. Percutaneous absorption of benzophenone-
3, a common component of topical sunscreens. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2002;27(8):69I-694.
288 12.
289
Jiang R, Roberts MS, Collins DM, Benson HA. Absorption of sunscreens across human
skin: an evaluation of commercial products for children and adults. Br J Clin Pharmacol.
1999;48(4):635-637.
290 13.
291
292
Gonzalez H, Farbrot A, Larko O, Wennberg AM. Percutaneous absorption of the
sunscreen benzophenone-3 after repeated whole-body applications, with and without
ultraviolet irradiation. Br J Dermatol. 2006;154(2):337-340.
293 14.
294
295
Meeker JD, Cantonwine DE, Rivera-Gonzalez LO, et al. Distribution, variability, and
predictors of urinary concentrations of phenols and parabens among pregnant women in
Puerto Rico. Environ Sci Technol. 2013;47{7):3439-3447.
296 15.
297
298
Lassen TH, Frederiksen H, Jensen TK, et al. Temporal variability in urinary excretion of
bisphenol A and seven other phenols in spot, morning, and 24-h urine samples. Environ
Res. 2013;126:164-170.
299 16.
300
301
Fourth National Report on Human Exposure
to Environmental Chemicals. 2017; https://
www.cdc.gov/biomonitoring/pdf/Benzophenone-3_FactSheet.pdf. Accessed 03/25/2018.
17.302
303
304
Faass O, Schlumpf M, Reolon S, et al. Female sexual behavior, estrous cycle and gene
expression in sexually dimorphic brain regions after pre- and postnatal exposure to
endocrine active UV filters. Neurotoxicology. 2009;30(2):249-260.
18.305
306
307
Tsui MM, Leung HW, Wai TC, et al. Occurrence, distribution and ecological risk
assessment of multiple classes of UV filters in surface waters from different countries.
Water Res. 2014;67:55-65.
308 19.
309
310
Gago-Ferrero P, Diaz-Cruz MS, Barcelo D. An overview of UV-absorbing compounds
(organic UV filters) in aquatic biota. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2012;404(9):2597-2610.
311 20.
312
Ramos S, Homem V, Alves A, Santos L. A review of organic UV-filters in wastewater
treatment plants. Environ Int. 2016;86:24-44.
313 21.
314
Balmer ME, Buser HR, Muller MD, Poiger T. Occurrence of some organic UV filters in
wastewater, in surface waters, and in fish from Swiss Lakes. Environ Sci Technol.
2005;39(4):953-962.
22.315
316
317
Cuderman P, Heath E. Determination of UV filters and antimicrobial agents in
environmental water samples. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2007;387(4):1343-1350.
318 23.
319
13
Loraine GA, Pettigrove ME. Seasonal variations in concentrations of pharmaceuticals
and personal care products in drinking water and reclaimed wastewater in southern
CzL\\iom\?L. Environ Sci Technol. 2006;40(3);687-695.
320 24.
321
322
323 25. Stackelberg PE, Furlong ET, Meyer MT, Zaugg SD, Henderson AK, Reissman DB.
Persistence of pharmaceutical compounds and other organic wastewater contaminants in
a conventional drinking-water-treatment plant. Sci Total Environ. 2004;329(l-3):99-l 13.
324
325
da Silva CP, Emidio ES, de March! MR. The occurrence of UV filters in natural and
drinking water in Sao Paulo State (Brazil). Environ Sci Pollut Res Int.
2015;22(24):19706-19715.
326 26.
327
328
Brausch JM, Rand GM. A review of personal care products in the aquatic environment:
environmental concentrations and toxicity. Chemosphere. 2011;82(11):1518-1532.
329 27.
330
331 28. Langford KH, Reid MJ, Fjeld E, Oxnevad S, Thomas KV. Environmental occurrence and
risk of organic UV filters and stabilizers in multiple matrices in Norway. Environ Int.
2015;80:1-7.
332
333
Ekpeghere KI, Kim UJ, O SH, Kim HY, Oh JE. Distribution and seasonal occurrence of
UV filters in rivers and wastewater treatment plants in Korea. Sci Total Environ.
2016;542(Pt A):121-128.
334 29.
335
336
337 30. Bluthgcn N, Mcili N, Chew G, Odermatt A, Fent K. Accumulation and effects of the UV-
filter octocrylene in adult and embryonic zebrafish (Danio rerio). Sci Total Environ.
2014;476-477:207-217.
338
339
Tashiro Y, Kamcda Y. Concentration of organic sun-blocking agents in seawater of
beaches and coral reefs of Okinawa Island, Japan. Mar Pollut Bull. 2013;77(l-2):333-
340.
340 31.
341
342
343 32. Sherwood VF, Kennedy S, Zhang H, Purser GH, Sheaff RJ. Altered UV absorbance and
cytotoxicity of chlorinated sunscreen agents. Cutan Ocul Toxicol. 2012;31(4):273-279.344
Manasfi T, Coulomb B, Ravier S, Boudenne JL. Degradation of Organic UV filters in
Chlorinated Seawater Swimming Pools: Transformation Pathways and Bromoform
Formation. Technol. 2017;51(23):13580-13591.
345 33.
346
347
Service NP. Protect Yourself, Protect the Reef! In: Interior UDot, ed2012.348 34.
Authority AGGBRMP. About the reef 2017; http://www.gbrmpa.gov.au/about-the-
reef'reef-health. Accessed 03/25/2018.
349 35.
350
14
Downs CA, Kramarsky-Winter E, Segal R, et al. Toxicopathological Effects of the
Sunscreen UV Filter, Oxybenzone (Bcnzophenone-3), on Coral Planulac and Cultured
Primary Cells and Its Environmental Contamination in Hawaii and the U.S. Virgin
\s\dx\ds. Arch Environ Contam Toxicol. 2016;70(2):265-288.
351 36.
352
353
354
Mao F, He Y, Kushmaro A, Gin KY. Effects of bcnzophenone-3 on the green alga
Chlamydomonas rcinhardtii and the cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa. Aquat
Toxicol. 2017;193:1-8.
355 37.
356
357
Danovaro R, Bongiomi L, Corinaldcsi C, et al. Sunscreens cause coral bleaching by
promoting viral infections. Environ Health Perspect. 2008;116{4):441-447.
358 38.
359
Baron E, Gago-Ferrero P, Gorga M, et al. Occurrence of hydrophobic organic pollutants
(BFRs and UV-filters) in sediments from South America. Chemosphere. 2013;92(3):309-
316.
360 39.
361
362
Coronado M, De Haro H, Deng X, Rempel MA, Lavado R, Schlenk D. Estrogenic
activity and reproductive effects of the UV-filter oxybenzone (2-hydroxy-4-
mcthoxyphcnyl-mcthanonc) in fish. Aquat Toxicol. 2008;90(3): 182-187.
363 40.
364
365
Biomagnification in Ocean Food Webs: Plastic Pollution. Monterey Bay Aquarium;
2017.
366 41.
367
114-114 PL. Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015. 114"^ Congress - December 28, 2015.
https://www.congress.gOv/l I4/plaws/publl 14/PLAW-l 14publl 14.pdf.
368 42.
369
370
Memorandum: Flawaii sunscreen ban actions [press release]. Dcs Plaines, Illinois:
American Academy of Dennatology, Association, 05/24/2018 2018.
371 43.
372
Xclha. http://www.xclha.com. Accessed 03/25/2018.373 44.
Jones J. That sunscreen that protects you? It harms Hawaii’s corals. Now one airline is
doing something about that. Los Angeles Times. April 11, 2018, 2018.
374 45.
375
Chen F, Huber C, Schroder P. Fate of the sunscreen compound oxybenzone in Cyperus
altemifolius based hydroponic culture: Uptake, biotransformation and phytotoxicity.
Chemosphere. 2017;182:638-646.
376 46.
377
378
379
Key Points
Several organic UV filters such as oxybenzone, octocrylene, octinoxatc and 4-
methylbenzylidenecamphor have been identified in water sources and in aquatic animals.
Oxybenzone, in laboratory settings, has been implicated as a possible contributor to coral
reef bleaching.
These concerns have prompted the Hawaii state legislature to pass a bill, in May 2018,
banning sunscreens containing oxybenzone and octinoxatc, effective in 2021.
It is important for dermatologists and health care providers to continue to encourage
photoprotectivc measures, which include seeking shade, wearing photoprotcctivc clothing
and sunglasses, and on exposed skin, applying appropriate sunscreens.
RECEIVED
^ersonal Care Products CouQ 18 AH 8: 36Committe
Quality & Innovation
Si y-
●ji-FiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
November 18, 2021
Via Electronic Mail
The Honorable Alice Lee
Chair, Maui County Council
200 South High Street, 8th Floor
Wailuku, HI 96793
Email: Alice.Lee@mauicountv.us
RE: Opposition to Proposed Legislation Banning Non-Mineral Sunscreens
Dear Chair Lee:
On behalf of the members of the Personal Care Products Council (PCPC),^ I am writing to express our
opposition to Bill 135, legislation to prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens.
This bill will lead to a serious public health issue by banning essential, safe and effective sunscreen
products that Hawaiians currently trust and rely on, particularly since the U.S. has a limited number of
approved ingredients to make these products.
The U.S. has Limited Number of Sunscreen Ingredients to Fight Skin Cancer
Sunscreens are a key factor in preventing and reducing the risk of skin cancer and damage from the
sun's ultraviolet (UV) rays. Public health organizations, including the American Cancer Society, American
Academy of Dermatology, the Mayo Clinic and the Skin Cancer Foundation, recommend using sunscreen
as part of a safe sun regimen. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Sun Safety
recommendations note the importance of daily sunscreen use, including on cloudy and overcast days, to
help prevent most skin cancers. And, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), four out of five
skin cancer cases can be prevented by following safe sun practices, including using sunscreen regularly.
Sunscreen ingredients must be approved for use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and
are a crucial and well-recognized tool in the fight against skin cancer and premature skin aging. The U.S.
has a limited number of approved sunscreen ingredients to make products that protect consumers from
the harmful effects of solar radiation. By banning all non-mineral sunscreens, the County will be able to
provide residents and visitors with access to products containing only two of the available active
ingredients. This will significantly reduce and limit consumer choice and could result in a shortage of
available products.
’ Founded in 1894. the Personal Care Products Council (PCPC) Is the voice and advocate for 600 member companies representing the $499.6 billion global cosmetics
and personal care products industry. PCPCs members represent approximately 90% of the U.S. beauty industry and are some of the most beloved and
trusted brands in beauty and personal care today. As the manufacturers, distributers and suppliers of  adiverse range of products millions of consumers rely on
every day-from sunscreens, toothpaste and shampoo to moisturizer, makeup and fragrance-PCPCs member companies are global leaders committed to product
safety, quality and Innovation.
1620 L Street NW, Ste. 1200 | Washington, DC 20036 | (202) 331-1770 | www.personalcarecouncil.org
Page 2 of 3
Hawai'i Residents at Higher Risk for Skin Cancer
With Hawai'i's previous ban on some sunscreen active ingredients, the Maui County legislation would
further limit access to products that can help prevent skin cancer - one of the most common yet
preventable cancers. Hawai'i residents are at high risk for developing skin cancer. The American Cancer
Society estimates that melanoma, the most serious form of skin cancer, will be one of the leading causes
of new cancer cases in Hawai'i in 2021. Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders sufferfrom double
the melanoma mortality rate than the State average, according to Hawai'i Health Matters, an innovative
web-based community information tool developed by the Hawai'i Health Data Warehouse and the
Hawai'i Department of Health. Hawai'i has one of the highest daily UV index averages in the nation,
making protecting residents from sun exposure a public health priority.
Legality of Proposed Ordinance in Question
Prior to adoption, PCPC and our member companies believe it is important to assess the legality of the
proposed ordinance, especially regarding jurisdictional authority, federal preemption, and commerce
clause implications. As a threshold matter, there is the question of whether the County has the authority
to regulate consumer behavior allegedly impacting offshore environmental resources. Such authority
would seem to be exclusively within the purview of Hawai'i's Department of Land and Natural
Resources/Division of Aquatic Resources, as set forth under the State's comprehensive and uniform
scheme of statutory regulation for this area of law.
Likewise, there is the question of whether the ordinances are preempted by the federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act, which prohibit states and localities from establishing any provision for nonprescription
drugs that is different from or in addition to federal requirements. The purpose of such preemption is to
provide "national uniformity" with respect to product manufacturing and composition, labeling, and
advertising for nonprescription drugs. Similarly, since most sunscreens are imported into Hawai'i from
out of state, potential commerce clause ramifications with Maui County's proposed ordinances need to
be investigated. Coupled with the logistical difficulty of enforcing the bans proposed by these
ordinances, we believe these legal concerns merit  adetailed examination before this committee can
proceed with adoption.
Environmental Impact of Sunscreens is being Evaluated by the National Academies of Science,
Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM)
This ordinance does not consider the full body of scientific evidence to establish whether organic and
inorganic UV filters pose an ecological threat to Hawaiian reef systems. This includes considerations
such as the suitability and reliability of existing data to assess environmental risks in addition to the well-
recognized causes of coral reef decline in Hawai'i and the rest of the world, including climate change,
land-based pollution, and other human activities, such as physical damage to corals from recreational
activities.^
^ Mitchelmore, C. L, Bufns, E. E., Conway, A., Heyes, A., & Davies, I. A. (2021). A critical review organic ultraviolet filter exposure, hazard, and risk to corals.
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, 40(4), 967-988. https://doi.org/10.1002/etc.4948. See also Burns, E.E. & Davies, I.A. (2021). Coral Ecotoxicological Data
Evaluation for the Environmental Safety Assessment of Ultraviolet Filters. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. DOI: 10.1002/etc.5229. See also Dyer, S.O. &
Green, N.5. (2021). Use of Eco-epidemiology to Assess the Potential Risks of UV Filters to Corals. Presentation to National Academies of Science, Engineering and
Medicine, 16 September 2021. https://www.nationalacademies.org/event/09-16-2021/docs/D88S731178D238F91436SFE2D192B964EC6S04FE7A7B.
Page 3 of 3
Policy decisions that will adversely impact public health should not be made ahead of a scientific
consensus on this issue. To reduce bias and to synthesize the best available science, the United States
Congress directed the NASEM to evaluate the presence and potential impacts of organic and inorganic
UV filters in freshwater and marine environments, as well as the potential public health impact of
limiting access to sunscreens. The findings of the review, which is sponsored by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, are expected in early 2022. Making environmental management decisions on
sunscreens based on current insufficient and, in some cases, unreliable scientific data may lead to
unintended negative health consequences, such as fewer available sunscreens and an increase in the
prevalence of skin cancer while providing limited, if any, environmental improvement. PCPC encourages
that industry, academia, NGOs, federal agencies and the state of Hawai'i work together to ensure that
both the reef ecosystems and the health of Hawai'i's residents are protected.
By passing this local ordinance, the Maui County Council will create confusion and potentially discourage
the use of sunscreens - an important part of a daily safe-sun regimen - putting consumers' health at
greater risk. We respectfully ask that you oppose Bill 135.
Thank you for your consideration and the opportunity to comment.
Sincerely,
Karin Ross
Executive Vice President, Government Affairs
Cc:
Keani.Rawlins(g)mauicountv.us. Council Vice-Chair
Tasha.Kama@mauicountv.us. Presiding Officer Pro Tempore
Gabe.Johnson@mauicountv.us. Councilmember
Kelly.King@mauicountv.us. Councilmember
Mike.Molina@mauicountv.us, Councilmember
Tamara.Paltin@mauicountv.us. Councilmember
Shane.$inenci@mauicountv.us. Councilmember
Yukilei.Sugimura(a>mauicountv.us. Councilmember
countv.clerk@mauicountv.us. Office of the County Clerk
RECEIVED
m\ NOV 18 AH 8: 30
Public access to Sunscreens CrnCE Or THE(-'O! iMTV r'l cr.n'
TO: Maui County Council
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins, Vice Chair
FROM: Lynn Miyahira on behalf of Public Access to SunScreens (PASS) Coalition
DATE: Friday, November 19, 2021
TIME: 9:00 AM
PLACE: Via videoconference
Re: Bill 135 to prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens
Position: OPPOSED
Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony on this important bill. We appreciate the
work of the Maui County Council.
The Public Access to SunScreens (PASS) Coalition is a multi-stakeholder coalition composed of
public health groups, dermatologists, sunscreen manufacturers, and leading advocates for skin
cancer patients. The PASS Coalition opposes this measure as it will create additional barriers for
consumers to access their choice of safe, effective and FDA-approved sunscreens as a skin
cancer prevention tool.
We ask that the Maui County Council hold off on passing Bill 135 or any other legislation on
sunscreen ingredients, until more data on environmental and public health impacts are
available.
The use of sunscreen is an important evidence-based sun-safe practice. It is well known that
utilizing comprehensive sun-safe practices is one of the most effective ways to reduce the risk
of skin cancer, including the regular use of sunscreen, wearing sun protective clothing, hats and
sunglasses, and seeking shade. Skin cancer prevention tools, such as broad-spectrum
sunscreens that protect against both UVA and UVB rays, must be combined with
comprehensive educational tools to ensure consumer awareness of the risks of skin cancer due
to excessive sun exposure.
Hawaii Residents Are at Higher Risk for Skin Cancer
Some notable skin cancer and sun safety behavioral statistics include:
1
Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders suffer from double the melanoma mortality
rate than the State average'
In 2018, more than one in three Hawaii residents surveyed reported having a sunburn in
the last 12 months, nearly double from the previous year'' - and having just five or
more sunburns in your lifetime is known to double your risk for melanoma'"
Researchers have found that just one blistering sunburn in childhood or adolescence
more than doubles a person's chance of developing melanoma later in life'''
Hawaii has one of the highest daily UV index averages in the nation/ On a scale of 0 -
12, Hawaii has over nine months of the year in very-high (8) to extremely high (11) UV
indexes, making it crucial public health issue for residents to have access multiple tools
to protect them from sun exposure
Science Touted by Sunscreen Ban Advocates Is Flawed
Despite the known risk of skin cancer, Hawaii and  ahandful of other jurisdictions have placed
restrictions on the sale of sunscreens based on limited laboratory testing that led policymakers to
believe banning sunscreen would improve coral reef health. The early studies, however, did not fully
consider the complexity of a coral reef system and had scientific limitations. Importantly, findings from
a 2019 study by Dr. Carys Mitchelmore of the University of Maryland contradicts an earlier study by Dr.
Craig Downs that has been widely promoted by advocates of the sunscreen ban. Dr. Mitchelmore's
study uses rigorous methodology and shows actual levels of oxybenzone sampled from sea water in
Hawaii to be 141 times lower than previously stated by Dr. Downs, and 1,020 times below levels
considered toxic to coral.''*
The limited studies that purported to show a link between sunscreen exposure and coral toxicity are
methodologically flawed and should not be used for evidence-based policy making based on EPA data
reliability standards. Subsequent follow-up studies with more rigorous analyses have not replicated the
work by Dr. Downs, and do not support the conclusions.
Congress Has Directed the National Academy of Sciences to Conduct a Comprehensive Study
For that reason, banning sunscreen will have little impact on protecting coral reef. The
overwhelming consensus amongst the scientific community is that coral decline is primarily
caused by rising ocean temperature, ocean acidification, invasive species, land-based source
pollution, water quality issues due to poor wastewater management and other causes. As a
result, the United States Congress directed the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to evaluate
the latest science available on the correlation between coral reefs and sunscreens and the
potential public health impact of limiting access to sunscreen.
This NAS study, titled "Environmental Impact of Currently Marketed Sunscreens and Potential
Human Impact of Changes in Sunscreen Usage." will conduct an objective review of these issues
by leading scientific experts. The project description is as follows:
2
Concerns have been raised about the potential toxicity of sunscreens to a variety of
marine and fresh\A/ater aquatic organisms, particularly corals. At the same time, there
are concerns that people will use less sunscreen rather than substituting sunscreens
with UV filters that are considered environmentally safe. This study will review the
state of science on use of currently marketed sunscreen ingredients, their fate and
effects in aquatic environments, and the potential public health implications
associated with changes in sunscreen usage.''vii
This study, sponsored by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, will examine research
concerning both the environmental and human health impacts of access to sunscreen. This
independent study will evaluate the scientific merit of current science and identify gaps in our
current understanding of coral reef environmental health and human health risks of skin
cancer. All NAS studies involve multiple strategies to reduce bias and to synthesize the best
available science.
NAS Study Should be Completed Before the Council Makes Further Decisions on Consumer
Sunscreen Choice
The conclusion of this NAS study - expected in Spring 2022 - will inform future decisions of
policymakers to ensure access to sunscreens while also protecting the coral reefs. Until this
study is completed, legislation like Bill 135 should be suspended as there are currently
insufficient data to inform a risk/benefit analysis between protecting the marine environment
and protecting the public's health. It is important that the Council wait for unbiased scientific
analysis and consensus.
FDA Advises Continued Use of Currently Marketed Sunscreens
In addition to the lack of peer-reviewed evidence on the environmental impact of sunscreens,
the impact on human health is also still being researched. On September 24, 2021, the Food
and Drug Administration (FDA), which regulates sunscreens as over-the-counter (OTC) drugs for
the prevention of sunburn and skin cancer, issued  afinal order^'" that concluded that, "In the
short term, these new authorities essentially preserve status quo marketing conditions for
these sunscreens" and that "most sunscreens on the market are in compliance with the
deemed final order." To be clear, the FDA's final order did NOT recommend any changes to
currently marketed sunscreens.
Earlier this year, the FDA also posted an article titled, "Shedding More Light on Sunscreen
Absorption'^" that explained that while the FDA was seeking more information on the
absorption levels of sunscreen ingredients, including avobenzone, oxybenzone, octocrylene,
homosalate, octisalate, and octinoxate, it still advises their continued use. The FDA clearly
stated, "Absorption does NOT equal risk - the FDA advises continued use of sunscreens" and
noted that:
3
"The findings in these studies do not mean that the FDA has concluded that any of the
ingredients tested are unsafe for use in sunscreens, nor does the FDA seeking further
information Indicate such. The agency's proposed rule requested additional safety
studies to fill in the current data gaps for these ingredients. The rule also proposed that
two active ingredients {zinc oxide and titanium dioxide) are generally recognized as
safe and effective for use in sunscreens, and additional data was not requested for
them.
Given the recognized public health benefits of sunscreen use, the FDA strongly advises
all Americans to continue to use sunscreens in conjunction with other sun protective
measures (such as protective clothing) as this important rulemaking effort moves
forward."’'
The Hawaii state law signed in July 2018 already eliminated the over-the-counter sale of the
ingredients oxybenzone and octinoxate. Bill 135 would expand this ban to include all non-mineral
sunscreens which and could potentially remove approximately 64% of the sunscreens currently
available in the United States from being sold in Maui.
On average, currently marketed mineral sunscreens can cost up to 30% more than other
sunscreens and this proposed bill could significantly reduce consumer choice of and access to
sunscreen in Hawaii. It is important to remember that sunscreen is not only used in the ocean,
but whenever people are outdoors doing activities such as hiking, golfing, walking, running,
cycling or working outside. This puts Hawaii residents at greater risk for skin cancer with only
limited peer-reviewed scientific evidence on sunscreen ingredients and its impact on
environmental and human health.
Again, we ask that the Council hold off on passing Bill 135, or any other bill on sunscreen
ingredients, until more data on environmental and public health impacts are available.
If the CounciTs Intention is to pass this bill now, may we ask the Council consider an
extension of the effective date so doctors, healthcare providers and pharmacies can figure
out how they will handle sunscreen prescriptions. There are many unanswered questions and
no precedence on how sunscreen prescriptions would be implemented. Ensuring access to
sunscreens is a public health imperative - especially for skin cancer survivors who have a
higher risk of developing further skin cancers.
If you have any questions about the PASS Coalition or the content of this testimony, please feel
free to contact me at imivahira@iQ360inc.com.
Mahalo you for the opportunity to testify.
Sincerely,
Lynn Miyahira
Public Access to SunScreens (PASS) Coalition
4
hltn:/Avww-havvaiihcaUhma»crs.or£/indicalois/indcx/vicu?indicatorkt=2389&locale[d=l4&localeChanldNS=l%7C2%7C4
hKp://\\-\v\\.hawaiihealthmatlers.ori>/indicators/index/vie\v?indicatorld=3029&localeld=l4
htlDs://\v\vw.skincancer.org/skin-canc<.‘r-information/skin-cancer-tacls/
]uips://'\\A\'\v.skincancer.org/skin-canccr-information/skin-canccr-facts/
^ httDs://\v\vw.cDa.gov7sunsafetv/su»-safclv-momhlv-average-uv-index
hltns://\vw\v.scicncedircct.coin/sciencc/arliclc/nii/S00489697l93l0125?via%3Dihub
hltps://wvv\v.na(ionalacademics.org/our-\vork/cnvironmental-imnact-or-currcntlv-marketed-sunscreens-and-Doienlial-human-
imnacts-or-changcs-in-sunscrcen-usage
httr>s //uA\-\v acassdma fda gov/5;cnpls'cd<.‘r''omuf'index cfm?event=NcwMonoi’rai'ih&ll')=l')lD673977F06B1486C355A8l62942E5B9CC273
4An65[-:45X5rHi')C()13rDn5B03F3&OMUFID=O1(~0()()006
hltDs://\v\v\v-fda.gov/ne\vs-events/fda-voices/shcdding-more-iighl-simscrecn-ahsomlion
hrtDs://w\\'\v.rdn.go\7ne\vs-cvents/fda-voiccs/shedding-morc-light-siinscfcen-ahsorniion
m
VI
VII
vm
IX
Addendum A; We would also like to submit this sample list of sunscreens which will fall under the ban. While not an exhaustive list, it does
show how many of the commonly used sunscreens will be taken off the market.
5
Addendum A
Sample List of Sunscreens that would fall under Maul Sunscreen Ban ● November 2021
Bill 135(2021) - TO PROHIBIT THE SALE, i;SE.OR DISTRIBUTION OF NON-MINERAL SUNSCREENS
Imps //niauicc.unlv.loBiilar.cum/LeeiilaiiurOvUil a!rM^IOrS216131&GL1ID= 1-S03^ 9r36-AAA3w-~F0F.'>.^C
Only zinc oxide and titanium dioxide would be allowable sunscreen Ingredients.
Active Pharmacutical Ingredientjs)SPFBrand Name Type Description
Avobenzone 3Si, Homosalate 10t4, Octocrylene lOS, Octyl Salicylate 5H
Avobenzone 3S, Homosalate ICW, Octocrylene IDS, Octyl Salicylate SSL
Avobenzone 3SL, Homosalate 15X. Octocrylene 8%. Octyl Salicylate SSL
Avobenzone 3SL. Homosalate ISK, Octocrylene 8K, Octyl Salicylate 5%
Avobenzone 3K, Homosalate 15K, Octocrylene 8%, Octyl Salicylate SSL
Avobenzone 3X, Homosalate 10%, Octocrylene 10%, Octyl Salicylate 5%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octocrylene 10%, Octyl Salicylate S%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octocrylene 10%, Octyl Salicylate S%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octocrylene 10%, Octyl Salicylate SSL
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octocrylene 10%, Octyl Salicylate S%
Avobertzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octocrylene 10%, Octyl Salicylate S%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 1S%, Octocrylene 8%, Octyl Salicylate S%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 7.5%, Octocrylene 7.5%, Octyl Salicylate 5%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octisalate SSL, Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%. Octisalate S%. Octocrylene 10%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 13.5%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 10%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 13.5%. Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 10%
Avobenzone 1.5%, Homosalate 5%, Octisalate 4%, Octocrylene 6%
Avobenzone 3%, Octinoxate 7.5%, Octisalate 2%
Avoberuone 2%, Homosalate 4%, Octisalate 4%, Octocrylene 2%
Octisalate 5%, Zinc Oxide 15%
Avobenzone 2.7%, Homosalate 6%, Octisalate 4.5%, Octocrylene 4.5%
Homosalate 9%, Octisalate 3%, Octocrylene 6%, Zinc Oxide 7.3%
Avobenzone 2,7%, Homosalate 6%, Octisalate 4.5%, Octocrylene 4.S%
Homosalate 9%, Octisalate 3%, Octocrylene 6%, Zinc Oxide 7.3%
Avobenzone 1.5%, Homosalate 5.0%, Octocrylene 3.5%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%. Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 6%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 9%, Octisalate4.5%, Octocrylene 6%
Homosalate 3.0%, Octocrylerve 1.0%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 2.75%
Avobenzone 1.75%, Homosalate S%, Octisalate 2%, Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 1.75%, Homosalate 2.25%, Octisalate 1.5%, Octocrylene 3.75%
Avobenzone 2.8%. Octisalate 4.9%, Octocrylene 7.6%
Avoberuone 3%, Octisalate 4%, Octocrylene 7%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate9%, Octisalate4,5%. Octocrylene 9%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 4.5%, Ociocrylerte 8%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 8%, Octisalate4.5%, Octocrylene 6%
Avobenzone 3.0%. Homosalate 10.0%, Octisalate 5.0%, Octocrylene 2.8%
Zinc Oxide 9.3%, Octinoxate 7.5%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 10%
Avobenzone 2.7%, Homosalate 9%, Octisalate 4%, Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 2%, Homosalate 3%. Octocrylene 4%
Avobenzone 2%. Homosalate5.5%, Octisalate 4.5%, Octocrylene 4%
Avobenzone 2%. Homosalate 7%. Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 7%.
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 15%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 7%
Avoberuone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 7%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 7%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 73%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 7.5%, Octisalate 5%. Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 7.5%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 7.5%, Octisalate 5%. Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 7.5%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 7.5%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 1.5%, Homosalate 5%, Octisalate 4%, Octocrylene 6%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 15%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 2.6%
Avobenzone 2.5%, Homosalate 8%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 8%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 10%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%. Octisalate 5%. Octocrylene 10%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 8%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 8%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 15%. Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 2.8%
Avobenzone 3%. Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 10%
Homosalate 5%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 5% and Zinc Oxide 9.7%
Avobenzone 2.3%, Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%. Octocrylene 5%
Avobenzone 2.5%, Homosalate 10.0%, Octisalate 5.0%, Octocrylene 10.0%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 12%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 10%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 3,75%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%. Octisalate - 5%, Octocrylene 10%
Avobenzone 3%, Homosalate 5%, Octisalate 3%, Octocrylene 10%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 10%
Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 10%, Zinc Oxide 7%
Homosalate 8%, Octisalate 4%. Avobenzone 3%, Octocrylene 2%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 7.5%
Avoberuone 3%, Homosalate 8%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene 4%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 8%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylene4%
Avoberuone 3%, Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 5%, Octocrylerte 7%
Avobenzone, Homosalate, Octisalate
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%. Octisalate 4.5%. Octocrylene 8%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 4.5%. Octocrylene 8%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 4.5%, Octocrylene 8%
Avobenzone 3%. Homosalate 10%, Octisalate 4.5%. Octocrylene 8%
Avobenzone 3% Homosalate 10% Octocrylei6%
Lotion
Lotion
Spray
Spray
Spray
Lotion
Fluid
Spray
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Spray
Lotion
Lotion
Spray
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Spray
Lotion
Spray
Lotion
Spray
Spray
Spray
Spray
Spray
BlackGirl Sunscreer Lotion
Coola
Coda
Coda
Coda
Coppertone
Coppertone
Cppertone
CVS Health
EltaMD
Good sense
HawailanTropic
HawallanTropIc
HawailanTropic
HawailanTropic
La Roche-Posay
La Roche-Posay
La Roche-Posay
La Roche-Posay
Max Block
Max Block
Max Block
Max Block
Max Block
Max Block
Neutrogena
Neutrogena
Neutrogena
Neutrogena
Neutrogena
Neutrogena
Neutrogena
Seaweed Bath Co
Shiseido
Shiseido
Shiseido
Solimo
Sun Bum
Sun Bum
Sun Bum
Sun Bum
Sun Bum
Supergoop!
SupergoopI
SupergoopI
Supergoop!
TopCare Everyday
Tula
Walgreens
Walgreens
Wa Igreens
Wa Igreens
up & up (Target)
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Alba Botanica
Australian Gold
Aveeno
Aveeno
Aveeno
Aveeno
Aveeno
Aveeno
Babyganics
Banana Boat
Banana Boat
Banana Boat
Banana Boat
Banana Boat
Banana Boat
Banana Boat
Banana Boat
Lotion
Lotion
Spray
Stick
Spray
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Spray
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Spray
Spray
Fluid
Lotion
Fluid
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Spray
Spray
Spray
Lotion
Spray
lotion
Lotion
Stick
Lotion
Spray
lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Serum
Lotion
Fluid
Fluid
Lotion
Get
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Lotion
Sunscreen Lotion, Sport, SPF 45, Fragrance Free
Hawaiian Sunscreen Green Tea SPF 45
Hawaiian Sunscreen Coconut SPF SO
Sensitive Sunscreen Fragrance Free SPF 50
Kids Sunscreen Clear Spray SPF 50
Sheer Shield Sunscreen Sweet Pea Sheer Lotion SPF 45
Facial Sheer Shield Fragrance Free SPF 45
Maximum Sunscreen Fragrance Free SPF 70
Sensitive Sheer Shield Fragrance Free SPF 45
Soothing Sunscreen Pure Lavender Lotion SPF 45
Kids Sunscreen Lotion SPF 45
Cod Sport Sunscreen Refreshing SPF SO
Hawaiian Sunscreen Aloe Vera SPF 30
Australian Gold Plant Based Lotion Sunscreen, Aloe & Coconut. SPF 50
Sunscreen Broad Spectrum Body Spray SPF 60
Protect & Hydrate Sunscreen Face Lotion - SPF 60
Aveeno Protect * Hydrate Body Sunscreen Lotion, SPF 60
Positively Radient Sheer Dally Moisturizer with Surucreen
Ultra Calming Daily Mdsturizing Lotion with Sunscreen
Absolutely Ageiss Daily Moisturizing Sunscreen
Kid's Sunscreen Continuous Spray - SPF SO
Ultra Sport Sunscreen Lotion
Sport Mineral Enriched Sunscreen Spray - SPF 50
Sport Ultra Lotion SFP 30
Baby Mineral SPF 50 Enriched Sunscreen Spray
Protective Dry Oil Gear Sunscreen Spray with Coconut Oil SPF 15
Kids Sport Sunscreen Lotion Spray SPF SO
Simply Protect Kids Sunscreen Spray SPF 50*
Ultra Mist Deep Tanning Dry Oil Continuous Clear Spray SPF 4
Moisturizing Sunscreen Lotion SPF 30
Organic Classic Free Sunscreen
Organic Oassic Body Sunscreen Lotion - SPF 30 - Tropical Coconut
Organic Classic Body Sunscreen Spray - SPF 30 ● Tropical Coconut
Organic Oassic Sunscreen Face 8c Body Stick - SPF 30 -Tropical Coconut
Whipped Sunscreen Lotlott Spray SPF SO
Coppertone Sport SPF SO Sunscreen Lotion
Coppertone Defend & Care SPF 50 011 Free Face Lotion
Ultra Sheer Lotion Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 45
UV Aero Broad-Spectrum Fiil-Body Sunscreen Spray, SPF 45
Sunscreen Lotion SPF 30
Antioxidant Plus Lotion Sunscreen
Sheer Touch Ultra Radiance Lotion Sunscreen - SPF 30
Hawallen Tropic Silk Hydration Weightless Spray Sunscreen 6 Oz, 30 SPF. 30
Islarsd Sport Sunscreen Spray, Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Anthelios Light Fluid Face Sunscreen SPF 60
Anthellos dear SUn Dry Touch Sunscreen SPF 60
Anthelios Sunscreen. Ultra-Light Fluid Face Sunscreen, Oxybenzone-Free - 60
Anthellos Surtscreen, Melt In Milk Lotion Face and Body Sunscreen - SPF S 60
Sunscreen Lotion 4 FI Oz Broad Spectrum Water Resistant SPF 30
Sport Sunscreen Lotion Water Resistance Blue 30 SPF
Sunscreen Lotion 4 FI Oz Broad Spectrum Water Resistant SPF 30
Sunscreen Lotion 4 FI Oz Broad Spectrum Water Resistant SPF 30
Sport Sunscreen Lotion Water Resistance Blue 30 SPF
Sport Sunscreen Lotion Water Resistance Blue 30 SPF
Neutrogena Invisible Dally Defense Sunscreen Lotion
Ultra Sheer Lotion Broad Spectrum Surtscreen SPF 45
Gear Face Liquid Sunscreen Lotion
Invisible Daily Defense Sunscreen Face Mist - SPF SO
Invisible Daily Defense Body Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 60*
Ultra Sheer Body Mist Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Spray
Hydro Boost Water Gel Lotion
Gear Guard SPF 40 Sport Sunscreen
Urban Environment Oil-Free UV Protector Sur\$creen SPF 42
Ultimate Sun Protector Lotion 50*
Gear Sunscreen Stick SPF 50+
Sheer Face Sunscreen Lotion SPF 55 (8423791S2474 UPC Description)
Original Sunscreen Spray
Original 'Face 50' SPF SO Sunscreen Lotion
Sunscreen Lotion SPF 30
SPF SO lotion
Oxy Free Zinc Oxide Sunscreen Lotion - SPF SO
Oty Sunscreen Serum SPF 30
PLAY Everyday Lotion SPF SO with Sunflower Extract
Unseen Sunscreen SPF 40
Unseen Sunscreen SPF 40 Limited Edition Jumbo
Ultimate Sheer Sun Lotion Sunscreen SPF 5S
Protect + Glow Dally Sunscreen Gel Broad Spectrum SPF 30
Sport Lotion Sunscreen SPF SO
Broad Spectrum Sport SPF 50 Sunscreen
Sunscreen Sport SPF SO
Sunscreen Sport SPF 50
Sport Sunscreen Lotion
45
45
SO
50
50
4S
45
70
4S
4S
45
SO
30
50
60
60
60
30
IS
30
50
30
so
30
so
is
so
so
40
30
40
30
30
30
SO
so
50
45
45
30
so
30
30
60
60
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
4S
30
so
60
30
30
40
42
so
SO
55
30
50
30
SO
so
30
so
40
40
55
30
so
50
50
so
so
+
+
6
Count^£leiJ<
From:
Sent:
Kelli Xmission <kelli@xmission.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 3:20 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for Bill 135 (2021) for Maui County Council Meeting_-Noy..jL9th^3ft^^p.
evening: For/Approve BilM35 COUNTY C^LERK
20ZI NOV 18 PH 3; 59To:
Subject: n to
IYou don't often get email from kelli@xmission.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Sirs and Madams,
My name is Kelli Lundgren. I have been a volunteer at Ahihi-Kina'u Natural Area Reserve since 2014. In the past five
years, since scientific data first offered evidence that endocrine inhibitors used in many sunscreens stifle coral growth
and interrupt fish reproductivity in even the smallest exposures, 1 have been educating visitors on how they can help
present damage to the reef.
Here is what I have learned bv helping educate sometimes up to 150 people a dav:
1. Almost every person or family I speak to wants to help protect Hawaii's reefs. It's a positive conversation.
2. Reef visitors pull out their "reef safe" sunscreen tube/spray to say that they are helping. And indeed, sometimes they
are using safe sunblock (zinc oxide or titanium dioxide). We all smile. But, many times I have to reply: of course you want
to help the reef by buying "reef safe," but this spray is not reef safe. It's a marketing term only. The FDA does not have a
definition for "reef safe". It can be used in any instance on any product. And it is used vigorously by most sunscreen
manufacturers. Visitors become concerned, mostly because they want to do the right thing.
3. As you know, "Oxybenzone" and "Octinoxate" have officially been banned in Hawaii. Still, ten or more other
endocrine inhibitors proven dangerous to reefs by scientific evidence (chemicals such as Avobenzone, Homosalate,
Octocrylene, etc.), are being used widely in sprays and lotions. It's a catch-up game for science to get these chemicals off
the Hawaiian islands and anywhere close to any of the world's reefs.
4. In the meantime, Hawaii's reefs are stressed from sometimes 2000 people a day heading into one reef: Ahihi-Kina'u,
Kapalua, Honolua, Maluaka, Olowalu. One teaspoon of any of these chemicals can toxify six Olympic sized swimming
pools of ocean. At Ahihi, we have 600 to 800 people a day heading into one of the most beautiful reefs on this planet.
You can imagine the toxicity. Animal life gets hurt.
5. Toxic sunscreen chemicals will even damage reefs from hotel rooms, homes, and use anywhere on island. I have to
tell visitors it matters not just when you go into the ocean or sit on a beach. To help, don't use it at all on Island. It gets
into the wastewater system and enters the ocean.
6. The visitor experience wading through retail shelves for the right sunscreen is absolutely confusing. They are willing to
go back into a store to do the right thing. They have to look past "reef safe." They have to read six point small print
under active ingredients. They have to find the 20% of actually safe products by using research skills. It's hard when it's
not your expertise.
Here's the positive news if chemical sunscreens were banned from the perspective of a visitor:
Any visitor could walk into any store on island and feel good that what is available on the shelf is safe for the reef. Most
visitors want this. That's why they have been buying the misguided reef safe labeled sunscreens. Now they could rest
assured they are buying mineral sunblock.
1
Here*s the positive news for sunscreen/sunblock manufacturers:
Almost all sunscreen manufacturers also produce and sell mineral-only sunblocks. Instead of selling 80% chemicals and
20% minerals, they now sell 100% minerals in Maui County. Only their product mix changes. Not their revenue.
Here's the positive news for Hawaii's reef life:
The reefs will heal, and can focus on protecting themselves from other stresses.
I cannot express enough how much visitors appreciate the concept of only mineral sunblock availability on Maui. It
makes a vacationer's job easier while they are trying to do the right thing. I hear this over and over when talking to
people.
It's change, but also a win/win for all.
Best Regards,
Kelli Lundgren
Ahihi-Kina'u Natural Area Reserve Volunteer
2
MERMTIOML LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNIONLOCAL OFFICE ● 451 ATKINSON DRIVE ● HONOLULU, HAVIMII 96814 ● PHONE 949*4161
HAWAII DIVISiON: 100 W»tLsnii;oi;lo Slrtel, Hilo, Hawoli 96720 ● OAHU DIVISION: '151 Atkinson Drive, Honolulu, Hawoii 96814
MAUI COUNTY DIVISION: 896 InvorMoinStreet, Woiluku, Howoli 96793 ● KAUAI DIVISION: 4154 HordyStieol, Uhue, Howoli 96766
HAWAII LONGSHORE DIVISION: 451 Atkinson Drive, Honolulu, Howoii 96814LOCAL 142
o 73C ■'■1November 17, 2021 C mI o-sC
— OH OMaui County Council
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8'^ Floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
ni CO
O -a
r-
mm -I
7^: m aox=
STATEMENT OF THE ILWU LOCAL 142 ON COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-130
Friday, November 19,2021; 9:00 a.m
Dear Maui County Council:
The International Longshore & Warehouse Union, Local 142 {"ILWU Local 142") opposes the proposed
bill endorsed by CR 21-130 in its current form. The bill as written, will negatively impact our members.
Specifically, our union would like to see the following changes made to the bill:
1. We object to the use of both "lodging capacity" and "structural footprint" language in Section
19.98.040 and suggest replacing it with "transient accommodation units" so union jobs relating
to redeveloping properties or expanding restaurants, lobbies, grounds and other projects that
do not increase the number of units can still proceed.
2. We request clarification that the moratorium ends upon the passage of the first piece of
legislation that adopts any recommendation of the temporary investigative group. The current
language in Section 19.98.050 of the bill uses "implementation" of "recommendations." This is
vague and subject to different interpretation. The trigger to end the moratorium must be clear.
Limiting redevelopment that does not increase the number of units Is not consistent with the stated
purpose of the moratorium. It is contrary to the Countywide Policy Plan, inconsistent with the general
plan and is vague. The bill needs to allow for renovation and redevelopment that do not increase the
number of units.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony.
Sincerely,
ILWU Local 142
Maui Division
V/
Roberto Andrion Jr.
Maui Division DirectorRA:jkn
' 'AN INJURY TO ONE IS AN INJURY TO ALL' ●  -
received
ZOZI NOV 18 PH 7: 02
November 18, 2021
Members of the Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8'”^ Floor
200 South High street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
OFFICE OF THE
'■'OUNTY CLERK
Aloha Maui County Council,
I would like to fully support Maui Bill 135. This bill will be critical in conserving Maui’s coral
reefs which are already beleaguered from stresses such as climate change and runoff. Removing
the stress of sunscreen pollution can increase the resiliency of Maui’s coral reefs to these global
and local stressors, and may be the necessary step to allow the reefs to begin recovering.
Everyone saw how clear the water was, and how the fish and corals returned during the COVID
lockdown of 2020. This tabula rasa event is a demonstration of what Maui’s water could be
without the sheen of sunscreen pollution.
I am specifically testifying against adversarial comments and arguments that have been directed
at Maui Bill 135 from some members of the sunscreen industry, including the American
Academy of Dermatology Association (AADA).
1. The AADA claims that mineral filters are “less effective filters.” This is blatantly false
information. Zinc Oxide is a superior UVA filter, and absorbs in the entire UVA
wavelength spectrum, while avobenzone absorbance precipitously drops offs before and
after 357 nm. ZnO has a level absorption across the entire UVA spectrum. Furthermore,
avobenzone is extremely unstable, especially during application, and readily degrades,
leaving the user susceptible to sunscreen abuse (thinking they are protected, but they are
not being protected). A good scientific source that rebuffs the AADA statement is:
https://onlinclibrarv.vvilev.eom/doi/full/10.l 111/phpp.12439
Even a major sunscreen trade journal advocates for ZnO sunscreen formulations (written
by BASF, a major supplier of mineral and petrochemical UV filters).
hUps://www.happi.com/issucs/2020-06-01/vicw_features/bcst-practi ces-for-rormulating-
sunscreen-with-zno/
2. Avobenzone requires OCTOCRYLENE as a product stabilizer. Octocrylene has been
proven to breakdown into BENZOPHENONE (in the sunscreen bottle), a known
carcinogen, endocrine disruptor, and Monsanto-patented herbicide. Octocrylene causes
developmental toxicity in fish, metabolic toxicity in coral, and could potentially cause
bleaching in coral (it is a patented herbicide that could attack the coral’s algal symbiont).
Lawsuits have been filed in the state of California under Proposition 65 that all
octocrylene products need to be labeled as containing a substance that is a recognized
carcinogen and reproductive toxicant.
3. In June 2021, the European Commission’s Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety
provided an opinion on HOMOSALATE as being so toxic to humans that it must not be
used above a concentration of 0.5% in sunscreens. Currently, in the U.S., homosalate is
being used at 15% - 30x over what is considered safe. You can access their full report
here:
1 I P a g e
https://ec.curopa.eu/health/sitcs/dcfault/filcs/scientific committees/consumer safcty/docs
/sees o 244.pdf
4. Petrochemical sunscreens have a history of failing to protect against skin cancer. This can
happen for a number of reasons - faulty formulation, sunscreen abuse, over reliance of
UVB filters and not enough UVA protection. A recent scientific paper called out these
factors of why sunscreens, and especially petrochemical sunscreen formulation, can fail
to protect against skin cancer.
Failure to Protect:
Do Sunscreens Prevent Skin Cancer?
Petrochemical Sunscreens:
r Does not adequately absorb
acfojithfi entire UY specttujTL
Vulnerability to UV-induced
k genotoxicity and oxidative damage." i
r  ^ mutplKiKe— ^
proffaHt'^ rvTt JMriii'd<>ni)ni'iiiiy
duimg et^mirc t"
instead
of at the end the accelerated-stability
Incubation, missing potential problems
^^hat can decrease UVpiBmaon.
rPoor product formulations can result i
In formula Instability, decreasing
UV protection and giving rise to
carcinogens:
● Octocrylenedegradesmto
carcinogen, benzophenone
● Octinoxate reacts with avobenzone,
resulting In UV protection fallure^^J
''^WFMLURi
TO
PROTECT
Ltheskin intothehfaiari J
sUn unpeoXfictedTromU^wyc. 1
N Applying $PF (especially SPF 50 ^
and above) increas^ ifUentional
?xjJi>5.ufe,!s.the sun increasing the
risk of skin cancer; this Is known as
■ sunscreen abuse." ^
Lab or pilot-batch samples are tested
for SPF efficacy, and
as
the time of purchase or use.
SKIN CANCER
Open Access for this paper at
https://www.omicsonline.ora/open-access/failure~to~protect-
do-sunscreens-prevent-skin-cancer-in-humans.pdf
But we have known this danger regarding sunscreens and failing to protect since at least
2008, when popular science articles were written on the topic:
https://www.livescicncc.com/2663-sunscreens-l'ail-protect.html
5. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control specifically state that to reduce the risk of cancer, a
person should:
Stay in the shade.
Wear clothing that covers your arms and legs.
Wear a hat with a wide brim to shade your face, head, ears, and neck.
Wear sunglasses that wrap around and block both UVA and UVB rays.
Use a broad spectrum sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of 15 or higher.
2 I P a g e
https://wwvv.cdc.gov/canccr/skin/basic inib/prevcntion.htm
Notice Bulleted Point #5. This is the last recommendation by the CDC to reduce the risk of
skin cancer. Also note that it does not make the distinction between mineral sunscreen and
petrochemical sunscreen. It just says, “use a broad spectrum” sunscreen, and a combination
of Zn0/Ti02 using a non-acidic formula provides exactly a “broad spectrum protection.59
6. It should also be noted that melanoma rates are on the rise. If sunscreen protected against
melanoma, and more people are being encouraged to use sunscreen, why don’t we see levels
decrease? You can’t say more people are outside now that back in the 1920s, because prior to
the 1970s, most of the population worked outside, and not indoors. Melanoma rates and
sunscreen usage rates see increasing and parallel tracking. The obvious hypothesis to put
forth is whether sunscreen use is causing an increase in the rates of melanoma because of the
many reasons why sunscreens fail to protect.
7. Several physician groups claim that they have the patient and public welfare in the best
interest, but that has not always been the case. In 1939, the first scientific paper was
published by Ochsner and DeBakey showed that smoking could be the dominant cause of
lung pathologies and lung cancer. It took 25 years before the U.S. Surgeon General issued a
report recognizing this causal link. During that time, many physicians fully endorsed tobacco
smoking as safe. So much so that there were cigarette advertisements in medical journals up
until 1964, when the Surgeon General admitted this terrible travesty.
And spelling of global warming, we warned to shore a ooupte of
pages in wt«ch The Lemdot%n mes to cost doubt on The cancer cau&r>g
properties of cagorettcs. Reading the article, we’d venture to say that the
debate was at about the same place os that over global warmrig today
Here’s a choice lr>e from the piece: ‘Airpoftubon by gssofrt& ve/vcfes and
industnai gaacec are a more /dcefy cauce of hjng cartcer.* Here's
smommgWON’T
MU TOO'.
●m’4 ^ »>
ylccurt/ina fa ti tfCfM/Xafio/ttvit/c s/mtT'-
Mori- Doctors smoki- CAiViEi.s
THAN ANY on IER cigaretit:
I
I):. lORSi «rn of - i I C$97
qtminl m thoo neJi
U ntired* ftHfereme c«erm^
a- VlilliiiiiK (>r
S|>riiil liilliiHi" Of lliirk*
Trviitg Ti» Civr I |» TTm'
IHrl\ Wii'ili-Hiil \r»*
Hi-ullv roiTin
Y«e'‘l.W'WillT»IIYeB...
mU* llw Mii.r, rn. cm ..I tkr
■«»—MW tigmllf MMi^, llortor.'
k Uil<vm aaJ cW pWrnm /
TV kaW mmV aa..a ●●i IWC
Ik
I *●> tMiC .. ■
TWTIirMl...
e*MVrrt al
tImo
«oi|irw If ^ « ,
waiuaa.
—  II) Caimb
Camels another one; ’Biaming kmg canoar on cigaettas may aciua/ty be ra<arding
research etfo die real causes of the cNsease * And what the heck, here's
one more: ‘Smokirig shows no staitobcal Me to  rates of stiff birth.
abortxm and bath comfibcabeno.' So there you have it—corvdusive proof.
The alarmists were wrong then or>d they’re wrortg now
C/dt/irr 7f>/>arc(Kt : i
Whether from professional ignorance on the topic, or because the Tobacco Industry paid
doctors to support their product and advocate for their safety, the medical field and its
associations can and have championed “wrong” positions. Cigarettes were once “physician
tested and approved.
https://www.healio.eom/news/hcmatologv-oncolos2v/20120325/ciaarcttes-werc-oncc-phvsician-
tested-approved
https://med.stanford.edu/news/all-ncws/20i2/01/big-tobacco-led-throat-doctors-to-blow-
smoke.html
59
https://www.historv.com/news/cigarcttc-ads-doctors-smoking-cndorsement
Like smoking, sunscreen pollution is a situation where the science and educated legislators
are out in front of the issue. It may take time for the medical profession to catch up, but the
preponderance of the science in the public literature is that petrochemical sunscreens as they are
currently formulated in the U.S. may pose both a public health and environmental threat.
With second-hand cigarette smoke, you can still be afflicted with smoking diseases. And like
cigarette smoke, sunscreen pollution by petrochemical sunscreen filters may pose a health risk to
pregnant persons, children, and cancer patients. There are a number of individuals and families
who are concerned about getting into sunscreen polluted waters. Two U.S. FDA studies showed
that oxybenzone, avobenzone, octocrylene, and octinoxate are readily absorbed through the skin,
and some UV filters, like oxybenzone, can persist in a person’s blood stream for more than 2
weeks at concentrations above the FDA safety action level.
hUps://iamanctwork.com/ioiirnals/iama/fLillarliclc/2759002
hUps://iamanet\vork.com/iourtials/iama/fullarticlc/2733085
Many individuals, especially pregnant
persons in their first trimester, DO NOT want
to be exposed to any of these petrochemical
sunscreen chemicals, especially homosalate
and oxybenzone. Oxybenzone may cause a
birth defect called Hirschsprung’s Disease.
Should these swimmers have to tolerate
second-hand smoke” of sunscreen pollution?
Oxybenzone has been shown, at least in vitro,
to cause cancer cells to proliferate. Should
cancer patients with a MER2-type cancers be
exposed to estrogenic endocrine disruptors
that readily absorb through their skin?
That is the primary existential problem
with pollution, whether it is cigarette smoke,
pesticides in our food, or sunscreen pollution
- should we tolerate pollution? Some of these
doctors and professional associations can be
construed to basically telling society that we
should endure this unwanted contamination
so they can continue to profit without
responsibility or accountability.
Pregnancy
exposure (o
Oxybenzone
14Oxybenzone
Sunscreen and
Hirschsprung's
Disease in
Newborns
l|\))
Normal:
Cujing c>e*r:^ta:
dfvelcpment
0»vl:cmoiK-
inhimts n.Hve
trill I'OT
tr.'vriiiig ;o tf'S
3iita paito'ihe -
la-go co'on and
forrr ng nofi-i.
●r CvM> dnU
<re«lK«Avtvvutl(
OxylMnsenc caposure:
centers AbMd<«of
rt«twOffc
incflkin
2 Normal
largalnToiUn* Ntrve,
Hirschsprung’s Disease
/i
i colon
'r^
^  qonqlioncHh
Shninkon
mtumSymptoms;
AOdO’TirvM
Aoorpxia
Anemu
& cooctipjt oo
Roquiros lurgicaT correction
4 I P a g e
8. Many professional associations and product-protection lobby firms have made a statement
such as:
“The FDA’s conclusion from recent studies on sunscreen ingredient absorption “supports the
need for further studies to determine the clinical significance of these findings.” FDA further
stated that “these findings do not indicate that individuals should refrain from the use of
sunscreen.”
This is technically correct, but egregiously misconstrued.
(A) The U.S. FDA is acting incorrectly. According to the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act of 1938, regulated drugs need to be proved to be SAFE and EFFECTIVE
before commercialization is permitted. Sunscreens are drugs. The FDA is acting
incorrectly by allowing petrochemical sunscreens to be used in Over-the-Counter
sunscreen drugs. The proper protocol is for FDA to prohibit the sale of any sunscreen that
is not Category I, Generally Recognized as Safe and Effective (GRASE). Not following
this protocol puts the general public in danger. The FDA proved that petrochemical
sunscreens (at least four of them) are readily absorbed into the skin and contaminates the
whole body. We know breast milk can be highly contaminated by oxybenzone (the first
public study was published in 1992 by the Germans). There are a number of studies
demonstrating that oxybenzone and other petrochemicals can cause cancer cell
proliferation, can cause cancer (National Toxicology Program), are mutagenic and cause
other forms of genotoxic and chromosomal damage. There are a number of studies
showing oxybenzone as an estrogenic endocrine disruptor, octinoxate as a thyroid
endocrine disruptor, and octocrylene/benzophenone as an endocrine disruptor.
Basically, what the FDA is supposed to legally do is stop the selling of all Category
3-GRASE sunscreen products, and demand industry provide the safety and efficacy data
so that an assessment can be done.
Flow this statement by the FDA should be correctly interpreted is that industry MUST
provide additional studies, because there is no proof of whether these chemicals are safe
or effective. Industry has been non-compliant for over 40 years. We don’t know if
sunscreen causes melanoma (or prevents skin cancer), but industry NEEDS to produce
this data so that we (the public) and the FDA can make that decision.
(B) “these findings do not indicate that individuals should refrain from the use of sunscreen.”
What this sentence does NOT say is that you should continue to use Category 3-GRASE
sunscreen products (all the petrochemical UV filters). It just says “... the use of
This “use sunscreen” statement SHOULD be interpreted as using Category 1-sunscreen.
GRASE sunscreen products, zinc oxide and titanium dioxide. Should you really interpret
this as the FDA recommending the public to use an untested, unproven SAFE and
unproven EFFECTIVE sunscreen formulation/product?
9. Professional associations, medical doctors, and product-protection firms have been making
this statement to legislatures since 2017:
“Sunscreen ingredients have been in use for almost 50 years without any reported
systemic adverse side effects.”
5 I Page
This is blatantly a false statement. Systemic, adverse side effects regarding petrochemical
sunscreens have been documented in the medical and scientific literature for the past 20 years. In
fact, the American Contact Dermatitis Society made four of the Category 3-GRASE
petrochemical UV filters - oxybenzone, benzophenone, dioxybenzone, sulisobenzone - the 2014
Contact Allergen of the Year.
https://wvvw.mdedgc.eom/dermatolotiv/article/80980/psoriasis/bcnzophcnoncs-namcd-2014-
contact-allergen-vear
Oxybenzone, since 2012, was associated with endometriosis by independent science groups:
https://pubs.acs.oru/doi/abs/10.1021 /cs204415a
https://www.scicnccdirect.coiTi/scicnce/article/abs/Dii/SOO 13935120312391
https://www.scicnccdircct.com/scicnce/article/abs/pi i/SOO 15028216613894
Both oxybenzone and its primary metabolite, benzophenone-1, have been known to cause
cancer cell proliferation (of a number of different types of cancer) for more than a decade:
https://link.sprinHcr.com/article/10.1007/s 10565-016-9368-3
https://ioiirnals.plos.orH/plosonc/articlc?id=lQ. I371/iournal.ponc.0060567
hllps://www.scicnccdircct.coin/scicncc/articlc/pii/S 1382668915000095
https://wwvv.tandlbnlinc.eom/doi/abs/l 0.1080/15287394,2015.1010464
https://w\vw.scicnccdirect.com/scicncc/article/abs/pii/S0300483X 13000085
https://www.scienccdirect.eom/scicnce/article/abs/nii/S0006295209010624
10. Testimony from product-protection associations and firms will try to manufacture doubt
regarding the dozens upon dozens of scientific papers that show that many of these
petrochemical UV filters pose a danger to ecological systems, including coral reefs. These
testimonies usually only cite a single published paper for their arguments:
Mitchelmore CS, Burns, EE, Conway A, Heyes A, Davies lA. A critical review of organic
ultraviolet filter exposure, hazard, and risk to corals. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2020 (00);00:1-
21.
It is highly probable for an objective and rational scientist to extensively critique the
arguments and statements of this paper, demonstrating the invalidity of many of their premises,
as well as the fallaciousness of their arguments’ conclusions. And I would be more than happy to
do that with a County Council member. But I would put forth the argument that whether
intended or not by the authors, the consequence of this paper is the Manufacturing of Doubt
about the veracity and validity of the scientific papers they attack - a tactic used by the product-
protection industry for the past 100 years, as it was used in the wars regarding tobacco, leaded
gas, glyphosate, talcum powder, polyfiuoroalkyl substances, climate change, etc.. To learn more
of this tactic, please enjoy reading the following sources:
https://www.scicncedircct.eom/sciencc/article/abs/pii/S0095069617303273
https://www.deHruytcr.eom/document/doi/10.1515/reveh-2019-0004/htinl
6 I P a g e
https://papcrs.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm7abstract id=3097156
https://\v\v\v.nevvscientist.com/article/mg20627606-200-living-in-denial-how-
corporations-manufacture-doubt/
This paper by Mitcheimore et al. was wholly funded and written directly or through financial
associations by persons in the product-protection industry - the Personal Care Product Council.
The sole purpose of the Personal Care Product Council is to assert and protect the interests of
their clients - those being many of the corporate members that manufacture and sell Category 3-
GRASE sunscreen products. This begs the question of the motivation and intent of both
referencing this paper in testimony, as well as the motivation to have published this paper.
Independent scientists, conservationists, as well as the tourism industry applauds your
audaciousness and integrity in trying to manage the potential adverse effects associated with
sunscreen pollution through Maui Bill 135.
Furthermore, whether the sunscreen industry admits this or not, your initiative and resolve
will make the sunscreen industry better. The U.S. Sunscreen Industry can be perceived as a
“fossilized dinosaur”; its formulations with its “8 UV filter ingredients” have not changed in the
past 60 years. They have not looked for safer or more ecologically sustainable ingredients or
formulations. Maui Bill 135 will breathe new air into the industry by forcing them to innovate
and re-examine their values. Passing this bill will place a demand on industry to pursue
ecological sustainability for their products. Twenty years from now, because of the council’s
resolution, society may have a dozen new UV filter ingredients that are safer for people and coral
reefs.
Sincerely,
Craig Downs, PhD.
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Aina i ka Pono
7 I P a g e
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Ellen B. McKinley
Friday, November 19, 2021 11:39 AM
County Clerk
FW: Mineral sunscreens are only Safe and EFFECTIVE (GRASE) (Bill 135)
To:
Subject:
From: cadowns@haereticus-lab.org <cadowns@haereticus-lab.org>
Sent: Friday, November 19, 2021 11:26 AM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicountv.us>: Ellen B. McKinley <EHen.Mckinlev@mauicountv.us>: 'Bagshaw,
Jeff W <ieff.w.bagshaw@hawaii.gov>
Subject: Mineral sunscreens are only Safe and EFFECTIVE (GRASE)
Only mineral sunscreens are GRASE:
This is stated of the U.S. FDA website as of November 16, 2021
● Active ingredients: The deemed final order considers sunscreens containing i6 sunscreen active
ingredients to be GRASE, consistent with the 1999 stayed (not in effect) sunscreen monograph. Based
on new data and changed conditions since issuance of the 1999 monograph, the proposed order
proposes GRASE status for sunscreens containing zinc oxide and titanium dioxide; not GRASE status
for sunscreens containing aminobenzoic acid (PABA) and trolamine salicylate, because the evidence
shows that these sunscreens are not GRASE due to safety issues; and not GRASE status for sunscreens
containing cinoxate, dioxybenzone, ensulizole, homosalate, meradimate, octinoxate, octisalate,
octocr>Tene, padimate 0, sulisobenzone, oxybenzone, and avobenzone, because additional data is
needed to show that these sunscreens are GRASE.
https://www.fda.gov/drugs/understanding-over-counter-medicines/Questions-and-answers-fda-posts-deemed-final-
order-and-proposed-order-over-counter-sunscreen
Craig Downs, Ph.D.
Executive Director
Haereticus Environmental Laboratory
A scientific and education 501(c)(3) charitable, non-profit organization
P.O. Box 92, Clifford, Virginia 24533
www.haereticus-lab.org
Oqo-mc 'T!
20
73
mcr>
o-im ●o moo 3s»
r*
mm -H
XX O4=
1
Coimt^Clei^
From:
Sent:
Roberta Beatty <rsbeatty@yahoo.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 10:38 AM
County Clerk
Request for Amendment of Bill 133:19.65.030
Email confirmation from Ryan.jpeg
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
IYou don't often get email from rsbeatty@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
November 18, 2021
Request for amendment of Bill 133: 19.65.030 to include provision for the transfer of STVR permit from one
spouse to another in the event of divorce.
Testimony of Roberta Beatty
I am requesting an amendment to Bill 133:19.65.030 to include a provision for the transfer of an STVR permit
between spouses in the event of divorce. In April 2019, after three years of working with the County, I was
granted an STVR for my property in Hana. Unfortunately, my planner, Ryan Quigless, made an error and
issued the permit in my husband's name and not mine. In writing, I had instructed the plannerto put the
permit in my name, but he failed to do so. My husband and I are now getting a divorce, and I will be the sole
owner of our Hana property. I very much want to continue living in Hana and running the STVR business that I
started and have been managing since receiving my STVR permit.
Sincerely,
Roberta Beatty OCj
0-ii
^.O
73
mC3
o-Hm riCO-<
OO
mm
XX
X m
Q o
1
Picm (vvi4[jiiKcsOcojTuum.<2]
Tqt lAoaetjOsiana^oaai
l>»» McndosAcri2StS019.ar;33AHHSr
Wyti'vo^^ riiYYv^
MoMtd flctMAL WB da c\>n
HiranB CWfllesiASLA
Laxtxape Arcroctf
l-anJUwWjuw
Ocpartrart R^ivhiq
CaxtfitUaS
4'.^70ti4nr?^frf< SL’teOC
Wm2/0-/3/6
v» Ho(KVta Bcilty-ci&bwI^AfidBB Eivn. </SCQOt^ 717 PM
AtOhaf^wi.
Oc«! I (Man lag n«u (Ml lha n RVn«»n''IMivb S BMtV
Mta imiRgauitoHsB to cattt» Ksnes SI [££fd ndu^SRfiCJI^'PMik )Riu ao itusrC
UMO<
tk±mu
Ssnttami^PmM
Or Apr 24.2019. al 115S AM. Ryj»i 4iaiQji! ●O pair. t- »ja. mtObt:
htettdo.
O C'
0*ri\ 73CHysnR fttfllxt a.
UntbCBpe AnMcd
LandUuPUnw
OtsHSTtTnet oi Plannf^
CfutyoMu
SDQidairt .*
iBoai^n^rd/d
mCD
~Aa OI
rn CO iTl-<
Oo 35»
<*n
rnm -H
7jT.
t; m
>»ft3fceft3EiQeCh'i,-.-.. '
PlM» kaap £ any in 01/tk«sa»n;
Sort OoBi isr PTem
2> W4£>0I9 1033AM >»
aSZ
On Aer2< 2019.0C 1CL29 AM, Bpm OuiC^ _
lnccrcbiton;nMe<icaifin>ifiti«p((mtis.K9b«ttl;«thyootnd]rouritu! it«ir» raBre.arao>iM'«M«>i>apwnK«rainara!7)raepaoit«<arauB>i«tts puiEOK«an:«ocl3WTSticrUyia
yCRtCtiAatf s nitoB Kiycu laoa ii in BM aaoiiia^CR. PhM* caMna.
Uc«««o.
njw* 6-Ousfess. ASla
LerteBpe Acntfea
Land Um Flamer
IX^idtiitti t Of Plamng
Caartr^Meu
9os\y/0-nK
 > 4123/2019 eoe AM >»>:»> RcOarti Beatty<sza<c<£ai^Rjiw).
119S« not! ouMiM imMfl llBnK you. tnants yeuC
tMnfe.
OaiN^tH
SonttroraijqfWioog
>WICtlfc,On Apr 23,2019, 7ii7 AM. Ryon Oi/igtat!
fcttatjRntBrta'yourpqrnnascnjrgaociAnwsrMibasart io>&i<iftUawaLo tiaBl<.taafcoiBdaorfci6l'»ttaonaarOf'OQproatHienco<tgBp«ipg-doaC Tra'5 bttui.
CawAiryvdK.
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Cassandra Abdul <cassandra@nahaleomaui.org>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 2:14 PM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Gabe Johnson; Keani N. Rawlins; Kelly King; Mike J. Molina;
Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin; Tasha A. Kama; Yukilei Sugimura
Comprehensive Affordable Housing Plan
OEWS-2020_publication_Maui County.pdf; Long-term occupational projections
2016-2026 Maui MSA.pdf
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha Council Members,
We mentioned information during the recent Council meeting that Council Member Kama had previously provided
regarding occupation and income for Maui County.
We were able to locate the information, entitled "Long Term Occupational Projections, 2016-2026 for Maui MSA
(attached for your convenience and review.)
We checking the website and were able to find a more current report and provide the portion headed Occupational
Employment and Wage Data, May 2020 - Maui MSA (relevant portion attached for your convenience and review.)
We hope you will reconsider the AMI range that this information will impact in the Comprehensive Affordable Housing
Plan: Income Group Distribution for Residential Workforce Housing Units (AH-14(5)) by retaining the above-moderate
income group.
You are always welcome to call or email me with any questions or if we may be of further assistance.●'
O "n
c- Z]
Mahalo for your support of truly affordable workforce housing in perpetuity. 73
mCD
Cassandra J Leolani Abdul
Executive Director & Principal Broker
Na Hale 0 Maui
190 N. Church Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
Ph. 808.244.6110
Mobile 808.304.3533
To learn more about Na Hale 0 Maui and to make a donation please visit https://www.nahaleomaui.org
-im-<
oo
PI
OCO m
S <
mro
oro'vj
one'hame'ataytXme'.
Mission: To secure and preserve a permanent supply of affordable housing alternatives for low and moderate income
households in Maui County.
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The information in this message may be proprietary and/or confidential, and is intended only
forthe use of the individual(s) to whom this email is addressed. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby
notified that any use, dissemination, distribution or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you have
received this communication in error, please notify us immediately by replying to this email and deleting this email from
your computer. Nothing contained in this email or any attachment shall satisfy the requirements for contract formation
or constitute an electronic signature.
1
LONG-TERM OCCUPATIONAL PROJEaiONS, 2016-Z026, MAUI MSA
'T7' BIS Educational & Training Values J
^ E>tp|^-iQb;Tr3int^g j ^5^
$41,350
$83,330
$185,860
$88,480
$76,930
$75,400
$76,660
$83,320
$108,500
$87,430
$96,320
$107,360
Mediant
Education
I
Bachelor’s
Bachelor's
Bachelor’s
Bachelor's
5+ yrs.
5-*- yrs.
S+ yrs.
<5 yrs.
None
None
None
None
I
j
None5+ yrs.
Bachelor's <5 yrs. None
Bachelor's NoneS-*- yrs.
NoneS+ yrs.
HS/equiv. NoneS-f yrs-
»
Bachelor’s None5-fyrs.
Annual Average Openings
2016 2026 Number JPercentI Change !Transfers. Exits [ Total*
Employment - Change (2016-26)
-   » — - —  ' —-* --
:  soc 5,^ Occupation Title
f 5,760: 4,650 11,0207.3%:
5.2%
-4.0%
6106,13084,180 90,310
7,250 7,620
00-0000 Total, All Occupations
11-0000 Management Occupations
11-1011 iChief Executives
11-1021 General & Operations Managers
11-2021 Marketing Managers
11-2022 Sales Managers
Public Relations and Fundraising
Managers
11-2031
11-3011 Administrative Services Managers
280 61040 300370
10 2010>-10-10250 240
70 20 1009.6% 10110l,200j1,090 t
10<10 <1010 10.3%
30 5.8%i
<1060 60
t
30 10 50<10500- 530♦
<10! Bachelor’s<10 <1011.4%; <101050;40
10 20190! 108.8% i <1020170
Computer and Information Systems
Managers
11-3031 ! Financial Managers
Transportation, Storage, and
11-3021
11
<1040l <10 <104.9%j
19.0% I
10.0%;
<10<1040
20 i Bachelor's1010<1040220 2601
loi<1080 i <10 <101070-3071
_ Distribution Managers
11-3121 Human Resources Managers <10 <10<105.9%; <10<1050 50
[Farmers, Ranchers, and Other n/aHS/equiv. None5+ yrs.140 17040-3.4%! -10-802,3802,46011-9013
'Agricultural Managers
11-9021 'Construction Managers $146,300None Moderate OJT:Bachelor's10 201010.9%j <1030270 290
[Architectural and Engineering11-9041 !
; Managers
11-9051 ; Food Service Managers
11-9081 ! Lodging ManagersI
11-9111 {Medical & Health Services Managers
I
$118,700NoneBachelor's 5+ yrs.<10<10<107,3% <10<1040 40 I/
$79,170
$73,640
HS/equiv.
HS/equiv.
None
None
<5 yrs.
<5 yrs-
40:103030 8.4%
3.9%!
<10390360i 20:1010<10190 10180
$98,620NoneBachelor's <S yrs.2010 10250! 40.6%i70 10180
I Property, Real Estate, Community
lAssociation Managers
jsocial and Community Service
jManagers
11-9199 Managers, All Other
Business and Financial Operations
Occupation^
11-9141
11-9151
13-0000
Wholesale and Retail Buyers, Except
'Farm Products
I Purchasing Agents, Except Wholesale, j
iRetail, & Farm Products j
i
i
I
13-1041 1 Compliance Officers ;
13-1022
13-1023 !
i
$54,410HS/equiv. None7.9%i <5 yrs.50i20 301050670!620
$60,430Bachelor's None<5 yrs.<10 1023.1%!
10.4%!
. I
<10<1080 2070
1
$84,800<5 yrs. NoneBachelor's301010<1030340310 f
$58,550210120 6010.5%! 202,120 2001,920
I
n/aNone ■ Moderate OJT-Bachelor's10
!<10<10●2.0%! >-1050i >-1050
t
n/aNone Moderate OJT;Bachelor'slo;<10<10-3.5% >-10>-106060
$58,800None Moderate OJT!Bachelor's10<10 <1010 9.5% <109080
1
Source; Hawaii State Deportment of Lolnr and Industrial Relations, Research and Statistics Oifice. July 2019. www.hiwi.org
rrMV* >-*
gj w U)
N> NJ
o O M
KD >1 ui tn ui vi i/»
M >-»
6U) UJ fO M
o o o o o o
vi vn f«J u> «/l ^ U>
s
Nl N> u> uj ig u) U)UJ\o 5? i/t :
S
Mes
° ^ §o o
H*
- g-P
r»a i-» o o oino O N
o  »-*
N>o> U)
NJ f»JVO3 tnU)a: K»roo
SQ ^mei0 -2 S S £T ? S’
§ S S ° 3O)
(73  re 5 ’ CO
go ^3 aj
0>
30 3reera iS. 50vn
re 3n re
^ 9 ? 2 2n 5 5 « "
I
n n > z ^ no o Q. re o o
3 I I III-ic
m 3» m f*5 O
S' s §. s i I 0o i^> o D w o“●0 .0 O o n(1 cr n 3 — ns ^ c 5 o c
'^Q. w "o O
' 1rt> 3 w c
O Oo>
 S 3  - I ^ ?s-
^ i/)
re u
3
30OJ
rev>
atfi t
3 n n
o
 -I 2 S S f. o 1 I
^  => S’ u «Q
3 Wo
re ^ Sat
3
3at re U)
— TO.
3re wVI
5 «, 3 S n
Q3
4rt Q! - rea. 3o n
■g c oare
D ^ re rere rere reo O  -3re ^■s at
o a ? I ^ “VI o (L eraO o
3^3c u> 3
re > P
●o
at
VI 3
a
sat
OJ■a
re
3a)CO
at Oo c:re n ^r > re
 2a. ^ </i.  at c
[?
oo 5- g o3
3
3
33 VI re< <. re ? VI3 3 re
n
at ●D V.
n> VIrea
[0 re
o at
VI 3
a o ^ Z o3 c; - 5 ^VI ^ 3 2VI oiC
T3
●6)-.>3. -O
/« O "O
1 s 5?re
o ■<VI re vy
S'
Cn C
» 2. < D. "Ore3 OQ Q.D. O reO' 3D. C! VI 0)
■< 3VITS no at07 o oat re 3 VI OIre Ot/i Ka re > T? < o.VI3T  ●D tArea VIojCO v>
aat at Q) ^
reO. at re3 rtin tore3" (are< n
3 gj  ?●'«q
3“
$Ic
re re oi in nQ.r>O 3 3re in aVI atrt VI VI ®
3at rere lA > VI
5; VIVI
re
to
5'a
o 1 2?2q t.3re o>» N> ; T3»->1st H*
e oo o§ cn -sj sj ts) 1.0
o o o o og CO cn
8 8 so^sj vrwui 00 c> vi ^
o ooooo o oo o T-2oo o o ocr>a - Z! 3ea OreN»o■a 3Va N»M ISJto cnVI l-i
gj U5 O i» _O O O O O
y-*VIQ I 3)
sU3 00
O O
UJgj <£> mgj A -sj cn rst £> gj vi cn £●o OOOOO o oo oSJ o ooo oore' oZ- n
?T
■3 I 3' n- t TOre I re
no
8,re "VAAA Ato CUNJ >♦s91 M ga u>
o o o outu>u> l-»c o o o o oo oo o o ooooo o oo o oo =Jo-?■ to
o o"TJreo
● zS i-» j t-»
^ TO OI CU
VI TO In
S? ^ ^
cr>M »-» I-*U)N)KJ I-» >rt  IVOM ^ ^ pi OI
CTI ^ W to
s? a? s? ss a? s? ^TO Oo VI ^ cn tsj gj cupi JO P' P'
O  gj bo ^voNioeo ^ iuo lu 4^^
tore
I <T>3TO TJ\P vfi SP sf> sP *vP >Pp> >‘rT oa
9I m
quo 3A  A Y A AY A AAA A eraIQ AA A A A A A A AA A  A > P2rei-ii->M O O O O O 3O OOOOOO o oo O OO o oo oo o o o 3 VI
c
3 bl to
o3
4 ><reA AA reA A A AAA AA toto ro !-● 3MVO M Ut
O O O
Mt-» oo o o o ooooooo o oo o oo o oo o oo TO fO
. I re
5? o 2
TO
‘  \ "oM .! reA AA AA >A A A AA AA A A A AA
cin v-» 3o o o o ooooooo o oo o oo o oo o oo o oo '●! 3' 2) CO
H : VI
o >lit ! .AA AA AM M “£> M
o o o o
to to●oto o o o oo ooooooo o oo o ooo o o
VI
TO TO TO 03 TOat oj at at otrt  rt  rt  rt  rt3- zr 3- 3- 3"re re ro re re
o  o o o o
TOTO TO TOat at a>.  rt  rtn3- S' 3-
re re. 5Lo o o
C3C» O TO TO TO
3  at cu atrt  n rt
at
n re 3- 3- 3T
ci re ro re.re
b  o ort  oo
TO TO TOo) at at
rt  rt  n
rt  5J- 3"O
in
o
. re re re
o o o
TO TO atO) - TOat01 nlA rt
U>‘11 rt
B. 3"rr o i3"S' rererere rtiatOJ Oo a.oo
s  *=sfti. (/I </) v>U) C/1v>cn I/'<A(/)VI 90
0>
5 o3-- A A
2  in vn
o < ■<3
A Ozz zo o o3 3 3
re re re
z z zo  o o3  3 3
re re re
atz zo o3 3
re re
2 H Z Z ZOOOOO
3 3 3 3 3
re re re re re
mZ rt -o o3 3
vi vi re re
o jr,o o 8*3 m33 rere VI
-4re re ●D
.' Q», ■
■ ?rrr(- : - 322 w
O 3' iOO .
. o.re
cr ●003 Q.
z Z 2 reO I o o Ot3 3 3
re re re re
2Z 2 2o  o3  3
o3
z <0_ _ Z Z 2
o o o o o
3 3 3 3 3,re re re re re
z 2 Z z re
o O O o , rt3 3 3 3 I--'
re re re re TO
2 o o >
E-l.lVI
oo Ot 3333 re rererere rere re
Ore O
-{
2v>●gv row w wOI i»-
TO ja O M p
in M
in ’lo 1^ 'o  UJ o :dioO O o 0,0
VI ■ t-i
s: si t 1p
vyv>w MVt wvi in v?lOcn OI (-t 'O 'O in OI ff i
fvj io !'■’
^vo 'io ^TOO ^ gjgj gj
gj 4i' j:. 10ivi ^ 22S K rt ,00
CO
o>
. 0 -00. 0 oo o o
)-* VI w ●v>
VI <sj Oi 'sj
p ,»-» p p MCTl OI 00 Ol NJ
_ CO U) t-* *>! to
o  o) 0 0) 0000 o
I wVI
in4»
Me»
H* 3 yj 3OI
■atI ■ 333
atOISJ
LONG-TERM OCCUPATIONAL PROJECTiONS, 2016-2026, MAUI MSA
T i  BLS Educational & Trainlng^lu^ ^ 2018
i  ^ ^——I 'll I it'- Median
-Total I Education |Work Exg|.-Job Training ^ '
$56,760None None !
Change (2016-26)Employment Annual Average OpeningsSOC
Occupation Title
ICode , NumberPercentl Change
10 12.7% <10
Transfers ‘ Exits2016 2026 I
'Educational, Guidance, School, and
'Vocational Counselors
I Child, Family, and School Social
21-1012 ; lOj Master's80 90 10 <10
I
!!18.0% 30! Bachelor's $53,650250 300 50 <10 20 10 None None21-1021 ': Workers
$61,490
$66,840
Healthcare Social Workers 34.9%
33.3%
10! Master's
10! Bachelor's
Intern/Res
None
21-1022
21-1091
80 110 30 <10 10 <10 None
Health Educators 40 50 10 <10 <10 <10 None t
301 HS/equiv.
20! HS/equiv.
$36,360
$30,500
$56,950
$44,730
$66,750
$110,520
$58,210
$48,470
40 18.9% Short OJTSocial and Human Service Assistants 200 230 <10 20 1021-1093 None
30 24.1% <10 10 Short OJT21-1094 'Community Health Workers
jCommunity and Social Service21-1099 I
_  jSpecialists, Ail Other
21-2011 ICIergy
23-0000 Legal Occupations
23-1011 Lawyers
23-2011 Paralegals and Legal Assistants
Education, Training, and Library
Occupations
Preschool Teachers, Except Special
Education
Elementary School Teachers, Except
Special Education
Middle School Teachers. Exc. Special &
Career/Technical Edu.
Secondary School Teachers, Exc. SpcI
& Career/Technical Edu.
25-0000
25-2011
25-2021
25-2022
25-2031
130 170 10 None
1
<10 10 Bachelor’s100 10 14.3% <10 10 None None80
Moderate OJT)10 13.6%!i
Bachelor’s70 80 <10 <10 <10 10 None
7.1%j
5.4%
<10 10 2o:240 260 20 10I
iDoct/Prof
Associate’s
<10 <10 10. None
None
None
None
110 120 10 <10
<10 <10 1060 70 10 10.2% <10 i
170 3603,940 350 9.8% 40 1603,590
I
14oi t I
$35,90010 Associate's None120 10 10.5% <10 10 10 NoneI
t
I
8.7% $59,010Bachelor's20 20 50 None600 650 50 10 None
i $60,03020! Bachelor's None20 8.5% <10 10 10 None280 310.
II
320| $60,97020' Bachelor's8.5% <10 10. 10 None None300 30
I
$47,20040t HS/equiv.50 15.6% 20 <5 yrs. None25-3021 jSelf-Enrichment Education Teachers
iTeachers and Instructors, All Other,
!exc Substitute Teachers
25-3098 iSubstitute Teachers
25-^21 librarians
25-9031 jinstructional Coordinators
25-9041 iTeacher Assistants
;4uts. Design, Entertainment, Sports,
" jand Media Occupations
27-1024 -Graphic Designers
’Merchandise Dispiayers and Window27-1026 ! .●Trimmers
25-3097 I
27-0000 :
330 380 10 20
i
>
$44,390Bachelor’s30 50 None None50 11.6% 10 20420 470 I I\
$43,840
$63,540
20 11.1%|
<10 6.7%l
t
iO 10.7%
60 10.2%
1
10 20 Bachelor's
Master's
Master’s
Some college
None
None
5+ yrs.
None
None
None
None
None
180 <10 10160 I
!<10 <10 <10 <1050 50
n/a<10 <10 1060 60 <10 i
i
$29,750
$39,120
$39,910
$30,630
30 30 70650 10590 I
16017070 4.9% 10 801,470 1,540
i
lOi Bachelor's●2.0% 10 <10 None None100 100 >-10 >-10 1
-1.2%| 10 HS/equiv. Short OJT j>●10 10 <10 None80 80 >-10
L
Source: Hawaii State Department of Labor and Industrial Relations, Research and Statistics Office, July 2019, vrvjw.hiwiurg 3
ns' o o
_  'if
c. uj rr> tn m§ Oi IN
rrt' fO- mM ' -
v> <A
US
8 O  fS o o o o^ r-« h. , fo rnc m ; un CM c
fN
i
Ln ■ fN iS H 1
cn rr
<A ■</>● <A w
 O oom ns rtso
V V '●-ps, r>I^CCC cDTH
tt o’ fn'.
m5
8 O
<n r«> IN
W W </V rH
Q  O o o o o o o^  __iD rNP^ m oO fN
c  i-i ^ ' r\ f^i tn
t/T ■ oO , fo cc cO *ff o'> : c\ <Ti en i/v
WiW o> w.w W V>’ i/>
s (V
C
OO .2
« «nT-« w w
■oo OSfN
s v%«V
■■ 'i
H-eus 1/) cn in
0l 0) Oi
CC <ii OC OC IX a; iu 4; i}j ii) iii ai q;
o;
,- cc c c cc"c o o o . o o o
(UZ <U (U <uZZZZZZOi z z
I/!
O
OJ
C C Cc O c c ns O o
Oc I-in
«/ O O
t  OO
01 a* Hi
c c. co o o
ztz Z
Q OJ OI 0» 41
^ I c c c co o o o
o Z Z Z Zx:
4S4)3
C(0 ronj
> oct- o z OS
o£ ●oa> J3 . C c c cI/s o to o£ ! of SC !
nj'
s in Qj OS 4;
>. c c c c^ o o o o
<D 4> QS 4f llS lls <lJ Qs flS 4J <lS 4l
ccccccc c ccccoooooooooooo
zzzzzzzzzzzz
4) 41 <1S OS 0/ <u
c c c co o o o
z z z z
4S inm
ce c c c >■ >-o o om I/s tn tnZ Z zp
5c ● V V VO '
‘*S
iS cl m  <n
4) 'a; .2
in in in ' > in m
>3 O O O O .m O -|
«« ^ ^ M
2Q. a. Q- a. oO- -5 as ns
in
4 4
> _> >ti ij (i
3 41 OS O'
Q- in y« m
■Q ‘ .2lU ‘ ^
u u u
_0 _0 O 41ViOS OS 0>
ji SI s: ^u u u Om
ni fo re o.CO cs os
3 . 3  41 33J 3 3
.2 <TU U Qi
ro O O
VI v>
in
1/1
cr £3 £3 cr O’ or
Si ®CQ ! ■a
1 >OS
JC u o t> uO O O O
Q O Q Q Z
in
re t3 £o  e-2 5o ^
4) OS 4S 4Sinm m
O O O O O
^ CL CW O. ^
l/l 1/1to 1/1 to
in 2 Q.re CLI X X1 UJ CD < <
o o o o o o oooooooooooo ofN f«» W t-l m fN PN
V V V V V
o ooooo o oT-t Os oO ^ in inV  fN fN
o oro V V
<£ o
ai-'“m
5 c
o o o o o o oooooooooooo orN rH
V V V V V V V
IN fN
V V V
D o ooooo o ofo ro IN IN i-i pg
o oc in rN r-lc u ' V V  V
o ; (S
V V V
s
& ' ^ro
lU
fj
o o o oT-l fN f-f
o o oooooooooooo o o ooooo o ofN m fN fN
o e o oVD rNfN fN
^ ! OS V V V V V V VV V V V V H V V
< i c3 re
i/) cz 5 ’ a;^ I M
■  i Sre
O O O O Q  CO oooooooooooo o o ooooo o oIH (N r-l
o oO fH tH rK
V V V \/ V V V V V V V V V V V V V V A V
6 A Ol
UJ
5oa: ^fN iO rH Ol CTl US
iH US OS eo O lO
^rf O lO O 00 O 01
'  ed cs cS cs - 'rn
●H fN fN m ^fO
^ ^ ^ ^o ro 00 fN
o  IDm fN
§ r«. fOoo fsq iOfN lO «D
f^ fN <=r f^ fO in K <»
fN «?● r-l fN fVS
s? aea. ' cU3
fN lO q fO I 01
l& '■ u
S .! Sli
o
OS
o< o O’
fNzO o(N. <N
hr< o o o o opN m t-l
o oooooooooooo o
if-<^rN i-N fNrN «f co rNm m  to- o ooooo o o01 in tn r-l IN o5 *ao ol-
A  S0> I
tus osa V V V V
re ! E
6 I
V
3 A
U
o
i r ,g-‘4-
o o o o o or-l re- fN in ooooooooooooLnoin infN rNmmmmai cji O oNT No 8 o o ou3 ^ mID ro fN ^
o o aCO
occ rg fN 00T-f fNUJ a
c fN fN fN in
6 os ●o
E C
>. ;o3 4;o o o o o om  IN fNO r-l
C3 oooooooooooO IN
t-g tH
«TOinai tD rTOeO lOf^
o o o o o« IN O
OS ro fN fO
8 o  o o ofN OS OS OO
o uI
rfa I QfN fNc ^c i aus ● O
q_ 4
N 1-1 fN 4
fN
co
1 oOS 4in£
oO D
£A roin asc .op4l
<  £ -IO tj
5
I
TSOS OJZ OScT3 minO ino as<v c J= rec osin C
OS
>m ans as \3as re co3 cu reIf.m Q.e <E in Bu U m u
X C w
^ re O
c -y e“ c o asVI
^ o 2- £ ’5. -iS c
in
m
-,PSS-< re c re^ o ^
V)
reI/s -C os
o  3 a.'j
c reosm Q.
u '5
a ^
3  in "
“ 8 - °■3 to ^
m tJre c
o
in01
as
o 2●S >re
g Oe reinin
^ = C° 2 reU » VI <Q
5 Ol cmco uC ■ ■cQ.
O 0 .-S
‘●P 2 3U Q. 9-
ro 3 ^
4s a. u ^O re
in
o e
o  13
BO C
<u
re
EVi O10
a. <9
^ ^ OIS ●
S S < -oU
IS 8 Vi
OS m ^
X c ^ >
S  a
C
re
as
Vi
as to ®C
re O</S 4S  Cas in C Q.3 c as 3
s 51^ 08 ^
' c cro re
6 .a- 'c .y ;9 «.rt
o >. >. >.
Q.
easin
£3m "O
C m
re rero m
u
 3 -2 ’E u2 OS
●£ .2
■° §£ .y >
■6os
fQas O -Q c _
o E g I e i
●●tJ
ro Z
“● re .2
u c 9
re00
tsreo re
^a8|£Si|s|ClZs>Z£X£ZOS
^ in
in
ra
5 fOS 4S
 X OO rere ro .yos VI
ro
ca.u 4
3
10
TS I € £41 c .2 rere u 8OJS
trOS
s.4
Vi in
 ISre E re<U in
IS os
3 X u o C Ooro  J3 ^
0 3 3
4; Q- CSuf re
C '3 os re 4um-a Vi
£ os ao rojc <u _% .%XCLUa.<s3a.X|30a.
o c T3 re O  {rt3 4l_ £ x: £ - _‘^o . a. o. cczac:
in re os osos aX a. u. m
oXfN IN O fN m Ol(N o ro in iO io ior^ rN «4- r«.O O O 000000
^ fN
fN m in
000
rjj fN fN
os oi oi oi oi oi oi oi os^os crsIN fN fN fN fN fNfN fNfN fN fN fN PN
m r-l O fN OS Ol41 dJ ■
X T3.O ●. ocn Q
fN M
000
IN fN m
to os
S oOS Ol fN
O o 000
q rH Ol Ol OS
o o 4
s s fN fN Ol 9 rrs s<
f^h- fv IN
fN fN fN fN fN ,
Ol Os am  rofN fnrrsmro rfs m m m omIN m
LONG-TERM OCCUPATIONAL PROJEaiONS, 2016-2026, MAUI MSA
2018
●j Median
Work Exp^ Job Traihfng ,i
'  " “ ' $66,490Moderate OiTjNone
$38,710
$40,920
$40,580
$37,530
$77,610
$52,420
5
i
I BLS Educational & Traming ValuesAnnual Average Openings
Change ● Transfers; Exits > Total1 - ^ ■ -^ 1,  —
Change (2016-26)Employmentsoc !►
Occupation Titfe "
Numbc7|^ Education■   ■.T-.yg.
Code 2016 2026
Short OJT i
HS/equiv.
HS/equiv. None
2010108.6%
1.8%j
<103033030033-3051 ! Police & Sheriffs Patrol Officers
33-9032 [security Guards __
{Lifeguards, Ski Patrol, & Other Rec
{Protective Service Wkrs
33-9093 [Transportation Security Screeners
Food Preparation and Serving
Related Occupations
3S-1011 Chefs and Head Cooks
First-Line Supervisors, Food
Prepar^on andServing Workers
35-2011 [Cooks, Fast Food
35-2012 Cooks, institution and Cafeteria
35-2014 Cooks, Restaurant
35-2021 'Food Preparation Workers
35-3011 'Bartenders
[combined Food Prep, and Serving
Workers, Including Fast Food
Counter Attendants, Cafeteria, Food
Concession, & Coffee Shop
35-3031 Waiters and Waitresses.  . .. j.
35-3022
35-3041 ;Food Servers, Nonrestaurant
joining Room and Cafeteria Attendants
Bartender Helpers
35-9021 joishwashers
'  [Hosts and Hostesses, Restaurant,
jLounge, and Coffee shop
Building and Grounds Cleaning and
37-0000 ;|y^|^gpan(^^ccuj^ations
{First-Line Supervisors,
Housekeej)ing/Janitorial Workers
First-line Supervisors, Landscaping &
Groundskeeping Vykrs
Janitors and Cleaners, Exc. Maids and
Housekeeping Cleaners
37-2012 IMaids & Housekeeping Owners
37-2021 Pest Control Workers
Landscaping and Groundskeeping
Workers
37-2011
; Hawaii State Deportmented Labor and Industrial fielotions. Research ondStatistKS Ofpee, July 2019. wv/w.hiwi.org
<110610600
<16.7%1019018033-9092
6.2% <110170160
6.8% 913,740 14,6701 93035-0000 I
<18.5%20310280
17.5%5077072035-1012
>-1-5.9%-10210220
<14.9%10ISO140 t
29.7%:
7.5%;
2.5%i
1902,190
1,130
1,990
1,050
I
180
830i <120810I
I 3260 16.2%1,8601,60035-3021 y
610| <3.9%20590
3,460i 5.8%
-4.2%
1903,270
1 >--20430450
t
4.8%i <900' 40850
f ! <3.8%i
5.5%i
8201 30790
<40750710
9.8%i7708,5907,830
9.9%1 <40410!37037-1011
<12.0%30310:27037-1012
iO.6%)1701,7901,620
6.9%2403,6703,430
<12.9%1010090
2,1901 13.4%2601,93037-3011 i 1
Source:
8040400
50i Short OJTNoneNone20 300
Short OJT i20i HS/equiv. None10 100
1,350 1,060 2,500;0
None40 j HS/equiv.
no! HS/equiv.
5+yrs. ,10300 t
None<5 yrs.30700
1
$26,460
$40,810
$39,850
$33,000
$54,350
$24,180
Short OJT i
Short OJT I
Moderate OJT;
Short OJT ;
Short OJT ;I
None30 None10200 I
None
<5 yrs.
None
None
20! None10100
None
None
310112C1700
190 i90900
14oi None40900
Short OJTNone J340 None1501600 t
\ $26,440Short OJT iNone130 None706010 (
$46,290
$29,400
Short OJT j
Short OJT \
t
None650 None
None
25038020
None60!303010
$36,470Short OJi iNoneNone80 ISO!7010
$31,430Short OJTNone130; None606010 1
$35,520Short OJT !1701 NoneNone808010 (
$37,3201,10051051080
I
$50,550Nonesol HS/equiv. <5 yrs.202010
i
$56,910None3o! HS/equiv. <5 yrs.102010
$35,200Short OJTNoneNone24011011020 I
$37,510
$36,460
Short OJT
Moderate OJT
None4901 None
lo! HS/equiv.
26020020
None<101010 J
i
$35,720Short OJT iNone270| None10015030
S
LONG-TERM OCCUPATIONAL PROJECTIONS, 2016-2026, MAUI MSA
T 20^’
-'i Median
BLS Educational & Training Values jEmployment ,! Change (2016-26) ●
!  2026.' Number Percent; Change ^Transfers; Exits"] Total i Education | Work Exp Job Training ^
Annual Average Openings
I
2016 !a
soc Occupation TitleCode f
'Personal Care and Service
jOccupatlons
! First-Line Supervisors of Personal
Service Workers
.Amusement and Recreation
:Attendants
ILocker Room, Coatroom, and Dressing!
'Room Attendants
39-5094 Skincare Specialists
39-6011 jBaggage Porters and Bellhops
39-6012 ; Concierges
39-7011 'Tour Guides and EscortsI
39-9011 I Childcare Workers
[fitness Trainers and Aerobics
[instructors
39-9032 'Recreation Workers
39-9041 j Residential Advisors
[Personal Care and Service Workers, Aill
Other
41-0000 ‘Sales and Related Occupations
: First-Line Supervisors of Retail Sales
Workers
First-Line Supervisors of Non-Retail
jSales Workers
41-2011 iCashiers
41-2021 iCounter and Rental Clerks
41-2031 [Retail Salespersons
41-3021 Insurance Sales Agents
41-3041 Travel Agents
Sales Representatives, Services, All
Other
Sales Rep., Wholesale & Mfg, Exc.
Tech. & Scientific Product
.’Demonstrators and Product
41-9011 Promoters
41-9021 ‘Real Estate Brokers
41-9022 i Rea! Estate Sales Agents
I
39-0000 I
1
39-1021 ■
i
39-3091 !
39-3093
i
I]
1
1
39-9031
J
39-9099 I
41-1011
4M012
41-3099 :
I
41-4012
$29,780260 59050 280470 14.8%3,180 3,650
)
$50,060HS/equiv. <5 yrs. None10 201030 13.5% <10210 2401
None Short OJT | $25,82040 40 80 None10.8%! <10370; 40330
Short OJT j $41,460
None $60,380
20 HS/equIv.
10 Postsec.
50 HS/equiv.
30 HS/equiv.
20| HS/equiv.
601 HS/equiv.
10; HS/equiv.
60! HS/equiv.
10; HS/equiv.I
101 HS/equiv.
SO: None109.3%! <10 101090
Short OJT i $27,440
$^,S60
i -.1
None
None
None Moderate OJT
None Moderate OJT
None Short OJTi
16.0%; <10 <10 <10601 1050
360ii 30 2010 3.2%:
6.5%!
1
<10340
210 10<10 2010200
n/a7.9% 10 1010 <10120110
$23,0408.9%! 20 30<10350 380 30
j .
5
Short OJT I $45,740I None11.9% 10 1010 <1070 80
i
Short OJT I $36,200None
None Short OJT j
2010 30350 so 16.6%!
18.0% i
300
n/a10 <10<10so 60i 10I
iNone Short OJT = $32,160108.8% <10 10100 i 1090
I I
{i
i $30,000
$44,990
760 610 1,4001
r
ISOj HS/equiv.
3.3% 3010,280; 3309,950
J
None<5 yrs.S.1% 10 90 50701,320 1,390
t !J $64,02030i HS/equiv. <5 yrs.
370| None None
70! None None
50O! None None
20l HS/equiv.
20! HS/equiv. None [ModerateOJT
Short OJT
Short OJT
I Short OJT
None ! Moderate OJTI
8o! HS/equiv. None | Moderate OJt|
None
5
20 107.4% <10260 20280-
 $26,390
$30,220
I
1801,9901 190-0.4%
4.0%j
3.5%;'
8.8%;
-9.4%;
>-lQ-102,000
$27,300
$56,810
$37,620
30<10 4020530 5501
22010 2701203,340 3,460!
10 101701 <1010160
150{ 10>●10 10-10160
$74,320,7.1%i 50 20<106201 40580 I I 1}
4401 $44,630SO HS/equiv. None Moderate OJT50 11.4% <10 30 10400
20| None
j
10! HS/equiv.
10 HS/equiv.
$27,190Short OJT6.8% 10 None10<10120 130 10
<5 yrs. ! None
None , Moderate OJT
$52,270
$82,390
4.4% <10 10<1090 100 <10
5.0%: <10 10 1010140 ISO
6Source: Mawo//Store Deporrment o/lobor and Industrial Relations. Research and Statistics Office, July 2019, www.hlwi.org
LONG-TERM OCCUPATIONAL PROJECTIONS, 2016-2026, MAUI MSA T
BIS Educational & Training Values <
^Annual Average Openings
"f I iiijififfr^nu^inTi
I Number jpercent^ Change Hransfers^ Exits
A#
I  T=i
Employment | Change (201^26)
2016 2026
 I■!! IH.111 111 11 I ■* m ■!,j I ' Median
Work Exp - Job 'rrainlngj ^
$39,330j
soc
Code Occupation Title,
otal I Education 1
i£
I.200II Office and Administrative Support
Occupations
-First-Line Supervisors of Office and
[Admin. Support Workers
'Switchboard Operators, Including
Answering Service
43-3011 [Bill and Account Collectors
43-3021 I Billing and Posting Clerks
Bookkeeping, Accounting, and
Auditing Clerks
43-3051 Payroll and Timekeeping Clerks
43-3071 Tellers
43-4051 ;Customer Service Representatives
43-4071 File Clerks
43-4081 Hotel, Motel, and Resort Desk Clerks
43-4131 jLoan Interviewers and Clerks
Human Resources Assistants, Except
Payroll and Timekeeping
43-4171 'Receptionists and Information Clerks
i Reservation & Transportation Ticket j
I Agents & Travel Clerks !
43-0000
43-1011 :
43-2011
43-3031
I
43-4161
43-4181 '
: Dispatchers, Except Police. Fire, and i
43-5032 i, ^ ^.Ambulance
43-S051 Postal Service Clerks
43-5052 Postal Service Mail Carriers
Production, Planning, and Expediting
43-5061 ■ . ,^Clerks
43-5071 iShipping, Receiving, and Traffic Clerks
540640190 1.9% 2010,380 10,570 i
Is
$53,640lOOi HS/equiv. <5 yrs. None40501060 6.9%:960!900
I
$44,780Short OJT ii20I HS/equiv.
<10| HS/equiv.
2o| HS/equiv.
SOjSome college
10| HS/equtv.
30i HS/equtv.
12o| HS/equtv.t
lOi HS/equiv.
1001 HS/equiv.
None1010120| -40 -26.6% >-10170
$35,580
$37,570
Moderate OJT I
Moderate 0JT|
None
None
<10<10<10<10 3.1%
30 19.2%
3030
1010<10160130
$41,690Moderate OJT|
, Moderate OJTl
Short OJT
Short OJT
Short OJT
}
i
i
None5040>-10-10 -1.2%820830
$47,420
$31,170
$36,660
$41,130
None<10<10<10 1.5%
-30 -10.4%
60 6.8%i
-10 -li.7%1
30 4.7%;
I
<107070
None1020>-10250280
None507010880 940
None<10<10>-1060 SOI jI
$44,560Short OJTNone4060<10650620
$45,970Short OJTHS/equiv. None10<10<10<10 I8.6%!108070
$43,400NoneAssociate's None10<10<100.0%i <10<107070
$33,490Short OJT60! HS/equiv. None303010.8% <1040430390 i
$48,800Short OJT60i HS/equiv. None2030105501 15.3%,70480 I
!
lOl HS/equiv.
(
10 HS/equiv.
10 HS/equiv.
$40,550Moderate OJTNone<10 <10-4.0%) >-10>-1070;80
$60,100
$58,930
Short OJT
Short OJT
None
None
<10<10701 -5.7%i
-6.1%i
>-10>-1070
<10<10>-10-10no;120 I
$51,420Moderate OJT I10| HS/equiv. None<10108.8%: <101090180
I
$39,880Short OJT20 HS/equiv.
150 HS/equiv.
30 HS/equiv.
10 HS/equiv.
20 HS/equiv.
None10-2.0%! 10>-10>-10150150
$29,460Short OJTNone6080\ 106.5%701,1501,080 i43-5081 Stock Clerks and Order Fillers
lExecutive Secretaries and
●Administrative Assistants
43-6012 iLegal Secretaries
43-6013 Medical Secretaries
Secretaries, Except Legal, Medical, and
43-6014 VExecutive
$55,650None<5 yrs.2020●10-60 -17.5%310370
$47,670
$40,360
None Moderate OJTI
None ' Moderate OJT
<10 10>-10-20 -21.9%
40 33.1%
J
80100
1010<10170130
$40,680Short OJT !100! HS/equiv. Noneso 50-10-5.6%-50930980
7
Source: Hawaii State Deportrpent of Labor and irjdustnol Relations, Research and Statistics Office. July 2019. www.hiwi.org
LONG-TERM OCCUPATIONAL PROJECTIONS, 2016-2026, MAUI MSA
2018
” Median
Total ; Education , Work Exp ^ Job Training ^ -
BIS Educational & Training ValuesAnnual Average Openings■w
! Change {2016-26} ;
Number Percent^ Change Transfers Exits
Employmentsoc Occupation Title TT^
Code; 2016 i 2026
n/aIT Short OJT
Short OJT I
lL lOi HS/equiv. None
15o| HS/equiv. None ;
10' HS/equiv. None
<10<10>-10-20 -32.8%i
-10 -0.9%^
507043-9022 iWord Processors and Typists
43-9061 1 Office Clerks, Genera!
'office and Administrative Support
Workers, All Other
■Farming, Fishing, and Forestry
jOccupations
' Farmworkers and Laborers, Crop,
Nursery, and Greenhouse
Farmworkers, Farm, Ranch, and
jAquacultural Animals
■Construction and Extraction
Occupations
First-Line Supervisors, Const. Trades & {
● Extraction Wkrs
47-2031 Carpenters
Cement Masons and Concrete
iFinishers
47-2061 Construction Laborers
Operating Engineers and Other
Construction Equipment Oprs.
47-2111 Electricians
Painters, Construction and
Maintenance
Plumbers. Pipefitters, and
Steamfitters
47-2181 1 Roofers*
47-2211 Sheet Metal Workers
47-2231 [Solar Photovoltaic Installers
-HelperS'-Painters, Paperhangers,
●Plasterers, & Stucco Masons
47-4011 ^Construction and Building Inspectors ;I
Septic Tank Servicers and Sewer Pipe !
ICIeaners
Installation, Maintenance, and Repair j
Occupations
First-Line Supervisors of Mechanics, |
■ Installers. Repairers ^
43-9199 1
\
I
45-0000 .
45-2092
45-2093 i
47-0000 !
I47-1011
47-2051
I
47-2073
47-2141
47-2152
●47-3014
47-4071 )
49-0000
t
49-1011
$33,3708070>-101,290|1,300 I
Short OJT i $23,720101010 7.8%’ <101201120 I
$37,87012030100-10-130 -13.5%:850980 I 5
Short OJT j $32,110None80 None2070-10-120 -18.3%560!680 L
i
n/aShort OJT iNonelOi None<1010<106.6%:108080
$61,55051016029050510 11.6%'4,850j4,350 I
$75,980None30l HS/equiv. 5+ yrs.
12o| HS/equiv.
20! None
None
None
1020<1012.8%!403401310
$62,570lApprenticeship) 4070109.3%110l,2S0i1,140
$88,930
$62,360
, Moderate OJTI 1010<1010.8%
13.2%1
I6.7%i
!
10140)130
i Short OJTNone60 None20401070560490
$81,320Moderate OJT
30| HS/equiv.
60 HS/equiv.
None1020<10 !40280240
J $72,240None Apprenticeship-;
None Moderate OJT;I
2040<108.6%40530;490
$52,630J 30 None1020<107.0%203701340
*
$53,950None Apprenticeship!
None Moderate OJT
None jApprenticeship
None Moderate OJT
HS/equiv.5020301015.2%60430(370
$43,55010 None
10 HS/equiv.
10 HS/equiv.
<1010<1010.0%108070
n/a<10<109.5% <10<10sol40
$53,080t <10<10<1048.9%2070 i50
n/ai Short OJTNone<10i None<10<10<106.5%<1030,30
5+ yrs. ! Moderate OJT | $56,290<10i HS/equiv.<10<10S.3%! <10<1040,40 »-I !
n/aI
None Moderate OJT!ilOi HS/equiv.<10<1020.6%; <101040.30
I
$53,890330120190207.7%2503,4203,170 !(
$66,310None20: HS/equiv. <5 yrs.30 10.9%i 10 10<10270250
R
Source: Hoy^oiiState Deportment ofLotorond InduStfiol Relotions, Research or7dStatistics Office. July 2019. www.hiwi.org
LONG-TERM OCCUPATIONAL PROJEaiONS, 2016-2026, MAUI MSA
2018 :
    ^  - ! Median
2016 ^ 2026^ ^^inbVr I Perrent^^ange |Trailers | Exits j  Total ‘ Education j Work&tp^ iobTratnIng
$90,700
$63,540
$50,430
$50,330
$57,460
$55,350
$48,550
$40,010
BLS Educational & Training Values
  I null .i:*ri-.u.LlLHJajU*i
Annual Average OpeningsChange (2016-26)Employment
None Moderate OJT!Postsec.10<10>-10 10-8.0%-1090100 I
NoneNone20: Postsec.1010<1030 17.1%210180
Long OJTlOi HS/equiv. None60! <10<10<1010 12.3%60 ! Js
Short OJTNonePostsec.401020380i <1020 6.1%360 i!! iLong OJTHS/equiv. None10i <1020 12.5% <10 10140130
Long OJTHS/equiv. None<10<10<1010 13.2% i <1040140 r I
None ; Moderate OJTH5/equiv.13050701080 6.2%;1.330;1,250
1 Short OJT101 HS/equiv. None<1010<1010 970170
T
SOC
Occupation Title.Code
iTelecomm. Equip. Installers &
iRepairers. Exc. Line install
Aircraft Mechanics and Service
Technicians
Automotive Body and Related
Repairers
Automotive Service Technicians and
iMechanics
Bus and Truck Mechanics and Diesel
Engine Specialists
: Mobile Heavy Equipment Mechanics,
49-2022
49-3011
I
49-3021
49-3023
49-3031 '
49-3042 ;
i Except Erigines
Maintenance and Repair Workers,
General
k
49-9071
Helpers-lnstallation, Maintenance, i
^Repair Workers
.  i Installation, Maintenance, and Repair I
[workers. All Other
51-0000 Production Occupations
First-Line Supervisors of Production
49-9098 ;
49-9099 i I
t
(&
51
.0% I
f i
$48,170None ● Moderate OJT IJHS/equiv.10t <10<10<1010 8.6%80 i70 \ i
$39,420220100 I
130>-10-10 -0.7%1,8801,890 1! I
$58,560HS/equiv. None<5 yrs.
None Long OJT i
I
I
None Long OJT |
201010<1010 2.8%i8o:180-1011
iOperating Workers $41,800
$43,690
40 None2020<10<10 1.6%
10 7.1%
250!25051-3011 'Bakers
10 NonellOj 1010<1010051-3021 1 Butchers and Meat Cutters
Meat, Poultry, and Fish Cutters and
Trimmers
Food Batchmakers
Welders, Cutters, Solderers, and
Brazers
Laundry & Dry-Cleaning Workers
Water and Wastewater Treatment
Plant and System Operators
Inspectors, festers, Sorters, Samplers,
and Weighers
Transportation and Material Moving
Occupations
First-Line Supervisors, Helpers,
Laborers, & Material Movers
51-3022
51-3092
51-4121
51-6011
51-8031 .
51-9061
53-0000
53-1021 ;
n/aShort OJT iNone10 None<1010<1060 j 10 8.$%60I
i
$25,090Moderate OJT|Ii
Moderate OJTj
Short OJT :
1
Long OJT I
<10 HS/equiv.
lOl HS/equiv.
None<30<10>-10-10 -26.1%30]50
$66,330
$35,430
None<1010<10<10 5.5%8070
None60) None303010 2.5% <10410400
$46,36010| HS/equiv.i None<10<10●2.3% >-10>-1080 j90
I
I
n/aModerate OJT If<10i HS/equiv. None<10<10>-10-3.3%30 >-1030
$37,27070028037050500 9.6%5,7405,240
n/aNoneHS/equiv. <5 yrs. t
i10<10<10<1010 11.3%i6050
1
9
Source: Hawaii State Deportment of Labor and Industnol Hdavons. Research ondStobsUcs Office, July 2019. www.hhwi.org
LONG-TERM OCCUPATIONAL PROJECTIONS, 2016-2026, MAUI MSA
T ■k
\ 2018
Median
Education ; Job X
' BL5 Educational & Training Values(; Change (2016-26) i
2026 ● Number ● Percent j Change 'Transfers Exits  ■ Total
Anrtual Average OpeningsEmploymentsoc;
Code ● Occupation Title
2016 L1 r( I
I first-Line Supervisors, Transportation ;
'& Vehicle Operators
( i
n/aHS/equiv.10 10 20 <5 yrs. None170i 20 12.3% <10S3-1031 150 I
I $39,670
Short OJT j $29,230
Short OJT I $52,670
Short OJT Ir
t
HS/equiv.
HS/equiv.
18.9% 10 20 40i None53-3022 ! Bus Drivers, School or Special Client
53-3031 jOriver/Sales Workers
I Heavy and Tractor-Trailer Truck
j Drivers
53*3033 kight Truck or Delivery Services Drivers;
53-3041 Taxi Drivers and Chauffeurs
Captains, Mates, and Pilots of Water
Vessels
53-6021 ' Parking Lot Attendants
Transportation Attendants, Except
flight Attendants
S3-6099 Transportation Workers, All Other
53-7051 '■ Industrial Truck and Tractor Operators i
53-3032
t
53-5021
)
53-6061
280 330 50 10
2401 t
20 30 None20 9.9% <10 10220
7.6%i 20 20 40; Postsec. None<10370 400! 30
40i $39,140HS/equiv. Short OJT380; 3.0% <10 20 20 None370 10
$32,190Short OJT20 40; None360 3801 4,4%;! <10 20 None20
I
7.7%; $46,850
$25,910
$33,100
380i <5 yrs. None<10 10 40 Postsec.30 20350
♦
30ii Short OJT6.3%! None None<10 20 10190 200 10
HS/equiv.
HS/equiv.
350 i Short OJT50| NoneU.3%; <10 20 3040310
$41,900Short OJT20 None15.2% <10 10 10ISO: 20130
5.6%' $44,410110! 10! Short OJTNone<10 10 <10 None10110
I
$24,95012.3%! Short OJTiCleaners of Vehicles and Equipment <10 30 20 50! None None290 320; 4053-7061
Laborers and Freight, Stock, and
I Material Movers. Hand
Packers and Packagers, Hand
. Refuse and Recyclable Material
Coilectors
Short OJT $36,1208301 40 120: None60 8.2%; 10 70 None77053-7062
$25,780Short OJT10 30 None None-4.1% >-10 20220 210 -1053-7064 I
$25,510120! Short OJT10 10 10 None None ;10 13.7% <1010053-7081
Note: Employment totals may not add due to rounding to the nearest ten. Number and percent change is calculated before employment is rounded.
10Source: Hawaii State Deportment of Lobcf ond industrial Relations, Research and Stoturi'cs Cfftce, July 2019, www. biwi. org
STATE OF HAWAII
Occupational
Employment & Wages2020
f
j
t '
r  .■
r
September 2021
SIA1I or MAWA1 ● oerAoiMCHi or tusn.c». ccohouic ocvnorMEHT i TouitiSM
state of Hawaii
David Y. Ige, Governor
Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism
Mike McCartney, Director
Research and Economic Analysis Division
Eugene Tian, Economic Research Administrator
Labor Research Branch
Jeri Sato, Supervisor
Kaitlyn Hashimoto, Research Statistician
250 South Hotel Street, Room 435
Honolulu, HI 96813
phone: (808) 586-9098
email: oewshawaii@idcf.bls.gov
lesearch
economic
■slnalysis
Eivision
ST«TI Of XAWA.1 ● OEfA«TMCHI OF tgSWESS. ECONOMIC OEVCiOFmEn! a TQjtiSM
For more employment and wage data,
visit:https://dbedt.hawaii.gov/economic/
wages-by-occupation/
J^cknowkdgements
We wouCd to express our sincere appreciation to afCthe empfoyers that providecf us -with
occupationaCempCoyment information and for their vaCuaSCe contriSution to this report.
Table of Contents
Introduction
Effects of COVID-19 Pandemic on OEWS
Highlights
Occupational Employment and Wages in Hawaii
Major Occupational Groups
Comparison to United States
Location Quotient
Largest Occupations
Highest Paid Occupations
MSA and County Employment and Wages
Occupational Employment and Wage Data, May 2020
State of Hawaii
Honolulu MSA
Maui MSA
Hawaii County
Kauai County
Technical Notes
Survey Definitions and Concepts
1
2
3
5
5
7
8
9
10
11
25
38
45
53
59
64
List of Tables
6Table 1. Wages by Major Occupational Group, Hawaii vs. United States, May 2020
Table 2. Hawaii's Top 20 Occupations with the Largest Employment, May 2020
Table 3. Hawaii's Top 20 Occupations with the Highest Pay, May 2020
Table 4. Employment and Wage by Major Occupational Group, MSA and County, May 2020
8
9
10
List of Figures
Figure 1. Employment and Wage by Major Occupational Group, State of Hawaii, May 2020
Figure 2. Location Quotient by Occupational Group, Hawaii compared to United States, May 2020
Figure 3. Median Hourly Wage for Hawaii State, MSA, and County, May 2020
4
7
10
Occupational Employment and Wage Data, May 2020 - Maui MSA
soc Mean Median
Code Occupational Title Employment Houriy Annual Hourly Annual
66,990 $25.27 $52,550 $21.21 $44,13000-0000 All Occupations
Management Occupations 3,280 $47.59 $98,980 $40.90 $85,08011-0000
11-1011 Chief Executives 40 $100.02 $208,050 $97.55 $202,890
11-1021 General and Operations Managers 1,120 $50.47 $104,970 $42.27 $87,930
11-2021 Marketing Managers 50 $52.80 $109,820 $51.29 $106,690
11-2022 Sales Managers 200 $53.75 $111,790 $45.94 $95,560
Public Relations and Fundraising Managers11-2030 40 $39.46 $82,080 $34.48 $71,720
Administrative Services and Facilities Managers11-3010 140 $44.54 $92,640 $42.44 $88,270
Computer and Information System Managers11-3021 50 $61.96 $128,880 $54.19 $112,710
11-3031 Financial Managers 230 $48.12 $100,090 $41.26 $85,820
Human Resources Managers11-3121 30 $50.10 $104,200 $46.93 $97,620
11-9021 Construction Managers 200 $55.60 $115,640 $47.93 $99,690
Education and Childcare Administrators, Preschool and Daycare11-9031 N/A $27.13 $56,430 $23.80 $49,510
Education Administrators, Kindergarten through Secondary11-9032 110 N/A $104,870 N/A $101,200
11 -9041 Architectural and Engineering Managers 30 $55.15 $114,710 $62.13 $129,230
11 -9051 Food Service Managers 100 $41.97 $87,300 $40.59 $84,430
11 -9081 Lodging Managers 150 $38.64 $80,360 $36.04 $74,970
Medical and Health Services Managers11-9111 70 $63.43 $131,930 $62.39 $129,760
Property, Real Estate, and Community Association Managers11-9141 330 $31.25 $65,000 $30.09 $62,590
11 -9151 Social and Community Service Managers 100 $30.89 $64,260 $27.90 $58,040
Personal Service Managers, All Other11-9198 70 $43.86 $91,230 $43.87 $91,250
Business and Financial Operations Occupations13-0000 1,670 $31.19 $64,880 $28.21 $58,680
13-1020 Buyers and Purchasing Agents 140 $26.11 $54,310 $24.49 $50,940
13-1041 Compliance Officers 90 $29.55 $61,470 $27.26 $56,700
13-1051 Cost Estimators 60 $36.80 $76,550 $30.46 $63,360
13-1071 Human Resources Specialists 120 $31.91 $66,380 $31.63 $65,800
13-1111 Management Analysts 50 $41.77 $86,890 $40.19 $83,600
Meeting, Convention, and Event Planners13-1121 140 $29.15 $60,630 $28.74 $59,780
13-1131 Fundraisers 30 $30.31 $63,050 $28.81 $59,930
13-1151 Training and Development Specialists N/A $23.41 $48,700 $19.29 $40,130
Market Research Analysts and Marketing Specialists13-1161 $28.89 $60,100 $25.37 $52,780230
Project Management Specialists and Business Operations Specialists,13-1198 160 $35.95 $74,780 $33.76 $70,220All Other
13-2011 Accountants and Auditors 340 $29.98 $62,370 $27.63 $57,470
13-2052 Personal Financial Advisors 40 $51.98 $108,120 $24.64 $51,260
13-2072 Loan Officers 80 $25.96 $53,990 $26.39 $54,900
Financial and Investment Analysts, Financial Risk Specialists, and
Financial Specialists, All Other
13-2098 30 $32.54 $67,690 $29.26 $60,850
15-0000 Computer and Mathematical Occupations 470 $43.74 $90,980 $40.09 $83,390
15-1211 Computer Systems Analysts 90 $36.48 $75,880 $35.58 $74,010
15-1232 Computer User Support Specialists 60 $24.47 $50,900 $24.50 $50,960
Netvrark and Computer Systems Administrators15-1244 50 $35.44 $73,720 $31.93 $66,410
Software Developers and Software Quality Assurance Analysts and
Testers15-1256 140 $55.97 $116,420 $55.86 $116,200
38 Hawaii Occupational Employment and Wages, 2020
Occupational Employment and Wage Data, May 2020 - Maui MSA
wr mSOT lan
Employment Hourly Annual Hourly AnnualCode Occupational Title
Architecture and Engineering Occupations 440 $41.54 $86,400 $37.75 $78,51017-0000
130 $43.65 $90,790 S41.84 $87,02017-2051 Civil Engineers
40 $59.26 $123,270 $58.50 $121,67017-2071 Electrical Engineers
30 $51.10 $106,290 $51.43 $106,98017-2199 Engineers, All Other
50 $26.76 $55,670 $27.91 $58,060Architectural and Civil Drafters17-3011
30 $24.51 $50,990 $21.77 $45,28017-3031 Surveying and Mapping Technicians
Life, Physical, and Social Science Occupations 470 $32.09 $66,750 $27.00 $56,16019-0000
50 $56.75 $118,050 $38.55 $80,18019-3031 Clinical, Counseling, and School Psychologists
Community and Social Service Occupations 1,340 $23.94 $49,790 $22.29 $46,37021-0000
130 $30.91 $64,290 $30.24 $62,890Educational, Guidance, and Career Counselors and Advisors21-1012
Substance Abuse, Behavioral Disorder, and Mental Health Counselors 60 $26.64 $55,410 $26.20 $54,50021-1018
250 $24.84 $51,680 $24.28 $50,490Child, Family, and School Social Workers21-1021
40 $32.57 $67,740 $33.42 $69,50021-1022 Healthcare Social Workers
80 $25.22 $52,460 $23.34 $48,550Mental Health and Substance Abuse Social Workers21-1023
50 $27.34 $56,880 $23.32 $48,51021-1091 Health Education Specialists
390 $19.25 $40,050 $18.41 $38,280Social and Human Service Assistants21-1093
90 $15.29 $31,800 $14.34 $29,82021-1094 Community Health Workers
110 $28.07 $58,380 $28.95 $60,220Community and Social Service Specialists, All Other21-1099
70 $22.26 $46,310 $21.85 $45,45021-2011 Clergy
23-0000 Legal Occupations 230 $39.88 $82,960 $30.12 $62,640
90 $50.34 $104,710 $56.25 $117,00023-1011 Lawyers
70 $25.63 $53,320 $24.20 $50,330Paralegals and Legal Assistants23-2011
Education, Training, and Library Occupations 3,730 $26.20 $54,490 $24.43 $50,81025-0000
N/A $61,370 N/A $59,240Postsecondary Teachers, All Other 7025-1199
110 $17.83 $37,080 $17.52 $36,440Preschool Teachers, Except Special Education25-2011
N/A $62,840 N/A $62,200Elementary School Teachers, Except Special Education 60025-2021
N/A $61,920N/A $62,250Middle School Teachers, Ex. Special & Career/Tech. Education 28025-2022
N/A $63,600N/A $65,030Secondary School Teachers, Ex, Special & Career/Tech. Education 44025-2031
310 $31.33 $65,170 $21.58 $44,89025-3021 Self-Enrichment Teachers
330 $21.64 $45,000 $22.17 $46,12025-3031 Substitute Teachers
N/A $45,880
40 $31.44 $65,400 $30.10 $62,620
N/A $43,690Tutors and Teachers and Instructors, All Other 39025-3097
Librarians and Media Collections Specialists25-4022
80 $38.76 $80,620 $38.02 $79,08025-9031 Instructional Coordinators
N/A $32,380 N/A $31,190Teaching Assistants, Except Postecondary 50025-9045
Arts, Design, Entertainment, Sports, and Media Occupations 840 $26.30 $54,710 $22.54 $46,87027-0000
N/A $21.07 $43,830 $21.56 $44,85027-1023 Floral Designers
30 $24.43 $50,820 $25.76 $53,58027-1024 Graphic Designers
N/A $16.32 $33,940 $14.46 $30,070Merchandise Displayers and Window Trimmers27-1026
30 $37.28 $77,540 $30.35 $63,13027-2012 Producers and Directors
N/A $46,060 N/A $37,46014027-2022 Coaches and Scouts
N/AN/A N/A N/A5027-2031 Dancers
39Hawaii Occupational Employment and Wages, 2020
Occupational Employment and Wage Data, May 2020 - Maui MSA
Mean MedianSOC
Employment Hourly Annual Hourly AnnualCode Occupational Title
27-2042 Musicians and Singers 90 $33.19 N/A $32.15 N/A
27-3031 Public Relations Specialists 110 $29.89 $62,180 $32.06 $66,690
27-4021 Photographers 40 $20.92 $43,520 $18.41 $38,280
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Occupations 3,080 $46.83 $97,400 $41.21 $85,72029-0000
N/A $49.55 $103,060 $39.19 $81,51029-1021 Dentists
29-1031 Dietitians and Nutritionists 30 $37.94 $78,920 $36.05 $74,980
29-1051 Pharmacists 100 $62.90 $130,820 $64.64 $134,450
29-1071 Physician Assistants 50 $52.37 $108,920 $51.50 $107,110
29-1123 Physical Therapists 90 $36.27 $75,440 $36.38 $75,670
Speech-Language Pathologists29-1127 30 $39.28 $81,700 $37.18 $77,340
29-1131 Veterinarians 40 $43.96 $91,430 $31.31 $65,130
29-1141 Registered Nurses 1,160 $48.60 $101,080 $52.08 $108,330
29-1215 Family Medicine Physicians 70 $114.14 $237,420
Physicians, All Other, and Ophthalmologists, Except Pediatric29-1228 90 $117,91 $245,250
29-1248 Surgeons, Except Ophthalmologists N/A $86.62 $180,160 $73.55 $152,990
29-1292 Dental Hygienists 90 $39.04 $81,200 $38.50 $80,080
Clinical Laboratory Technologists and Technicians29-2010 100 $26.19 $54,470 $23.77 $49,440
29-2034 Radiologic Technologists and Technicians 90 $37.83 $78,680 $38.03 $79,110
29-2052 Pharmacy Technicians 160 $19.70 $40,970 $19.70 $40,970
29-2055 Surgical Technologists N/A $23.97 $49,850 $23.03 $47,910
Licensed Practical and Licensed Vocational Nurses29-2061 170 $24,68 $51,340 $24.40 $50,740
29-2081 Opticians, Dispensing N/A $25.17 $52,350 $25.49 $53,010
Medical Dosimetrists, Medical Records Specialists, and Health
Technologists and Technicans, All Other
29-2098 50 $21.61 $44,940 $21.42 $44,550
Health Information Technologists, Medical Registrars, Surgical
Assistants, and Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All
Other
29-9098 N/A $24.56 $51,080 $23.25 $48,350
31-0000 Healthcare Support Occupations 2,150 $18.01 $37,450 $16.84 $35,020
Home Health and Personal Care Aides31-1120 1,070 $15.22 $31,660 $14.36 $29,880
31-1014 Nursing Assistants 250 $17.30 $35,980 $17.70 $36,820
31-9011 Massage Therapists 150 $29.72 $61,820 $32.86 $68,350
31-9091 Dental Assistants 130 $20.20 $42,010 $20.44 $42,510
31-9092 Medical Assistants 280 $19.69 $40,950 $19.01 $39,540
Healthcare Support Workers, All Other31-9099 130 $22.31 $46,410 $22.78 $47,380
33-0000 Protective Service Occupations 1,910 $28.84 $60,000 $27.78 $57,780
33-1090 Miscellaneous First-Line Supervisors, Protective Service Workers 80 $30.25 $62,920 $31.08 $64,650
Police and Sheriffs Patrol Officers33-3051 270 $35.71 $74,280 $36.18 $75,250
33-9032 Security Guards 580 $18.71 $38,920 $18.45 $38,380
Lifeguards, Ski Patrol, and Other Recreational Protective Service
Workers33-9092 100 $24.39 $50,730 $25.42 $52,880
33-9093 Transportation Security Screeners 190 $25.53 $53,110 $25.61 $53,260
School Bus Monitors and Protective Service Workers, All Other33-9098 40 $21.62 $44,980 $17.68 $36,780
40 Hawaii Occupational Employment and Wages, 2020
Occupational Employment and Wage Data, May 2020 - Maui MSA
mmmean
Employment Hourly Annual Hourly AnnualCode Occupational Title
Food Preparation and Serving Related Occupations 10,390 $21.72 $45,180 $18.26 $37,98035-0000
150 $43.67 $90,840 $44.55 $92,650Chefs and Head Cooks35-1011
First-Line Supervisors of Food Preparation and Serving Workers 720 $28.60 $59,490 $28.48 $59,24035-1012
100 $22.58 $46,970 $22.81 $47,440Cooks, Institution and Cafeteria35-2012
1,320 $21.73 $45,200 $20.86 $43,38035-2014 Cooks, Restaurant
N/A $14.18 $29,490 $13.44 $27,950Cooks, Short Order35-2015
N/A $20.22 $42,060 $17.92 $37,280Cooks, All Other35-2019
900 $17.95 $37,330 $17.73 $36,88035-2021 Food Preparation Workers
500 $31.07 $64,630 $28.74 $59,78035-3011 Bartenders
2130 $13.54 $28,170 $12.90 $26,830Fast Food and Counter Workers35-3023
2,590 $27.51 $57,210 $26.41 $54,92035-3031 Waiters and Waitresses
110 $20.72 $43,090 $18.72 $38,940Food Servers, Nonrestaurant35-3041
720 $19.42 $40,390 $18.02 $37,480Dining Room and Cafeteria Attendants and Bartender Helpers35-9011
480 $16.15 $33,600 $15.12 $31,450
400 $17.95 $37,330 $16.81 $34,970
35-9021 Dishwashers
Hosts and Hostesses, Restaurant, Lounge, and Coffee Shop35-9031
Building and Grounds Cleaning and Maintenance Occupations 5,640 $19.33 $40,200 $19.00 $39,51037-0000
210 $30.09 $62,580 $29.15 $60,630First-Line Supervisors of Housekeeping and Janitorial Workers
First-Line Supervisors of Landscaping, Lawn Service, and
Groundskeeping Workers
37-1011
130 $27.38 $56,950 $27.34 $56,86037-1012
1,060 $18.50 $38,480 $18.40 $38,260Janitors and Cleaners, Except Maids and Housekeeping Cleaners37-2011
2,570 $19.07 $39,670 $19.15 $39,840Maids and Housekeeping Cleaners37-2012
50 $17.44 $36,280 $17.13 $35,62037-2021 Pest Control Workers
1,550 $18.26 $37,980 $17.77 $36,950Landscaping and Groundskeeping Workers37-3011
N/A $17.86 $37,150 $18.61 $38,700Tree Trimmers and Pruners37-3013
2,210 $18.45 $38,380 $16.62 $34,560Personal Care and Service Occupations39-0000
First-Line Supervisors of Personal Service and Entertainment and
Recreation Workers, Except Gambling Services
170 $23.85 $49,610 $24.98 $51,95039-1098
N/A $11.97 $24,900 $11.59 $24,12039-2021 Animal Caretakers
60 $15.74 $32,730 $14.25 $29,650Ushers, Lobby Attendants, and Ticket Takers39-3031
440 $18.10 $37,650 $17.12 $35,61039-3091 Amusement and Recreation Attendants
N/A $16.94 $35,230 $15.82 $32,900Hairdressers, Hairstylists, and Cosmetologists39-5012
260 $14.67 $30,510 $12.25 $25,490Baggage Porters and Bellhops39-6011
190 $23,19 $48,230 $23.08 $48,00039-6012 Concierges
160 $17,80 $37,020 $17.00 $35,360Tour and Travel Guides39-7010
250 $12.67 $26,350 $11.71 $24,35039-9011 Childcare Workers
110 $23.50 $48,870 $19.41 $40,370Exercise Trainers and Group Fitness Instructors39-9031
210 $20.08 $41,770 $20.91 $43,50039-9032 Recreation Workers
N/A $17.19 $35,750 $17.43 $36,25039-9041 Residential Advisors
Crematory Operators and Personal Care and Service Workers, All
Other 110 $19.36 $40,260 $12.94 $26,91039-9098
7,770 $20.01 $41,610 $16.44 $34,190Sales and Related Occupations41-0000
900 $22.99 $47,830 $21.66 $45,060First-Line Supervisors of Retail Sales Workers41-1011
140 $31.48 $65,480 $30.34 $63,100First-Line Supervisors of Non-Retail Sales Workers41-1012
1.780 $15.38 $31,980 $14.54 $30,25041-2011 Cashiers
41Hawaii Occupational Employment and Wages, 2020
Occupational Employment and Wage Data, May 2020 - Maui MSA
MedianMeanSOC
Em£!o^ment__Hourj^_^nnual^__Hourj^_^Ann^Code Occupational Title
Counter and Rental Clerks 380 $17.05 $35,460 $14.74 $30,66041-2021
41-2022 Parts Salespersons 60 $19.71 340,990 $18.36 $38,190
41-2031 Retail Salespersons 3,160 $16.27 $33,850 $15.19 $31,590
41-3011 Advertising Sales Agents 40 $29.06 $60,440 $25.94 $53,950
41-3021 Insurance Sales Agents 40 $26.18 $54,460 $27.02 $56,200
41-3041 Travel Agents 90 $23.25 $48,370 $20.62 $42,890
Sales Representatives of Services, Except Advertising, Insurance,
Financial Services, and Travel41-3091 600 $34.63 $72,020 $23,17 $48,190
Sales Representatives, Wholesale and Manufacturing, Technical and
Scientific Products41-4011 30 $43.36 $90,190 $40.36 $83,950
Sales Representatives, Wholesale and Manufacturing, Except
Technical and Scientific Products41-4012 310 $29.87 $62,140 $22.95 $47,740
41-9021 Real Estate Brokers N/A $28,64 $59,580 $23.99 $49,890
Office and Administrative Support Occupations43-0000 8,070 $20.94 $43,560 $20.04 $41,690
43-1011 First-Line Supervisors of Office and Administrative Support Workers 850 $27.32 $56,830 $26.73 $55,590
Switchboard Operators, Including Answering Service43-2011 50 $20.98 $43,630 $21.93 $45,610
43-3011 Bill and Account Collectors 60 $18.80 $39,100 $18.03 $37,490
Billing and Posting Clerks43-3021 80 ^0.71 $43,070 $19.05 $39,630
Bookkeeping, Accounting, and Auditing Clerks43-3031 500 $21.66 $45,050 $20.52 $42,670
Payroll and Timekeeping Clerks43-3051 50 $22.79 $47,410 $23.00 $47,840
43-3061 Procurement Clerks 30 $24.66 $51,300 $19.55 $40,670
43-3071 Tellers 270 $17.72 $36,850 $17.67 $36,750
43-4051 Customer Service Representatives 480 $19.38 $40,310 $18.60 $38,690
434061 Eligibility Interviewers, Government Programs N/A $22.64 $47,090 $21.86 $45,460
43-4071 File Clerks 50 $23.86 $49,630 $22.36 $46,500
Hotel, Motel, and Resort Desk Clerks43-4081 570 $21.16 $44,010 $21.90 $45,550
Human Resources Assistants, Except Payroll and Timekeeping434161 40 $21.44 $44,590 $21.70 $45,130
434171 Receptionists and Information Clerks 470 $17.41 $36,220 $17.02 $35,400
Reservation and Transportation Ticket Agents and Travel Clerks43-4181 290 $20.01 $41,610 $18.89 $39,280
Dispatchers, Except Police, Fire, and Ambulance43-5032 120 $22.27 $46,310 $21.50 $44,710
43-5051 Postal Service Clerks 70 $26.34 $54,780 $30.28 $62,980
Postal Service Mail Carriers43-5052 140 $25.60 $53,250 $23.94 $49,790
Production, Planning, and Expediting Clerks43-5061 60 $23.96 $49,830 $24.29 $50,530
Shipping, Receiving, and Traffic Clerks43-5071 70 $21.08 $43,840 $19.97 $41,530
Executive Secretaries and Executive Administrative Assistants43-6011 230 $29.56 $61,490 $29.62 $61,600
43-6012 Legal Secretaries N/A $25.85 $53,760 $25.05 $52,090
43-6013 Medical Secretaries 50 $20.68 $43,020 $20.92 $43,520
43-6014 Secretaries & Admin. Assistants, Ex. Legal, Medical, and Executive 960 $21.76 $45,270 $21.67 $45,080
Office Clerks, General43-9061 1,580 $17.87 $37,170 $17.08 $35,520
Farming, Fishing, and Forestry Occupations45-0000 200 $20.44 $42,510 $19.26 $40,060
45-2092 Farmworkers and Laborers, Crop Nursery, and Greenhouse 60 $19.30 $40,150 $18.50 $38,480
Construction and Extraction Occupations47-0000 3,690 $32.36 $67,300 $30.77 $64,000
First-Line Supervisors of Construction Trades and Extraction Workers47-1011 300 $40.15 $83,520 $39.20 $81,530
47-2031 Carpenters 820 $34.41 $71,570 $32.27 $67,130
42 Hawaii Occupational Employiment and Wages, 2020
Occupational Employment and Wage Data, May 2020 - Maui MSA
mean meaian
Code Occupational Title Employment Hourly Annual Hourly Annual
80 $27.32 $56,830 $27.43 $57,050
70 $39.29 $81,730 $38.39 $79,860
Tile and Stone Setters
Cement Masons and Concrete Finishers
47-2044
47-2051
47-2061 Construction Laborers 540 $29.11 $60,560 $30.51 $63,460
Operating Engineers and Other Construction Equipment Operators47-2073 280 $36.03 $74,940 $32.84 $68,300
47-2081 Drywall and Ceiling Tile Installers 110 $43.58 $90,640 $46.46 $96,640
47-2082 Tapers N/A $44.47 $92,500 $46.83 $97,400
47-2111 Electricians 360 $36.37 $75,640 $34.68 $72,140
Painters, Construction and Maintenance 220 $24.61 $51,190 $25.91 $53,89047-2141
220 $27.30 $56,790 $24.56 $51,08047-2152 Plumbers, Pipefitters, and Steamfitters
47-2181 Roofers 120 $25.05 $52,110 $25,10 $52,210
47-2231 Solar Photovoltaic installers 60 $27.32 $56,830 $27.07 $56,310
Helpers- Pipelayers, Plumbers, Pipefitters, and Steamfitters 30 $18.90 $39,310 $20.73 $43,13047-3015
47-4011 Construction and Building Inspectors 50 $29.93 $62,250 $29.58 $61,520
N/A $14.76 $30,690 $13.98 $29,08047-4051 Highway Maintenance Workers
Installation, Maintenance, and Repair Occupations 2,830 $27.97 $58,170 $27.31 $56,81049-0000
First-Line Supervisors of Mechanics, Installers, and Repairers 280 $35.53 $73,900 $33.89 $70,48049-1011
110 $27.70 $57,620 $28.03 $58,30049-3011 Aircraft Mechanics and Service Technicians
70 $23.88 $49,680 $19.82 $41,220Automotive Body and Related Repairers49-3021
260 $25.82 $53,710 $26.69 $55,520Automotive Service Technicians and Mechanics49-3023
140 $28.61 $59,520 $28.25 $58,750Bus and Truck Mechanics and Diesel Engine Specialists49-3031
40 $31.08 $64,640 $30.45 $63,350Mobile Heavy Equipment Mechanics, Except Engines49-3042
Outdoor Power Equipment and Other Small Engine Mechanics 50 $26.28 $54,660 $27.19 $56,55049-3053
50 $21.00 $43,670 $20.02 $41,630Tire Repairers and Changers49-3093
110 $33.92 $70,550 $33.87 $70,45049-9021 Heating, Air Conditioning, and Refrigeration Mechanics and Installers
Industrial Machinery Mechanics 40 $26.15 $54,390 $26.39 $54,88049-9041
N/A $35.29 $73,410 $35.93 $74,730Telecommunications Line Installers and Repairers49-9052
Maintenance and Repair Workers, General 1,210 $24.63 $51,240 $24.51 $50,98049-9071
70 $22,64 $47,080 $23.11 $48,070HelperS"lnstallation, Maintenance, and Repair Workers49-9098
51-0000 Production Occupations 1,460 $23.21 $48,280 $20.54 $42,710
140 $35.24 $73,300 $30.94 $64,360First-Line Supervisors of Production and Operating Workers51-1011
30 $15.40 $32,020 $14.70 $30,570Miscellaneous Assemblers and Fabricators51-2090
240 $20.62 $42,890 $20.12 $41,85051-3011 Bakers
40 $22.05 $45,860 $22.04 $45,850Butchers and Meat Cutters51-3021
60 $18.84 $39,190 $18.03 $37,50051-3092 Food Batchmakers
30 $33.64 $69,960 $30,28 $62,970Welders, Cutlers, Solderers, and Brazers514121
360 $18.63 $38,750 $18.57 $38,630Laundry and Dry-Cleaning Workers51-6011
110 $26.02 $54,120 $27.09 $56,340Water and Wastewater Treatment Plant and System Operators51-8031
30 $14.84 $30,860 $14.80 $30,770Packaging and Filling Machine Operators and Tenders51-9111
N/A $22.01 $45,790 $19.49 $40,540Molders, Shapers, and Casters, Except Metal and Plastic51-9195
40 $17.30 $35,980 $16.64 $34,600HelperS”Production Workers51-9198
Transportation and Material Moving Occupations 5,140 $19.34 $40,230 $17.68 $36,77053-0000
First-Line Supervisors of Transportation and Material Moving Workers,
Except Aircraft Cargo Handling Supervisors
280 $32.39 $67,370 $29.13 $60,60053-1047
N/AN/A N/A30 N/A53-2012 Commercial Pilots
43Hawaii Occupational Employment and Wages, 2020
Occupational Employment and Wage Data, May 2020 - Maui MSA
Mean MedianSOC
Code Occupational Title
53-3031 Driver/Sales Workers
Employment Hourly Annual Houriy Annual
210 $16.16 $33,620 $12.50 $26,010
Heavy and Tractor-Trailer Truck Drivers 230 $25.46 $52,960 $25.53 $53,10053-3032
Light Truck or Delivery Services Drivers 490 $18.71 $38,920 $18.38 $38,24053-3033
Bus Drivers, Transit and Intercity N/A53-3052 120 N/A N/A N/A
350 $16.77 $34,880 $15.12 $31,45053-3058 Passenger Vehicle Drivers, Except Bus Drivers, Transit and Intercity
Captains, Mates, and Pilots of Water Vessels 130 $23.58 $49,040 $23.22 $48,29053-5021
53-5022 Motorboat Operators N/A $25.02 $52,040 $23,68 $49,260
53-6021 Parking Attendants 220 $14.26 $29,660 $12,10 $25,180
Automotive and Watercraft Service Attendants 80 $15.22 $31,660 $14.30 $29,74053-6031
53-6061 Passenger Attendants N/A $16.26 $33,830 $15.10 $31,400
Cleaners of Vehicles and Equipment53-7061 340 $14.30 $29,750 $13.66 $28,410
Laborers and Freight, Stock, and Materia! Movers, Hand53-7062 650 S19.36 $40,280 $20.25 $42,110
Packers and Packagers, Hand53-7064 N/A S17.70 $36,820 $18.17 $37,780
Stockers and Orders Fillers53-7065 860 $17.13 $35,620 $16.32 $33,950
Refuse and Recyclable Material Collectors53-7081 N/A $25.67 $53,380 $25,77 $53,600
Data is prepared by Dept, of Business, Economic Development & Tourism, Labor Research Branch (OEWS) in cooperation with BLS.
N/A = Estimate is not available.
'This wage is equal to or greater than $ 100.00 per hour or $208,000 per year.
Notes: Estimates for detailed occupations do not sum to the totals because the totals include occupations not shown separately.
Estimates do not include self-employed workers.
Annual wages have been calculated by multiplying the hourly mean wage by a "year-round, full-time" hours figure of 2,080 hours; for
those occupations where there is not an hourly mean wage published, the annual wage has been dirctly calculated from the reported
survey data.
Wages for some occupations that do not generally work year-round, full time, are reported either as hourly wages or annual salaries
depending on how they are typically paid.
44 Hawaii Occupational Employment and Wages, 2020
Chase Amouyal <chaseamouyal@kiheicharter.org>p P  PP I\/ED
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 1:16 PM *
County Clerk
Bill 135 m\ HOV 17 PH 2
From:
Sent:
To:
2Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
You don't often get email from chaseamouyal@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this Is importahtOU HTY CLERK
November 16, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. . .
Thank You so much for attempting to save our coral
reefs,! truly do appreciate you helping the coral reefs
for our future generations. It will possibly restore the coral
reefs in maui forever, think of the next time you go snorkeling
in 5 years from now, the coral reefs won't be worse than they
are now. Because the reefs are our most important attractions
to the eye because they are so beautiful.
Sincerely,
Chase A. 7B kihei charter school.
1
From:
Sent:
Luz Arnal <luzarnal@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 1:14 PM
County Clerk
My support for Bill 135
RECEIVED
To:
20ZI NOV 17 PH |: 22Subject:
OFFICE OF TH
COUNTY CLERK
tz
'■ You don't often get email from iuzarnai@kiheicharter.org. Learn whv this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council,
1 am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. When I look at the Bill and the
way that the authors consider other people including the ecosystem, I am grateful because they
are willing to help. These people are educated and know the consequences of what would happen
if there were to be thousands of people every year buying sunscreen and being in the ocean.
classmates and I have been learning about the effects and threats from this problem. I believe that
if we have the ability and opportunity to conserve coral reefs, we should. Consumers sometimes
don't know about the effects of non reef safe sunscreen. Because of this, little attention has been
given to the effects of sunscreen; over 70% of coral from the entire world has been bleached.
When people snorkel they mostly go places with amazing coral and beautiful colors but over time
the coral gets bleached and loses all of the colors and fish. Losing the profit from tourists and
killing of the ocean. If we banned these chemicals, the ocean would be safer and people and
ocean ecosystems would be healthier. The amazing coral reefs would last and continue to draw
the attention of people. There are numerous problems in the world, if we have the ability to help
why shouldn't we
Sincerely
Luz 7th grade kihei charter school
1
Opposition to Bill 135
Dear Maui County Council Members,
Mahalo for your concern about maintaining the beauty of Hawaii. With that said, my opposition to Bill
135 and my concern is that mineral only sunscreens would result in less access for the public that would
result with negative health outcomes in the long-run. Only mineral ingredients in sunscreens may result
with more expensive sunscreens/sunblock for sale that would result with less people using necessary
sun protection. This is a equity issue- most people might not be able to afford more expensive
sunscreens. In future years we may find a higher diagnosis of various types of skin cancer.
Mahalo,
Cynthia Au
1073 Kinau Street
Honolulu, HI 96814
oo 73
mcn
50"i m
CD
O
rnCD
. O -T3C )
mrn oo
receivedCount^CleH<
im NOV 18 PH 1= ONFrom:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, November 18, 2021 12:09 PM
Cynthia Au; County Clerk
Re: Opposition to Bill 135
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
Thank you, I disagree they can wear a hat a or other forms of protection in that case these other chemical sunscreens
are toxic to humans and our marine environment
Get Outlook for iO$
From: Cynthia Au <cynthiakyau@gmail.com>
Sent; Thursday, November 18, 2021 11:15:29 AM
To: County Clerk <County.Clerk@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Opposition to Bill 135
IYou don't often get email from cynthiakyau@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Opposition to Bill 135
Dear Maui County Council Members,
Mahalo for your concern about maintaining the beauty of Hawaii. With that said, my opposition to Bill 135 and my
concern is that mineral only sunscreens would result in less access for the public that would result with negative health
outcomes in the long-run. Only mineral ingredients in sunscreens may result with more expensive sunscreens/sunblock
for sale that would result with less people using necessary sun protection. This is a equity issue- most people might not
be able to afford more expensive sunscreens. In future years we may find a higher diagnosis of various types of skin
cancer.
Mahalo,
Cynthia Au
Honolulu, HI 96814
1
County Clerk
RECLi '.'CD
From:
Sent:
Derek Barona <derekbarona@kiheicharter.org>
Tuesday, November 16, 2021 12:01 PM
County Clerk
Bill 135 Testimony
?0ZI NOV \6 PH 12- 35
To:
Subject: OFFICb OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from derekbarona@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
^iovember 16, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
I think Bill 135 is a great idea and here are some reasons why it should be enacted. Firstly this could
make a big headstart in restoring our reefs and helping our ocean. Also this can keep our future
generations from being deformed or having problems mentally or physically. We can make
endangered species populations rise back up because they would have living homes they could
survive off of. Then maybe in future we could enact this bill into other Hawaiian counties and make
Hawai’i completely reefs safe.
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. ..
1
RECEIVED
?0/l NOy [8 AH 8:35
7
Dcdicafeci to the conservation of coastal ami inariiie environments,
emphasizing stewardship ofthe natural resources of Hanauma Bay ‘ fTlCE OF THE
●■'.OUNTY CLERK
Council of the County of Maui
Regular Meeting of November 19, 2021 9:00 a.m.
Meeting Site: Online Only
via BlueJeans link httDs://maui.blueieans.com/295235670
November 17, 2021
Re: STRONG SUPPORT OF BILL 21-135: A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
CHAPTER 20.42, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO RPOHIBIT THE SALE, USE, OR DISTRIBUTION
OF NON-MINERAL SUNSCREENS
Aloha Maui County Council,
On behalf of the Board of Directors of Friends of Hanauma Bay, mahalo for the opportunity to
testify in strong support of Bill 21-135. Maui County led Hawai’i in the effort to ban chemical
sunscreens in 2017, and we are pleased to add our support for Bill 21 -135 which also prohibits
their use.
This is the next important step to help ensure public health and the health of our fragile marine
environments, further emphasized by the FDA’s recent proposal to classify all non-mineral
organic UV filters found in OTC sunscreens as Category II - Not Generally Recognized as Safe
and Effective due to lack of evidence of their safety and effectiveness.
The Personal Care Product Industry has had more than 40 years to prove the safety and
effectiveness of products containing non-mineral UV filters, yet still hasn’t done so, because
they simply aren’t safe and effective. Enough is enough.
We applaud Maui County residents and the Maui County Council for your courageous
leadership on this issue, and look forward to seeing similar sucessful efforts throughout our
State.
Mahalo for considering our testimony. Please pass Bill 21-135!
Sincerely,
Lisa Bishop
President
(808) 748-1819
PO [iOX 257fil. Honolulu. Hav.im ■* website. www.rriendM)nianaii miibii>.{)ro ' email; info'u.lVicndsolliauauinabav.org
Friaiiix of fh/iiaiimu Buy is a Scclioii Uul-fnr-pnilil cluii iUihh’ <nx‘inizuti')n
rederul Tax IJettlilkolioii X'umhei- W-02S5649
RECEIVEDCount^£Ierk
From:
Sent:
S. Leihuanani Bissen <slbissen@gmail.com>
Friday, November 19, 2021 8:20 AM
County Clerk
S. Leihuanani Bissen
Strong Support for Aina Kupuna Bill 118
20?1 NOV ! 9 AM 8: 23
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Cc:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from slbissen@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
TO: Chair Alice Lee and Members of the Maui County Counci
Aloha mai kakou,
On behalf of my Kupuna MOLOA KUKAHIKO (AUWELOA),
ALFRED KALAWAIANUI NAKOA
EDNA NAKOA(BISSEN)
and my children and grandchildren....
I strongly support the Aina Kupuna Bill 118 and seek your support in this
matter. Mahalo for the countless hours and consideration you have
already provided.
We mahalo you and send aloha to you and your lineage now and for
always.
Mai Ka Pu'uwai,
Always with Aloha!
Sheron Leihuanani Bissen
808.855.8123
'Never forget who you are and where you come from
wisdom from Violet Ho'okano Nakoa, my tutu!
1
receivedTestimony from the Hawaii Skin Cancer Coalition Against
im NOV 17 PN 12: 04Bill Number 135, "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 20.42,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO PROHIBIT THE SALE, USE, OR
MINERAL SUNSCREENS" DISTRIBUJIQI^Cg^t^ryT^
CSOUNTY CLERK
To the Honorable Chair and Members of the Maui County Council:
The members of the Hawaii Skin Cancer Coalition voice our strong opposition to Bill
#135, “A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 20.42, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, TO PROHIBIT THE SALE, USE, OR DISTRIBUTION OF NON
MINERAL SUNSCREENS.”
While the intent of this bill is to prevent the decline of our precious coral reefs, it may
in fact have the opposite effect and promote coral decline for the following reasons:
1) Recent studies have identified that mineral sunscreens and the physical
residue they leave in our ocean may cause more damage to coral reefs and are
also damaging to marine life.
Additionally, this bill is premature as:
2) The EPA has convened a national committee of scientific experts to
examine the ecological and human effects of sunscreens. The committee’s
recommendations are expected to be released in Spring 2022. The ban may
countermand the findings of this national effort to examine the effects of
sunscreen components and their constituent chemicals.
3) The ban may inadvertently create an illegal market for sunscreen products
and booster disingenuous efforts to profit from illegally conferring reef-safety
status on marketed sunscreens.
Finally:
4) The bill will remarkably reduce the effectiveness of currently marketed
sunscreens to prevent sunburn, premature aging and skin cancers. Currently,
skin cancer in the most common cancer type in the US with more than 5
million cases diagnosed each year for an average annual treatment cost of
$8.1 billion.
The Hawaii Skin Cancer Coalition is a collaborative effort between concerned local
organizations and businesses including, the University of Hawai’i Cancer Center,
American Cancer Society, Hawaii Pathologists’ Laboratory, the Friends of the
University of Hawai’i Cancer Center, the Hawaii Dermatological Society,
Kaiser Permanente, Kuakini Health System, the Hawaii Lifeguard Association,
Queen’s Healthcare Plan, the Hawaii Ophthalmological Society. All of these
organizations share a common goal to help prevent skin cancer.
The Hawaii Skin Cancer Coalition’s mission is to provide clear, concise messages
on skin cancer prevention and early detection for both the public and health
professionals based upon current and accurate information.
REFERENCES;
Fel, JP., Lacherez, C.. Bensetra, A. et al. Photochemical response of the
scleractinian coral Stylophora pistillata to some sunscreen ingredients. Coral
Reefs 38, 109-122 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00338-018-01759-4
1)
https://phvs.orq/news/2019-03-beaches-sunscreens-coral-reefs.html
https://phvs.orq/news/2019-02-insufficient-evidence-sunscreen-coral-
reefs.html
2) Environmental Impact of Currently Marketed Sunscreens and Potential
Human Impacts of Changes in Sunscreen Usage [ National Academies at:
https://www.nationalacademies.orq/our-work/environmental-impact-of-
currentlv-marketed-sunscreens-and-potential-human-impacts-of-chanqes-in-
sunscreen-usaqe
3) Haereticus Environmental Laboratory (Not certified by the FDA or EPA for this
function) at:
https://haereticus-lab.orq/protect-land-sea-certification-3/
4) Rogers HW, Weinstock MA, Feldman SR, Coldiron BM. Incidence estimate of
nonmelanoma skin cancer (keratinocyte carcinomas) in the US population,
2012. JAMA Dermatol 2015; 151(10):1081-1086.
Cancer Facts and Figures 2021. American Cancer Society.
https://www.cancer.org/content/dam/cancer-org/research/cancer-facts-and-
statistics/annual-cancer-facts-and-figures/2021/cancer-facts-and-figures-
2021.pdf. Accessed January 13, 2021.
Stern, RS. Prevalence of a history of skin cancer in 2007: results of an
incidence-based model. Arch Dermatol 2010; 146{3):279-282.
Thank you for the opportunity to submit testimony on behalf of the Hawaii Skin
Cancer Coalition. For more information, please contact us at 808-284-9097.
Sincerely,
.<2: .O'
Kevin D. Cassel, DrPH
President
Hawaii Skin Cancer Coalition
Count^CleHt
ncoriVF^p
Ml m 18 AH 8:36
From:
Sent:
Deashia Lei Chang <deashialeichang@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:29 AM
County Clerk
Strong Support for 'Aina kupuna Bill 118
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from deashialeichang(5)gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Chair Alice Lee & Members of the Council,
My name is Deashia Lei Chang and 1 am in STRONG SUPPORT of 'Aina KOpuna Bill 118 and it's amendments. This bill will
allow many Hawaiian families to continue their legacy on their land, within their 'ohana. It will continue on the history
of their 'Aina that can be passed down for generations. This bill gives families the opportunity to afford to stay in their
homes without being pushed out due to rising taxes.
Mahalo for the opportunity to make this be an option for families that have 'Aina kupuna. Mahalo Vice-Chair Keani
Rawlins-Fernandez for presenting this bill.
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clet^ ppr,F:.\,-Fn
From:
Sent:
changnatasha <changnatasha@yahoo.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 10:01 PM
County Clerk
Strong Support for 'Aina Kupuna Bill 118
m\ NOV 19 AH 7: 57
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from changnatasha@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha! Im in front support for the 'Aina Kupuna bill. Thank you for everyone's support. Let's make a difference
for our people. Mahalo
Sent from my Galaxy
1
Count^£leHt
From:
Sent:
Nicole Critchlow <nicolecritchlow@kiheicharter.org>
Friday, November 19, 2021 9:07 AM
County Clerk
Support for Bill 135
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from nicolecritchlow@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Council,
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135:
People don’t realize how bad the effects of non reef safe sunscreen is. Up to 6,000 tons of sunscreen
are estimated to wash into coral reefs around the globe each year. Most of that is full of Homosalate
and Parabens, which aren’t only bad for the environment, but also bad for you, with inhaling non reef
sunscreen is even worse than it seeping into your skin. In fact, says Craig A. Downs, Ph.D., executive
director of the nonprofit Haereticus Environmental Laboratory, though oxybenzone and octinoxate are
the most widely studied, there are several other chemicals used in sunscreens and other personal
care products that research suggests might be an environmental threat. This is why I fully support Bill
135.
Sincerely,
Nicole Critchlow
7th Grade, Kihei Charter School
Om
C n-5 scCD m2 o OH n-1-< moo*n
m -H m'O
Om CO
1
Count^CleHc
From:
Sent:
Luella Crutcher <luellacrutcher@yahoo.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 6:12 PM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna Bill 118
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from lueilacrutcher@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Dear Chairman Lee and members of the Council, Thankyou so much for addressing this long-standing issue by
establishing new ordinance that provides tax relief for lands dedicated as 'Aina Kupuna and your support for the bill and
amendments.
Sincerely,
Luella Nohea Chang Crutcher
Sent from my iPhone
oo 73●3S.
mC3
20H Om mCO-<
OO -o=s
mm
a\-no
1
In Support of MauKs Bill 135 (2021) to Prohibit the sale, use or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens
Joseph C. DiNardo, MS - Toxicologist
November 18, 2021
I would like to thank the Council of the County of Maui for the opportunity to comment on this very
important environmental and human health bill relating to non-mineral sunscreens (organic sunscreen
actives). The following comments are based on my experience with product development, regulatory
compliance as well as pre-clinical and clinical safety testing with some environmental testing of OTC
sunscreen actives and formulations dating back to 1976.
Below are the references to a number of scientific publications, citizen petitions and critiques on
studies that my colleagues and I have published demonstrating the toxicity of various organic
sunscreen actives currently under FDA scrutiny. Not only are these chemicals toxic to the environment
but also clearly toxic to human life and should not be allowed for sale.
Additionally, I would like to reiterate that the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) has already recognized that several sunscreen actives not only harm coral but also cause
damage to algae, mussels, sea urchins, fish and dolphins.
https://oceanscrvice.noaa.gov/news/sunscreen-corals.html
SUNSCREEN CHEMICALS AND MARINE LIFE
How sunscreen chemicals enter our environment:
V
How sunscreen chemicals can affect marine life:
' t .A
or'rt utv .1.
ON A ,K.'
rt"?Cf
1., t.'.r 'V..- <-■I  ‘I 1 .1111.
●● iCd to\ ,.i iv:iI .'V
What can we do?
Seek fhode between 10 am A 2 pm, ute VHrevlokt Protection factor (UPfj sunweer, oorf cftoow umscreens with chemkais Iftof <ton'( barm marine lift.
le(|lntsSun thfrtUV Sun fla$$etUmbrella Sun hatSecli ihade: lOam to 2pm
Please support Bill 135 (2021) prohibiting the sale, use or distribution of
non-mineral sunscreens to protect Maui’s aquatic life and citizens.
Mahalo!
Scientific Publications:
1) C.A. Downs, Elizabeth Bishop, M. Silvia Diaz Cruz, S. Abbas Haghshenas, Didier Stien, Alice
M.S.Rodriguese, Cheryl M.Woodley, Adria Sunyer-Caidu, Shadan Nasseri Doust, William Espero, Gene
Ward, Aref Farhangmehr, S. Maryam Tabatabaee Samimi, Michael J. Risk, Philippe Lebarone, Joseph
DiNardo. Oxybenzone contamination from sunscreen pollution and its ecological threat to Hanauma
Bay, Oahu, Hawaii, U.S.A. In Press Journal Pre-proof Available at
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S004565352103352X
2) Downs CA, DiNardo JC, Stien D, Rodrigues AMS, Lebaron P. Correspondence: Response to the Letter
to the Editor by Dr. Christian Surber. Chem Res Toxicol. 2021 Aug 11.
doi:10.1021/acs.chemrestox.lc00217.
3) DiNardo JC, Downs CA. Failure to Protect: Do Sunscreens Prevent Skin Cancer in Humans? Toxicol:
Open Access 2021, 7:3-8 Available at
https://www.omicsonline.org/open-access/failure-to-protect-do-sunscreens-prevent-skin-cancer-in-
humans.pdf
4) Downs CA, DiNardo JC, Stien D, Rodrigues AMS, Lebaron P. Benzophenone accumulates over time
from the degradation of octocrylene in commercial sunscreen products. Chem. Res. Toxicol. 2021, 34,
4,1046-1054. DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrestox.0c00461
5) DiNardo JC, Downs CA. Fall from GRASE: The Sunsetting of the Sunscreen Innovation Act. American
Journal of Dermatological Research and Reviews. 2021, 4:39. DOI: 10.28933/ajodrr-2020-12-2805.
Available at https://escipub.CQm/Article5/AJODRR/AJODRR-2020-12-2805.pdf
6) DiNardo, J.C. Correspondence: Letter to the Editor regarding “The banned sunscreen ingredients
and their impact on human health: a systematic review". Int J Dermatol. August 15, 2020, 60:el9
https://doi.org/10.llll/ijd.15087
7) DiNardo, J.C. and Downs, C.A.; Should a Toxicological Risk Assessment of Ubiquitous Chemicals Be
Done Using Data From Only One Source of Exposure? Open AccJ of Toxicol. 2020; 4{2):555633. DOI:
10.19080/OAJT.2020.04.555633. Available at
https://iuniperpublishers.com/oait/pdf/QAJT.MS.ID.555633.pdf
8) DiNardo, J.C. and Downs, C.A.; Why Evaluate the Sunscreen Active Oxybenzone (Benzophenone-3)
for Carcinogenicity and Reproductive Toxicology or Consider it Unsafe for Human Use? Dermatol Res
2019; 1:1-3. Available at http://scivisionpub.com/pdfs/whv-evaluate-the-sunscreen-active-
oxvbenzone-benzophenone3-for-carcinogenicitv-and-reproductive-toxicologv-or-consider-it-unsafe-f-
932.pdf
9) DiNardo, J.C. and Downs, C.A.; Can Oxybenzone Cause Hirschsprung's Disease? Reprod Toxicol. 2019
Jun;86:98-100. doi: 10.1016/].reprotox.2019.02.014.
10) DiNardo, J.C. and Downs, C.A.; Should We Use Products Containing Chemical UV Absorbing
Sunscreen Actives on Children? Clin Dermatol Res  J2019, 4:1-2. https://www.scitechnol.com/peer-
review/should-we-use-products-containing-chemical-uv-absorbing-sunscreen-actives-on-children-
YOcB.php?article id=9314
11) DiNardo, J.C. and Downs, C.A.; Dermatological And Environmental Toxicological Impact Of The
Sunscreen Ingredient Oxybenzone (Benzophenone-3).  JCosmet Dermatol, 2018 Feb;17(l):15-19.
FDA and National Toxicology Program Communications:
12) FDA-1978-N-0018-15832 Comments on Proposed 2019/2021 Sunscreen monograph (November
11, 2021) https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FDA-1978-N-0Q18-15832
13) FDA-2021-P-0985 (September 9, 2021) HI, CA, FL and VI Citizen Petition on 3 Toxic O's
httPs://www.regulations.gov/search?filter=FDA-2021-P-0985
14) FDA-2021-P-0508-0001 Remove Octocrylene Products from Store Shelves Petition (August 5
2021): https://www.reaulations.aov/document/FDA-2021-P-0508-0001
15) FDA-2021-P-0680-0001 Remove Octocrylene from Category III to Category II Petition (June 3
2021): https://www.reaulations.QOv/document/FDA-2021-P-0680-00Q1
16) FDA-2020-P-1297 SPF 30+ Petition (April 17, 2020): httPs://www.reaulations.aov/search?filter=FDA-
2020-P-1297
17) FDA-1978-N-0018-1508 (April 5, 2019) - Toxicological Review (350-400 references
noted)... httPs://www.reaulations.aov/search/comment?filter=FDA-1978-N-0018-1508
18) FDA-1978-N-0018-1081 (March 11, 2019) - General Sunscreen Comments (29 references
noted)... https://www.regulations.aov/search/comment?filter=FDA-1978-N-0018-1081
19) National Toxicology Program (NOVEMBER 19, 2019) - Carcinogenicity Testing on Oxybenzone
https://ntP.niehs.nih.aov/ntp/about ntp/trpanel/2Q19/december/publiccomm/dinardo20191119 trprp 508.pdf
20) National Toxicology Program (September 21, 2021) - Modified One-Generation Reproductive Toxicity
Testing on Oxybenzone
https://ntp.niehs.nih.gov/ntp/about ntp/trpanel/2021/october/publiccomm/dinardo oxvbenzone202
10928 trprp 508.pdf
21) National Toxicology Program (September 21. 2021) - Modified One-Generation Reproductive Toxicity
Testing on Octinoxate
https://ntp.niehs.nih.gov/ntp/about_ntp/trpanel/2021/october/publiccomm/dinardo_octinoxatp2021092^rprp
_508.pdf ' “O-T! 73C "n
50m
mCD
oCO rn<
oo 3s» <"TJ
mmxJX
t; m
qo owCN
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Denis Dudley <DKLD@rogers.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:29 PM
County Clerk
Re; Bill 135(2021)
EXECUTUVE SUMMARY - Update on Bill 135 (2021) in Hawaii.docx; 10 ESTABLISHED
FACTS ABOUT SOLUBLE ORGANIC UV FILTERS.docx
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
You don't often get email from dkld(5)rogers.com. Learn why this is important
To the County Clerk,
Maui County:
Please find attached two documents that provide a medical perspective on why Sunscreens that use Petrochemical or
Soluble UV Filters are NEITHER SAFE NOR EFFECTIVE, and as they are non-biodegradable they pollute, harm and
bioaccumulate in the entire global environment, including humans and wildlife. I do hope you will enter them into the
record and consider them in your deliberations.
Yours truly.
Dr. Denis K. L Dudley MD, FRCS(C).
Mobile: 613-292-8457.
oc 73O T?
CD m
rn O
fTlMD
oo -n
(T. --I
73X oX:m
1
receivedCount^CleH<
2011 HOV 19 AH 7* 57From:
Sent:
ALISON Ferguson <ferguson.ali@gmail.com>
Friday, November 19, 2021 6:53 AM
County Clerk
In Support of Maui County Bill 135 (2021)
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don't often get email from ferguson,ali@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
)ear Honorable Maui County Councilmembers,
I am a frequent and long time visitor to the Hawaiian Islands. I am in strong support of Bill 135 prohibiting the sale,
use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens that have questionable effects on the health of humans and marine life.
On September 24, 2021, the FDA issued a proposed order concerning nonprescription sunscreen drug products. In
the proposed order, two mineral products zinc oxide and titanium dioxide are deemed generally recognized as safe
and effective (GRASE), and fourteen products are deemed NOT GRASE. Of the fourteen products, twelve products
do not currently contain sufficient data to support positive GRASE classification. The twelve products that require
additional data are avobenzone, cinoxate, dioxybenzone, ensulizole, homosalate, meradimate, octinoxate, octisalate,
octocrylene, oxybenzone, padimate 0, and sulisobenzone.
It is in the people’s best interest that we apply the Precautionary Principle which asserts that the burden of proof for
potentially harmful actions by industry or government rests on the assurance of safety and that when there are threats
of serious damage, scientific uncertainty must be resolved in favor of prevention.
Sincerely,
Alison Ferguson
1078 Peninsula St
Ventura CA 93001
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
BJ Fogg PhD <bjfogg@stanford.edu>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 12:14 PM
County Clerk
Bill 135 — My written testimony
RECEIVEDTo:
W\ NOV 17 PH |: 02Subject:
OFriCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKIYou don't often get email from bjfogg@stanford.edu. Learn why this is important
I'm a resident of Maui. I surf in south Maui about 150 times a year, usually wearing sunscreen.
1 strongly support the proposal to prohibit non-mineral sunscreens on our island.
In addition, I believe we need to be clearer about which sunscreens are actually "reef safe" as opposed to "reef
friendly" or other confusing terms.
Here's my story of failure ...
I have a Ph.D. from Stanford, and I'm a good researcher. I've tried to buy and use only "reef safe" sunscreen. But this
week I learned I've made mistakes.
Over the last year or so, I purchased 12 brands of sunscreen. I got them all out today and looked at the ingredients
carefully. I was bewildered to learn that 5 of the 12 products were NOT reef safe. 1 thought they ALL were. (In fact,
one brand I bought at the surf shop says "reef safe" on it but yet contains 7% octinoxate.)
Please take steps to limit the sale of sunscreens that are not reef safe. Also, if there's a way to do so, let's stop
people from bringing damaging sunscreens to Maui when they visit.
Thank you.
BJ Fogg, PhD
Adjunct Faculty, Stanford University
bifoeg@stanford.edu
Maui Resident, living at 4955 Makena Road, Kihei
1
RECEIVED
70ZI NOV 17 PH |: 22November 17, 2021
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Dear Maui County Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135,1 strongly believe that
this bill will further help not only to protect the beautiful coral reefs but the community
around us here in Maui. The Chemicals stated in Bill 135 are in 3,500 products today.
Non-reef safe sunscreen is killing marine life and our bodies, we need to stop this now.
These chemicals disrupt the reproduction of marine life. I believe bill 135 will have a
positive impact on marine life. "Let's say 10% of Maui and visitors get in the ocean each
day, maybe 14,000 people; now let’s imagine half of those people put on about one
ounce of sunscreen, or half of the bottle that goes into the ocean affects marine life and
the community. No matter what sunscreen you use, it will eventually go into the ocean.
Hawaii's environment is being severely impacted by non reef safe sunscreen. Again, I'd
like to restate my support for bill 135 to ban the use, sale, and distribution of non-reef
safe sunscreen.
Sincerely,
Arayanna Foster
7th Grade at Kihei Charter Middle School
RECEIVED
November 18, 2021 m\ NOV 19 AH 7: 57
OrrlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKAloha Council Chair Lee and Maui County Council Members,
I am one of your nextdoor neighbors living on the island of Hawai'i. As such, I share your concern
for the health of our ocean and the stress placed on our living corals by climate change and the
pollution of our near shore waters. 1 was excited to hear about Maui County Bill 135 and wanted
to add my support for the passage of this bill prohibiting the sale, use, or distribution of non
mineral sunscreens that have questionable effects on the health of humans and marine life.
I understand that on September 24 of this year, the FDA issued a proposed order naming two
minerals products- zinc oxide and titanium oxide  -to be generally recognized as safe and
effective. The rest of the products do not seem to have enough data to support that classifiction.
I think it is in all of our best interest if the Precautionary Principle is followed in this instance
leaving the burden of proof for potentially harmful actions by industry resting on the asssuraance
of safety, and when there are threats of serious damage, uncertainty be resolved in favor of
prevention.
1 thank you and hope you will support this bill as the consequences of do anything other will be
dire for our marine life and for the quality of our own lives in this beautiful and fragile
environment.
Sincerely,
JoAnn Bishop Freed
73-1166 Mahilani Drive
Kailua Kona, HI 96740
Countj^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Hana Freet <hanafreet@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9;16 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for Bill 135
Z02I NOV 18 AH 8^ 35
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF TH
COUNTY CLERK
Cl
You don't often get email from hanafreet@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. 1 believe that this bill will help not only our
coral reefs but everything around us. The chemicals stated in Bill 135 are in over 3,500 products
today, and the products with these chemicals in them are mostly from big manufacturers that are
known all across the U.S. At ‘Ahihi Bay, these chemicals have been found at 14 times the “safe"
levels for coral to survive. If this bill is not passed, then that number will keep going up not only at
‘Ahihi Bay but all around Maui and the Hawaiian Islands. If this bill is passed, then the smaller
companies that are selling mineral-based sunscreen products will get better sales than they had
before and our coral reefs will have a better chance of survival. When the chemicals stated in Bill 135
are put into the water, they are killing the coral and stopping the coral's ability to reproduce. Not only
when you apply sunscreen at the beach, but when you spray sunscreen anywhere on the islands, it
will eventually come off and end up in the ocean from runoffs, rivers, and drains. Again, I’d like to
restate my support for Bill 135 to ban the use, sale, and distribution of non-reef safe sunscreen in
Maui County.
Sincerely
Hana Freet
7th Grade
Kihei Charter Middle School
1
CHPA CONSUMER
HEALTHCARE
PRODUCTS
ASSOCIATION
Taking healthcare personally.
m\ NOV !8 AM 8: 36
OFFIC-E OF THE
COUNTY CLERKNovember 18, 2021
The Honorable Alice Lee
Chair, Council of the County of Maui
Kalana O Maui Building, 8*^ floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RE: OPPOSITION - Legislation Banning the Sale, Use, and Distribution of Non-Mineral
Sunscreens (Bill No.135)
Dear Chair Lee.
On behalf ofthe Consumer Healthcare Products Association (CHPA), the national trade
association representing the leading manufacturers of over-the-counter (OTC) medications,
dietary supplements, and consumer medical devices, I am writing to express strong opposition
to (Bill No.135) - a proposed ordinance seeking to prohibit the sale. use. or distribution of non
mineral sunscreen.
CHPA is the leading voice fighting to ensure that Americans have access to safe and effective
OTC medications to get well, stay healthy and - as the case with sunscreens - prevent serious
illness. Our mission is to empower self-care by preserving and expanding choice and
availability of consumer healthcare products, including both mineral and non-mineral
sunscreens, so that consumers can live happier, healthier lives through responsible seif-care.
Unfortunately, removing consumer access to the most popular safe and effective skin cancer
preventing sunscreens on the market today - as described in the proposed ordinance - runs
contrary to these ideals and will adversely impact the health and welfare of Maui residents and
its visitors.
Sunscreens Are Safe. Effective and Save Lives
Sunscreen ingredients currently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are
commonly used to block the full range of ultraviolet rays that are linked to skin cancer - one of
the most common, yet preventable forms of cancer in the world according to the World
Health Organization (WHO). Eliminating sunscreen options for consumers needlessly increases
the risk of skin cancer for residents and visitors of Maui. In fact, the American Cancer Society
estimates that melanoma will be one ofthe leading causes of new cancer cases in Hawaii in
2021.
The State of Hawaii remains the only American state to have banned the sale of sunscreens
containing oxybenzone and octinoxate. Needlessly expanding this ban in Maui to include all
non-mineral sunscreens inaccurately depicts sunscreen ingredients as harmful to coral reefs
and other marine life; a position that is contrary to the scientific consensus that rising sea
temperatures as a result of global warming are the primary cause of coral decline, and that
global warming, land pollution, and other human activities are the primary causes of coral
bleaching around the world.
1625 Eye Street. NW. Suite 600 I Washington. DC 20006 1 Tel: 202.A29.9260 I chpa.org
Consumer Healthcare Products Association
Opposition to Proposed Sunscreen Ordinance
November 18, 2021 - Page 2 of 3
Given the decades of safe and effective use by humans and the lack of convincing scientific
evidence that sunscreens are responsible for environmental and marine decline, we strongly
oppose this proposed legislation. Consumer access to sunscreen products containing a broad
variety of ingredients, especially in a state with the highest rate of melanoma cases attributed
to UV exposure, is a matter of public health. For these reasons, we oppose passage of CR 21-113.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Will Evaluate The Potential Environmental Impact of
Non-Mineral Sunscreens
FDA has noted that they intend to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) under
the National Environmental Policy Act to evaluate the potential environmental effects of
revised conditions for marketing certain sunscreen products for OTC use without prior
approval of a new drug application. In preparing the EiS, FDA must complete a record of
decision stating the full decision, identifying and discussing the alternatives considered, state
whether all practical means to avoid or minimize the environmental harm have been adopted,
and summarize the program for monitoring and enforcing the practical means adopted.
There is no mandate that certain decisions be made (or not made) based on the EIS. just that
the impact and alternatives be discussed.
Sunscreen Bans by Local Government in Hawaii May Be Illegal
In 2017, the Maui County Department of the Corporation Counsel advised the Maui Council of
legal issues that may apply with proposed ordinances seeking to ban specific sunscreens.
Specifically, the Department of Corporation Counsel suggested that such an ordinance may. in
fact, be preempted by both State and Federal law. Additionally, the Department warned the
Council that a local sunscreen ban may also conflict with the federal Commerce Clause, and
therefore could trigger a legal challenge. The Hawaii Revised Statutes (HRS) broadly
authorizes the Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR) to regulate and
oversee "near-shore waters." Since Maui County’s powers are derived from the State of Hawai'i,
HRS, and the amended Charter of Maui County in 1982, a sunscreen sales ban is likely invalid.
Sunscreen regulation in Hawai'i, therefore, should be left to the Hawai'i legislature as it was
when the county contemplated a similar ban of oxybenzone and octinoxate containing
sunscreens a few years ago.
Conclusion
CHPA respectfully requests you oppose any policy that bans the sale, use, or distribution of
non-mineral sunscreens. A decision of this magnitude deserves a deliberative discussion and
examination of all potential consequences - including the health of Maui residents and visitors.
Thank you for your consideration and please feel free to contact me directly with any
questions.
Respectfully submitted,
Carlos 1. Gutierrez
Vice President, State & Local Government Affairs
Consumer Healthcare Products Association
Consumer Healthcare Products Association
Opposition to Proposed Sunscreen Ordinance
November 18, 2021 - Page 3 of 3
(202) 429-35211 cautierrez@chpa.ora
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Council Vice-Chair
Tasha Kama. President Officer Pro Tempore
Cabe Johnson, Councilmember
KellyTakaya King, Councilmember
Mike Molina, Councilmember
Tamara Paltin, Councilmember
Shane Sinenci, Councilmember
Yuki Lei Sugimura, Councilmember
Office of the County Clerk
Cc:
received
7 Ml 9-- Of^
Count^CleHc
MI! NOV 1
OF THc
COUNTY CLtRK
Madilyn Hays <madilynhays@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:06 AM
County Clerk
My Support for Bill 135
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from madilynhays@kihelcharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. It is a very serious situation.
Levels of chemicals in ‘Ahihi Bay have been found at 868 parts per trillion, or fourteen times the “safe”
levels for coral to survive the natural area reserve states. Oxybenzone, octocrylene and octinoxate
are the primary sunscreen ingredients of concern. Zinc and titanium dioxide are mineral ingredients
that are good for your body and the coral reefs by the Food and Drug Administration. Bill 2571
banned only two of the many ingredients that harm the reefs. Companies making non reef safe
sunscreen products falsely advertise that they are “reef friendly” when they state that there is no
oxybenzone in their ingredients. They might not have oxybenzone in the sunscreen, but that doesn’t
apply to other toxic chemicals. Not only are these toxic chemicals bad for the environment, but they
can be bad for yourself. Tourists might go to a shop and spot a “reef friendly” sunscreen and think
about how much they want to help the reefs and blindly hurt them. That is why I am in strong favor for
supporting Bill 135.
Sincerely,
Madilyn Hays
Kihei Charter School, 7th grade
1
RECEIVEDCount^Clerk
Z02I NOV 17 SH 9: 08From:
Sent:
Eli Hazlet <elihazlet@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:04 AM
County Clerk
Testimony for bill 135
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLER t y
T\
Subject:
You don't often get email from elihaziet@kiheicharter.org. Learn whv this is important
November 16, 2021
Dear Maui County Council,
I am writing to you this letter to express my support for Bill 135 and why I think you should make it a
law. I get it why make more work and a new law, well I am here to try to convince you that it is worth
the work. This law will support the reef and Maui in general to last longer. Think about it, if we want to
live here we have to respect the ocean and OUR own Island. I emphasize that it is ours because we
live here. This law won't just help the reef and the land but it will help us. The work will be worth it. I
assure you this will help Maui last dozens of years longer. Yes, maybe you have to do some work but
think about it in the long term. Have you ever bought reef safe sunscreen? Well sorry to break it to
you but that was probably a lie. There are dozens of chemicals that are harmful to the reef but in Bill
2571 we only ban two. We need to make this a law, this is in our own interest and yes, I do see the
other side. This will be very hard for thousands of sunscreen companies and might put a lot of them
out of business but If we don't make it a law, it will put thousands more in crisis. If we don't have a
reef, tourists won't come to admire it and in Maui, that is our main source of income and in all of
Hawaii. I hope I have made a good argument that convinces you to make this a law.
Thank you,
Eli Hazlet
7th grade Kihei Charter
1
rABC The ABC Stores
766 Pohukama Street
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-5391
www.abcstores.cxim
Store Telephone: (808) 591-2550
Fax: (808) 591 -2039
E-mail; mail@abcstores.com
mill.
^TQRE^
November 16, 2021
Honorary Chair and Members:
I am Curtis Higashiyama, Employee Relations and Government Affairs Manager representing ABC Stores.
We are asking for an extension of Bill 135 beyond its effective date so doctors, healthcare providers and
pharmacies can determine how sunscreen prescriptions will be handled. Among some of the questions
are:
● What will be the structure for doctors to prescribe sunscreen?
● Will pharmacies carry the product behind the counter?
●  Regulating prescription medications or over the counter drugs: Maui County's jurisdiction?
●  Health insurance companies: Will the prescription for sunscreen be recognized when the FDA
considers it an over the counter drug?
We are also requesting the following:
● The Council go back to the original wording that only banned oxybenzone and octinoxate, similar
to the statewide ban that started on January 1, 2021.
●  Further movement be put on hold until the National Academy of Science (NAS) completes their
review of scientific literature of sunscreen's impact on both environmental and human health.
The NAS should publish a report in Spring 2022 and will give decision makers guidance on how to
approach sunscreen rulings.
Following are advisories/ recommendations by the FDA and DOH:
● The FDA recommended no changes to currently marketed sunscreens. The FDA is studying
chemical UV filters in sunscreens, but does not recommend banning them for use.
●  In a correspondence from the Hawaii DOH dated August 2, 2021: from a skin cancer/ human
health perspective, it is NOT advisable to limit sunscreens to only zinc/ titanium.
Through 37 plus years in Waikiki I observed a need for sun care products, all types, not only zinc/
titanium. There will be a huge problem with satisfying the needs of those who are local and those visiting
us if availability will only be at pharmacies. I personally do not see many pharmacies in resort areas or
even in urban areas.
We would like to continue servicing our guests both locally and from abroad by providing them with
choices in needed sun protection during their stay in Hawaii. As we who live here know, activities
requiring sunscreen protection are not only for swimming, but also for other outdoor activities such as
running, hiking, golfing, yardwork... Let's help minimize potential sun related health hazards for our
people and guests of Hawaii due to limited choice and limited availability.
Honorary Chair and Members, again we ask that an extension is moved for Bill 135.
Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to share this testimony. OC C39
Curtis Higashiyama: Employee Relations & Government Affairs Manager C
2;6 mCD
-a;
o-1ABC Stores m noo <3s-T1
mm -i ● «
7s m ax:
NJ
rA RECEIVEDBC nic ABC Stores
766 Pohukama Slreet
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-5391
'.vww aDcstores.com
Store Telephone: (808) 591-2550
Fax: (808) 591 -2039
E-maii: maii(®abcstor
l!i'^TQRES^ "N0V 17 PH |●■22
November 17, 2021
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKHonorary Chair anci Members:
From: ABC Stores.
We are opposetd to Bill 135.
Concerns involving the health care delivery system:
●  There is no structure set up for the prescription of sunscreens.
●  The jurisdiction of regulating prescription medications or over the counter drugs is not dear.
●  Unclear how the health insurance companies will recognize a prescription for sunscreen when
the FDA recognizes it as an over-the -counter drug.
We are also requesting the following:
●  The Council go back to the original wording that only banned oxybenzone and octinoxate, similar
to the statewide ban that started on January 1, 2021.
●  Further movement be put on hold until the National Academy of Science (NAS) completes their
review of scientific literature of sunscreen's impact on both environmental and human health.
The NAS should publish a report in spring 2022 and will give decision makers guidance on how to
approach sunscreen rulings.
Following are advisories/ recommendations by the FDA and DOH when considering Bill 135:
●  The FDA recommended no changes to currently marketed sunscreens. The FDA is studying
chemical UV filters in sunscreens, but does not recommend banning them for use.
●  In a correspondence from the Hawaii DOH dated August 2, 2021: from a skin cancer/ human
health perspective, it is NOT advisable to limit sunscreens to only zinc/ titanium.
While working for many years in Waikiki, there is an observable need for sun care products of all types,
such as those found in some make-up and cosmetic products. Satisfying the needs and protecting the
health of individuals requires consideration when reviewing Bill 135.
We would like to continue servicing our guests both locally and from abroad by providing them with
choices in needed sun protection during their stay in Hawaii. As we who live here know, activities
requiring sunscreen protection are not only for swimming, but also for other outdoor activities such as
running, hiking, golfing, yardwork... Let's help minimize potential sun related health hazards for our
people and guests of Hawaii due to limited choice and limited availability.
Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to share this testimony.
Curtis Higashiyama
Employee Relations & Government Affairs Manager
ABC Stores
Count^£lerk niIGr*V£D
Mason Hu <masonhu@kiheicharter.org>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 12:21 PM
County Clerk
letter
From:
Sent: 20ZI NOV 18 m |: 04To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from masonhu@kiheicharter.org. Learn whv this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. This bill is very important to me and a lot
of people. Throughout this school year, my classmates and I learned about the effects of non reef
safe sunscreen. Apparently the non reef safe sunscreen is dangerous to coral and humans. A lot of
non reef safe sunscreen says it is “reef safe” but it still contains oxybenzone and many other harmful
chemical ingredients. At this current rate of coral bleaching, soon there will be no more coral reefs. If
that happens the ecosystem will be in chaos. A lot of fish depend on coral reefs for food and
protection. A lot of marine species will go extinct. Seventy percent of coral reefs are damaged. Cora!
in Hawaii grow very slowly and are dying faster every year. To try to stop this, everyone needs this bill
to pass. If you know that coral reefs are dying at an extreme rate pass the bill. If this bill passes, this
could be the start to completely banning non reef safe sunscreen around the globe. According to
studies (at the current rate of bleaching) they estimate that in 2050, ninety percent of coral reefs will
go extinct! If all the coral reefs go extinct, twenty five percent of all marine life will also go extinct
because they rely on coral reefs. That is over one million marine species extinct and a billion would
suffer from humans using the wrong sunscreen! Also millions of people would lose their food source
with the lack of fish. If there are no reefs there would be no fish to fish and the economy would “take a
major hit”. The people who fish for a living would lose their jobs and would also starve because they
probably have fish as their main diet. Fish is the number one consumed meat in the world by fifty two
tons (over chicken). That would cause people to starve from hunger. Coral reefs also protect/shield
coastlines from storms and erosion. Around fourteen thousand tons of sunscreen go into the ocean
every year and a lot of it is deadly to coral reefs. Wrapping this all together, using reef safe sunscreen
instead of non reef safe sunscreen is no doubt beneficial to marine life and to humans. Please pass
this bill for everyone.
Sincerely
Mason Hu
7A Kihei Charter
1
RECEIVED
im NOV 16 W 11= 02
<^.ffice of the
COUNTY CLERK
Submitted by email to: county.clerk@mauicounty.us
Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us
Kelly.King@mauicounty.us
November 16, 2021
To: Council Chair Alice Lee and Maui County Council Members
RE: Proposed Bill 136
Ma'alaea Village Association (MVA) supports proposed Bill 136 to amend Chapters 19.04
and 19.12 of Maui County Code to provide clarification on terms and requirements for
transient vacation rental (TVR) use in apartment districts and to add registration number
requirement for advertisements.
MVA supports Council’s efforts to ensure that all TVR’s are legal and paying taxes
appropriately. TVR owners/managers who do not comply with regulations or pay
appropriate taxes hurt all TVR owners who operate within the law.
Sincerely
Lyndon C. Ibeie
President, Ma’alaea Village Association
Ma’alaea Village Association
P. O. Box2122, WaiiukiuHI 96793
maalaeavillageassociation@gmail.com
REC i \/ Q.Count^Clerk
20ZI NOV 18 AH 8: i|7From:
Sent:
pjta22z2@aol.com
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:39 AM
County Clerk
Aina kupuna Bill 18
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don't often get email from pjtazzzz@aol.com. Learn why this is important
Alice Lee and members of the Council,
Thank you all for your hard work and commitment to bettering the lives of our island.
I am in very strong support of this bill. These families love and work their land for the present and future generations of
their families. It is unfair that they have been subjected to the taxes of the rich for all these years. Some have 3 jobs just
to meet the taxation of their land and homes to be able to remain on their generational lands. Please pass this bill and
show ALOHA to doing the right thing for these families.
Respectfully, Pam Ingram
Makawao
Sent from the all new AQL aop for Android
1
From:
Sent:
Carol Irwin <bhtrailriders@icloud.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 4:09 PM
County Clerk
In Support of Sunscreen Bill, 135.
RECEIVED
To:
m NOV 18 PH 4U3Subject:
OrhICE OF THE
[You don't often get email from bhtrailriders(g)icloud.com. Learn why this is important atCOUNTY CLERK
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
For its second and final reading, November 19, 2021.
I can understand why retailers and the sunscreen/cosmetic companies would show resistance to the ban.
But that was their mistake to include non-FDA approved chemicals in their sunscreens and to market them.
That is the bottom line.
We must refuse potential harm to our culture, food supply and beautiful ocean life.
And know that we are Hawai'i. We are long time loyal residents, and we are the native born residents many of us
with Island family beginnings in the 1800's, as my immigrant great great grandfather. And we are residents who
honorably trace their Island entry from the first voyagers to our gracious Islands. This is all our heritage and we are
compelled by our loyalty to defend our ancestral birthrite.
I know this strongly unified Committee, chaired by Councilmember King, along with strong council and very correctly
compiled and committed data from Our Maui County, Our State of Hawaii, DLNR, on site littoral presence and
management, as well as local agency data: will prevail.
I wish to thank you All for your Courageous Fight.
Warmest Aloha, Carol Irwin
Sent from my iPad
1
County Clerk
From;
Sent:
Jacob James <jacobjames@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:30 AM
County Clerk
Bill 135
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email fromjacobjames@kiheicharter.org. Learn whv this is important
)ear Maui Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135
Bill 135 states the movement of banning Non-reef safe sunscreen. Section 1 of this bill states that even though
the 2 main sunscreen ingredients were banned (oxybenzone and octinoxate) these are not the only chemicals
that are harmful to the coral reefs. The bill states that the Maui Council has marked the 2 safe chemicals in
sunscreen (zinc oxide and titanium dioxide) as Generally Recognized as safe AndEffective (GRASE). GfRASE
shows that the ingredients are safe and effective. Although these ingredients have been marked as GRASE,
the Council has not yet accepted the other 12 chemicals to be GRASE. These chemicals are avobenzone,
cinoxate, dioxybenzone, ensulizole, homosalate, meradimate, octinoxate, octisalate, octocrylene, oxybenzone,
padimate O, and sulisobenzone. These ingredients are marked by companies and stores as “reef friendly” but
not exactly “reef safe.” These are the chemicals that are still impacting coral reefs. This Bill 135 is trying to ban
these substances as they are still not safe for coral reefs or any other living organisms.
Sincerely
Jacob James
Kihei Charter School 7th Grade
C3
ooO TJ
C3I
H
73
mon mOo 3a*"n Z3C
mm
ps; m O
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Keiki Kawai'ae'a <kkawaiaea@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8;08 PM
County Clerk
County Council Meeting 11/19 - Strong Support for 'Aina Kupuna, Bill 118
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from kkawaiaea@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
H na hanohano o ka 'Aha Kalana o Maui, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernadez and members of the Maui
Council,
Aloha nui ‘oukou;
My name is Keiki Chang Kawai'ae'a and I am writing to express my STRONG SUPPORT for the ‘aina kupuna
tax dedication Bill 118. ‘Aina kupuna, are ancestral lands, a home or place that has been lived on and
cherished for generations. It includes land in all forms and types, residential lots, agricultural and pastoral
lands, beach and forests that can be traced back through genealogical ownership three or more generations.
Those who claim ‘aina kupuna can demonstrate visible or physical symbols of family continuity, use and or
relationship with the land.
‘Ohana with ancestral lands have deep rooted connections, aloha to place and have made important
contributions to community through their genealogical, cultural, scientific, and historical ties to and with the
land. For many ‘ohana like ours, it has been an overwhelming challenge to hold on to ‘aina kupuna, especially
due to the developing upscale high end speculation homes and development in Makena where our ‘aina
kupuna are located.
Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez has created a bill that addresses this long-standing problem. It is a
landmark bill, that you the County Council have pulled together to support in its first reading. I am grateful, as is
my family, for the hope that you have given us through support of Bill 118. I humbly ask for your continued
support in the passing of Bill 118 in its final second reading.
OO
0-^1
cii
“i m
73mC3
omCO-<OO -a*n 3C
rnm -I
m
o? a
1
Count^Clerk pprr--i\/Fn
im NOV 18 PH 2: 27From:
Sent:
Malina Keawe <danamalina@yahoo.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 1:29 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for 'Aina Kupuna initiative Bill 118
To:
ICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
oSubject:
You don't often get email from danamalina@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
, Dana Keawe, support Bill 118 and I humbly ask to pass Bill 118 into law for the following important
reasons:
Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able to maintain their ancestral lands for
generations represent a foundation of Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and help to maintain
important connections to the past and to the ‘aina that have informed, and continue to inform, Maui's
social fabric and unique community values. This bill will help more of these families hold on to their
'ohana lands, especially amidst global real estate speculation, skyrocketing property values, and
resulting property tax assessments that may exceed what many can afford. Accordingly, this
measure will help to perpetuate Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and preserve that which has
helped to make Maui and all of Hawai'i such a unique and special place to live.
Land grabs and speculation by off-island investors should never lead to long-time kama'aina families
being taxed into poverty, or off of their ancestral lands. This bill will protect Maui's families and the
legacy they represent, from property tax increases due to forces well beyond their control.
The dispossession of land has deep, profound, and unique impacts on Native Hawaiians, whose
health and well-being are based on their feelings for and deep attachment to the ‘aina. Other
kama'aina who have maintained their family lands for generations are likely to have also developed a
deep, familial attachment to their lands that would be devastating to lose. This bill will provide critical
protection for Native Hawaiian and other ‘ohana who may be forced to choose between the
devastation of selling their ancestral lands, or paying tax assessments that they are increasingly
unable to afford.
The county government has benefited greatly from skyrocketing property values and associated
property taxes, driven by real estate speculation, foreign investment, and the global demand for land
in Hawai'i. Sadly, this surge in property values is now pushing Maui's long-time 'ohana to the brink of
losing their ancestral lands, going into poverty to pay their property taxes, or monetizing their ‘aina in
ways that erode their character, and the overall character of Maui's unique communities. As its
coffers continue to fill from the foreign desire for Maui's lands, the county must take steps to provide
targeted tax relief for its long-time 'ohana, and the last living vestiges of Maui's social and cultural
heritage that they embody.
Sincerely,
Dana Keawe
1
P.O. Box 437462 I Kamuela, Hawaii 96743 I ->-1 808 887-6411 I Fax +1808 885-6707 I kohalacenter.org
RECEIVED
M NOV 17 PH 3: 16rilK KOI IA AfCK n'KR
To: Maui County Council
Re: Bill No. 135 A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 20.42, MAUI
PROHIBIT THE SALE, USE, OR DISTRIBUTION OF NON-MINERAL SUNSCREENS
Position: STRONG SUPPORT
Hearing Date: Friday, November 19, 2021, 9 a.m.
Aloha Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair, Keani Rawlins-Fernandez Vice Chair, and Councilmembers
Coral reefs are intrinsic to Hawaiian culture and provide critical natural protection against coastal erosion and
sea level rise and are a viable food source for our communities. Further, our coral reefs underpin our tourism
industry, Hawai'i's vital economic engine. Currently, these reefs we depend on are at risk. Where people use
marine environments as recreational resources, there is sunscreen pollution. Swimmers put on sunscreen
products before they enter into the water and over a period of an hour much of that sunscreen will slough off,
potentially contaminating the surrounding water. This is a grave concern because it has been reported in the
scientific literature that non-mineral sunscreens can have irreversibly detrimental effects on marine life,
including changes in fish behavior, damage to coral DNA and larvae, and the health of algae, fish, shellfish,
urchins, and marine mammals.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has already recognized this existential threat to our
coral reefs (See: https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/news/sunscreen-corals.html)
SUNSCREEN CHEMICALS AND MARINE LIFE
How sunscreen chemicals enter our environment:
/' \ / / A
i}tow9r. utnwftn mtty
wottrwoyy
77>r fCu tfppV not if ay
'  on four skin
When wr twrm
wash offondcnttr <
How sunscreen chemicals can affect marine life:
o(I
Can Impair
frowth and phatoiyntlmK
Accgmulatai m nsiu
Can induce bieKnm^, dtmafe
OtiA. youn( ond even hill
deleits in your4.
Can damage
immuna and reproductlvt
syslenn. and deform yeuns.
Can dacraaia f*rt)lrty and
reproduction, and cause female
characteristics In male ffsh
Can accumulate in tissues and
be transferred 10 Y0uo|.
Here are a few ways to protect ourselves and marine life:
harm morint bft, tttk thodt boiwttn iO Vit/ovioht Prottc£ i pm. and ● Hon Factor iunwoor.Cent/der suntcreen without thtmkoh (hot
SC/#
Sun hat Sunscreen UV Sun (lasses SunshlrlSeek sftade timbrefit
On September 24, 2021, the FDA issued a proposed order concerning nonprescription sunscreen drug products.
In the proposed order, two mineral products zinc oxide and titanium dioxide are deemed generally recognized
as safe and effective (GRASE), and fourteen products are deemed NOT GRASE. Of the fourteen products,
twelve products do not currently contain sufficient data to support positive GRASE classification. The twelve
products that require additional data are avobenzone, cinoxate, dioxybenzone, ensulizole, homosalate,
meradimate, octinoxate, octisalate, octocrylene, oxybenzone, padimate 0, and sulisobenzone.
EDUCATION. ENVIRONMENT. EMPOWERMENT.
Thi K‘>Ma Center is an equal opporliinilyfirovuler. employer. lUiJ lemler
We ask your strong support for Bid 135 prohibiting the saie, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens that
have questionable effects on the health of humans and marine life in alignment with the Precautionary
Principle which asserts that the burden of proof for potentiady harmful actions by industry or government
rests on the assurance of safety and that when there are threats of serious damage, scientific uncertainty
must be resolved In favor of prevention, affording us the opportunity to protect our environment and
communities for future generations.
Sincerely,
Cynthia Punihaole Kennedy, Director
Kahalu'u Bay Education Center
a program of The Kohala Center
EDUCATION. ENVIRONMENT. EMPOWERMENT.
Page 2 of 2The Kahala Center is an etjuat opf/ortunityfrwider, employer, and lender.
rfceivedCount^CleH<
im NOV 19 AH 7= 57From:
Sent:
p.keolanui@hawaIiantel.net
Friday, November 19, 2021 12:15 AM
County Clerk
Strong Support for'Aina Kupuna Bill 118
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLEKK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from p.keolanui@hawaiiantel.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha Chair Alice Lee and Members of the Council,
Friday, November 19th is an important day for our 'ohana and for other families like ours in Maui County
who are praying for the ‘Aina Kupuna Bill 118 to pass! Without the support of this bill, I believe our family
lands in Makena will be lost in this generation because of our inability to continue paying taxes that our
beyond our means!
We continue to ask for your full support and especially the change to the ‘Aina KGpuna bill on page 5, item
B.6 from "the majority" to "at least one" resident of the County. This is especially important for those
parcels that have multiple owners from different family lines, and for the future as lands continue to pass
on to new generations who may not be able to afford to live and be a resident of Maui.
I would like to thank Councilwoman Keani Rawlins-Fernandez for the many months of hard work that she
has put forth in introducing this bill and the Council for taking our concerns to heart by trying to establish
a new ordinance that will provide tax relief for lands dedicated as ‘Aina Kupuna. Your representation and
support for Bill 118 and its amendments has truly meant so much to our 'ohana!
Much aloha to all you!
Puena (Chang) Keolanui
1
♦ * *¥ ¥
¥
0PRMAFrom:
Sent:
Angela Leone <
Thursday, Nove
County Clerk
Opposition to TA Moratorium
ISl^
% ¥ ^
RECEIVED
im NOV 18 PH 4= 39
M*'
 ¥
★To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from angie@coconutcondos.com. Learn whv this is important
November 18th, 2021
Dear Maui County Councilmembers,
On behalf of Maui PRMA, the Vacation Rental Trade Council under the Maui Chamber of Commerce, we would like to
express our opposition to the proposed moratorium on transient accommodations, establishing chapters 19.98 and
20.41.
PRMA, the Professional Rental Management Association, is a coalition of professional property management
companies representing over 1600 legally zoned condominium vacation rental units throughout Maui. Our members
are licensed in the State of Hawaii, engaged in the management of legal vacation rental properties, primarily
condominiums, and comply with real estate license law and code of ethics. Our companies represent 216 years in
business, employing nearly 200 employees and over 300 independent contractors and vendors.
The visitor industry supports so many other small businesses, contributing to our island's overall economic health.
When this industry is stifled and suffers, jobs are lost and that creates broad waves of negative impacts that ripple
throughout our community. When our industry was shut down during COVID, West Maui in particular saw
unemployment rates in the 50%+ range with food lines that were 2-3 hours long. Changes to our industry affect our
local community, especially in the areas where many of the tourism related employees live and reside (West/South
Maui).
Ultimately, this will not stop visitors from traveling to Maui. We believe it will have other negative impacts such as
reduced industry revenue and increased costs for guests, which could potentially lead to stays in illegal units at a time
when we are trying to support legal vacation rentals and shut down Illegal operations. The council and planning office
have spent so much time and effort in establishing rules, permitting and oversight for legal vacation rentals. We would
support continued efforts in allowing permitted transient accommodations to apply and operate in order to continue
to collect GET & TAT revenue and reduce the number of illegal operators. If there is no means for homeowners
interested in pursuing legal permits, we run the risk of creating more illegal operators. At the end of the two years,
this moratorium may create a bigger problem than when it started.
On behalf of PRMA, we ask that you please focus your attention on the Maui Nui Destination Management Action Plan
(DMAP) for the islands of Maui, Molokai, and Lanai. We would prefer to see the Council focus on efforts to support
the DMAP and further this work instead of looking for ways to punish property owners and potentially inadvertently
create more illegal vacation rentals.
1
We welcome any discussion with you or a member of your administration and can be contacted at
Mauiprma(q>gmail.com.
Mahalo,
John Kevan
Angela Leone
Co-Founders of Maui Professional Rental Management Association (Maui PRMA)
2
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Andrew Kohl <andrewkohl@kiheicharter.org>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 7:15 AM
County ClerkTo:
Subject: support of bill 135 (banning the sale and use of non reef safe sunscreen)-^
OQ
O Z)
mCD
"i m OYou don't often get email from andrewkohl@kiheicharter.ora. Learn why this is important
mCD
November 17, 2021 OO T1
mm GO
Owm CN
Dear Maui County Council,
1 am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135:
This is an important chance to help keep our coral reef ecosystem and community safe from
harmful sunscreen chemicals. I believe that we should ban these harmful chemicals so our
coral reefs can slowly start to heal and stop putting harmful chemicals on our bodies.
Sincerely,
Andrew Kohl 7A
Kiheicharter school
Virus-free, www.avast.com
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Manuel Kuloloio <manueil<uloloio(5)gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 1:30 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Gabe Johnson; Tasha A. Kama; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura
Manny Kuloloio; Ala
Written Testimony of Mr. Manuel Makahiapo Kuloloio IN SUPPORT of Bill 118 (2021)
'Aina Kupuna Lands: Regular Meeting of November 19, 2021, Council of the County of
Maui, AGENDA M. ORDINANCES - SECOND AND FINAL READING
To:
Cc:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don’t often get email from manuelkuloloio@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Chairperson Alice Lee, Vice-Chairperson Keani Rawllns-Fernandez, Councilman Gabe Johnson,
Councilwoman Tasha Kama, Councilwoman Kelly King, Councilman Mike Molina, Councilwoman Tamara
Paltin, Councilman Shane Sinenci, and Councilwoman Yuki-Lei Sugimura,
RE: Written Testimony of Mr. Manuel Makahiapo Kuloloio in Support of Bill 118 (2021) Relating to
Real Property Dedicated as ^Aina Kupuna: Regular Meeting of November 19, 2021, Council of the
County of Maui, AGENDA Item M. ORDINANCES - SECOND AND FINAL READING Bill 118 (2021)
1 humbly write this morning requesting your unanimous support of proposed amendments and AGENDA
Item M., Recommending Second and Final Reading of Bill 118 (2021) "A Bill for an Ordinance Amending
Chapter 3.48, Maui County Code, relating to Real Property Dedicated as 'Aina Kupuna."
I submit this November 18, 2021 written testimony at 0130 as a complement to my written testimony of
October 20, 2021 and oral testimony of October 22, 2021, to and before the County Council,
respectively.
We are very grateful, humbled, and appreciative of your extraordinary support. We thank you
Councilwoman Rawlins-Fernandez for your thoughtful care in championing this ordinance. We thank
you Chairperson Lee and the County Council for this uncommon declaration which promotes the
unextinguished, undiminished spiritual and cultural continuity and meaningful use of the Aina Kupuna
Lands of our progenitors.
es
o c0-1
C3I
73
mo
om ■1CO I  ■
OO <-n
mm CO
oui7;m CK
1
z

JSi
/

LA'A; MA'A; PA'A!
Aloha Ke Akua,
Me Ke Aloha Maluhia,
Manny
Manuel Wayne Makahiapo DeCosta Kuloloio
8083302896
Sent from my iPhone
6
RECEIVEDCount^CleH<
Z02I NOV 19 AH 7= 41From:
Sent:
Jason L <jlird808@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:30 PM
County Clerk
SUPPORT FOR CR21-95
To: FFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
IYou don't often get email fromjlird808@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha mail!
Have you guys seen the Ka Wai Ola News video & read the story about the Kukahiko 'ohana in Makena? Please think of
these Native Hawaiian 'ohana that have been on their lands FOR GENERATIONS. It is not their fault that the areas
around them become OVER-DEVELOPED with high-end real-estate that send their property taxes SKY HIGH! Some even
have kupuna buried on their lands. What are they supposed to do—where are they supposed to go? Just sell their land
and disconnect themselves from their homes?
Please watch/read this!
https://kawaiola.news/cover/taxed-out/
Mahalo nui for your consideration, and for showing compassion to our 'Aina Kupunal
Jason Lees
1. Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able to maintain their ancestral lands for generations
represent a foundation of Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and help to maintain important connections to the past
and to the 'aina that have informed, and continue to inform, Maui's social fabric and unique community values. This bill
will help more of these families hold on to their 'ohana lands, especially amidst global real estate speculation,
skyrocketing property values, and resulting property tax assessments that may exceed what many can
afford. Accordingly, this measure will help to perpetuate Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and preserve that which
has helped to make Maui and all of Hawai'i such a unique and special place to live.
2. Land grabs and speculation by off-island investors should never lead to long-time kama'aina families being taxed into
poverty, or off of their ancestral lands. This bill will protect Maui's families and the legacy they represent, from property
tax increases due to forces well beyond their control.
3. The dispossession of land has deep, profound, and unique impacts on Native Hawaiians, whose health and well-being
are based on their feelings for and deep attachment to the 'aina. Other kama'aina who have maintained their family
lands since the Great Depression are likely to have also developed a deep, familial attachment to their lands that would
be devastating to lose. This bill will provide critical protection for Native Hawaiian and other 'ohana who may be forced
to choose between the devastation of selling their ancestral lands, or
paying tax assessments that they are increasingly unable to afford.
4. The county government has benefited greatly from skyrocketing property values and associated property taxes,
driven by real estate speculation, foreign investment, and the global demand for land in Hawai'i. Sadly, this surge in
property values is now pushing Maui's long-time 'ohana to the brink of losing their ancestral lands, going into poverty to
pay their property taxes, or monetizing their 'aina in ways that erode their character, and the overall character of Maui's
unique communities. As its coffers continue to fill from the foreign desire for Maui's lands, the county must take steps
to provide targeted tax relief for its long-time 'ohana, and the last living vestiges of Maui's social and cultural heritage
that they embody.
1
RECEIVED
m\ NOV 18 AM 9: 05
OFFICE OF HAWAIIAN AFFAIRS
OFFICE OF THEE
COUNTY CLERKTestimony of Carmen Hulu Lindsey
Chair, Board of Trustees
Maui County Council
Regular Meeting
Bill 118
RELATING TO REAL PROPERTY DEDICATED AS 'AINA KOPUNA
November 19. 2021 Online Meeting9:00 a.m.
The Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA) SUPPORTS the passage of Bill 118, which would
protect Native Hawaiian and other Maui county families from unprecedented tax burdens that
may lead to the dispossession of their 'aina kupuna, or ancestral lands. Allowing such families
to pay the minimum tax on lands that have sustained them for at least three generations will
help to ensure that the speculation-driven increase in Maui property values does not further
dispossess Native Hawaiians from their ancestral lands, and erode away the living vestiges of
Maui's cultural heritage.
As a preliminary matter, OHA emphasizes that the Westernization of land tenure in
Hawai'i, and the distribution of land and power that occurred subsequent to the illegal
overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom, have had profound and unique impacts on the Native
Hawaiian people. Such impacts include the physical, spiritual, and socioeconomic harms arising
from the dispossession of Native Hawaiians' ancestral lands, and from the myriad other
circumstances that have strained or eroded away Native Hawaiians' connection to the 'aina
that have sustained their 'ohana since time immemorial.^ Sadly, much of the lands that Native
Hawaiians were able to acquire during Hawai'i's transition to a Western property system have
already been lost, abandoned, sold, seized, or stolen, and various factors today continue to
place great strain on the ability of Native Hawaiian families to continue maintaining a
connection to, and ownership of, their ancestral 'aina.
In addition, OHA notes that Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able
to maintain their ancestral lands for generations represent a foundation of Maui's historical and
cultural legacy. Their continued stewardship and presence on their lands helps to maintain
important connections to the past and to the 'aina that can uphold the unique values and
character of Maui's communities - a role that may be increasingly critical in light of a rapidly
transforming socioeconomic landscape resulting, in part, from the real estate trends the county
has been experiencing.
^ See, e.g., The Apology Resolution, Pub. L No. 103-150 ("(T]he health and well-being of the Native Hawaiian
people is intrinsically tied to their deep feelings and attachment to the land").
Maui County Council
Bill 118 - Relating to Real Property Dedicated as 'Aina Kupuna
November 19, 2021
Page 2
OHA therefore strongly supports the passage of Bill 118 to provide tax relief to parcels
dedicated as 'aina kupuna. This proposed bill will provide critical and much-needed protection
for the few remaining Native Hawaiian and other kama'aina families who have maintained their
family lands for at least three generations. Over the past several decades, the Western
commodification of land has manifested in a continuous and almost exponential surge in
property taxes, particularly in areas where real estate speculation and resort or luxury
development have driven property values to an all-time high.^ While taxes on lands that have
become subject to the lucrative activities of real estate speculators and developers may be an
appropriate and needed mechanism can provide the county with much-needed revenues, the
increase in property values and associated property taxes has also had devastating impacts to a
small number of Native Hawaiian and long-time Maui families; such families, facing an
unprecedented tax burden, have been forced to sell portions of their ancestral lands, or
monetize them in inappropriate and sometimes painful ways. The proposed bill would provide
these families with narrow and targeted relief, by allowing them to pay the minimum tax on
their ancestral lands in exchange for a commitment to not convey the lands to non-lineal
descendants, and to not use these lands for commercial purposes, with limited exceptions.
This measure would therefore allow MauKs families to maintain their ownership of and deep
connection to their ancestral lands, in the face of economic and real property trends well
beyond their control - preventing the further dispossession of Native Hawaiians^ ancestral
lands, and protecting a historical foundation of Maui's unique values and cultural character
from further erosion.
OHA does appreciate potential concerns regarding  apossible reduction in county
revenues, but notes that the narrow requirements of the proposed bill would significantly limit
those who would qualify, and who would desire to apply for, the proposed tax relief. OHA
further understands that property values of non-'aina kupuna lands have also continued and
will likely further continue to increase,^ providing increased county revenues that will offset any
fiscal impacts of the measure.
Bill 118 will provide a critical means to protect Native Hawaiian and long-time kama'aina
families from the impacts of Maui's speculation-driven real estate boom; prevent the further
dispossession of Native Hawaiians' ancestral lands, which has had and will continue to have
devastating impacts on Native Hawaiian families and the Native Hawaiian community as a
whole; and help to avoid the further erosion of the social and cultural heritage of Maui county,
^ See Puanani Fernandez Akamine, Taxed Out: Increasing land taxes force Hawaiians off their ancestral lands, KA
WAl OLA, Feb. 28, 2020, available at https://kawaiola.news/cover/taxed-out.
^ See, e.g., Redfin.Com, Maui County Housing Market: Trends, https://www.redfin.com/countv/667/HI/Maui-
Countv/housing-market (last accessed Oct. 19, 2021) ("In September 2021, Maui County home prices were up
19.8% compared to last year, selling for a median price of $863K. On average, homes in Maui County sell after 69
days on the market compared to 86 days last year. There were 288 homes sold in September this year, up from
187 last year.").
Maui County Council
Bill 118 - Relating to Real Property Dedicated as 'Aina Kupuna
November 19, 2021
Page 3
embodied by those who have been able to maintain their 'aina kupuna for multiple
generations.
Accordingly, OHA respectfully urges the Maui County Council to PASS Bill 118 on second
reading. Mahalo nui for the opportunity to testify.
. ● ● ●
American Kenneth J Tomecki, MD, FAAD President
Mark D. Kaufmann, MD, FAAD Presideni-eleei
Neal Bhatia, MD, FAAD Vice President
LincJa F. Stein Gold, MD, FAAD Vice President-elect
Marta J. Van Beek, MD, MPH, FAAD Secretary-Treasurer
Daniel 0, Bennett, MD. FAAD Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
Elizabeth K. Usher. MBA Executive Director & CEO
* A A Academy of
Dermafology
● Association
● ● ● ●●
■era
OO
HDS I-—n c5 moH ni rn-<Hawaiti Ucrmatoiogical tsoeicty oo 11 zx
m -I
November 17, 2021 an w
Members of the Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8th floor
200 South High St.
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Members of the Maui County Council:
On behalf of the Hawaii Dermatological Society and the nearly 16,500 U.S. members of
the American Academy of Dermatology Association (AADA), we write concerning Bill 135,
legislation that would prohibit the sale, use or distribution any non-mineral sunscreen
without a prescription. As dermatologists we dedicate ourselves to promoting habits in
our patients that ensure healthy skin. UV radiation damages the skin's DNA, which is the
first stage of skin cancer. We oppose this legislation and urge you to strongly consider the
broad implications of banning the use of sunscreens containing certain ingredients,
bearing in mind the grave dangers of sun exposure without adequate protection that the
residents and visitors of Maui County face.
Chemical (organic) sunscreen filters are an important component of many sunscreen
products. They provide ample broad-spectrum protection against UV radiation. This
legislation would remove access to chemical filters, leaving only mineral filters, which are
less effective filters. Mineral sunscreen products often leave a whitish residue on the skin.
Many, especially individuals with darker skin tones, find these to be unacceptable for use.
WASHINGTON, DC OFFICE
1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 540
Washington. DC 20004-2401
MAIN: (202)842-3555
(202) 842-4355FAX:
CORRESPONDENCE
PO Box 1968
Des Plaines. IL 60017-1968
EMAIL mrc@aad.org
WEB: aad.org
ROSEMONT, IL OFFICE
9500 W Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 500
Rosernont, IL60018-5216
MAIN, (847)330-0230
(847) 240-1859FAX;
Oppose Bill 135
November 17, 2021
Page 2 of 4
UV light exposure is a risk factor for all types of skin cancer and sunscreen use is a major
photo-protective method. UVA radiation damages deeper layers of the skin and
contributes to the development of melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer. UVB
radiation is the primary cause of sunburn and plays a key role in the development of skin
cancer in the skin's superficial layers. Both types of rays suppress the immune system.
Unprotected sun exposure is the most preventable risk factor for skin cancer. At least one
in five Americans will develop skin cancer,
cancer, is the second most common form of cancer in women, aged 15-29 years old.
Caucasian men, age 50+ are at a high risk of developing melanoma,
cases of melanoma are expected in Hawaii. ^ The annual cost of treating nonmelanoma
skin cancer in the U.S. is estimated at $4.8 billion, and the average annual cost of treating
melanoma is approximately $3.3 billion.
1
2,3 Melanoma, the deadliest form of skin
4,5,6In 2021,460 new
8
To prevent skin cancer, the AADA recommends comprehensive sun protection that
includes seeking shade; wearing protective clothing, including hats and sunglasses; and
applying a broad-spectrum, water-resistant sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher to
exposed skin.
Dermatologists have an interest in patient and public access to safe and effective
sunscreen ingredients. The FDA is currently working with industry on safety testing for
currently marketed sunscreen ingredients. The FDA is also considering several time-and-
extent applications (TEAs) for new sunscreen ingredients to be added to the FDA over-the-
counter (OTC) sunscreen monograph. The FDA's conclusion from recent studies on
sunscreen ingredient absorption "supports the need for further studies to determine the
clinical significance of these findings." FDA further stated that "these findings do not
’ Lim HW, James WD, Rigel DS, Maloney ME, Spencer JM, Bhushan R. Adverse effects of ultraviolet radiation from the use
of indoor tanning equipment: time to ban the tan. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology. 2011 Apr
30;64(4):e51-60.
2 Stern RS. Prevalence of a history of skin cancer in 2007: results of an incidence-based model. Arch Dermatol. 2010
Mar;l46(3):279-82.
3 Robinson JK. Sun Exposure, Sun Protection, and Vitamin D. JAMA 2005; 294:1541 -43.
“ Siegel RL, Miller KD, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2017. CA Cancer J Clin. 2017; 67:7-30.
5 Little EG, Eide MJ. Update on the current state of melanoma incidence. Dermatol Clin. 2012:30(3):355-61.
® NAACCR Fast Stats: An interactive quick tool for quick access to key NAACCR cancer statistics. North American
Association of Central Cancer Registries, http://www.naaccr.org/. (Accessed on 3-10-2016).
’’ American Cancer Society. Cancer Facts and Figures 2021. https://www.cancer.org/contenc/dam/cancer-
org/research/cancer-facts-and-statistics/annual-cancer-facts-and-figures/2021/cancer-facts-and-figures-2021.pdf
® Guy GP, Machlin S, Ekwueme DU, Yabroff KR. Prevalence and costs of skin cancer treatment in the US, 2002-2006 and
2007-2011. Am J Prev Med. 2015;48:183-7
Oppose Bill 135
November 17, 2021
Page 3 of 4
indicate that individuals should refrain from the use of sunscreen." ^ Sunscreen
ingredients have been in use for almost 50 years without any reported systemic adverse
side effects. This issue highlights the urgent need for new safe and effective sunscreen
ingredients in the United States. With the approval of ingredients that utilize alternative
UV filters, the public's health will be better. The AADA continues to participate in the
discussion with the FDA and manufacturers regarding availability of current and new
ingredients.
We are concerned about the potential environmental impact of UV-filters. The potential
adverse effects related to the levels of UV-filters in the water supply and marine life (as
well as humans) are an emerging science. A review of 12 studies evaluating 14 different
organic UV filters in seawater near coral reefs determined that the majority of
concentrations found in seawater were in the nanograms per liter range. Nine papers
reported toxicological findings from no response to a variety of biological effects; these
effects were detected in the micrograms per liter to milligrams per liter range, namely, at
least 1000-fold higher than those reported in seawater in real life. The review concludes
"there is currently limited evidence to suggest that corals are adversely impacted by
environmental exposure to UV filters."
Our organizations advocated for the enactment of the Further Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2020, by which the U.S. Congress directed the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) to contract with the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to
conduct a scientific literature review of current sunscreens' potential risk to the marine
environment. The study will consider scientific literature on the potential public health
implications as a result of reduced use of sunscreens. This type of research is necessary to
understand how UV filters may affect the environment. We encourage you to consider
these ongoing efforts before taking any action to remove a product that has been proven
to be effective against skin cancer. Based on current data, removing specific sunscreen
ingredients and products from the market would be premature. Doing so would deprive
the public of an integral component of photoprotection to decrease the risk of skin
cancer.
^ Matta, MK, Florian.J, Zusterzeel, R, Nageswara RP, Patel, V.VoIpe, DAPhD, et al. Effect of Sunscreen Application on
Plasma Concentration of Sunscreen Active Ingredients: A Randomized Clinical Trial. Journal of the American Medical
Association 323, No. 3 (2020). 267.
Mitchelmore CS, Burns, EE, Conway A, Heyes A, Davies lA. A critical review of organic ultraviolet filter
exposure, hazard, and risk to corals. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2020 (00);00:1-21. Online 2 February 2021 in
Wiley Online Library
(wileyonlinelibrary.com). DOI; 10.1002/etc.4948
10
Oppose Bill 135
November 17, 2021
Page 4 of 4
Please consider the public health consequences of removing access, banning use, or
attaching stigma to sunscreens containing certain ingredients. We oppose Bill 135 for the
reasons above, and we request that Hawaii give the FDA more time to evaluate new
sunscreens for public use and for the NAS to conduct its review and report its findings. If
this bill gains support, we urge the Council to 1) remove the word "use," so the ban only
applies to sale and distribution and 2) extend the effective date to allow dermatologists
and other physicians and pharmacies adequate time to deveiop and implement a
prescribing infrastructure. We appreciate the opportunity to provide written comments
on this important public health issue. For more information, please contact Lisa Albany,
director of state policy for the AADA, at LAIbany@aad.org or (202) 712-2615.
Sincerely,
Kenneth J.Tomecki, MD, FAAD
President
American Academy of Dermatology Association
Rebecca Luria, MD, FAAD
President
Hawaii Dermatological Society
Count^Clerk
Giro Martin <ciromartin@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:22 AM
Letter to Maui County Council
From:
Sent:
Subject:
You don't often get email from ciromartin@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. This law will help everyone, especially
the coral reefs and make the land healthier. Banning harmful sunscreen ingredients will be
challenging but we can do it, and it will be worth it.
A lot of the time, sunscreen brands say that they are “reef friendly”, or “reef safe”, but if you take a
look, they still contain the harmful ingredients that have negative impacts on the coral reefs. Also, a
lot of people might think “corals are just rocks, why should we care about them?" They’re not just
rocks. Coral reefs are living things that serve as homes to many marine organisms, and they also
create our waves; if you surf, you should start being mindful of the sunscreen you are using.
Some ingredients included in sunscreen that are harmful to the reef, and even humans include
Oxybenzone, Octinoxate, Homosalate, Octisalate, Octocrylene, Avobenzone, and many others. All of
these chemicals are in sunscreen and commonly used today, which is incredibly disappointing.
Creating this law will change a lot. I understand that some people might not agree with this law, and
might still want to use whatever sunscreen they want, but if we keep on letting this happen, our reefs
might die in a couple of years, which we don’t want to happen. Please, do the right thing.
ocOm
c m
2;oH
7)
Sincerely m
OmCiro Martin
Kihei Charter School, 7th Grade Oo <ZC
mm -H
:x)X
t: m
«o
O\jj
1
RECEIVEDCount^leHt
m\ NOV 19 AH 7: 57From:
Sent:
Marty Martins <mauimanokane(a)yahoo.com>
Thursday, November T8, 2021 9:06 PM
County Clerk
I support Bill 135
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don't often get email from mauimanokane@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
have snorkeled Ulua reef in KThei since 1999 and for the last six years have snorkeled there 5 to 7
days a week. The experts can say whatever that want but I believe it is "tourists covered with oil" that
hurt the coral more than any climate change. During the tourist shutdown in 2019 I was snorkeling
there daily and it amazed me how the reef improved - including the return of limu for the first time in
years - when the tourists and their poison were absent.
Respectfully,
Marty Martins
KThei
1
Count^Clerk R£C^'.VED
im NQV 19 AM 7: mLily Montemarano <missiily718@yahoo.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:45 PM
County Clerk
Supporting Bill 135 Testimony
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from misslily718@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha dear council members.
I learned while living in Maui that the original Hawaiian people had in place systems to protect their water. At the very
top of the waterfalls or springs the area would be kapu or off limits. The next area down was strictly for drinking water
and cooking. Farther down they had an area for bathing their bodies, next dishes and other things that need be washed.
Now, here is the interesting part: before the water would run off to the sea the Hawaiian's in fact built a sort of filtration
system. They built this filter so that nothing would run out to the ocean that they didn't want. Food scraps, hair etc.
They did this hundreds of years ago because they knew that if anything went into the ocean it would affect the reefs.
They knew that if the reefs were affected the fish would go away. If the fish went away they knew that not only would
their people starve but the ocean would be imbalanced. The Hawaiian's understood that delicate balance and would not
pollute the very ocean they needed to survive and to thrive!
How is it today that we have any question at all about the legitimacy and dire necessity of this bill? Not only should any
toxic chemicals be banned but there should be extreme repercussions for those who break this ban like back in the days,
a kapu! Why would we condone the sales of toxins that we 100% know will end up in our oceans to harm our reefs is
beyond my comprehension. The Hawaiian's knew it and perhaps we can take a hint!
This is serious. This is our ecosystem and reefs at stake! We need this bill to be the first of many! We need these changes
now!
Mahalo for your time. I hope you choose wisely and honor the ways of the people who inhabited and were stewards of
these lands.
1
Count^£leH< RrCFlVCD
NOV 19 ah 7-. ^ I
FFiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
r \
From;
Sent:
lilymontemarano@gmail.com
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:28 PM
County Clerk
Testimony in support of Bill 135
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from lilymontemarano@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I am a local Maui resident and lover of the oceans and nature. It's been far too long that we as a people have let the
interests of corporations and profits take president over the health and wellness of our lands and its inhabitants. Let us
be the first county to pass legislation prohibiting toxic chemicals being sold and poured into our waterways.
The reefs are dying. Every time 1 go snorkeling 1 see the yellow discoloration of the reefs. This is not normal and cannot
be justified away. We have science and many documentaries proving that the reefs are dying at an alarmingly
accelerated rate. Should we not at least try in any way we can? I ask that we as a people put our beliefs into action. We
know this stuff is poisonous to the ecosystem. Why would we package it, sell it and worse, put it on our bodies? I
understand these companies want to turn a profit and they probably make a lot of money stocking up Hawaii's
sheives....but at what point will wellness, harmony and respect for nature be more important than a corporation's
bottom line???
These companies will oppose this bill and have incredibly compelling arguments I'm sure; crafter by skilled writers and
legal teams. But ask yourselves today: what is right? What is pono?
Mahalo
1
RECEIVED
ZO?l NOV 19 AH 9: 48
DARDAH 11Of-FICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTimeshare with
November 18, 2021
TO: Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Femandez, Vice- Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
FR: AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)
RE: Opposition to CR 21-130 ("A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE. DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON
NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI")
Hearing date: Friday, November 19, 2021 at 9:00AM
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Planning and Sustainable
Land Use Committee,
Thank you for allowing ARDA-Hawaii to submit testimony in STRONG OPPOSITION to CR
21-130 regarding a bill for an ordinance establishing Chapter 19.98, Maui County Code, declaring
a moratorium on new transient accommodations on Maui. CR 21-130 seeks to create an island
wide moratorium which temporarily prohibits the issuance of any permit under Title 19. The
proposed measure creates multiple concerns that could have broad impacts on Maui’s economy.
The stated purpose of the proposed bill is to establi.sh a moratorium to comply with visitor to
resident ratio specified in Chapter 2.SOB of the Maui Island Plan by pausing the increase of
transient accommodations. However, there is no data to suggest that stopping the development of
transient accommodations will decrease the number of visitors to Maui. It is simple, it won’t.
Visitors will still come to Maui and seek other accommodations even if the supply of lodging units
is limited. As we have seen, the volume of visitors will permeate into the residential neighborhoods
and long-term apartment inventory on Maui through an increase in short-term vacation rentals
("STR"), which are the fastest-growing segment within Maui's visitor accommodations industry.
If the purpose of the bill is to ultimately decrease the visitor count, perhaps further regulation is
needed on the number of illegal short-term vacation rental units that are allowed.
There are better alternatives to accomplish the Council’s goals of reducing the impacts of the
tourism industry on Maui residents, without the negative economic impacts created by the
proposed moratorium. Regulating on the fastest growing segment of transient accommodations in
1
Maui would provide the greatest reduction in the number of visitors to comply with the Maui Island
Plan.
Conversely, the moratorium would seek to limit transient accommodations island wide, thus,
prohibiting increased accommodations even in districts that are intended for tourism. Hotel and
resort areas are where visitor accommodations should be focused and aid in insulating Maui
residents from the perceived negative impacts of tourism.
In addition, there are several legal concerns associated with the procedure and public transparency
of CR 21-130. The legislation appears to be rushed with it being heard by the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee before receiving and having the opportunity to consider the
Commission's minutes. Further, the proposed moratorium may be unconstitutional as it: 1) fails to
substantially advance a legitimate government interest as required by the due process clause; 2) is
unconstitutionally vague; 3) and it violates the equal protection clause in treating similarly situated
individuals differently.
Moreover, the moratorium will have substantial economic impacts on Maui's economy. It is
concerning that the County would seek to deter capital investment in a time where it is still
recovering from the pandemic. This is especially concerning given the recent surge in cases that
may continue to impact the tourism industry. The County would risk forgoing substantial amounts
of investments, tax revenues and job creation for Maui’s economy. For example, the timeshare
industry is currently a major contributor to Maui’s economy by providing more than $73 million
per year in state and local taxes, sustaining occupancies to keep Maui residents employed and
supplying well compensated jobs to Maui residents.
The proposed ordinance would enact a moratorium to “maintain the status quo” while the Tourism
Management Temporary Investigative Group ("TIG") explores and recommends legislation to
better manage the tourism industry’s impact on the environment and residents’ quality of life. This
poses significant risk to Maui’s economy, without fust obtaining information to better manage the
industry. Instead, the TIG, in collaboration with the tourism industry, could address the Council’s
concerns prior to the moratorium to prevent causing unnecessary harm to Maui’s fragile economy,
which is still recovering from the pandemic.
Additionally, the proposed ordinance is intended to mitigate negative impacts on the environment
and residents’ quality of life. Again, there is a lack of data suggesting that a moratorium will
substantially reduce the negative impacts on the environment or residents. It is concerning that
such a broad and inflexible policy would be implemented without first showing transient
accommodations as the primary cause of these negative impacts. As mentioned previously, further
regulation of STRs would reduce the negative impacts on resident's quality of life. Measures
eliminating illegal STRs would accomplish the moratorium’s intended goals without implementing
such an inflexible policy that would result in lost jobs and reduced economic activity for residents.
Further, as (a member of/chair) of ARDA-Hawaii, which represents the vacation ownership and
resort development industries in Hawaii, I’m smprised that the County would want to stop
timeshare visitors from coming to Maui. The timeshare visitor has the exact profile of the type of
visitor that we should welcome with higher income levels, more spending off property in
2
restaurants and local stores, and are more likely to take care of their property and Maui County.
Maui is a “home away from home” as Timeshare visitors they are owners, not transients. We
should be mindful that the timeshare industry could be part of the solution.
Due consideration should be given to the broader impacts of the proposed measure. We as a
community should consider a resolution that provides our Maui residents with the ability to
continue to work and provide for their families, while at the same time addressing the impacts of
the influx of visitors, until Maui can transition to a more diversified economic base.
I respectfully ask that you recommend the Council defer this measure and instead pursue the
further regulation of STRs prior to implementing any form of moratorium to address the Council's
concerns in a more meaningful way.
Thank you for your consideration of my comments.
Respectfully submitted
Ryan Nobriga
Maui Task Force Chair
ARDA Hawaii
3
Count^Clerk pgp-i './cp
From:
Sent:
Karen Noland <kaukini@maui.net>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 2:30 PM
County Clerk
Aina Kupuna Bill
Z0?l NOV 18 PH 2^ 33
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from kaukini@maui.net. Learn why this is important
Date: 11/18/2022
RE: Strong Support for ‘Aina Kupuna Bill 118
Dear Alice Lee and Members of the Counci
I am writing to Mahalo you for considering this bill for local families. We are indebted to
you for helping our Ghana live and work on Maui and also for the generations to follow.
This would be a land mark bill that could save many local people from having to sell or
leave the island because of the ever increasing taxes on their property.
I would especially like to thank Keani Rawlings and the rest of the council as well for
helping us to bring this issue to the table and for taking action on it. You are making this
bill a real possibility and it gives us hope for our future generations. We thank you
for listening to our pleas for help.
Mahalo again for all your hard work and dedication to the “Aina Kupuna” bill.
Sincerely,
Karen Lei Noland
1
RECEIVED
Nainoa Obrochta <nainoaobrochta@kiheicharter.o^l NOV I 7 PH I* 45
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 1:37 PM
County Clerk
Support for Bill 135 OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don’t often get email from nainoaobrochta@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
^Jovember 16, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
! am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135:
One reason I support the bill is because of the protection of the coral reefs. If the
coral reefs die then the fish, which fishermen rely on, will die too.. Many medicines also come from
coral reefs. Finally the loss of the reefs will impact the tourism industry of Hawaii, and people who
live on Maui will not enjoy the coral reefs. These are the reasons why I support Bill 135.
It is important to me because I like the fish that comes from the coral reefs of Maui, and although
my community doesn’t rely on fish, the communities by or near the water probably do. Another
reason is the business that relies on fish near the coast will close down. These are the reasons
why the coral reefs are important to me and why it is critical to pass Bill 135.
Sincerely
Nainoa Obrochta
7th Grade at Kihei Charter School
1
Count^Clei^
TTElV^-vbUFrom:
Sent:
JOHN PALMER <jpalmer10@hotmaii.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:20 PM
County Clerk
Maui County Bill 135 (2021)
ZQZI NOV 19 AH 7: 41To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email fromjpalmer10@hotmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Honorable Maui County Councilmembers
I am in strong support of Bill 135 prohibiting the sale, use. or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens that
have questionable effects on the health of humans and marine life. On September 24, 2021, the FDA
issued a proposed order concerning nonprescription sunscreen drug products. In the proposed order, two
mineral products zinc oxide and titanium dioxide are deemed generally recognized as safe and effective
(GRASE).
I constantly remind folks that the "reef friendly" labeling that companies put on their products really only
means that the chemicals they put in those products are legal. They are not safe or friendly.
In some other countries non-mineral chemicals such as avobenzone, octocrylene etc. are banned.
Our islands deserve the same protections.
Mahalo for your consideration
John E Palmer
Reef Education Volunteer at Kahalu'u Beach Park
73-4360 Kehau Nani Street
Kailua Kona HI 96740
Think Zinc! Use Your Cranium, Spread Titanium!
1
RECEIVED
m\ NOV 17 PH |: 02Dear Maui County Council.
hojoef Uo^irOiRri^H £
COUNTY CLERK
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135.1
reasons and opinions helpful in supporting Bill 135.
Certain chemicals in sunscreen, such as Octocrylene or Homosalate are toxic to
coral reefs, aquatic life, and even humans, due to the fact that most of the harmful
chemicals in sunscreen are able to penetrate the skin. There are many scientific
studies and reports that prove the harmful impacts that chemical-based sunscreen
ingredients have on living organisms. Here is a list of the chemicals found in
sunscreen that prove to be harmful toward humans and the environment:
Avobenzone. Benzophenone, Cylcopentasilozane/Cyclomethicone, Formaldehyde,
Homosalate. Methylisothiazolinone, Microbeads, Nanoparticles, Octocrylene,
Octinoxate, Parabens, Phthalates, Quaternium-15, Retinyl Palmitate, Sodium
Lauryl/Laureth Sulfate, and Zinc Oxide.
Coral reefs provide places for aquatic organisms to thrive, so without them, we
would have a shortage of fish as food. Coral reefs also provide oxygen for humans
and living organisms to breathe.
Please consider what I have shared today when you are deliberating about passing
Bill 135.
Sincerely,
Hope Patterson
7th Grade Student at Kihel Charter School
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Letani Peltier <letani@hawaii.edu>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:12 PM
County Clerk
Testimony in SUPPORT of Bill 118, 'Aina Kupuna Tax Relief
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from letani@hawaii.edu. Learn whv this is important
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of the Maui County Council,
My name is Letani Peltier and I am testifying in my personal capacity to express my SUPPORT for the 'aina kupuna tax
relief proposal (Bill 118). I am very grateful that Maui County has taken the lead to provide this kind of tax relief for long
time families who are the backbone of our communities.
Mahalo nui,
Letani Peltier
OO
O "n
C "n 73
mCD
2o Om CO-< I
OO -T3T:
m -H
7J X
✓N rn
<39 o
1
RECEIVEDCount^£leiJ<
m\ NOV 17 AH 9: 08From:
Sent:
Vienna Phillips <viennaphillips@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:00 AM
County Clerk
Support for Bill 135
To:
FFICE OF THt
COUNTY CLERK
‘ j
Subject:
You don't often get email from viennaphillips@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 16, 2021
Dear Maui County Council,
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135 about non reef safe sunscreen. I think that
we should ban all non reef safe chemicals in sunscreen.
I think this because there are lots of different bad chemicals in sunscreen that are killing the reef, not
just oxybenzone and octinoxate. All the non reef safe chemicals are Oxybenzone, Octinoxate,
Octocrylene, Homosalate, 4-methylbenzyIidene, camphor, PABA Parabens, and Triclosan. We need to
ban these chemicals not only because they are bad for the reef but bad for our skin. Lots of stores all
over the world are saying that the sunscreen is reef safe just because they don't have oxybenzone or
octinoxate.
The reef safe chemicals in sunscreen are zinc oxide and titanium dioxide. These chemicals are reef
safe because they are mineral based chemicals. If we don't do something about this now in the future
our coral reefs might disappear altogether. This is why it is important to eliminate all non reef safe
chemicals.
Sincerely
Vienna Phillips
Kihei Charter School, 7th Grade
1
Count^£leiJ< RFr^F’VFn
From:
Sent:
Gershon Portillo <gershonportillo@kiheicharter.org>
Tuesday, November 16, 2021 12:01 PM
County Clerk
Bill 135 Testimony
m\ NOV 16 PH I? 35
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don't often get email from gershonportilIo@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 16, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
1 am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. I think bill 125 is a really important and
helpful idea for the coral reef. As we know coral has been dying but how we could ban non
reef sunscreen really would help protect the coral and make their population greater than right
now. This is really Important to me, my friends, and family because we are seeing sunscreens
that might not have those 2 most harmful chemicals but have the rest of the other chemicals.
People would want to buy these sunscreens because they think it’s safe for the coral but
actually it still harms it. This is why I think bill 125 is important and helpful for the coral reef.
1
Count^letjc ni:or:iV[iD
From:
Sent:
Brandon Ramirez <brandonramirez@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 6:32 PM
County Clerk
Support for Bill 135
2021 NOV 18 AH 8-35
To:
Subject: OrnCE OF THE
COIJMTY CLERK
You don't often get email from brandonramirez@kiheicharter.org. Learn whv this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
1 am writing to you today to express my support for bill 135:
I support this bill because of the excellent reasons given to me and my class from Cindy. I fully support her in
her efforts to ban these harmful ingredients. I understand that the U.S is making 100’s of millions of dollars
from sunscreen sales but I and my class believe that there is more to life than just money, by preserving our
beaches we can ensure a more colorful future for our kids and the following generations. I fully support the
passing of this bill.
Sincerely,
Brandon Ramirez
7th grader at Kihei Charter School
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Brandon Ramos <brandonramos@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:15 AM
County Clerk
My response to Support for Bill 135
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from brandonramos@kiheicharter.org. Learn whv this is important
November 17, 2021 ooOm
cm
50m m
733K
mCD
% orn-<Dear Maui County Council OO *nr“ mm
7;rn
aMy Name is Brandon Ramos VjJ
o
i am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. ..
I am supporting Bill 135 because I want to change  amistake that took over the world. Because
the ocean is paying for our actions by dying. Sunscreen has harmful chemicals like
avobenzone, cinoxate,dioxybenzone, ensulizole, homosalate, meradimate, octinoxate,
octisalate, octocrylene, oxybenzone, padimate O, and sulisobenzone, they are all very harmful
to the ocean and coral reefs and is killing them as we speak. Marine animals are being hurt by
the harmful chemicals from sunscreen. Marine animals like dolphins. Dolphins are
accumulating all of the sunscreen chemicals in them and when they have babies it is passed
down to them. When fish accumulate these chemicals it decreases their reproduction and
might transfer women's characteristics into male’s characteristics.
Sincerely
Brandon Ramos
7th Grade KiheiCharterSchool
1
RECEIVED
2021 NOV 13 PM 5: 55
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
November 18, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai'i 96793
Re: Concerns Regarding the Moratorium on New Transient Accommodations on Maui
(CR 21-130)
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
My name is Karl Reul, and I am a General Manager at Kaanapali Golf Courses. I write on
behalf of Kaanapali golf Courses to recommend three changes to the bill that I believe will better
balance tourism management concerns with economic concerns.
Visitors have come to expect updated and modern accommodations, which means hotels and
resorts must be able to repair, maintain, redevelop and remodel accommodations. The high
quality of our accommodations is what provides a consistent and reliable source of revenue that
allows our Kaanapali golf Coursesto be an economic resource for the community. Limiting or
restricting the ability to redevelop accommodations will detrimentally impact our ability to
continue to be that resource.
Given these concerns, we respectfully request the Council revise its draft of the bill in
accordance with the following:
(1) Remove “lodging capacity’7“structural footprint” and replace with “increase existing number
of transient accommodation units” in Section 19.98.040. This addresses our ability to update
existing hotel amenities, restaurants and lobbies.
(2) Add clarifying language that the moratorium ends upon the passage of the first piece of
legislation that adopts any recommendation made by the temporary investigative group in
Section 19.98.050. The current terminology of “implementation” of “recommendation” is vague
and open to interpretations. The trigger to end the moratorium must be stated clearly.
(3) Define the term “operation” in Section 19.98.020 to mean “(1) The issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, operating license, or equivalent governmental approval for a hotel, timeshare, or
transient vacation rental; or (2) The issuance of  ashort-term rental home permit or equivalent
government approval for a short-term vacation rental.”
November 18, 2021
Page 2
I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on this bill and hope the Council will
carefully consider these issues before voting on the final version.
Very truly yours,
Karl J.Reul, GM
Kaanapali Golf Courses
Count^Clei^
?0ZI «oy 18 /IH 8; 35
'■'rnCE OF THE
:OUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Jessica Rosado <jGssicarosado@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:13 PM
County Clerk; Jadda Miller
Bill 135
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email fromjessicarosado@kiheicharter.org. Learn whv this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council,
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. 1 support Bill 135 for the reason
that sunscreen has many harmful ingredients such as Homosalate. It's important that we keep our
health and coral safe. Our community's health impacts everyone. In order to help ban non-reef-safe
sunscreen, we must spread the word. Our health, coral, and community are in danger. By banning the
use of non reef-safe sunscreen, we can change many things that are negatively affecting and
impacting our society, coral reefs, and health, this Bill will do just that.
Mahalo for your time.
Jessica Rosado 7A, Kihei Charter School
1
RECEIVED
m\ NOV 18 PM ON
^TFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKAIMAT MELANOMAFOUNDAT I ON
November 17, 2021
Members of the Maui County Council
Kalena 0 Maui Building, 8^^ Floor
200 South High St.
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Members of the Maui County Council,
I write to you on behalf of AIM at Melanoma, AIM's companion organization The Skin Cancer
Education & Research Foundation, and my family concerning Bill 135, legislation that would
prohibit the sale, use, and distribution of any non-mineral sunscreen without a prescription.
Please consider delaying this legislation until more definitive Information is available on the
potential environmental adverse effects.
My family has owned a home on Maui since I was a teenager, and before that we rented homes
on our many visits. My parents, children, husband, and I have and continue to spend a lot of
time on the island over the years. My husband is  aStage ill melanoma survivor. In fact, we
discovered his melanoma on Oneioa Beach in 2013 when he showed me a mole on his arm that
had changed from in color from brown to black. I am the vice president of AIM at Melanoma, a
global non-profit whose goal is to end this disease in our lifetime while improving the lives of
those it affects.
And melanoma affects a lot of people. In 2021, an estimated 207,390 cases of melanoma will be
diagnosed in the United States, about half of those invasive cases^ Over 7,000 people will die of
the disease^. In 2019, the estimate for the number of new invasive melanoma cases diagnosed
in the U.S. was 40% higher than the estimate in 2009^. But it's not just melanoma that's
concerning: Squamous and basal cell skin cancer diagnoses number over 5 million every year^,
and the estimates for squamous cell skin cancer deaths are estimated in the multiple thousands
each year. For many millions of people, skin cancers are disfiguring, costly, and frightening.
^ American Cancer Society. "Cancer Facts and Figures 2021". Atlanta; American Cancer Society; 2021.
2 American Cancer Society. "Cancer Facts and Figures 2021". Atlanta: American Cancer Society; 2021.
3 American Cancer Society. "Cancer Facts and Figures 2019". Atlanta: American Cancer Society; 2019.
American Cancer Society. "Cancer Facts and Figures 2020". Atlanta: American Cancer Society; 2020.
#endmelanoma
AIM at Melanoma is a 501(c)(3) organization. Tax ID #56-2427805
But skin cancers are mostly preventable because the vast majority are caused by UV damage
from the sun^. Sunscreen is a key component to protect skin from UV damage. AIM at
Melanoma stresses using broad spectrum sunscreen of 30 SPF or higher daily; wearing
protective clothing, hats, and sunglasses; and seeking shade. Additionally, we warn that it's
critical to avoid sunburns, especially blistering sunburns, as your risk for melanoma doubles if
you've had more than five sunburns^ One blistering sunburn in childhood or adolescence more
than doubles your chances of developing melanoma later in life^.
Banning the sale, use, and distribution without a prescription of the entire category of organic
(chemical) sunscreens is an enormous public health concern. This legislation removes access to
chemical filters, leaving only the less effective mineral filters. Additionally, it's essential to
remember that sunscreen is only effective if used—and used as directed. Many people prefer
the feel, texture, and look of chemical sunscreens, because mineral sunscreens can feel "heavy"
on the skin and leave a whitish residue. People won't use a sunscreen they don't like, or they
won't use the right amount of it, and that leaves them vulnerable to UV damage and all types of
skin cancer.
The FDA is currently working with industry on safety testing for currently marketed sunscreen
ingredients, and the FDA is also considering several time-and-extent applications (TEAs) for new
sunscreen ingredients to be added to the FDA over-the-counter (OTC) sunscreen monograph.
AIM at Melanoma applauds the consideration of these new ingredients: We hope the U.S. can
soon market filters that have been used safely in Europe for many years. And we understand the
FDA's further safety testing of currently approved sunscreen ingredients, while we highlight the
FDA's own language that "Absorption does NOT equal risk - The FDA advises continued use of
sunscreens. The findings in these studies do not mean that the FDA has concluded that any of
the ingredients tested are unsafe for use in sunscreens, nor does the FDA seeking further
information indicate such."
As for environmental concerns, AIM joined many other melanoma and skin cancer-related
organizations to advocate for the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) study authorized in late
2019 that looks at current data gaps related not only to sunscreen access and public health but
also to the effects of sunscreen on the environment. It was clear that more research is needed
to understand any potential environmental concerns. That report is expected in Spring 2022 and
will give us all guidance on sunscreens, human health, and the environment. We eagerly await
the results of this study.
On behalf of AIM at Melanoma, The Skin Cancer Education & Research Foundation, and my
family, I urge Maui County to delay this legislation until the NAS study is published—and
reconsider It at that time, with more information on any true environmental concerns as well
as a greater understanding of the public health threat that this ban would create. As Hawaii's
own DOH noted in a letter to The Honorable Kelly Takaya King of your council dated July 30,
5 Parkin DM, Mesher D, Sasieni P. Cancers attributable to solar (ultraviolet) radiation exposure in the
UK in 2010. Br J Cancer 2011; 105;S66-S69.
® Pfahlberg A, Kolmel KF, Gefeller 0. Timing of excessive ultraviolet radiation and melanoma:
epidemiology does not support the existence of a critical period of high susceptibility to solar
ultraviolet radiation-induced melanoma. Br J Dermatol 2001; 144:3:471-475.
^ Lew RA, Sober AJ, Cook N, et al. Sun exposure habits in patients with cutaneous melanoma: a case
study. J Dermatol Surg One 1983; 12:981-6.
#endmelanoma
AIM at Melanoma is a 501(c)(3) organization. Tax ID #56-2427805
2021: "From a skin cancer/human health perspective, it is not advisable to limit sunscreens to
only zinc/titanium as the active ingredients. Some people have hypersensitivity type reactions to
these ingredients, or just don't like them and would likely not use sunscreen at all if these were
the only options. In addition, research is definitely needed to better understand the risks to the
environment from other chemical sunscreen constituents." We completely agree.
Thank you.
Sincerely,
Alicia Rowell
Vice President
AIM at Melanoma
925/800-9275
#endmelanoma
AIM at Melanoma is a 501(c)(2) organization. Tax ID #56-2427805
PACIFIC WHALE FOUNDATIONProtecting the ocean through science and advocacy and inspiring environmental stewardship
O *71
C "fT
2;o
County Council of Maui
November 19*^, 2021 mCD
om >o rnoRE: Bill 135 Relating to Ocean Pollution O 53-
<Ti 3S
mm -<
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of council, xi Oj=m j=
My name is Shelby Serra and I am testifying today on behalf of Pacific Whale
Foundation, whose mission is to protect the ocean through science and advocacy,
and to inspire environmental stewardship.
I am testifying in support of Bill 135.
We would like to reiterate our previous points, as well as provide feedback to the
opposition.
Ultimately, coral reefs across the globe are threatened by a number of human
impacts; agricultural runoff, over sedimentation, ocean acidification, overfishing,
tourism pressure. Although the science on reef damage due to sunscreen chemicals
is emerging, we urge the precautionary approach. Why risk added yet another
stressor to and already stressed and incredibly fragile ecosystem?
Coral reefs are among the most biologically diverse ecosystems in the world,
supporting nearly one million species of algae, invertebrates, and fish. In Hawaii,
coral reefs house more than 7,000 known species of marine plants and animals,
almost 20% of which are endemic to Hawaii, they provide protection to our
coastlines from storm surge and hurricanes, and have over $33 billion in economic
value. The science is clear that many of the elements in chemical sunscreens are
harmful to coral and other marine life. Research has shown that some chemicals
commonly found in sunscreen can damage coral reefs by disrupting coral
reproduction, inhibiting growth, deforming coral DNA, and increasing the rate of
zooxanthellae viruses and coral bleaching.
In Dr. Downs' presentation to your committee last month, it was revealed that
adjustments to single polymers in a chemical compound used in a sunscreen can
yield a new compound but still have similar detriments to the ecosystem. However,
the change in name of that compound can exempt it from prohibiting law. By this
logic, implementing a law that allows only mineral-based sunscreens, such as those
based in zinc oxide and titanium dioxide, strengthens the intent of the legislation,
and disallows manufactures from finding loopholes by adjusting their chemical
compounds slightly.
1
PACIFIC WHALE FOUNDATIONProtecting the ocean through science and advocacy and inspiring environmental stewardship
According to the 2020 Hawai'i Ocean Resources Management Plan as well as the
Hawai'i Tourism Authority, around 10 million people visit Hawai'i every year. Of
this, it is reported that 80% of visitors take part in marine activities.
The opposition points to limiting the options for sun protection by removing
sunscreens that are chemical-based. Environmental waste, in many instances, can
be attributed to convenience (also known as many options for the same thing]. As an
organization, we encourage covering up over lathering on; this eliminates the need
to any sunscreen lotions, and eliminates the single use plastic waste associated with
sunscreen. Using human safety, and risk of skin cancer as a point to oppose this bill
is weak. If this bill passes, there will still be many safe and effective options to
combat the risk of skin cancer.
In addition, another point of the opposition is that the mineral-based sunscreens
leave a white residue. This is simply not the case across the board; there are some
mineral-based sunscreens that leave no residue.
Passing this law will create leverage at the State level to amend the current
prohibitions on harmful chemicals. We commend Maui County for, once again, being
a leader in environmental legislation.
Finally, we believe that a large-scale education campaign in conjunction with this
legislation would yield the most efficacy. Our research has shown that policy
without education and outreach is not effective; people need to know and need to be
educated on the "why" of the problem.
We must take swift action and take a different approach to sunscreen prohibitions
to ensure that we do not continue to add reef damaging chemicals into our waters,
harming our reefs and marine life, day after day.
Mahalo for your time.
Shelby Serra
Conservation Advocate
Pacific Whale Foundation
2
CountyCleH<
From:
Sent:
Nicole S <nsiegel09@gmail.com>
Friday, November 19, 2021 9:11 AM
County Clerk
Strong support for Bill 135
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from nsiegel09@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers,
I am in strong support of Bill 135, to prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens. Non-mineral
sunscreens are harmful to corals, the marine environment, and humans. Additionally, the active ingredients in non
mineral sunscreens have not been designated as generally recognized as safe and effective (GRASE) by the FDA. Lastly,
Bill 135 permits the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens with a prescription from a physician. There are
many mineral sunscreen options available to the general public.
Maui County has the opportunity to make history today by passing Bill 135.1 urge the Council to once again implement
the General Plan objective of protecting the natural environment and show the world it cares about the health of the
coral reefs, marine environment, and people.
Mahalo,
Nicole Siegel
73O
mc=>
ornvO<
Oo <Tl
mm -I
XX
X m
vO
OszCO
1
RECEIVEDCount^Clerk
Waiaulia Smith <waiauliasmith@kiheicharter.org> 202! NOV I 8 h\\ 804
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 7:54 PM
County Clerk
Jadda Miller
Support for bill 135
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLEF<K
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
You don't often get email from waiauliasmith@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 16, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. . .
Aloha, I am a 7th-grade student at Kihei charter school. 1 would like you to ban all non-reef-safe
sunscreens and only allow sunscreen with zinc oxide or titanium oxide. Zinc oxide and titanium oxide
are the only generally recognized as safe and effective GRASE sunscreen chemicals. All the other
ones such as oxybenzone have not only been shown to harm the reefs but also our bodies. Coral
reefs also benefit the economy by From tourism to marine recreation and sport fishing, coral reefs
play an important role in the economies of countries all around the world. By one estimate, coral reefs
provide economic goods and services worth about $375 billion each year. The fish that grow and live
on coral reefs are a significant food source for people worldwide according to
https://floridakevs.noaa.qov/corals/economv.html. Whereas the sunscreen economy makes $13.03
billion dollars according to https://www.fortunebusinessinsiahts.com/sun-care-products-market-
103821#:-:text=How%20much%20is%20the%20sun.USD%2016.84%20billion%20bv%202027. So
banning non-reef safe sunscreen would not only be better for our health but also better for the
economy. That is why I support Bill 135.
1
Sincerely}
Wai Smith
7th grade Kihei Charter
2
Count^CleHc
KTrrFrom:
Sent:
Miranda Somers <mirandasomers@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:32 AM
County Clerk
Bill #135
m\ NOV 17 AH 10^ 01To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from mirandasomers@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council,
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. I am just a thirteen year old girl but I've
lived on Maui all my life and have seen the changes in the coral over these years. I have seen
sunscreen that is “reef friendly” but I turn it over and look at the ingredients and it's not. I did a project
a few months ago and more than half of the products that said “reef friendly” or “reef safe" had
Homosalate, Methylisothiazolinone, Nanoparticles, and many others which are all not reef safe.
Some brands are misleading too because they don't put avobenzone and octocrylene so therefore
they say it's “reef friendly”. These harmful chemicals can also harm your skin and go in your body.
Just think if it's not good for the coral reefs it can’t be that good for your body.
Coral bleaching can also harm the marine life around it. Many plants and animals survive on coral
reefs. Visitors want to come and see our beautiful fish, not an empty skeleton of what used to be an
amazing landscape. Not only do we have to think of our visitors but our kids and their kids.
Many people will and can have different opinions on this topic because it's the nature of topics,
everyone has a different opinion. However,it's important to think about the meaning of aloha when
considering this law. It's important to respect our land, our culture, and our future.
There are also other ways of protecting yourself from the sun and I think it's very important to address
this in the bill. Mostly because people will not know how to protect themselves from the sun. Some
ways that you can protect yourself while still being reef safe is sun protective clothing, rash guards,
hats, mineral sunscreen just to name a few.
Sincerely, Miranda Somers 7th grade, Kihei Charter School
1
Count^Clerk
VCL7
From:
Sent:
Matthew Talbot <matt@mauiproperty.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 10:50 AM
County Clerk
Work force housing
m\ NOV !8 AH Ih 04To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
(You don't often get email from matt@mauiproperty.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Please allow affordable housing project to go through.
The housing in Maui insane. Workers on island will be forced to leave if something isn't done to help out the people
that can't afford to live here!
1
County Clerk
RCCr'VCD
From:
Sent:
Wayne Tanaka <wctanaka@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 6:57 PM
County Clerk
Testimony in SUPPORT of Bill 118, 'Aina Kupuna Tax Relief
m\ NOV 18 PH 7: 02To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from wctanaka@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of the Maui County Council,
My name is Wayne Chung Tanaka and I am testifying in my personal capacity to express my continued, STRONG
SUPPORT for the 'aina kupuna tax relief proposal in Bill 118. This measure will provide significant, critical relief
necessary to prevent the further permanent loss of family 'aina that Native Hawaiian and other longtime residents of
Maui County have lived on and cherished for generations, and ensure that these lands can continue to support their
future generations -- thereby preserving the people and the heart of what makes Maui such a unique and special place
to live.
I am grateful for your favorable consideration of this bill in its first reading, and respectfully ask that you help to finally
pass this measure on second reading, and long-needed relief for those who have been pushed ever closer to the brink of
losing their connections to their ancestral lands.
Mahalo nui loa.
Wayne Chung Tanaka
1
. ● ● ●
* ● American K«nn«th J. Torrwcki, MD. FAAO Pf«sid*nt
Mark D. lOiufmann, MD, FAAD Prasident-eloct
N«al flhatia, MD, FAAD Vic* Projident
Linda F. Stain Gold, MD, FAAD Vic* Prejrdeni-*l«ct
Marta J. Van 6eek, MD, MPH, FAAD Sacretary-Tressurer
Danial D Bannatt, MO, FAAD Assistant S*cr*tary-Tr*asur*r
Elizabath K. Uthar, MBA Executive Director & CEO
** A A !%*● Academy of
● Dermafology
● Associafion
#●
ooO “n
CZ
50-im
^ 73
5 nn- O
C3
HDS r.00-<
o0^1Hawaiii Uermatoiosioal beeiety
mm CO
O73-X
7; n; sz
November 17, 2021 v_n
Members of the Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8th floor
200 South High St
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Members of the Maui County Council:
On behalf of the Hawaii Dermatological Society and the nearly 16,500 U.S. members of
the American Academy of Dermatology Association (AADA), we write concerning Bill 135,
legislation that would prohibit the sale, use or distribution any non-mineral sunscreen
without a prescription. As dermatologists we dedicate ourselves to promoting habits in
our patients that ensure healthy skin. UV radiation damages the skin's DNA, which is the
first stage of skin cancer. We oppose this legislation and urge you to strongly consider the
broad implications of banning the use of sunscreens containing certain ingredients,
bearing in mind the grave dangers of sun exposure without adequate protection that the
residents and visitors of Maui County face.
Chemical (organic) sunscreen filters are an important component of many sunscreen
products. They provide ample broad-spectrum protection against UV radiation. This
legislation would remove access to chemical filters, leaving only mineral filters, which are
less effective filters. Mineral sunscreen products often leave a whitish residue on the skin.
Many, especially individuals with darker skin tones, find these to be unacceptable for use.
WASHINGTON, OC OFFICE
1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 540
Washington, OC 20004-2401
MAIN (202)842-3555
(202) 842-4355FAX:
ROSEMONT, IL OFFICE
9500 W Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 500
Rosemont, IL 60018-5216
MAIN: (847)330-0230
(847) 240-1859FAX:
CORRESPONDENCE
PO Box 1968
Des Plaines, IL 60017-1968
EMAIL: mrc@aad.org
WEB: aad.org
Oppose Bill 135
November 17, 2021
Page 2 of 4
UV light exposure is a risk factor for all types of skin cancer and sunscreen use is a major
photo-protective method. UVA radiation damages deeper layers of the skin and
contributes to the development of melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer. DVB
radiation is the primary cause of sunburn and plays a key role in the development of skin
cancer in the skin's superficial layers. Both types of rays suppress the immune system.
Unprotected sun exposure is the most preventable risk factor for skin cancer. At least one
in five Americans will develop skin cancer,
cancer, is the second most common form of cancer in women, aged 15-29 years old.
Caucasian men, age 50+ are at a high risk of developing melanoma,
cases of melanoma are expected in Hawaii. ^ The annual cost of treating nonmelanoma
skin cancer in the U.S. is estimated at $4.8 billion, and the average annual cost of treating
melanoma is approximately $3.3 billion. ®
1
2,3 Melanoma, the deadliest form of skin
4,5,6In 2021,460 new
To prevent skin cancer, the AADA recommends comprehensive sun protection that
includes seeking shade; wearing protective clothing, including hats and sunglasses; and
applying a broad-spectrum, water-resistant sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher to
exposed skin.
Dermatologists have an interest in patient and public access to safe and effective
sunscreen ingredients. The FDA is currently working with industry on safety testing for
currently marketed sunscreen ingredients. The FDA is also considering several time-and-
extent applications (TEAs) for new sunscreen ingredients to be added to the FDA over-the-
counter (OTC) sunscreen monograph. The FDA's conclusion from recent studies on
sunscreen ingredient absorption "supports the need for further studies to determine the
clinical significance of these findings." FDA further stated that "these findings do not
■' Lim HW, James WD, Rigel DS, Maloney ME, Spencer JM, Bhushan R. Adverse effects of ultraviolet radiation from the use
of indoor tanning equipment: time to ban the tan. journal of the American Academy of Dermatology. 2011 Apr
30;64{4):e51-60.
2 Stern RS. Prevalence of a history of skin cancer in 2007: results of an incidence-based model. Arch Dermatol. 2010
Mar;146(3):279-82.
^ Robinson JK. Sun Exposure, Sun Protection, and Vitamin D. JAMA 2005; 294:1541 -43.
^ Siegel RL, Miller KD, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2017. CA Cancer J Clin. 2017; 67:7-30.
5 Little EG, Eide MJ. Update on the current state of melanoma incidence. Dermatol Clin. 2012:30(3):355-61.
® NAACCR Fast Stats: An Interactive quick tool for quick access to key NAACCR cancer statistics. North American
Association of Central Cancer Registries, http://www.naaccr.org/ . (Accessed on 3-10-2016).
^American Cancer Society. Cancer Facts and Figures 2021. https://www.cancer.org/content/dam/cancer-
org/research/cancer-facts-and-statistics/annual-cancer-facts-and-figures/2021/ca ncer-facts-and-figures-2021.pdf
® Guy GP, Machlin S, Ekwueme DU, Yabroff KR. Prevalence and costs of skin cancer treatment in the US, 2002-2006 and
2007-2011. Am J Prev Med. 2015;48:183-7
Oppose Bill 135
November 17, 2021
Page 3 of 4
indicate that individuals should refrain from the use of sunscreen,
ingredients have been in use for almost 50 years without any reported systemic adverse
side effects. This issue highlights the urgent need for new safe and effective sunscreen
ingredients in the United States. With the approval of ingredients that utilize alternative
UV filters, the public's health will be better. The AADA continues to participate in the
discussion with the FDA and manufacturers regarding availability of current and new
ingredients.
»9 Sunscreen
We are concerned about the potential environmental impact of UV-filters. The potential
adverse effects related to the levels of UV-filters in the water supply and marine life (as
well as humans) are an emerging science. A review of 12 studies evaluating 14 different
organic UV filters in seawater near coral reefs determined that the majority of
concentrations found in seawater were in the nanograms per liter range. Nine papers
reported toxicological findings from no response to a variety of biological effects; these
effects were detected in the micrograms per liter to milligrams per liter range, namely, at
least 1000-fold higher than those reported in seawater in real life.The review concludes
"there is currently limited evidence to suggest that corals are adversely impacted by
environmental exposure to UV filters."
Our organizations advocated for the enactment of the Further Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2020, by which the U.S. Congress directed the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) to contract with the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to
conduct a scientific literature review of current sunscreens' potential risk to the marine
environment. The study will consider scientific literature on the potential public health
implications as a result of reduced use of sunscreens. This type of research is necessary to
understand how UV filters may affect the environment We encourage you to consider
these ongoing efforts before taking any action to remove a product that has been proven
to be effective against skin cancer. Based on current data, removing specific sunscreen
ingredients and products from the market would be premature. Doing so would deprive
the public of an integral component of photoprotection to decrease the risk of skin
cancer.
® Matta, MK, Florian, J, Zusterzeel, R, Nageswara RP, Patel, V, Voipe, DAPhD, et al. Effect of Sunscreen Application on
Plasma Concentration of Sunscreen Active ingredients: A Randomized Clinical Trial. Journal of the American Medical
Association 323, No. 3 (2020). 267.
Mitchelmore CS, Burns. EE. Conway A, Heyes A, Davies lA. A critical review of organic ultraviolet filter
exposure, hazard, and risk to corals. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2020 (00);00:1 -21. Online 2 February 2021 in
Wiley Online Library
(wileyonlinelibrary.com). DOI: 10.1002/etc.4948
10
Oppose Bill 135
November 17, 2021
Page 4 of 4
Please consider the public health consequences of removing access, banning use, or
attaching stigma to sunscreens containing certain ingredients. We oppose Bill 135 for the
reasons above, and we request that Hawaii give the FDA more time to evaluate new
sunscreens for public use and for the NAS to conduct its review and report its findings. If
this bill gains support, we urge the Council to 1) remove the word "use," so the ban only
applies to sale and distribution and 2) extend the effective date to allow dermatologists
and other physicians and pharmacies adequate time to develop and implement a
prescribing infrastructure. We appreciate the opportunity to provide written comments
on this important public health issue. For more information, please contact Lisa Albany,
director of state policy for the AADA, at LAIbany@aad.org or (202) 712-2615.
Sincerely,
Kenneth J. Tomecki, MD, FAAD
President
American Academy of Dermatology Association
Rebecca Luria, MD, FAAD
President
Hawaii Dermatological Society
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Wyatt vanderLee <wyattvanderlee@kiheicharter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 8:36 AM
County Clerk
Testimony for Bill 135
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from wyattvanderlee@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
)ear Maui County Council,
I am writing to express my gratitude and support for Bill 135 to ban the sale and use of non-mineral
sunscreen products that contain oxybenzone and octinoxate.
I fully support Bill 135 because non-mineral sunscreen is very harmful to reefs. We can see this as Hawaii's
reefs are slowly dying. This impact makes the reef pure white which may look beautiful but is actually very bad
because marine animals that take shelter and feed off the reef will lose their home and food supply. This will
affect the fishing community throughout Hawaii as they will catch fewer fish, negatively impacting local fish
supply. Visitors who come here to see the colorful reefs of Hawaii may be disappointed by the environmental
damage. This impact may negatively impact the tourist industry. But it is not only the marine animals that
mineral sunscreens affect. Sunscreen also causes water pollution. One example of this is if there are multiple
people in the ocean who are using non-mineral sunscreen. Swimmers using release chemicals in the water
that will sting your eyes when you dunk your head and get back up and open your eyes. This has happened to
me personally many times before. Furthermore, sunscreens are not F.D.A approved in the U.S., meaning they
are not actually as safe and protective as the sunscreen brand says they are.
Based on this evidence, I fully agree with the ban of non-mineral sunscreen because it is harmful to reefs and
the marine life within the reefs. It also impacts the fishing community, may result in less tourism income, and
lessen the beauty of the reefs throughout the islands of Hawaii. Non-mineral sunscreen may also harm human
health and cause water pollution. I hope this bill passes to fully ban sunscreen products that are harmful to the
reef. Thank you for giving your time and listening to my testimony, and aloha!
OO
70O "n
Zq om m-<
oo■n
mm H goa) X
m Ov-n
1
WyattvanderLee <wyattvanderlee@kiheicharter.org> REClllVED
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 1;23 PM
County Clerk
My support for Bill 135
m\ NOV 17 RH: 2
From:
Sent:
To: 6Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from wyattvanderlee@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Council,
I am writing to express my gratitude and support for Bill 135 to ban the sale and use of non-mineral
sunscreen products that if you can't say it, don't spray it.
I fully support Bill 135 because non-mineral sunscreen is very harmful to reefs. We can see this as Hawaii's
reefs are slowly dying. This impact makes the reef pure white which may look beautiful but is actually very
bad because marine animals that take shelter and feed off the reef will lose their home and food supply.
This will affect the fishing community throughout Hawaii as they will catch fewer fish, negatively impacting
local fish supply. Visitors who come here to see the colorful reefs of Hawaii may be disappointed by the
environmental damage. This impact may negatively impact the tourist industry. But it is not only the marine
animals that mineral sunscreens affect. Sunscreen also causes water pollution. One example of this is if
there are multiple people in the ocean who are using non-mineral sunscreen. Swimmers release chemicals
in the water that will sting your eyes when you dunk your head and get back up and open your eyes. This
has happened to me personally many times before. Furthermore, sunscreens are not F.D.A approved in
the U.S., meaning they are not actually as safe and protective as the sunscreen brand says they are.
Based on this evidence, I fully agree with the ban of non-mineral sunscreen because it is harmful to
reefs and the marine life within the reefs. It also impacts the fishing community, may result in less tourism
income, and lessen the beauty of the reefs throughout the islands of Hawaii. Non-mineral sunscreen may
also harm human health and cause water pollution.  Ihope this bill passes to fully ban sunscreen products
that are harmful to the reef. Thank you for giving your time and listening to my testimony, and aloha!
Sincerely,
Wyatt van der Lee
Kihei Charter School, 7th Grade
1
Testimony of Francille Leina‘ala Kuloloio Vedder
County of Maui
November 18,2021
Aloha Council Chair Alice Lee, Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Femandez, and
Maui County Council Members. I am testifying in support of the Amendments to
Bill 118 (2021) relating to real property dedicated as ‘Aina Kupuna.
I would like to thank Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez for addressing the
long-standing issue of displacement on ‘aina kupuna by establishing a new
ordinance that provides tax relief Thank you also to the entire Maui County
Council for supporting the intent of this bill for our families in Maui Nui to remain
on our ‘aina ho‘oilina kupuna. We are grateful for the opportunities that this bill
will provide for our families maintaining and holding on to our ‘aina ho‘oilina
kupuna. Thank you to Council Chair Alice Lee for your leadership, long-standing
experience, and guidance bringing forth another momentous event in Maui County
for the betterment of our kama‘aina.
This bill gives hope and relief for my generation to continue the lifestyle, stories,
traditions, and beliefs of our parents, uncles and aunties, grandparents, and
ancestors who came before us. Being on our ‘aina kupuna brings us comfort in
times of grief, pain, confusion, happiness, joy, and celebration amongst our loved
ones and dear friends. The light shines upon us as we bear witness to an outcome
that we can celebrate with our kupuna who remain to see this day in person and in
spirit.
OQ
O *T]
cm 7DMe ka ha‘aha‘a, mCD
JmLeina‘ala Kuloloio Vedder
Kuloloi‘a Lineage-I ke Kai o Kuloloi‘a
m< ●o
Oo T\ =S
mm
Om
Count^CIeH< REC
2021 NOV 18 AH & 47
; \
Kevin Rodriguez <kevinrodriguez@kiheicharter.org>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:42 AM
County Clerk
Support for bill 135
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: :FFICE OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from kevinrodriguez@kiheicharter.org. learn why this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. withThis Bill will protect Maui. It is
important because it's our home, i think that non-toxic sunscreen should be banned on Maui because
it not only hurts us humans but also our beautiful coral reefs. I learned all of this from a woman
named Cindi Punihaole. She inspired me to look forward to banning these harmful ingredients. I
understand that the U.S makes millions of dollars but it's alright that for now they ban it on only Maui
because it will teach the tourist that there is a specific sunscreen for the ocean so I think it won’t be
that bad. I also think that non-resafe sunscreen should be banned on Maui because it makes me mad
that non-safe sunscreen kills and bleaches our coral and it's horrible.
Sincerely
Kevin Rodriguez Velador
Kihei Charter 7th Grade
1
Count^^lei^ Rpn-MVFn
Hannah Wick <hannahwick@kiheicharter.org>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 9;00 AM
County Clerk
Bill 135
From:
Sent: ^0?l NOV 18 AH 9: 05
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don't often get email from hannahwick@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 16, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
1 am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135...
1,500 years ago, Polynesians moved onto Hawaii, and the reefs were beautiful and healthy.
Between 1994 and 2006, Hawaii lost 25% of its living coral, due to non reef safe sunscreen. If
this continues to go on, there is no denying that eventually all of Hawaii’s coral will die off,
and it will have a huge negative impact on the world. It will lead to a domino effect of mass
destruction. A huge amount of marine life will die due to their only source of food
disappearing.
Not to mention that if this happens, tourism will greatly decrease, because there are no
beautiful places in the ocean to go snorkeling in. Coral reefs protect coastlines from storms
and erosion. If there are no coral reefs left, Hawaii will be greatly more vulnerable to storms,
waves, and erosion. Over 200 million people rely on coral reefs to safeguard them from
storms. If coral reefs die, most of Hawaii's marine life will die and or move away and if that
happens, the fatalities can and will be huge on not only Hawaii but also the rest of the world.
And the government could stop this with a snap of  afinger, but to think they won’t just
because they want to make profits, it's cruel. The chemicals in sunscreen have already been
proven to damage and bleach coral reefs, so the real question is why? Why won’t our
lawmakers help save Hawaii?
1
Bodhi Williams <bodhiwilliams@kiheicharter.org^R EC E ! VE D
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 1:30 PM
County Clerk
testimony for bill 135
2021 NOV 17 PM |: 0
From:
Sent:
To: 5Subject:
●^mCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from bodhiwilliams@kiheicharter.org. Learn why this is important
November 17, 2021
Dear Maui County Council
I am writing to you today to express my support for Bill 135. I am hopeful that it will be passed.
1 would like to have this bill passed not just for the health of reef ecosystems but for my family and
friends as well. These products, if concentrated enough, could be toxic to humans. If we don't
prevent the sale and use of these sunscreens and continue to use them, we could all be harmed.
I  love the beach so it is sad to me that corals are suffering, bleaching, and being negatively
impacted. This could make the county of Maui lose money because tourists could stop coming and
spending money to see the corals leading to the collapse of the economy. Yes, this will happen in
the future but that wilt mean the loss of jobs from hotels and snorkeling businesses as other
commercial ocean activities. Which would result in little money for the state.
The coral dying affects the animals too. Here in Hawaii, we have many native and endemic
species of fish and ocean animals that rely on the coral reefs to protect them and as a food
source. Without these, our wonderful array of animals could die or move away (which could also
affect the economy). Chemical ingredients in sunscreen are a major problem we must tackle.
Please save our special coral reefs and animals by banning the use and sale of harmful
sunscreens products to protect them before they disappear.
Sincerely
Bodhi Williams
Kihei Charter School 7th Grade
1
Count^£letj< E£r.^w/r^n
From:
Sent:
Kalani Wilmington <khw461@gmaii.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 9:01 PM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna Bill 118
im NOV 19 AH 7= 57
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from khw461@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
My name is Kalani Wilmington and 1 am a descendant of John Kukahiko and Kamaka Kuhaulua. I strongly support the
passing of 'Aina Kupuna Bill 118. Our 'ohana as well as many other others have struggled for many years to hold onto
our ancestral lands in hopes of passing them down to our keiki. Please allow our 'aina kupuna to be able to keep our
lands in the 'ohana and not worry about the high property taxes assessed on our homes and land due to the high
speculation buying and selling of homes in the area.
Thank you for this opportunity to submit this testimony in support of the passing of 'Aina Kupuna Bill 118. Mahalo!
Kalani Wilmington
1
RECEIVED
2021 HQV 18 mB 38
RETAIL
MERCHANTS
OF HAWAII
TESTIMONY OF TINA YAMAKI, PRESIDENT
RETAIL MERCHANTS OF HAWAII
November 19, 2021
01‘- HIC E O F 1 H E
COUNTY CLERK
Re: Bill 135 (2021) A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 20.42, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO
PROHIBIT THE SALE, USE, OR DISTRIBUTION OF NON-MINERAL SUNSCREENS
Good morning, Chair Lee, and members of the Maui County Council. 1 am Tina Yamaki, President of the Retail Merchants
of Hawaii and I appreciate this opportunity to testify.
The Retail Merchants of Hawaii was founded in 1901, RMH is a statewide, not for profit trade organization committed to
the growth and development of the retail industry in Hawaii. Our membership includes small mom & pop stores, large box
stores, resellers, luxury retail, department stores, shopping mails, local, national, and international retailers, chains, and
everyone in between.
We are OPPOSED to Bill 135 (2021) A Bill for An Ordinance Establishing Chapter 20.42, Maui County Code, To Prohibit
the Sale, Use, Or Distribution of Non-Mineral Sunscreens. Retailers continue to be concerned about our aina and have
supported many initiatives that preserve and protect not only our environment but or kupuna, keiki, residents and visitors
as well.
This measure goes way beyond the current state law that bans the sale and distribution of “oxybenzone and octinoxate" to
include any non-mineral sunscreen and would be the most restrictive sunscreen ban in the nation. It is our understanding
that over 64% of the current sunscreens that are currently sold in stores throughout the County of Maui will be taken off
the shelves in October 2022 when this measure would go into effect. This does NOT include the other forms sunscreen
that include but not limited to foundation makeup, lipsticks, lip balm, haircare products, insect repellents and
more.
Hawaii is known for its many sunny days and many residents and visitors who uses sunscreen include little
leaguers, hikers, golfers, soccer, baseball and tennis players, and joggers to name a few. With the pandemic we
are seeing more people and families enjoying outdoor by working in their yard, walking, shopping, biking, playing outside,
and going to the park. Sunscreens with zinc oxide or titanium dioxide that leave a white film on the skin where applied is
not what many in Hawaii want to use.
Many of us wear sunscreen daily to protect ourselves from the effects of the sun like skin cancer - the most
common form of cancer. Every year there are more cases of skin cancer in the United States than incidences of breast
cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer, and colon cancer combined. One out of five Americans will develop skin cancer
in their lifetime, and one person dies of melanoma (the deadliest form of skin cancer) every hour. Most melanomas are
caused by the sun, and a person’s risk of melanoma doubles if he or she has had more than five sunburns. The Hawaii
Department of Health has also mentioned that is NOT advisable to limit sunscreens to only zinc/titanium as the active
ingredients from a skin cancer/human health perspective.
We may also run the risk of people no longer wearing sunscreen and thus increasing their chances of skin
cancer. We must consider that there a people who are very allergic or sensitive to the use of zinc oxide or titanium
dioxide and their sunscreen choices would be extremely limited if none at all. This ban on non-mineral sunscreens would
also penalize those who do not go to the beach but use sunscreen daily like hikers, golfers, tennis players and joggers to
name a few. Sunscreen products should be affordable and accessible as the first line of defense for individuals seeking
protection from the sun's cancer-causing UV rays. Banning the sale of non-mineral products will drastically reduce the
selection of sunscreen products available in Hawaii as well as compel local residents to purchase products online or not
use sunscreen at all and our visitors to bring their own in their suitcases.
We also wonder “How many people will actually take time off from work, pay a co-payment to see a doctor and
then wait in the pharmacy to a get their expensive prescription for sunscreen filled that most likely won’t be
covered by their health insurance?” The out-of-pocket cost would be the burden of the consumer as often time
insurance or prescription plans do not cover this cost.
3610 Waialae Ave ● Honolulu, HI 96816 - -- (808) 592-4200 “tyamaki@rmhawaii.org
Before acting on this measure, we feel the following questions needs to be addressed instead of assumptions.
● If pharmacies on Maui carry UV filter sunscreens, would they have to keep It behind the counter as this product would
now be “by prescription only”
● Is it within Maui County's jurisdiction to regulate prescription medications or over-the-counter drugs?
● Will health insurance companies recognize a prescription for sunscreen only for the County of Maui when the FDA
recognizes it as an over-the-counter drug?
● With Doctors and dermatologist prescribing sunscreen, are the people of Maui County willing to pay 2 to  3times more
for a sunscreen product that may not be covered by their health insurance?
If this bill passes, no one in Maui County will be able to use non-mineral sunscreen that you may have bought somewhere
else prior to this ban, online, or visitors who brought their own from their home with them to use on vacation. We also
wonder who would enforce this law. With tourist and local kamaaina traveling between islands and residents of Maui,
would there by a sunscreen police at the airport checking our bags or raiding our homes to confiscate our sunscreen, lip
balm, lipsticks, makeup foundation, haircare products, insect repellent and more.
While the FDA is studying chemical UV filters in sunscreens, it did NOT recommend banning them from use.
The FDA recommended no changes to currently marketed sunscreens. We ask that the Maui County Council to wait
until the National Academy of Science (NAS) completes their review scientific literature of sunscreen’s impact on
both environmental and human health. The NAS report should be published in Spring 2022 and will give decision
makers guidance on how to approach sunscreen rulings.
The solution of banning the use and sale of non-mineral sunscreen and other products is not the one-shot solution that
will solve the issues surrounding the coral reefs. Consumers, both visitors and kamaaina would have extremely limited
choices on sunscreen and products that are often less effective at blocking the sun and may cost a lot more. More
education and comprehensive studies of the coral reefs in their natural environment are needed. And we must be sure
that there are truly a large variety of effective sunscreen-based products that are easily available and are not cost
prohibitive.
We ask that you amend the bill to be in line with the state law banning only the sale and distribution of “oxybenzone and
octinoxate.
Mahalo for this opportunity to testify.
96816 I2i (808) 592-4200 ®3610 Waialae Ave ● Honolulu, HI tyamaki@rmhawaii.org
Executive Officers
Charlie Gustafson, Tamura Super Market, Chair
Eddie Asato, Pint Size Hawaii, Vice Chair
Gary Okimoto, Safeway, Secretary/Treas.
Lauren Zirbet, HFIA, Executive Director
John Schliff, Rainbow Sales and Marketing, Advisor
Stan Brown, Acosta Sales & Marketing, Advisor
Paul Kosasa, ABC Stores, Advisor
Derek Kurisu, KTA Superstores, Advisor
Toby Taniguchi, KTA Superstores, Advisor
Joe Carter, Coca-Cola Bottling of Hawaii, Immediate Past Chair
HFIAHAWAII FOOD INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION
1050 Bishop St, PMB 235 | Honolulu. HI 96813
P: 808-533-1292 | e: info@hawaiifood.com
ooTO: Maui County Council Zl
mCD
AoHFROM; HAWAII FOOD INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION
Lauren Zirbel, Executive Director
Om >  ● A
(  ' iO'
OO nr~DATE:
TIME:
PLACE:
Friday, November 19, 2021
9am
Online
rnm -H
O
RE: Bill 135 to prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of non mineral sunscreens including those
containing oxybenzone, octinoxate, or both
Position: Oppose
The Hawaii Food Industry Association is comprised of two hundred member companies
representing retailers, suppliers, producers, and distributors of food and beverage related
products in the State of Hawaii.
The HFIA proposes that since this bill would ban many products that are used to prevent skin
cancer, that a higher standards of review should be conducted to ensure that taking this action
would indeed improve outcomes for reefs. The State of Hawaii recently conducted an
information review from top Hawaii scientist studying our reefs. The presenters discussed,
increased water temperatures, run-off, sewage and overfishing.
A study released on March 1,2018 on the human and natural impacts on coral reefs'* used 10
years worth of data to learn about what is negatively affecting our reefs. This study concluded
that overfishing, sedimentation, coastal development, and runoff are the biggest threats to
Hawaii’s corals. The study did not cite any sunscreen ingredients as posing dangers to our
reefs.
This measure will hurt local retailers by encouraging consumers to buy their favorite
sunscreens online, where it is unlikely this law will be enforceable. The promotion of this bill
1 http://www.hawaiinewsnow.com/story/37628769/researchers-map-out-the-impact-of-humans-
environment-on-hawaiis-coral-reefs
Advancing the integration of spatial data to map human and natural drivers on coral reefs
http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=l 0.1371 /journal.pone.0189792#sec012
will adversely impact human heath, serving only to deaminize wearing sunscreen, and
increase peoples risk of skin cancer.
We care about offering products individuals feel comfortable with and which are affordable for
use on a daily basis to prevent skin cancer. Many products that have sun protection factor,
such as lotions, tinted moisturizers, and anti-aging products are intended for daily use in small
amounts. These products are not used in large quantities anywhere near the ocean. However,
all of these products would be unnecessarily banned under this bill, as would other federally
approved and regulated healthcare products. Having access to these products is especially
important here in Hawaii where the rate of skin cancers, including deadly melanoma, is
significantly higher than on the mainland.^
Given that this ban would not alleviate the known primary causes of coral bleaching, and that it
would deprive people of products they use to prevent possibly life threatening skin cancers, we
do not think the potential benefit is worth the risk and we ask that this measure be held.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
^ hltp://www.staradvertiser.com/2018/02/28/editorial/island-voices/heathy-people-heaIthy-places-
include-sunscreen/