MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-10-22
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1423,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
October 22, 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS. ON FRIDAY. OCTOBER 22. 2021,
BEGINNING AT 9:04 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Council meeting of October 22, please come to
order.
Members, I'll start off with the greeting and then we'll have roll call. Aloha kakahiaka e
ola koa kakou. Now this is not in Scottish obviously, but this is something I'm sure
Member King could share with the people she meets, cause it's fairly easy to say. E ola
koa kakou, and this is my wish to all of you, may you live like a koa tree, long, strong,
and courageous.
Mr. Clerk, may we have roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call. In
accordance with the Governor's most recent emergency proclamation related to the
COVID-19 response. Members should state who, if anyone, is present with them as
part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha kakahiaka e ola koa kakou my Maui hikina. I'm here at
the Hana Cultural Center, ku‘u home hanau with my EA Dawn Lono. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Good morning and aloha. Madam Chair. E ola o ka koa, e ola
koa kakou to you and my colleagues and everyone else viewing in on this Friday
morning. For the record. I'm at my residence here in Makawao. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 2
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka e ola koa kakou. And I am here in my office on
the 8th floor, alone in my side, but I have three EA's on the other side of the door, all
masked up. Also, Chair.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. I was just going to say that we're here because we're hope
to, that we get a lunch break and we'll be able to have lunch with Nicole Siegel, who's
our CARE Committee analyst and today is her last day as we all know.
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair. Good morning, Councilmembers.
E ola koa kakou to all of you. I am in, on the 8th floor of the County Building with my
staff, Kate Griffiths.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: E ola koa kakou. Aloha kakahiaka from the West Maui District
Office. I'm here with my EA Angela and we're more than six feet apart.
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Aloha e koa kakou. Good morning everybody. I'm here in
Kula, and I'm looking forward to a very productive meeting. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 3
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Aloha kakahiaka. Chair. And e ola koa kakou to all my
colleagues. And it's a beautiful day in the neighborhood. And I'm here by myself in my
room.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Present and I'm here alone in my room with nobody close by. Alright, very good
Everybody is here except the Vice-Chair and I'm sure she'll be here momentarily.
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I hear her. You just made it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair, my Moloka'i nui ahina. I am
here at the Moloka'i District Office by myself on my side of the office. What's today's
greetings. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: E ola koa kakou.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: E ola koa kakou.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: And I'm sure you know what that means. That I'm wishing all of you to live like
a koa tree, long and strong and courageous.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Beautiful. We all are warriors.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. All fighters, right.
Alright, Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 4
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, KELLY T. KING, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA,
VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
ALICE L. LEE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine Members present. A quorum is present to
conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: And today we have opening remarks by Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. That was beautiful. Member Johnson. By the way, I forgot to tell
you I met your, your roommate the other day. Max. Nice person.
Alright, before we proceed with today's agenda, I would like to ask you to join me in
reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: May I please ask now that everyone keep their microphones muted unless It's
your time to speak. Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 5
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE; Members, at this time we will set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder the
calendar can still be adjusted even after it's set. Are there any requested changes to
the Consent Calendar at this time?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So I would like to move the 21-482, which is the water
supply report.
CHAIR LEE: 21-482. Okay. Any objections, Members?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, no objections, so ordered. Any other changes? If not, are there any
objections to setting the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; No objections. Okay. The Consent Calendar is now set.
Mr. Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 6
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media or on
mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at
any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person signed up to testify is Howard Wiig. To be followed by Genesis
Young.
CHAIR LEE: And how many testifiers do we have, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
18 individuals signed up to testify.
Including the individuals I called, we currently have
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Repeat the first name again.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Howard Wiig.
CHAIR LEE; Howard Wiig. Mr. Wiig.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, shall we move onto the next testifier?
CHAIR LEE; Let’s move, yes, yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then the next person signed up to testify is Genesis Young. To
be follow by Mike Moran.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MR. GENESIS YOUNG (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 21-95. 21-96, and 21-107);
Aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. YOUNG; Okay, great. This is Genesis Young, I just wanted to testify in support of the
‘aina kupuna lands. CR 21-95, support that. It's good to see things being done to
preserve Hawaiian lands for Hawaiians. And, and a lot more needs to be done. So I
just wanted to support that and be heard on that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 7
Also want to support CR 21-96 for many of the same reasons to support the iwi kupuna,
and trust that that land will be managed appropriately with Native Hawaiian
management over time.
Okay, and then as Councilmember Johnson says, CR 21-107 is a step towards going
to help with decreasing our tourist numbers, by putting some limits on short-term
rentals. And so I heartily support that and of course a lot more also needs, needs doing
in that regard with controlling and actually buying up some short-term rentals and
turning them into long-term rentals in my view. Thank you so much. I am complete.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Are there any questions for Dr. Young?
If not, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next individual signed up to testify is Mike Moran. To be
followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last four
digits, 8887
rtestifvina on CountyMR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION
Communication No. 21-492. Committee Report Nos. 21-98 & 21-109. and Bill
Nos. 106 (2021L 107 (20211. & 111 (2021)1;
Mike Moran for the KiheiHappy Aloha Friday, Chair Lee and Councilmembers.
Community Association. And we're being positive today. We have several items we
want to testify, but we're in favor of everything. So it's a positive morning.
The first item is 21-492, which is looking at our new advisory committees, and
considering expanding them to, having the option of expanding them from seven to
nine and looking at alternative members. We think this is a good, positive step. Just
one of the many, many examples of the existing boards that we have. We have
participated in the Maui Planning Commission for several years and unfortunately
would see that quite often they would get a bare quorum, but then they would get stuck
on voting because they couldn't get the minimum required number to pass something.
It would just take one dissenter to stop progress. So we think this is a good, positive
step to look at alternatives for these new committees, probably starting next year in
2022.
The next one is 21-98, talking about wetlands restoration and of course, that's a prime
consideration in our district in South Maui. We've talked about this before, and being
a little repetitious, we know we can't undo what was done. We can't undo all the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 8
damage of, of you know, filling in a muliwai and building on top of it and then saying
wow, where did we get all of this flooding from? We can’t undo that, but we can stop
digging in the hole that we're in so we can make progress. So we are in support of
21-98.
Next one is 21-109. While it’s not in our district, we, we're coming up in South Maui
next. So we're looking to see if this can be completed for our friends on the west side
and see if we can follow the good example that was set there with their CPAC and with
the whole process finishing up by you folks at the Council. So we hope that moves on,
and we wish the best to the west side.
Next is Bill 106, those large residential buildings, let's do whatever we can to help
reduce the effects on climate change. We did see a, one of the countless articles in
Maui, I'm sorry. Civil Beat this morning, talking about how it's affecting the health,
particularly of the Pacific Island, of course, including the, the kanaka. So one more
reason to be concerned about the climate change. Sorry for the neighborhood dogs
are all chiming in, they're all in positive spirits, too.
Next is Bill 107. Yes, let's see, we see an estimate of $15 million coming to the County.
Let's see what the best use we can put it to. If it's for the affordable housing, maybe
some towards our great need for infrastructure. But I'm sure the money will be put to
good use, and it’s about time that a fair share of the visitor spending comes directly to
our County.
And I think I just have one more. That is Bill 111 for the, trying to get the appropriate
people into the appropriate new housing. We expressed a bit of lack of confidence for
how will this work and I was, was, we were a bit criticized by our former Councilmember
saying that we didn’t have enough faith in lists, and she gave some successes. So we
certainly hope that this one is an outstanding success, and thank you, Gabe Johnson,
for bringing this forth and thank you to the full Council for the support. And we say
mahalo for the opportunity to testify this morning. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mike. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, you have a
great weekend. Thank you.
MR. MORAN: Thanks, aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 9
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual calling in to testify is the person calling
in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 8887. To be followed by
Dawn Otani-Hernandez.
MS. KAMALU KAHO'OKELE (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-105):
Aloha kakahiaka ... I am Kumu Kamalu Kaho'okele from Lower Nahiku, and I am the
founder and president of the Nahiku Community Association. I'm calling in regards to
21-105, the Nahiku Community Center. And first of all I would like to thank the Council
of Maui and, and the County for all that they have been trying to do. And I'm open for
questions.
This has been, this project for the Nahiku Community Center has been in existence for
the past, gee, I would say 15 years. We have gone through every necessary item that
had to be done, and now I see that it has to do now with the agriculture change to
public/quasi, and we have, I have already gone through that also. And I do agree to
that, of course, if it's going to be of, of, for the best interest of the, hopefully, upcoming
Nahiku Community Center. I'm open for questions.
And we've had a groundbreaking in 2010 to be exact. We've had every, everything
that we had to follow from the State level, as well as the County level up to this day,
and we have been waiting. We've had allocations done, the last was $2.5 million,
which I understand have lapsed, and never knowing why it lapsed.
Of course the construction for the center was supposed to have gone on, started, by
Maui Kupono Builders after the groundbreaking was settled and done. And the
groundbreaking of course, we had those from the State level, Senator Kalani English;
Mele Carroll, House of Representatives; Governor Abercrombie's assistant attended
the groundbreaking, etc., etc., etc. 1 know I don't have enough time to mention all of
them, but I do have records that 1 have shared with the County of Maui in every way,
shape, and form, including photos that was taken.
I would like to know . .. well, excuse me,... I would like to say mahalo to the Council,
all of the Councilmembers. Thank you so much, and  Ihope that this project that's long
overdue will be reconsidered by the County of Maui through the Executive Order,
signed, sealed, and delivered by the State of Hawaii, etc., etc. We have done
everything that I know of, that I'm aware of that had to be done. And I would like to
thank everyone again, and god bless all of you, ke aloha ke Akua, for all that you can
do and may do for our ahupua'a of Lower Nahiku, which will be very, very needed in
the future time to come. Not only for Lower Nahiku, but for all of the ahupua'a on east
side of Maui and there's a lot of them before you even reach Hana Town.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 10
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you, thank you so much for your testimony. Could you like conclude
in a sentence or two, please?
MS. KAHO'OKELE: My conclusion would be mahalo ke Akua, malama pono noho ke ia . . .
o Hawaii nei. Malama noho ike ia and stay safe everyone. And mahalo nui loa for
giving me this opportunity to talk to you all through telephone . . . telephone. And I
hope and pray that whatever decision will be made will be for the good of our island of
Maui. Mahalo nui loa. Aloha no. Ahuihou.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you so much. Are there any questions for the testifier? Thank you so
much.
MS. KAHO'OKELE: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: May we have the next testifier. Mahalo.
MS. KAHO'OKELE: Mahalo.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next individual signed up to testify is Dawn Otani-
Hernandez. To be followed by Christopher Delaunay.
MS. DAWN OTANI-HERNANDEZ (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-104):
Hi, good morning everyone. My name is Dawn, can, can everybody hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. OTANI-HERNANDEZ; Yes, thank you. My name is Dawn Otani-Hernandez, I'm the
daughter of Glenn Otani. And it's in regards to, I'm testifying in regards to CR 21-104
in behalf of my, behalf of my family. We wanted to thank everyone for nominating our
dad and thank you, thank you to the communities, and the Council for taking, sorry the
committees and the Council for taking the time to read and hear stories from the
Upcountry members.
Our dad always supported us as we were growing up, especially through sports. He
was hardworking, but he still dedicated his time to teaching the Upcountry youth. If he
wasn't already working and doing whatever he was doing with farming, he was always
thinking and planning about the next baseball tournament, softball tournament, all
kinds of stuff. So he was always busy. Even after we had all moved away, no other
kids were playing, he still continued to be involved in the baseball community.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 11
He enjoyed helping others, putting smiles on their faces and he never asked anything
in return. He’d be very humbled by the support of the baseball community has shown
in his memory. But, and only after his passing did we realize how much of an impact
he had had on everyone. He is surely missed by all that knew him, and we are grateful
that our dad is being honored in this way. So no matter how it turns out we're truly
appreciative. Thank you again.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Dawn.
MS. OTANI-HERNANDEZ: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions, Members? If not, thank you very much. And may we have the
next testifier please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Christopher
Delaunay. To be followed by Makalapua Kanuha.
MR. CHRISTOPHER DELAUNAY. PACIFIC RESOURCE PARTNERSHIP rtestifying on Bill
No. Ill (2021)1:
Aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. Chris Delaunay with Pacific Resource Partnership,
and I am a registered lobbyist. PRP is in strong opposition of Bill 111, establishing a
Countywide Workforce Housing Interest List and related policies for residents
interested in workforce housing rental or ownership units. We are very concerned that
this, these proposed amendments will put a heavy burden on the Department of
Housing and Human Concerns to ensure that all County, State, and Federal
regulations are followed in a timely manner. This will likely require the Department to
hire and retain more staff with experience in developing affordable housing, and
require the Department to invest in additional resources to deliver these new
responsibilities. Moreover the Department or its designee will likely be held liable for
any errors occurring during the qualification process.
I'm also concerned, too, I know Hawaii Housing Finance and Development
Corporation raised some concerns, too, that this, these policies may conflict with
Federal regulations, in particular, there's the regulation for the policy that states that,
or Federal policy states that residency preferences must not be based on length of
residency, for instance. So I would suggest you take a  look at some of those
testimonies from HHFDC. And I brought this concern up at the last hearing, as well as
a lot of affordable housing developers seem to be opposed to this, this policy, saying
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 12
that it's not going to incentivize or bring more housing to the market for, for people who
really need it.
We are also concerned that changing the sales period from 90 days to 120 days will
create additional carrying costs for projects, thereby making housing more expensive.
You know, we've seen Maui's overregulation of affordable housing projects have kept
this County in its current housing crisis, and we need to find new ways to incentivize
developers to build more affordable housing before the problem gets worse. So we
respectfully recommend that this Council defer this bill and consider policies that will
encourage and incentivize more, the construction of more affordable housing. Thank
you for this opportunity to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions? If not, Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, Member Paltin has a question.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Member Paltin, you have  aquestion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes, Chair, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Delaunay, are you still there?
MR. DELAUNAY: Yeah, I'm here.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Delaunay for your testimony. I just was
wondering in your, to clarify your, what you said that it would cause the Department of
Housing and Human Concerns to hire more qualified workers. Was that, you're
opposed to that?
MR. DELAUNAY: No, I didn't say that. Right now the developers from my understanding put
the list together and kind of manage it. And the Department will now have to do
something that's very complex and difficult because there's a lot of, my understanding
in talking to developers there's a lot of requirements on the Federal, State, as well as
the County levels. And the Federal is like LIHTC and, and other subsidies that they
get from the Federal government that has specific deadlines and requirements and if
not met they can lose out and it could hurt or even kill a project.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 13
So, so this is a huge burden and responsibility for the County to take on this. And you
know, it's, I mean it's going to, I think it's going to take a lot and it will be interesting to
hear what the, the County department has to say on it. I mean, I don't know the, their,
their, any detail on their workings and how they go about doing things. But i mean it's
just a huge responsibility and, yeah, and I just think it's going to be a lot more
resources.
And also, you know, another concern is that, you know, developers may not want to
develop because it's like putting all this into the County's hands and there's no
guarantees that the County won't make mistakes and could actually hurt or kill a
project. So, yeah, I just say keep it as It is right now, let the developers manage these
list, and you know get, incentivize affordable housing so we can get homes for people
that really need it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And my second question on the extending the buying period.
If there's such a need of folks to buy affordable housing, then extending, how does
extending the buying period matter if you're saying that so many people need
affordable housing, then why would it take the whole amount of time? And if we don't
extend it and if it doesn't take the whole amount of time, the house is not affordable
any longer anyway. So we're not providing affordable housing for the people that need
it. So I was wondering if you could clarify what your statement was? Because you're
saying there's such, this great need for affordable housing that we need people to buy
it, but there's not enough people to buy it within 180 days or something, 120 days?
And then it's going to be market-rate anyway, and then it's not going to be affordable
anyway. So we're going to be building unaffordable housing, which we've heard kind
of some sentiment against.
MR. DELAUNAY: Yeah, so anyway, you're going, it's  acarrying costs, too right. The longer
you have to carry the project, the more it's going to cost the developer. The developers
are going to look at this too. They could look at it, I would, I would speak directly to
these developers who are building it, but they could look at it and say I'm not going to
even invest. I'm not going to even build.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 1 wasn't asking about the carrying costs, I was asking about
like the need for affordable housing?
MR. DELAUNAY: Yeah, if there's a ... so why change it; right? If you can get it, if there is
such a huge need, and why change it?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 14
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, because in Lahaina, Kahoma Villages, all those houses
flipped out of affordable housing and now they don't even want to give any affordable
housing program a chance, that's the reason if you're asking that question. But I'm not
supposed to answer the question. So, thank you.
MR. DELAUNAY; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess you don't have an answer for the question.
MR. DELAUNAY; No, I, I. I do. I do. And the bottom line is if you overregulate things, and
it's not going to incentivize developers to build more affordable housing. And that's
going to be a problem, because you're not going to get the inventory that you need in
order to bring down the cost of housing, and people aren't going to get into homes, and
they are going to be forced to leave the island for better opportunities elsewhere.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Delaunay. That was the exact point I was
making that we did it and people didn't get into it because it flipped out of affordability.
Kahoma Villages, right next to Safeway, Lahaina, that exact situation happened and a
lot of people in my community are upset about it. So I know that you live on Honolulu,
and we're having different experiences. So thank you so much for taking the time to
come and share with us what's going on in your area. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Although you hate to leave this interesting conversation, we have other people
who have questions.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair. Good morning, Mr. Delaunay. I just have
a question on your statement that said you would like to prefer to keep it as it is. Do
you think the system that we have as it is is working?
MR. DELAUNAY; Well, you know, the developers currently are handling this, and their, their^
I guess marketing companies are, they're handling it currently. And I think that, yeah
it's good to keep it as it is, because they-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, I just. I'm sorry. I'm sorry there's a lot of people in
line. I just need a yes or no.
MR. DELAUNAY; Yeah, well, keep the list handled by the developers, yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 15
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, and so you're saying that that's working fine. Did you
speak to the Administration on this Bill 111? Because I did, as well as my team. We
had many meetings on this, so have you spoken with the Administration on this?
MR. DELAUNAY; I haven't specifically, but the developers have.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. All right
Mr. Delaunay. I have no further questions.
Thank you, Chair. Thank you
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good morning,
Mr. Delaunay. In yourtestimony you mentioned that if we pass this, then the likelihood
of the County making mistakes, doesn't sound like much of a vote of confidence on
your end. Can you specifically tell us what type of mistake could occur?
MR. DELAUNAY: Well, yeah, I was just saying well developers they are very concerned
about the LIHTC and all these other Federal, State, and County regulations that are
complex. There's specific timing issues, etc. Something goes wrong, and it's going to
be, create more liability for the County because it's, you're going to, they are now
responsible for the list if this bill passes. So they’re going to be liable. So liability will
shift from the developer to the County.
And the developers know all the requirements, and they have, you know, and they,
they know how it works, they've been in the business for a while. And they, and they
know what they need to get done in order to do it. So i mean, and the County, it's just
yeah, I don't know, it's very, you have to, I think you should talk to the developers and
a  lot of them, affordable housing developers have weighed-in with concerns and
opposed to this bill, too. So to get granular and more into the details, I would defer this
bill, talk with them, and see what the major issues are? You know, cause.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay . .. that's fine, Mr. Delaunay. Alright, thank you for your
responses. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Yes, Member King and then Vice-Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I hate to belabor this, but you know I have the
same, an issue that the statement you made about the County possibly making
mistakes. But what I wonder about since you're from Oahu, is have you ever gotten
complaints from folks in the public that developers were not handling the list correctly
and there might have been some favoritism? Maybe some people that were given
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 16
preferential treatment in these lotteries? Have you ever gotten that complaint?
Because I've gotten that complaint over here.
MR. DELAUNAY: Yeah, I mean, I don't get those complaints.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So maybe you're seeing it from a different perspective.
Okay, appreciate you being here and giving your perspective. But that is one of the
issues, and the reason why we're looking at this list to make it more fair. Okay, thank
you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Delaunay. Mahalo for
your testimony this morning. My question is to clarify the statement that you made.
Are you saying that the risk of error and the cost to maintain this list outweighs the
harm that the status quo has already caused, and such as violating our code to allow,
to not allow applicants to choose a lender of their choice?
MR. DELAUNAY: Can you speak more about these violations that you're talking about?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, that was a violation.
MR. DELAUNAY: What's the violation?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: To prohibit applicants from getting qualified by a
lender of their choice. That's just one example,
MR. DELAUNAY: Okay, how is that a violation of a law?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Because we require,  Iguess that goes to Member
Paltin's point earlier. I don't know if you're familiar with Maui County Code, but that's
required to allow applicants to become qualified by a lender of their choice. And when,
when a developer says that they have to become pre-qualified from a lender of the
developer's choosing, that's a violation of our Code.
MR. DELAUNAY: Well, I'm not, I mean that's out of my scope. I'm, if. I'm not here to say
what's a violation of your Code and what should be the consequences. So thanks for
your question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Delaunay. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 17
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else, questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Delaunay. Oh, do we have one
more question.
Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Sorry Chair, I just forget to ask my third question for
Mr. Delaunay. So, in, in this formation of this bill, we did look at some amendments to
address your concerns and the one was that we put in "to the extent provided by law",
when it calls to rental housing projects, and based on length of residency. So does
that not satisfy your concern that it says, "to the extent provided by law?"
MR. DELAUNAY: Like I said, you need, 1 think you need to defer, talk with the developers on
this. Because the problem is not just with that provision that it conflicts with Federal
law, you know? That's the bottom-line, if it conflicts with Federal law, you can't do it;
right? But the whole, the whole bill itself, there's a problem, and again, affordable
housing developers have raised those issues in testimony, written testimony. And I
think you need to pause, take a look at it, talk with them, and figure something out.
Because it's not just one provision, it's the entire bill is of concern. And again, liability
is likely to go onto the County with this bill. So I think you kind of need to think about
it a little more.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, you know, I meet with developers all the time. You
know. I'm, so I haven't heard the concerns that you are mentioning of, maybe it's an
Oahu, the islands are different, I don't know, but the developers over here don't seem
to be having your concerns. Alright, thank you, Chair.
MR. DELAUNAY: --have you seen the~
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I have no further questions.
MR. DELAUNAY: Okay, yeah. The written testimony, look at the written testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you again, Mr. Delaunay.
MR. DELAUNAY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Makalapua Kanuha.
To be followed by Colleen Medeiros.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 18
MS. MAKALAPUA KANUHA (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Aloha kakahiaka e ola koa kakou, Chair Lee, and Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
Councilmembers, aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. KANUHA: For the record, my name is Makalapua Kanuha and I am the youngest child
of Robert and Doris Kanuha Sr. On behalf of our Robert and Doris Kanuha Family
Land Trust, I am testifying in support of the ‘aina kupuna bill, CR 21-25 [sic]. I am a
lineal descendant of John and Kamaka Kukahiko, they are my great-great-
grandparents on my mother's side. Also 1 am the granddaughter of David and Mary
Nakoa of Kahakuloa, and Louis and Elizabeth Kanuha of Kaupo. My siblings and I
have been blessed with shared responsibilities to malama our ‘aina kupuna at the
passing of our parents. Our‘aina kupuna in Kaupo, Kahakuloa, Kahana, and Makena
is the piko of our ohana. Our ‘aina kupuna is a gathering place for our ohana to
perpetuate the mo'olelo, or the stories of our kupuna and all the great things that they
have done and achieved in their lives. It is also the classroom to teach our children
and grandchildren their kuleana to malama our ‘aina, our water source, and to maintain
our ancestral practices from mauka to makai. When life gets a little hectic too, our
‘aina kupuna is our pu'uhonua, it is a place of refuge for healing.
Newcomers don't only build part-time homes or homes for investment, they also
increase our taxes, the taxes we have to struggle with. I understand this firsthand. For
us, this is our home. In my family our ‘aina kupuna in Kaupo has been in our ohana
for 183 years, just to name one. We have no desire to leave our ‘aina kupuna. All we
want to do is to be, to be on our 'aina kupuna where our children and our grandchildren
can thrive as Hawaiians and to be close to the spirit of their kupuna. So in closing,
Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers, mahalo for this
opportunity to testify in support of the ‘aina kupuna bill. Mahalo for your consideration.
Ke aloha no.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo for your testimony.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha Ms. Kanuha. Mahalo no kou
. . . beautiful testimony. I was hoping that you would clarify when you said piko, for
those that, you know, do not olelo Hawaii in the context of your testimony, if you could
clarify piko.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 19
MS. KANUHA: Mahalo nui for the question. The piko, the piko is, we can say the, the piko is
the umbilical cord. So our ‘aina kupuna connects us to our ancestors. And why I say
that, too, is my kupuna lays at rest on our ‘aina kupuna. Like I said, John and Kamaka
Kukahiko are my great-great-grandparents, and they are on our ‘aina kupuna. I also
have my kupuna, my Kanuha side, that is our kuleana to malama that too. So when I
say piko, this is what, this is the very life that connects us to them.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, are there any other questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Kanuha for your testimony
today. I really appreciate it. I just was wondering if you could share or clarify what you
mean by, if you can clarify, you know, the difference between ‘aina kupuna and
properties like how you said that, you know, people come and cause the property tax
value to be raised. The difference between an ‘aina kupuna property, versus say a
property that's bought for the terms of investment?
MS. KANUHA: Mahalo for that question. So when I talk, when I'm speaking to ‘aina kupuna,
the ‘aina, our ‘aina kupuna in Kaupo, when both my, when my uncles and my aunties
and my parents, when they were here physically, this is where a lot of mo'olelo that
was passed down from many, many, many generations. So this is a wonderful place
that we get to go to, continue on to perpetuate those stories for our children and our
grandchildren. Same thing with our Kukahiko house, our hale in Makena. These are
the stories that will perpetuate and to inspire our next generations.
So we don't have any desire to move anywhere. We don't have any desire to sell our
‘aina. It is not for sale, just so that we can pay taxes. And this is the ‘aina kupuna
where our kupuna lay to sleep right now. And during the pandemic, all of our children
and our grandchildren, we all went backside, and we went all home to . . . and some
of my mo'opunas brought their football friends and they said, wow, we thought we were
going to clean yard or, we neva know we was going clean one mountain.
Well welcome to our ‘aina kupuna. But you know it, it allowed our children to get their
hands into that ‘aina and to connect and to go up into our spring and to really, like, it
doesn't just come through a pipe. There's a lot of work. But there's a lot of gratitude
and what came out of that for our grand, my grandchildren, and my children is wow,
we are walking in the footsteps of our kupuna. And I keep solidifying that in their mind,
in their heart, that the routes that we walking, my father walked that route. His parents
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 20
walked that route. Their parents walked that route. That's what we're talking about
‘aina kupuna. This is not an investment, this is  akuleana that we accept, because we
want to accept it. And it is, it's a classroom. So I am fully in support, and I pray that
all of you, because I know I get plenty cousins coming up behind me in our Kukahiko
ohana . . . But I just wanted to say thank you, I hope I answered your question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And then some. Thank you so much for coming and testifying.
I appreciate your presence.
MS. KANUHA: Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, thank you so much. Any more questions? If not, thank you so much,
Ms. Kanuha.
MS. KANUHA; A hui hou. Ai, a hui hou.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha, take care.
MS. KANUHA; Aloha no.
CHAIR LEE; James.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Colleen Medeiros.
To be followed by George Fujita.
MS. COLLEEN MEDEIROS (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95);
Hi.
CHAIR LEE; Hi.
MS. MEDEIROS; Good morning, Councilmembers. I'm also testifying in support of the ‘aina
kupuna tax bill, CR 21-95. I think this is great.  Iwould. I'm a little unclear on the
verbiage regarding whether or not these types of properties in commercial use will be
included, and I would very much like all the properties regardless of use that fall under
this category, the generational ownership, to, to qualify.
I, I'm sure you know, a lot of you already know me. And I put my family property into
short-term rental use, really just as my solution to keeping it, to making some money
from the use to pay, you know, to pay for it. They are very expensive, it's expensive to
maintain a home. And certainly the property taxes have in my case increased
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 21
76 percent since 2016. And I mean, who knows where that would go, will go, you
know? I think that I'm assuming many owners of properties like this, like, like mine,
we’ve put our properties into this type of use. just exactly for this reason, to try to keep
it.
And life's circumstances, you know, just make it so that we're not living there, you
know? For me, it just, for my life's circumstances doesn't necessarily make sense for
me to live there. And the original reason I moved out is because it was cheaper for me
to rent elsewhere and rent that house out. You know? It was expensive for me to live
there. Anyhow, I do support the bill, I very much hope that it will include uses like short
term rental, you know? Or just whatever use families are trying to, whatever use
families have their properties in, with the intention of really just trying to keep them and
not sell them. I think that's all.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Medeiros. We will be discussing that item a little later on, and
I'm sure your questions will be answered at that time.
MS. MEDEIROS: Alright, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Medeiros for your testimony.
I just would, wanted to clarify, so there's additional burdens in, there's a financial
burden in additional to, in addition to the property tax that you're speaking of?
MS. MEDEIROS: Well, yeah. There's, well, I mean, of course we have, I have a mortgage.
You know, I, I purchased my property from other family members. I had to buy them
out. So I have a mortgage. And then you've got just maintenance, you know? Keeping
a house from failing apart costs a lot of money. And it's just insane, you know? I've
got a, I got. I'm up for, I need a new roof. I just got a quote for a new roof. It's $30,000
these days to get a new roof, which is just nuts.
And then you know, running it in, as a rental, of course, there's just you've got all the
other taxes. You've got the TAT. You've got the GET, you've got, and i mean then the
TAT about to be raised. There's no shortage of expenses. The yard, the trees, I mean,
it's just very expensive to maintain.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you for clarifying that.
MS. MEDEIROS: You're welcome.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Chair, you're muted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 22
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members? If not, thank you. Ms. Medeiros.
MS. MEDEIROS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is George Fujita. To
be followed by the Kahua Institute.
MR. GEORGE FUJITA (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 21-95. 21-96. 21-98 & 21-107):
Aloha everybody, aloha kakahiaka. You guys, sorry  Iget my glasses on, I was
conjuring up some things and getting kind of emotional. But I'm in full support of
CR 21-95. I just been, I was blessed to be a part in a vessel of Ka'apuni in . . . which
is a walk around the, each and every moku. And we talked to the lineal descendant
families there, pillars of the, of the communities, and we share and express to each
other on the issues, as well as the values that we hold and carry and try to implement
into our keiki today.
But all of this issues on, you know, taxes going up, and, you know, the short-term
rentals, which is part of the reason of the taxes going up, the iwi kupuna protections,
all kind of coexist and is issues within the communities. And as, as I was walking
around and. and listening to them trying to hold onto their kuleana lands, you know? It
kind of gets me all choked up, because I don't even know why it's an issue today? You
know, we're dealing with outside entities. They're coming in for a good profit, buying
up all of our lands and then everybody that's adjacent to it, that pretty much has no
profit in the things that they, they're pursuing is paying the face value, you know?
And as I walk around these communities, so we did  awalk, 195-mile walk around the
whole ‘aina, talking to this communities, expressing themselves on how they getting
closed in and all of this foreign entities are coming in for their interests, and not the
well-being and betterment of the Hawaiian community, which is, that's the primary
function. I know the other brother that was talking about, oh this County problems, and
no more money, and I don't think that overweighs the issues that is affecting and
impacting our community today.
As I go around and talk to these communities, e kala mai, you know, they really, really
talk to their children, as 1 was walking, the kupunas and in their mokus they have
specific mo'olelos that attach them to their ‘aina. Things that tied in . . . you know,
many generations down. And as I walked with these little kids that cannot wait for
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 23
come on this walk because they know that they going develop a lot of this, so somehow
in their 'ike, they connected to these things so they like follow us on this march and
listen to the kupunas.
And as I listen to all of the values that go on, and I even hear oh, we used to own this
land over here, and my aunty used go through here and my grandfather used to walk
up here. And it kind of breaks my heart, because those stories cannot be lived on
today. So we losing our culture and when we remove those things that really, it affects
and impacts us as kanaka maoli. So we're trying to get uplifted as a community. But
it seems like everything is coming against us.
So I really, really support on these things, CR 21-96 as well because our iwi kupuna,
we need to protect them. 1 don't even know why it's even on the issue right now
because if you was to go in any modern-day cemetery, you know what I mean, big, big
deals would come down. And in our eyes as kanaka maoli over here, that's no
different. We no more big cemeteries that house big ohana. We throw everybody in
one lot, we, we take care of our kupuna. They are very sentimental to us, that's your
grandparents, your great grandparents. So they malama them very well and we going
put them in the places that we feel was to never be disturbed, you know, oh we thought
would never be disturbed.
How can we protect those things that mean, nobody ever going feel our pain, unless
you right there in our seat. But it seems like it's always the other person that's not with
us that has the best idea for us. That breaks my heart and I'm sure I can speak for a
lot of community, in fact I walk around with these communities, every single moku, get
12 mokus over here on this ‘aina. I when walk around with every single one of them,
expressing those things, trying to hold onto those values.
And when the ‘aina gets taken away from these families, the value starts getting . . .
mo'olelo anymore, we get the oh, I remember when we use to have this property and
we use to go over here go plant kalo, we use to go over here go clean the muliwai, or
we use to go up there and pick la'au lapa'au. And those things are getting washed
away, you know.
And I see hope though, you know the future does look bright, you know with these
things and you guys pursuing all of these things.  Ithink once these things get
implemented and even just, you know, just, just now that we're looked on, it gives me
hope. Especially with the wetland restoration. Modern day development kind of. . .
Back in the kahiko days wetland was the most important. It keeps our moana healthy
and thriving. Western mindset of construction, they tend to make runways just for the
lepo and all of the dirty for go straight to the moana when our ancestors knew that the
wetlands was most important before you develop anything, we got to capture all of that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 24
We gotto make sure that the ‘aina can do its job and maintaining that sediment, filtering
through the, through our land which it will take care of itself before it even goes out to
the ocean.
But western mindset tend to make corrals, runoffs, ravines that, that send all of their
construction and all of their bad materials straight to the waters, straight to our moana,
which impacts us greatly. Like I can even, I can, going take me one hour for, for dah
kine, put points on all the things that is very destructive in western mindset and
development. So I no like blow your guys ears up, but I fully support, you know, the
CR 21-107, CR 21-96, CR 21-98 and most definitely CR 21-95, which going keep our
kupuna's home and bring our families back. Mahalo, you guys. Thank you for your
time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for your testimony. Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Fujita for your testimony
today. I just was wondering if you could clarify the part in your testimony when you
said the abuses by foreign entities. Was it limited to wetlands development, or was
there other things that you were referring to as well?
MR. FUJITA: Yeah, multiple, multiple things. You know, no doubt, as they come in, and, you
know, they, they want to buy out the properties because get nice views and sceneries
and stuff, and then they make their big mansion and then they put swimming pool
inside their yard and then all that property taxes start going up. All that adjacent
families within that zip code or area code, their taxes start going up, but they had
nothing do with any of those profits or businesses or anything that's going down. Ail
they like, all they want to do is just be kanakas. That is all.
And as they try to be and traverse through this, these times and these, these moments
of today, in fact, we just learning how for be better Hawaiians. We're on the brink of
being better people, our own people. We actually learning how for be our own people
because of all of devastation that those kinds of mindset when impact on us. So we're
getting there.
And if these things start to happen more and more, cause I've seen this in the past and
I wish that this got implemented earlier before, especially the kupuna, ‘aina kupuna bill.
Because families already have lost their, their lands due to this exact reason. I've seen
it personally. I know, I know the ohanas personally that did it, they tried to sell portions
of that land to keep their own land. You know, and shucks, I wish we had something
that could implement them trying to get it back because in, in, in, in their heart, they
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 25
never thought they would have let them go. So I thank you so much for this being
implemented today. I just wish got implemented a little bit before, so we could really
assess the pattern and maybe come to this point today where we fine tuning it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MR. FUJITA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Fujita. Mahalo for your
powerful testimony. I was hoping you would be able to clarify in your testimony you
talked about participating in the Ka'apuni. For those, you know, that don't know what
that is, if, if you would clarify what that is.
MR. FUJITA: Yeah, Ka'apuni means a great deal so we got a few, you know, and it's not like
a cult or anything, you know, as we've been depicted before. But you know, all these
things that we, we, we want to bring in remembrance, like Lono, you know. Today is,
we in a lono season, you know, be in it for a few months, you know, so makahiki, you
know and, and it's just kupunas, you know.
So as we remember these kupunas from our mo'olelos before, we want to identify their
facets, and identify the things that, that brought positive health and wellbeing into our
kanaka maoli people. So we want to remember these people not as gods, but as
kupunas, we only get one god, Akua. Mahalo ke Akua. So we try to take those
kupunas in remembrance of all of the powerful things that they did for our, and that's
why we're here today, is because our kanaka maoli people believed in those things so
strongly. You know we neva have Safeway, Foodland, you know, couldn't just get in
a car and go buy something. We had to rely on hope and on faith and that is the things
that these kupuna has provided for my people.
So we take those kupunas and we take the streets, Ka'apuni is a march that we do to
help uplift our kanaka people and it works, it works. It, it gives a light, a shining light to
know that, that every moku can get together and have a pilina with each other, you
know. So Ka'apuni, we walk around with a torch, we meet every moku and we meet
with all the pillars of all the mokus, all the people that express and care very much
about their ahupua'as and then we start talking about issues that they have and the
issues that they have in the forefront, in the past and what kind we can, we can solve?
And it seems to always be these kinds of issues. So perfect; right here?
And Ka'apuni helps us to just walk around, share the light, and what I see through this
Ka'apuni because we have it every two years or so, that a lot of the youths be coming
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 26
out. And what a better perfect time lono ika makahiki is not just our new year but the
meaning of the young .. . bush shoot. So all these kids now days are growing up very
empowered on doing the positive movement for their well-being and betterment of their
community and all the mokus around. So we want to go around talk story and, and
hookup all of these mokus together and see how all together our efforts can form to
better our ‘aina, which will better us as we're not as, we're not going to be as healthy
as our ‘aina is healthy. Mahalo.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for that response. And so just to clarify, when
you said pilina that it was, it was incumbent upon us to rely on each other for survival.
Is, is that?
MR. FUJITA: Yes, we all just got to come together in that Ka'apuni, which we going to have
two, every two years, just so that, so the lono is going to go around talking about the,
you know the impacts, and the environmental impacts, and the issues that we can
solve. And then when the ku season come, ku is a kupuna as well and is known for
action. So when ku season come in we implement all those problems. By then, we
already when talk story and kind of process the issues and everything, and see how
we can fill the void, you know, lonopuha is to fill that void, that absence. And then put
urn to action.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Fujita. Lono ika makahiki. Mahalo
Chair.
MR. FUJITA: Lono ika makahiki. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We have another question from Councilmember King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you so much for being here, Mr. Fujita
and sharing with us about the Ka'apuni. I actually was planning to walk a portion of
that on Sunday, but it got moved to Monday, which started the committee week that
we're in. So I wish I could have been in that section of it.
And I'm sure you know Daniel Kanahele, who will actually be staffing our district office
now.
Committee, when, you know a cultural expert, but now he, he decided to take a paid
job. And we're so happy to have him and I'm hoping that you can, we can bring some
of those kind of conversation, more of this kind of conversation to South Maui. But I
want to ask you what district you're from? Where do you live?
Unfortunately he was, I had him tagged to be the South Maui Advisory
MR. FUJITA: I live in the Lahaina moku .. . Ukumehame.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 27
CHAIR LEE: Okay, well we're looking for a Native Hawaiian cultural expert for the South Maui
Advisory Committee, so if you think of somebody, send them my way. And Daniel is
reaching out too, so I just wanted to make that connection and, and ask you if you
would be available in the future to have these kinds of conversations in the South Maui
community as well, with our district office?
MR. FUJITA: I would love it. The person that you guys looking at looks like George Fujita,
but just a vessel when it comes to the community, in any way and where I can be, as
long as for the well-being and betterment of our kanaka maoli people, you guys can
count on me there.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And I love that, I love that you said that the future looks bright.
Maybe that's why you're wearing sunglasses? But I, I ... we all can see a brighter
days though. Thank you so much for your testimony, really, really hits home.
MR. FUJITA: Mahalo, you guys. Thank you for all you do. You guys have a blessed one.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not thank you so much, Mr. Fujita. Please
come again.
MR. FUJITA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Sharyn
Stone. To be followed by Howard Wiig.
MS. SHARYN STONE (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-107):
Good morning, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. STONE: Oh, good.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. STONE: It's always a surprise when technical stuff works for me. Alright, good morning.
Members of the Maui County Council, and thank you for all your obvious caring and
hard work. I've been very moved by the testimony I've heard this morning. I’m a
relative newcomer, only lived here for 30 years. My name is Sharyn Stone, and 1 and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 28
my husband Jeff, have owned and operated one of Maui's first legal Bed & Breakfast
since our approval in 2011. Now this isn't an easy process and not one likely taken
on. However, I took it on with the aim that one day, our son, Kai, may be able to take
over the business and stay here on Maui, on land we've owned, and loved, and cared
for for almost 30 years.
Imagine my distress then, to discover that if my husband and I pass away and
bequeath our son his childhood home, under the proposed changes, my son, who has
lived in Maui his whole life, would then have to live on this property with no source of
income, unable to conduct the business started by his parents, before he could even
begin to apply for a permit, because he now has to own the property for five years,
before doing so. Despite the fact that it's always been his home. This really bothers
me.
We are deeply connected to our neighborhood and I know that is one of your concerns
and I totally understand it. I've been on the Door of Faith Road Committee for years.
My job is to go around the neighbors and ask for money for much needed road repairs.
Let's just say everybody on our road knows that when I come knocking, they're going
to have to chat and get their checkbooks out, either that or run out the backdoor. But
anyway, let's just say the neighborhood knows me really well.
Originally, this five-year rule was proposed, I believe only for Moloka'i and Lana'i, and
was not recommended by the Planning Commission for Maui. Yet the Council has
chosen to put it in this new bill anyway. It seems that this, this is contrary to the
County's own policy plan, which clearly states its support for home-based businesses
that are appropriate for, and in character with the community, as well as encouraging
resident ownership of visitor-related businesses and facilities.
This proposed action would effectively make a mockery of the 20 years we've put into
developing our business. It would be taking away my son's birth right. What other
businesses do you know of where a kid can't take over a parent's business when their
parents pass away? The Council voices concerns over discrimination. But the actions
proposed in this bill would certainly discriminate against local long-term residents . . .
I would also point out that there are only 149 permitted B&Bs on Maui, 74,000 housing
units, including 13,000 vacant units. The permitted B&Bs are only .002 percent of Maui
housing stocks. The proposed actions would certainly be discriminating against
.002 percent of our population. I hear the bell, so I'll wind up pretty swiftly.
Could I ask please, that you consider removing the five-year ownership requirement
for properties where a B&B permit has been in effect for five years? And also, please
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 29
consider allowing parents to transfer their B&B permits to their adult child or children
who would live on-site.
Please look after long time Maui residents like my family and help create an avenue
for us to keep our land, house, and business as a legacy for our kids and grandkids.
Thank you so much for listening to my concerns. I really appreciate the chance to
speak today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mrs. Stone. Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Stone so much for your
testimony today. My first question is have you read the bill in its entirety?
MS. STONE: i have not. I have not. I had some questions. Sorry-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That was my question. And my second question is. my second
question is are you opposed to setting up a family trust because that was--
MS. STONE: Yeah, I just, sorry, I am just starting to look at that possibility. And if there is, if
that is a way that would solve this problem, I would love to hear more, please.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, that was what was established as part of the bill is like
you know the definition of a "family trust," and that being the way forward for situations
like yours.
MS. STONE: I could kiss you right now. Thank you for that good news. So much appreciate
because I really felt I was backed up against a wall here. And I really appreciate it.
CHAIR LEE: Do we, do we have any other questions for the testifier?
MS. STONE: Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: If not, thank you, Mrs. Stone. Thank you.
MS. STONE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person, the next person signed up to testify is
Howard Wiig. To be followed by Terry Kristiansen.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 30
MR. HOWARD WIIG [testifying on Bill No. 106 (2021)1:
Good morning, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers. My
name is Howard Wiig, with the Hawai'i State Energy Office, speaking on behalf of the
Scott Glenn, the manager of the Energy Office. I am delighted to testify in strong
support of Bill 106 relating to zero net energy homes. This is the first step of any
County in Hawai'i to use those words zero net energy. And it paves the way to the
future.
At the national level if we stick to our guns, all new homes nationwide will be zero net
energy by the year 2030. This is an important catalyst that sets us on our way to
meeting these national goals, and all of you Councilmembers deserve a pat on the
back for supporting this initiative.
I've talked to my counterparts, energy code officials on the mainland, and the minute I
mention Maui and zero net energy, they get excited. If you adopt this bill, this will put
you, Maui, little old Maui in the league with the big boys who are likewise, leading the
way towards reducing carbon dioxide emissions and ultimately healing the planet.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Wiig. Any questions. Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you so much for being here Howard,
it’s so great to get your support and, you know, you and I have known each other for a
long time and to come to this nexus is really exciting. Just a quick question, are you
going to COP26?
MR. WIIG: No, Scott Glenn is going there.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so I just wanted to encourage collaboration between our
committee and your office on, you know, taking these, these kinds of steps and maybe
going further with it. So I appreciate your support and just wanted to thank you for
being here.
MR. WIIG: It is our pleasure, and I will put that word into Scott Glenn's ear. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, awesome, thank you. Thank you, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 31
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Wiig. Let's take one
more, one more testifier, Mr. Clerk. Before our break.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, then the lasttestifier before the break is Terry Kristiansen.
And the first testifier after the break will be Mary Chang.
CHAIR LEE: Repeat his name, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Terry Kristiansen, it is your time to testify. I see that you are on
the call and you are unmuted, but we cannot hear you, if, if you're speaking. Perhaps
they are encountering some technical difficulties?
CHAIR LEE: We'll go to next one.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Then the next testifier is Mary Chang. Oh, I see Terry
Kristiansen just.
CHAIR LEE; Weil let's take both of them before the break, and then take a break.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Terry Kristiansen just disconnected. So Mary Chang will
be next then.
MS. MARY CHANG (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Aloha mai kakou. My name is Mary Chang and 1 am in support of CR 21-95. I am
from, I grew up in Makena, and I've seen the landscape change dramatically, the time
I was young, kind of like what George Fujita said earlier you know? A lot of families
moved away because they couldn't afford it. Across of the property where my brother,
my brother and my, his ohana lives, there used to be three generational Hawaiian
family dwellings across, and they are no longer there, and they're filled with these
million-dollar mansions. The intent of the people who moved there was to dwell there,
to make it a home space. It's not a home space, they're empty majority of the year,
you know, they, they sit there and do absolutely nothing, you know?
But the memories are there. When we go there, the memories are there. Iwi kupuna
are on the Chang lands. It's, ! apologize, because it's emotional. A lot of the families
are gone. Nobody can afford to stay. It's just my brother that's left on the land now.
And they have a farm, and they take care of their community. They take care of what
they have, and they support the community as best as they can with what they have.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 32
You know, they, they're not there for any other intentions that it was just passed on
from generation to generation. And they raise kalo, they raise, they're making use of
the land in the proper, proper way, it's ag land. At least it should be ag land, but
everything around it is all for-profit. Everything around is it timeshare, and million-dollar
homes that are empty.
All the families, all the families that surrounded the property belong to family, and
they're all gone, because they can't afford it. So I'm so much in support of this bill for
my brother's ohana and for all those who qualify to be categorized as this. Mahalo so
much for considering this bill, for doing what you folks do to make all the hard decisions
ofyesandno. We appreciate you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you so much, Ms. Chang.
May we have the next testifier, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Terry Kristiansen did reconnects the call, so if they're
able to it's their time to testify.
CHAIR LEE; He has a weak connection.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yeah, Terry, we see you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we can't hear you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We can't hear you.
CHAIR LEE: We can't hear you. Could you try turning off your video? Turn off your video,
keep your audio on. Say something so we can hear you. Did the person just leave
the call?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: I think she's still here. But because of the audio issues, we may
not be able to hear her. It seems to be, it's likely a problem with their microphone, one
way or another, perhaps one isn't connected or it's, there's an issue with it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: She could call in; the call-in information is on the agenda and
that might be a way for her to be able to connect and testify.
CHAIR LEE: Members, it's time for the morning break and we do have some business to take
care of so let's return at 10:45. Any objections. Well hold on one second. I see her,
that person on the, on the call, and then just left it again.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 33
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; I, I think she likely has a poor connection. Calling in might be
the best option for her to testify this morning.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, okay. So let's resume in, at 10:45? This meeting is in recess. Yes
Ms. King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just, they are trying to drill outside of my office here. So they
said it's going to take, once we give them the thumbs up it's going to take 15 minutes.
So I might be about five minutes late coming back on if they're still working on it. Just
wanted to give you a head's up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, alright. Alright, meeting is in recess until 10:45. Thank you everybody.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:28 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:53 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of October 22 please reconvene, in the
year 2021. Members we're going to resume now testimony. Mr. Clerk, please call the
next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Kutira Decostered.
To be followed by Mark Makimoto. Kutira Decostered, I think you are logged in as
Kahua Institute. Oh, yes, we see you, but we do not hear you.
MS. KUTIRA DECOSTERED (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-107):
Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. DECOSTERED; Thank you. Good morning. E ola koa kakou, yes, strong as a koa tree.
Aloha Members of Maui County and I’m testifying in, to CR 21-107. My name is Kutira
Decostered, and I just want to say after the testimonial of Ms. Sharyn Stone, I kind of
like have not much to say, but I still would like the time and share something which is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 34
on my heart and goes in this direction. And I'm a resident of Maui since 1985 and
since I heard the earlier testimony, I shall ... to share something, which hope in that
bill it will also include our hanai son, our adopted hanai son in the family trust, which
over 35 years, he's now 42 and that will be also be part of that because we want to
pass our place on. It's a legacy.
I still would like to share some of my differences of the 149 legal B&B on Maui. I feel
we should have one more category defined what makes us ecotourism. In 1988, we
bought a piece of land in Huelo with no road, no electricity, no water, nothing. People
thought I mad to buy a land with nothing on it. My passion, my heart, our willingness,
my, my young age really said we're going to make that place a legacy where people
can learn. Yes, indeed, the first eight years I didn't even know what to do. So for eight
years, we just built and brought in the first unstructural bamboo and created a bamboo
farm. And this has now a variety of partnership with bamboo living, homes, of hundreds
of homes around the Hawaiian island, because in 1998, we built the first permitted
bamboo structure here on this land and brought that constructural sustainable lumber.
Yes indeed, we opened a legal B&B over 25 years ago, where there was no ordinance.
We had an SUP, we were always legal, and we always followed the guidelines of the
County, and because we put our life in it to create something, which is sustainable and
will have grounds as a business. And I share that with you because this has a vision,
and it was a hardship to get a piece of land with nothing on it and to make it workable
and sustainable.
So at that point, we are really ecotourism because the last three years we turned our
bamboo farm around and we started with agroforestry. And we supporting our students
to learn how to grow their food. We, we, we give weekly classes on how to . . . who
learn about how to grow their food. I'm also on the board for food security, and I really
believe we need to make the land so that we can give to our guests who come and
stay with us. We feed them casava, we have ulu trees, we feed them, we make farm-
to-table. We, they are offset their footprints.
So just wanted to let you know it is not done when somebody says in the testimonial,
sell the B&B's and make affordable housing. This is not to sell. I want my ashes to be
on this land. I thank you for all the people who spoke up for the kupuna bill. I am a
kupuna now, since this year too, I got Medicare now and my husband is 73. We want
to live, and we want to have our ashes on this land. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Members, any questions? If not, thank you so much for
your testimony.
MS. DECOSTERED: Thank you for listening.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 35
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Mark
Makimoto. To be followed by Kaimi Judd.
CHAIR LEE: Members, we have about 20 testifiers left.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Mark Makimoto, it is your time to testify. I see that you're
unmuted, but we don’t hear you.
CHAIR LEE: Next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Perhaps he's experiencing technical difficulties. We'll move onto
the next testifier in the meantime. That would be Kaimi Judd. Kaimi Judd, it is your
time to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Let's move on. Oh, I see him.
MR. KAIMI JUDD (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, are you Kaimi Judd?
MR. JUDD: I am, sorry 1, I am out remotely right now so I'm on my phone. Can you hear me
okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, and we can see you, too.
MR. JUDD: Okay, great, mahalo. Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
Members of the Maui County Council. My name is Kaimi Judd, I'm providing testimony
on behalf of Makena Golf and Beach Club. Thanks for the opportunity to provide
testimony in strong support of CR 21-95 and it's recommended first reading, also
known as the ‘aina kupuna bill. You know, maintaining kamaaina land ownership in
Hawaii over the last century plus has been an arduous task for many families, Maui in
particular. Makena in particular as you've heard from some earlier testimony, and I
know some, some folks who are going to testify after. And we witness families choose
between struggling to maintain being able to pay their property tax or just to pay for
day-to-day living expenses.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 36
incentivizing the maintenance of lineal descendancy and land ownership through
affordable property taxes is one of the best methods to ensure that these families can
continue to call this place home now and for future generations. As a developer in
Hawaii, we understand, I understand the unique position at Makena Golf and Beach
Club. With that unique position comes a unique responsibility, for me a unique kuleana
to understand our role and impact in how we can help to ensure that the people and
families around us who have called these lands homes for generations can maintain
their ownership.
In Hawaii the lowest property tax rate is provided to owners of properties deemed
historic. We should afford the same consideration to property owners who have
maintained family properties over generations. I understand there's maybe some
amendments proposed to this bill. We support any amendments that will further assist
these families to maintain ownership of their property for generations to come. Thank
you for the opportunity to provide testimony today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Judd. Any questions? If not, thank you very much for providing
your testimony. We appreciate it.
MR. JUDD: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is the individual
calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 6475. To be
followed by Manuel Kuloloio.
MR. EDWARD CHANG (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Aloha, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. My name is Edward Chang, and I would
like to thank you for the opportunity to testify in favor of the ‘aina kupuna bill, 21-95,
that will provide much needed tax relief to families who own ancestral lands.
My family has lived and owned land in Makena since the 1870s, being one of the
original occupants of the region following the Mahele, which served as home to many
Native Hawaiians, Hawaiian families for more than  acentury. However, government
and private sector influences in the 1950s and 60s led to uncontrolled development of
Makena, forever changing the landscape, and leading to the displacement of many
Native Hawaiian families. The resulting developments create a haven for speculation.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 37
ultimately turning southwest Maui into a playground for resorts and individuals with the
means to build extravagant homes, driving real estate values through the roof. This
activity pressured many local families to sell their ancestral lands and move out of
Makena.
My father's generation, my generation, and now my children's generation are in a
constant struggle to keep this land in our family. Developments and speculation have
driven property taxes to all-time highs. This year, my property tax is almost $14,000.
However, in 2019, my taxes reached a high of 22,000. That is an increase of
425 percent over the previous years. These property taxes are mainly for an
11,000 square foot parcel where my primary home resides. My home is only
75 percent completed, and my decisions to finish this project is largely affected by
significant increases in my property taxes. My wife and I presently live in a small
structure on the property, which has become more difficult to sustain due to my age
and my wife's declining health. I have appealed my taxes for the past four years. Yet,
in each of those years, the reduced tax is still more than 1 can afford as an 89-year-old
man living mainly on Social Security. I've had to ask my children for help with the taxes
that we can keep, so that we could keep our lands. This should not happen to families
who live here long before the developers came.
The ‘aina kupuna bill will correct this wrong and enable families to keep their ancestral
lands so that they can pass it onto the future. Land has a very special meaning to
Native Hawaiians, and ancestral lands even more so. Many of us hold these lands in
highest regard, as if they were a member of our family. The tax relief provided by this
bill will help people like us to keep our lands, our family together for many generations
to come.
1 humbly ask the Council to approve bill, CR 21-95. This bill will serve to correct
injustices that have occurred in the past and pave the way for future generations to
perpetuate the legacy that has bestowed upon them by their ancestors.
This concludes my testimony and thank you for the opportunity to address the Council
on this important matter. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo, Eddie.
MR. CHANG: My name is Eddie Chang.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions. Members? If not, thank you so much
Eddie for your testimony on behalf of your family.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 38
MR. CHANG: Mahalo again. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Manuel Kuloloio.
To be followed by Linda Munsell.
MR. MANUEL KULOLOIO (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 21-95 and 21-103):
Aloha, Mr. Krueger, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can hear you?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
MR. KULOLOIO: Aloha, Chairperson Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. KULOLOIO: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, County Councilmembers whom I previously
addressed at the committee hearing. I apologize Uncle Mike, Mr. Molina, I did not see
you on my iPad, I apologize for not acknowledging you that time. I love you, haven't
seen you since Pa'ia, hope your family is well.
Today is a beautiful day and I'm testifying in strong support in accordance with agenda
items G., J.1. and K. for your support of 21-103, your Human Concerns and Parks
Committee recommendation to adopt the resolution authorizing the employment of the
Legal Aid Society of Hawaii as special counsel to provide legal services to qualified
people/citizens of the County of Maui.
1 grew up in Legal Aid Society up in Wailuku. My dad was a Vista volunteer. He was
a State board member of Alu Like, a board member of Legal Aid Society, he was an
executive board secretary of Alu Like under the auspices of Myron Thompson. This
has a, very dear to my heart, I know a lot of people that have been supported, funded,
and represented under Legal Aid. And I have family members, immediate and
extended that continue do so. They are great Maui attorneys that I will not name, that
have given of themselves and their families with Legal Aid, who have become Supreme
Court Justices in the Hawai'i Supreme Court.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 39
No. 2, Chairman Lee and County Councilmembers. It's a beautiful day and I ask for
your unanimous support of CR 21-95, recommending first reading of a bill called "A
BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO AINA KUPUNA LANDS", amending
Chapter 3.48, Real Property Tax, Maui County Code, to add a Section 3.48.361
relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as ‘aina kupuna.
I submitted testimony to the Clerk on Monday morning at 4:00 a.m. and copied each
of you. I stand by my testimony and wish to share  afew thoughts. Thank you. Uncle
Eddie, I'm honored to go after you. Thank you for opening up my dad's memorial
service with your song. Thank you, cousin Makalapua for your leadership in our family
as the next generation for helping to close my dad's service in Makena on July.
I am thinking. Council Lee, as a young man with my sister Leina'ala sleeping on a cot
on the ‘ili'ili that my dad carried with buckets, hundreds of buckets up to line the hale
of my grandpa's house up at what we call Beverly Hills, which was next to the
Ulupalakua Makena Government Road. And with my grandma and dad, go there every
weekend listening to my Aunty . . . Aunty Honolulu Skylark play beautiful music. We
go down to the graveyard, we clean the graveyard, we sleep at the graveyard.
Our family, we're very grateful to all of you that support this bill. My son Abraham and
my daughter Kekauonohi are seven generations from John Kukahiko and Kamaka
Kuhaulua. This will help them, give them a chance to continue cause they going to get
their own struggles and I don't want to leave them with a, with a burden.
I want you to close your eyes. I don't know if any of you remember the Old Makena
Road? Imagine going by Kamaole Beach Park No. 3, what is now Keawekapu was an
old dirt road that ran along the coast. Then you transiting the A&B lands of Wailea.
Come over the hill to Uncle Angus's house. You lucky you could make urn back up
that hill when you gotta come home.
Makena Surf, Kaimi Judd is right, these honua, Honua'ula lands in Makena are the
lands mentioned in the book "Land and Power in Hawai'i" these are the lands. I already
lost my lands at the top, at Beverly Hills because of undivided interests. I'm not going
to do that again Kaimi, not under my watch. I'm going to be selfish this time. To the
brother that testified about Ka'apuni around Maui, maikai. I'm not wearing shades, you
cannot even see me, but I'm crying, and I cried when you testified. And you know why
Chairman Lee? This is history today.
This is history, because when I heard people like Kaleikoa Ka'eo speak about their
struggles in Hana, it made me cry. His mom and my mom were best friends. I lived at
Kihei Heights right across him. In fact I used to eat the corn, I neva know was GMO
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 40
by the Kihei fields. Maybe that's why every ten days my right eye start twitching, you
know. That's why I look like a monk seal, you know?
And to hear about the, I forget if was the ... or Keahi family, bring back good memories,
thank you braddah. We, too, had a Ka'apuni and we did it by a koa canoe, called
Kealaikahiki, Hui waa o Kahoolawe that started on Kahoolawe. And in 1987, the year
of the Hawaiian, with Uncle Philip Sabado, you guys remember him, a great artist, went
up to Haleakala. Yeah, in malo, my dad them in malo, no more slipper, the real deal.
So we Ka'apuni.
And all I ask is thank you for supporting this bill and its iterations Keani, to make it
palatable. It's a weird juxtaposition for me today. You have this bill; I'm seeing a next
bill for A&B lands of 10. something million, and the Maui News comes to me here at
Waipi'o, Royal Kunia dated Saturday, Sunday, October 9, 10, A5 notice Pauwela
Cemetery, Makawao Hongwanji Mission Buddhist Temple having a hard time keeping
up the Pauwela Cemetery. Uncle Mike let me know, Aunty Yuki Lei, if I can help them.
I reached out to them, can make it happen.
Having said that, October 22 is a beautiful day, because that's when the bombing of
Kahoolawe got stopped, which is my birthday. If this bill ever gets passed on second
reading it will be my greatest birthday present. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Manny for that very moving testimony. Happy birthday and I can't
speak for everyone, but I, I know that you'll be very happy, this bill is going to pass.
Any questions. Members? If not, thank you.
Mr. Clerk, may we have the next testifier, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Linda Munsell. To be
followed by Netra Halperin.
MS. LINDA MUNSELL, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS
[testifying on Bill No. 111 (2021):
Hi, Chair and Councilmembers. My name is Linda Munsell, I'm the Deputy Director for
the Department of Housing and Human Concerns. I'm here to testify on Bill 111,
amending Chapter 2.96, Maui County Code.
During the Affordable Housing Committee's discussions, the Department has
expressed support for developing a centralized database for residents interested in
workforce housing units as well as a central place for disseminating information about
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 41
current and upcoming projects. The Department also supports encouraging residents
to become better prepared for rental and homeownership opportunities, and we’re
going to work on implementing these ideas whatever happens to this particular bill.
However the Department also feels strongly that other proposed changes are
significant, and they deserve adequate time to review and verify that the changes will
result in the intended outcome. Our discussions with the development community
strongly indicate that there's not been adequate consultation or discussion. And there's
significant opinion that the proposed changes will have a negative rather than a positive
impact on housing projects.
Specifically the Department has concerns about the following amendments: first, the
Department management of the project waitlist. The Department has no objection to
referring lists of interested residents to the developers for the projects and requiring
that the developers prioritize these residents for units. However managing the waitlist
and determining the eligibility of families should be done by the developer. For rental
projects you've already heard there is significant liability for the County, especially for
projects using low-income housing tax credits. For for sale projects the ability, the
developer's ability to obtain financing is dependent upon finding qualified buyers and
involving the County is only going to slow that process and increase the cost. In
addition our discussions with the project developers makes it very clear that the staffing
and cost required to complete this work timely would be significant.
Second, priority based on length of residency. The amendments proposed were
modeled after a policy currently in effect in the District of Columbia with one very
significant difference. The D.C. model places priority based on the length of time the
individual has been on the waitlist rather than the length of the residency, and we think
that is a significant difference. The debate about whether durational residency runs
contrary to fair housing or constitutional law aside, the Department is also deeply
concerned about the durational residency from a logistical aspect if for no other reason.
The Department is also concerned about the requirement for the County to purchase
units and believes that it would not be in best interest of the County. At a minimum we
encourage the Council to amend the section to give the County the right to purchase,
but not require us to purchase. This would allow the County to evaluate the value and
necessity of the purchase before making a decision.
2.96 was amended in 2015 after very careful consideration and discussion, and those
thoughtful amendments significantly shifted our momentum in constructing housing
units. These current amendments being considered are not only going to affect 2.96
projects but will also impact our 201H and our 2.97 projects. That's big, and that's
worthy of having these amendments thoroughly vetted before taking action. Thank
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 42
you for your time this morning. The Department really appreciates your consideration.
We would really humbly request that you refer this bill back to Committee for further
discussion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions, Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Munsell.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Netra Halperin.
To be followed by Pamela Tumpap.
MS. NETRA HALPERIN (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-107):
Hi, good morning, County Council. Thank you for hearing us today. I am, my name is
Netra Halperin and I help people get B&B permits.  Iwant to make sure that people
are legal when they're going to be doing vacation rentals.
Maui County has traditionally been more favorable towards bed & breakfast homes
than short-term rentals since B&Bs provide homes for Maui local residents, and the
owner is on-site and can monitor the guests. Also, the Maui Countywide, as Sharyn
Stone also pointed out, policy plan calls for the County policies to support home-based
businesses that are appropriate for and in character with the community, as well as
encourage resident ownership of visitor-related businesses and facilities.
The tourism industry should go to not only mainland corporations, but to local Maui
residents. Yet the five-year ownership requirement makes new Maui homeowners
ineligible. It also makes property that recently changed titles, such as inherited
property that the next generation may wish to operate a B&B on in order to generate
revenue for taxes, etc. ineligible. I, I know you did deal with that, with the family trust
so that sounds like a good solution for that.
I proposed to several County Councilmembers to instead of applicants must have
owned the property for five years, to change it to the person must have lived on the,
resident side to, applicants must have been a resident of Maui for five years. Their
response to this suggestion was that Corporation Counsel advised that it is
discrimination to not allow non-Maui residents to apply. This is strange, as the permit
application already requires the applicant to be  aresident of the property. And the
County Council is proposing that the applicant must have owned that particular
property for five years. This is also discrimination. So either Maui County engages in
discrimination or they don't? You can't have it both sides. So to avoid this legal risk,
if the owner, any owner of a permitted property should be allowed to apply for a bed &
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 43
breakfast permit or that they must live on the property, but these other restrictions are
are not, the five-year ownership, the five-year construction, they are discriminatory.
Since the issue of people losing their property due to property taxes has come up
regarding other bills, I wanted to point out that bed & breakfasts have their own tax
class. So they do not affect other tax categories. Also, there's a program called, and
how much time do I have.
CHAIR LEE: You have 30 seconds to conclude.
MS. HALPERIN: Okay. So anyway, so that's a good option, the circuit breaker. And also
Maui just passed an ordinance that requires all vacation rentals to pay an additional
three percent TAT that will go directly to Maui County. This is great that Maui will now
benefit more directly from its tourism industry. Blocking bed & breakfasts at this time
will reduce the benefit of this new channel of income for Maui County and is
counterproductive. For all of the above reasons please remove the proposed five-year
construction and ownership requirements or reject the bill. These requirements are
discriminatory and harm local people.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you
very.
Oh, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Sorry just a quick question, Chair. So aloha, Netra. I just wanted
to clarify one of your statements about Corp., our, our attorneys' opinions about
residency, and discrimination. So your, your proposal is not residency, it was residency
anywhere on Maui so that, so.
MS. HALPERIN: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Is that the opinion you got from, because I got, I just got that, I
hadn't had a chance to transfer it to you so, but it sounds like someone else did get.
What they are saying is it's discriminatory against other people who may live in their
home that amount of time. But, but you're, what you're wanting is just anybody who
lives on Maui for a certain period of time, and that's what they were saying was
discriminatory against other people who may not have lived on . . . but may be buying
a house and, and go through that same period of time before they can get that permit.
MS. HALPERIN: Right, I'm saying that if, if you folks really want to have some kind of
restriction, then I think it should be-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 44
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm not, I'm not talking about.. .I'm talking about what we were
instructed by our legal team as far as.
MS. HALPERIN; Oh, I didn't see yeah, received a response from Member Paltin. She didn't
go into detail in why, but before, when I first mentioned the idea, actually both yourself
and Member Paltin said we, our concern is that because we receive Federal funds this
could be considered discrimination. But this actual--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: My question, I think you answered my question. I will send you
the opinion, the legal opinion that I received so you can understand.
MS. HALPERIN: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIRLEE: Thankyou. Any more questions? If not, thank you, Ms. Halperin. I understand
Member Sinenci has to leave at 11:45. Is that correct? Alright, how many more
testifiers do we have, Mr. Krueger?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We have eleven more testifiers signed up.
CHAIRLEE: Okay. Let's go forward.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. The next testifier signed up is Pamela Tumpap. To be
followed by Elizabeth MacDougall.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP. MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE [testifying on Committee Report
Nos. 21-95 &21-109: and Bill Nos. 106 (2021) & 111 (2021)1:
Aloha, e ola koa kakou. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Members of the
Maui County Council. Ijust realized my video is noton. I'm Pamela Tumpap, President
of the Maui Chamber of Commerce, I'm here to testify today on four items.
I'd like to begin with the 'aina kupuna. We agree with and support this bill to take care
of longstanding families in our community, so they are not taxed out of their land. We
would like to share our thoughts on certain aspects of the bill.
Given what this bill was created to achieve, we feel it should be a rolling timeframe
where a property that belongs in a family for 80 years should continue to qualify rolling
forward.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 45
If anything purchased from 1940 and beyond has been owned by a family for 80 years,
and we chose 80 versus 81 cause it's easier to calculate, to include the three
generations or more, they should be included in the program as well. This will not only
help existing landowners but support future generation landowners for the children and
grandchildren of these families as they move forward. So with our extreme shortage
of affordable housing and rentals, this may be the only way local families can remain
in Maui County.
We would also like to suggest including the legal definition of "lineal descendants" as
a definition in the bill. From our lookup, we saw that to be "a blood relative in the direct
line of descendant, meaning the children, grandchildren, great grandchildren, etc." The
goal is to look at how we can help protect land for the lineal descendants, while also
being fair and provide an incentive to those who truly need it and want it to remain in
Maui County.
I'd like to move on to a public hearing on the West Maui Community Plan. We strongly
support this resolution to hold a public hearing on the West Maui Community Plan. As
we've shared before, we heard from numerous West Maui residents who felt the
process was not fair nor balanced and all of the voices of the community were not
heard. This was exemplified by the findings in the report by the Matrix Consulting
Group hired by the Council, who wrote that the practice of the CPAC calling experts
and citizens to testify at meetings, having landowners explain their future plans needs
to stop. They even recommend that the CPAC portion of the process be eliminated,
as there are many opportunities for community engagement, and recommend in
exchange, a citizen's working group who would serve as the liaison between the
community and staff, assist Planning staff in the development and review of the plan,
and attend a majority of the community engagement sessions. And we think their
recommendations should be further explored. But currently we feel this public hearing
will give members of the community a needed opportunity to share their concerns.
On Bill 106, net zero housing, again we support new ideas and pilot projects like this
to help us further our clean energy goal and we like the concept. We just want to
ensure that the costs to be a verified net zero energy home doesn't prevent multi-
generational homes from being built as such, as these multi-generational homes will
now aid our community during our affordable and attainable housing and rental crisis
as they will allow families to be on a property together. And so we don't want to see
this practice hampered.
And lastly on Bill 111, we understand that the bill would create a master interest list
administered and maintained by the Department of Housing and Human Concerns that
could then create specific project lists for each development and share it. We don't
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 46
necessarily see that there's a problem, but again, we are working with the committee,
that includes both developers and nonprofit developers. And you know, it was made
clear that the developers need to maintain their own waitlist in order to show project
lenders that they have a fist of qualified buyers which is a requirement for them to
qualify for much needed financial assistance. And the assistance is required for them
to build affordable housing. Additionally the nonprofits have certain Federal
requirements that are necessary the financial, for the financial assistance and the. that
they receive, and they are mandated to control their own lists. So therefore, we
understand the idea, and you know, appreciate that it's being considered. We feel it
will come at a considerable time and effort and cost, and we question the actual
benefits that will be received?
Also going from 90 days to 120 days, you know, as we've shared before, may not seem
like a big change, but there are carrying costs that are required of developers. So that
requires developers to increase prices of housing to factor in that extended carrying
capacity. So given this, we ask the Council to reconsider this and not extend the
timeframe out further or consider ways the County might subsidize that cost?
And lastly the proposal of the County selling or having the County as a buyer. We
think that is an interesting idea. We're not sure that you folks will be able to achieve
that better than the developers would. And how you do it? And we put some questions
in our written testimony. But you know, we want to see a solid plan for this if that is to
move forward. And we feel that the plan should be, perceive this bill moving forward
so that we look at how that would done and comment on that. And that concludes my
testimony. Mahalo for the opportunity to testify on each of these matters.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions for Ms. Tumpap? if not. thank you, Pam.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo, have a great week.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Elizabeth MacDougall.
To be followed by Janine Calvert.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. MacDougall.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 47
MS. ELIZABETH MACDOUGALL (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-107):
Yes, hi. Aloha, Committee Chair Paltin and Vice-Chair King, Members Johnson, Lee,
Molina, Rawlins-Fernandez, Sinenci, and Sugimura. My name is Elizabeth
MacDougall and I'm here to strongly oppose CR 21-107 bill. My concern is that the
end of the short-term rental homes, and the five-year ownership requirement will keep
the tourism money in large corporate hotel chains. And this is at a time that I feel Maui
residents are really financially suffering due to our current economy.
The five-year ownership requirement really after, after the last two years, the profits in
the big hotel chains have risen 54 percent. And I have a problem with that. I want to
support our local ohana here and keeping the ordinance as is by not allowing the bill
to pass protects . . . And this will improve our local economy and support the culture
of aloha worldwide.
You know, I have, 1 have a special interest in wanting to pursue a bed & breakfast
permit, and a property to do so, but I, 1 feel this strongly blocks my ability to take care.
I'm a disabled senior, and this was my plan, and now all of a sudden it’s been blocked,
and I'm really upset about it. I, I would like to move forward with my plan. It's one of
the few plans I have to take care of my future. And I feel, too, that, you know, there's
only 400 units available, and 63 percent of these permits are still available. And making
this amendment will make it harder for locals to pursue those B&B permits. And we
want to keep everything legal, and permitted, and moving forward with really improving
our local economy and spreading the culture of aloha worldwide.
So I just want to thank you for this opportunity to testify today, and t hope you will take
this into your hearts for a really deep sense of consideration that it appears that you're
favoring these big, large hotel chains over us, and it hurts. It hurts.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're muted. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members? If not, thank you, Ms. MacDougall. Thank you.
MS. MACDOUGALL: Thank you. Ms. Lee.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Janine Calvert. To
be followed by Walter Kanamu. Janine Calvert, it is your time to testify. I see you are
connected to the meeting, but you have not unmuted yourself or your video.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 48
MS. JANINE CALVERT (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-107):
I think we're here now. Sorry about that. I'm here to testify this morning on CR 21-107.
A lot has been already said that I'm planning on saying anyway, but it. I would like to
reiterate. Maui's housing crisis is being blamed on the bed & breakfast homes. There
are only again 149 permitted bed & breakfasts on Maui, where there's 74,000 housing
units, including 15,000 vacant units, which is terrible. So permitted B&Bs are only
.002 percent of Maui's housing stock. Maui is experiencing as we all know, extreme
real estate and rental prices. However, obviously only 149 B&B units cannot influence
the market of 74,000 housing units.
The actual reason for these increases is a nationwide COVID-19 restrictions. Okay,
we see now that information technology employees are now able to work from home.
Well, that's what they're doing. They can work from home in their own home office,
they're coming to Maui, why not? And they are, we're making it literally impossible for
most of the Maui residents who've been here for in my case, 16 years, to even find a
place to live. It's very, very difficult and they've got lots of money, which good for them,
you know? I lost my place.
Allowing B&B applications to go up to the limit of 400 will not have a significant impact
on the availability of rental housing. And since many of the units that would have gone
to B&B are now going to either, being left vacant, or are way off the affordable range.
Blocking B&B permits will not bring more affordable housing and will prevent young,
local families, for example, my son and his wife, they have six little boys. Okay? So
it's going to be next to impossible for them. Even though he works real hard, and that's,
that's, it shouldn't be like that. Anyway. But being able to compete with mainland IT
professionals in the real estate market. Please remove the five-year construction and
ownership requirements, as they keep locals from benefiting from B&B ownership.
I would like to be able to buy a home and apply for a B&B permit myself. Again, I'm
like the third senior who requested ... I hit it on the mark, didn't I?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, good timing.
MS. CALVERT: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions, any questions, Members? If not, thank you Ms. Calvert.
MS. CALVERT: Thank you so much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 49
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. Thank you. Mr. Clerk, how many more do we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, we have, it looks like eight people signed up to testify. If
there's anyone else in the meeting who wishes to testify and hasn't signed up yet.
please do so in the meeting chat. Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Walter
Kanamu. To be followed by Noelani Ahia.
MR. WALTER KANAMU (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Aloha kakou.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
MR. KANAMU: My name is Walter Kahoiwai Kanamu. In 2017 I produced a short video
documentary about the Central Maui sand dunes. It was shown on Akaku for several
years, and it was shown on the television by Gina Mangieri. And couple days after the
introduction of this video, Mayor Alan Arakawa decided to do a moratorium on sand
mining in Maui. So i think my video was pretty significant at the time.
Colonialism, a policy by which a nation maintains or extends its control over foreign
dependencies. Today our society has no common culture, kanaka maoli have been
invaded and reduced to scattered fragments around the island that was once Maui. If
today's society does not remember our past and respect the iwi kupuna, we are a dying
society.
On October 9, I was one of the participants of the Ka'apuni. I like to call it kO hele pb,
that's one of my family's, my family's name ku hele pb. Ku hele pb is to stand and
move in the dark. We started the Ka'apuni 12:00 at night, and for nine nights thereafter,
we started at 12:00. So I think ku hele pb is a significant name.
The first night we started in Lahaina. The heaviest rain and the heaviest wind we
experienced out of our whole trip around the island was where all the burials at
Flemings Beach were reinterred. The winds could have wiped, we had to hang onto
each other three people side-by-side, hanging onto each other, so the wind wouldn't
blow us. The rains were horrendous.
From there we went to Kekahua, no not Kekahua, we went to Honokohau Valley, yeah
where remnant Hawaiians lived inside the valley. And as we got there, as we
approached the valley, I had tears in my eyes. I had a feeling of wow, people were
there to receive us, and to feed us, and to give us shelter for the night.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 50
I was the oldest one on this Ka'apuni, I was 68 years old, I am 68 years old and we
went all the way through. One of your constituents Carol Lee Kamekona joined us in
the Wailuku walk, where we walked to Haiku, and then Haiku to Wailua, from Wailua
to Hana, from Hana to Kaupo, from Kaupo to Kahikinui. And another one of your
constituents Autumn walked from the top of Kanaio down to Kanaio Bay, all the way to
Makena . . . that was the toughest walk on the island. After walking to Makena, we
went to Kalepolepo in Kihei and from Kalepolepo all the way back to Lahaina.
Before we started the walk, the first thing we did at Lahaina was to remember
ho‘omana‘o remember and respect the elders that had passed in the past two years
on Maui. That's how we respect them. I believe our County Council now aware of the
situation and moving in the right direction. I believe re-enactment of the Battle of
Kakanilua may give more awareness to the public. And I just hope that the County
Council will move forward in restoration and preservation of Kakanilua. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Walter. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you so much
Walter, for your testimony.
Mr. Krueger.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Noelani Ahia.
To be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with these
last four digits 3907.
MS. NOELANI AHIA (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 21-95 and 21-96);
Aloha mai kakou. Council members. Thank you so much for being here today to
receive our testimony. I really want to honor this Council, it's really so wonderful to see
these bills coming forward that really, really do seek to restore pono to our ‘aina, to our
iwi kupuna and to kanaka. I'm testifying on CR 21-96 and 21-95.
I will start with the Wai'ale parcel. It feels a little bit anticlimactic to talk about it now
after the last budget hearing when we spoke about it because that was such a beautiful
and memorable meeting where we were really able to acknowledge the significance of
our iwi kupuna in the Puuone sand dune complex and the significance of what it means
for kanaka to connect and reconnect to our kupuna. Those kupuna are mo'oku'auhau,
so I kind of see this . . .
CHAIR LEE; Can't hear you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 51
MS. AHIA: Is this better?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. AHIA: Okay, I'll just shout a little bit. They really fall into the same category of restoring
pono to our people after almost 200 years of settler colonialism. And you know, it's so
beautiful to hear everybody speak about the Ka'apuni. I got to participate just in a very,
very small way and, you know, it's almost embarrassing how small it was compared to
the hammers that, who went all the way around the island. . . . and, and several of our
hoa and our kupuna like Uncle Walter literally walked by foot around the entire
mokupuni in the way that our ancestors did hundreds of years ago to restore mana to
those places and to restore mana to each other and to acknowledge the path and the
footsteps that our kupuna take to give us this ike kupuna that we so desperately need
today.
You know, after the settler colonialism that we, that we often talk about, the result of
that is disconnection. It's like somebody pulls the, the plug out of the socket. And for
generations we’ve been trying to plug it back in. We've been trying to restore the
connection, the connections that were lost by some of our elder generations. Not all,
but many of us have ohana that lost that connection because of the violence. And so
when we have opportunities like this to reconnect, to plug back in, like what's
happening with this Wai'ale parcel to protect it and preserve . . . back in, and restore
the ike kupuna that is our birthright because of our mo'oku'auhau, because of
generation after generation, after generation, after generation, after generation, 40,000
behind us that is our birthright and that belongs to the kanaka maoli.
And so I'm in full support of the acquisition of the Wai'ale parcel for preservation and
I'm also in full support of the bill to keep those families who have been able to maintain
connection to ‘aina on that ‘aina in perpetuity for the next 40,000 generations. Mahalo
nui for being here today. Much aloha to you all.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Ahia. Questions, Members? If not, thank you so much for your
testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is the individual
calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 3907. To be
followed by Lucienne de Naie.
MS. KEIKI KAWA'IAE'A (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Aloha, are you able to hear me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 52
CHAIR LEE: Yes. aloha.
MS. KAWA‘IAE‘A : (Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Mahalo for this opportunity to express my strong support for the ‘aina kupuna bill
CR 21-95 and really sincerely to thank you all personally for your support of this over,
this long overdue bill. I want to say generations this bill has been long overdue, as this
is not a new issue, this is an old issue. My name is Keiki Kawai'ae'a and I'm a
descendant of Kukahiko ohana who lived in Makena for nearly a 140 years. My
grandfather Eddie Chang worked on his ‘aina kupuna until his passing at almost
90 years old. The locals would marvel that this elderly kupuna working in the hot sun,
cutting and packing his dried alfalfa for his animals. And he loved Makena and after
working in the hot Makena sun, he would often make himself a late afternoon highball
of vodka and grapefruit juice. And I've accompanied him on several times as he did
this. And he would walk along the shore just talking story and educating the local
people and the tourist by sharing his aloha for Makena. You might have heard of this
place where my grandfather raised his alfalfa, many of the locals call it Chang's Beach.
My parents are now at an elderly age and live in  asmall structure besides their dream
home that sits uncompleted at the same place where my grandfather once grew alfalfa.
My father always planned to retire in Makena, returning to the place where he grew up,
because Makena is home. During this time, he has raised papayas, assorted native
plants, and different kinds of landscaping trees and palms to subsidize his limited
retirement income.
Each generation has had its share of struggles to keep up with the rising property cost.
And my father shared with you earlier that his tax between 2016 and 2019 soared up
to 425 percent before his tax appeal, which is really quite unmanageable, especially
on a limited retirement income. And over the last four years he has appealed his tax
and we watched his frustration grow and the weight of his worry about the property tax
consume much of the joy that he really should be enjoying in his senior years of his
life.
Makena has become an overpriced community for the very wealthy and mostly non
residents who can afford to buy high-end speculation homes that raise the property tax
to an unreasonable and unaffordable amount for local families. There is something,
not pono, when families who are the very footprint of a community are displaced and
taxed out of their ancestral lands for others that don't actually live and contribute to the
fabric of the community.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 53
I think about our Kukahiko hale and the wisdom and sacrifice that my grandfather's
generation made to keep our ‘aina kupuna in the ohana by creating a family corporation
of lineal descendants where the branches of our family tree would come together to
collectively malama our ‘aina kupuna located next to our family gravesite, at
Pamoelepo, the locals call Five Graves.
The property tax for 2021 increased $10,000 in one year to $83,000 during a COVID
year, I might add. And the speculation house on the right is currently up for sale for
$25 million. So we are really wondering how we're going to continue to sustain our
family history, and continue in Makena?
So for us, Makena, "Makena is us and we are Makena". And this is where our
ancestors set deep roots for the ohana and where we continue to pass our aloha for
Makena from one generation to another. We really need help to continue to live and
maintain our ‘aina for our children and our grandchildren. We need a solution for this
long overdue land issue and I humbly ask for your full support with any of those
amended changes that will be discussed today.
Mahalo nui to all of you Councilmembers. This is like my cousin Manny said is a
historic event that really has a potential to recalibrate so many of the wrongs that have
happened in the history and development of Maui lands. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: And mahalo, to you. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Lucienne
de Naie. To be follow by Mark Makimoto.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE Ftestifyinq on County Communication Nos. 21-485 & 21-492:
Committee Report Nos. 21-95, 21-96. 21-97. 21-98.  &21-99: and Bill Nos. 106 (2021).
107 (2021). 111 (20211. 114 (2021). & 116 f2021T:
Good morning. Aloha kakou.
CHAIR LEE: Oops, we just lost your audio.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 54
MS. DE NAIE; Alright, is, is it still there?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, you're back.
MS. DE NAIE: Mahalo. Computer is being funny out here in Huelo. I’m testifying today,
Lucienne de Naie as the chairperson of the Sierra Club Maui Group on a number of
items. No. 1, resolution 21-95, the ‘aina kupuna dedication for property tax as you
have heard is so long overdue. It's too late for many of the esteemed families of the
Makena area, but our Sierra Club board and our Sierra Club membership does include
people who are lineal descendants of this area and who have connections to these
places. And we strongly support folks being able to stay in places like Kahakuloa and
Makena and Waihee, and even out here in Huelo folks are taxed off their, their family
land, so it is time for this justice to be set right. And we mahalo you very deeply for
being aware of this and passing this resolution to bring this needed adjustment to our
property tax code.
I would also like to testify in support of No. 21-485, and 21-96 concerning the Wai'ale
acquisition. This, too, is a step forward in a historic way to protect an ancient burial
ground that deserves the respect, rather than just the renegotiations that we have
experienced for years and years around many of the areas where our kupuna are
buried. This is a great step forward, and many families, I think, will participate in the
forward care and restoration of these, of these lands so that peace will come to those
who are interred there to watch over us.
I would also like to support on behalf of the Sierra Club, the Ho'omahua resolution,
initiative to track tourism through trying to manage and inform folks what's going on.
This is a very fonward concept, and it's something we really need to explore. We're not
Maui 1970s or 1980s any more. We really have to move into the 21st century and
figure out where it makes sense for folks to go in terms of the carrying capacity of our
communities, and of the resources? And if our visitors are informed, they can make
better decisions.
We also support strongly resolution 21-98 for the wetlands restoration. This is just a
very important resolution to adopt. If we are going to respond to our changes in climate
and weather, and sea-level rise, we need the wetlands that nature created to remain
functioning. They are here to be the filtration system between the upland flows and
our oceans, and if we don't let them do their work and just cover them with concrete
and built environment, we're going to be the losers. Our communities are going to be
the losers.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 55
And lastly, for the Sierra Club testimony, I would like to support Bill 116, moving forward
with the wastewater treatment plant for Waikapu. Sierra Club has testified on many
occasions that putting more wastewater into the at-risk location in Kahului just simply
does not make sense. So we thank this Council for looking forward and moving a plant
to a place where the water can be reused for agriculture and it does not lie in a hazard
area.
Other things that I would like to just support as an individual are funding for the Kuia
Community Center purchase 492, 21-492. This too is long overdue, the, the
inconsistency of having a lot of the land there around the Kula Community Center is
not even owned by the County. It, it is time to take this very, very popular location and
make sure that it's public.
I would also like to support Scott Crawford to be appointed to the Hana Advisory
Committee. I've known Scott for many, many years and you couldn't find a more
conscientious individual to serve on the advisory committee.
Also, Bill 106, as Howard Wiig said, this is a very, very historic first step for Maui County
leading the way, as usual.
Bill 107, the funds from the TAT, really trust that this Council has done a great job of
looking at the community's priorities and the budget. So 1 trust what you're going to be
doing is looking at the needs for infrastructure, affordable housing, human services,
open space, and the environment, and make that mix work. But that's, that's the mix
that the community finds important, and it's what keeps our community going.
And I personally as a long-time advocate for affordable housing and sound policies for
affordable housing, and accountability in affordable housing support Bill 111. How can
we have accountability if we don't really know who is on a list and who is not on a list?
And what their real, what the real picture is? And again and again, we have to ask
ourselves, who are we building for? Because if we're not building for the people that
live here and need housing, we missed the boat.
And then last, Bill 114. Very important that we do provide some emergency rental
assistance using the Federal funds that are available and making it possible for these
funds to get to the landlords and get to the people who need to pay rent in a timely
manner. So thank you for your consideration of this long list, and for this, this long day
that you are putting in. Mahalo.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair, you're muted. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Apparently, there are no questions, Lucienne. So thank you for your testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 56
MS. DE NAIE: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Mark Makimoto. To be
followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last four
digits 7600.
MR. MARK MAKIMOTO (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-104):
Hello. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MR. MAKIMOTO: Hello, Council. Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. MAKIMOTO: Okay, hi. Councilmembers. This is Mark Makimoto again, I am the head
baseball coach at King Kekaulike High School, and  Iam testifying on behalf of
CR 21-104, the renaming the upper baseball diamond at the Kula Ballfield and also
the Iron Maehara Stadium score both to the name of Glenn H. Otani.
Mr. Otani passed away about like two years ago, year and a half ago and he's just
been a fixture in the Upcountry baseball community. He started the Kula Twins, maybe
about 30 years ago at Keokea Park. And back then, Kula Ballpark was not built yet.
So he actually helped the County develop that area to have a couple ballparks and a
soccer field. There is an upper baseball diamond on the park facility that we would be
interested in renaming just that baseball diamond on the park, on behalf of Mr. Otani.
I would say, you know, after he started the Kula Twins organization, he passed it onto
of course other parents and coaches, which, you know, they still have a team up there
today for Little League. And then Mr. Otani moved up to helping the district in the
whole Maui Little League District which includes Molokai and Lanai. And he, you know,
runs the district tournaments, does all the score keeping, you know, it's, he's just an
integral part of that the association also, the Little League Association.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 57
As well as the high school association, the State tournaments that we do host every
three years now we're in the rotation of hosting the State tournament for baseball, he
has helped all of those State tournaments. And as also the District State tournaments
that the Little League Association has held also during the summers. So you guys
know that, you know all those championship teams that we've sent up, he has also
been, you know, all the district tournaments, he was probably, he was there, he's seen
all these guys play. So he is a big part of the Little League side also.
And all of these things that he's held has all been volunteer. He never got paid for
anything, and I think as a way of paying him back and honor him for all that, we wanted
to do this naming for him. And I'm glad Dawn came this morning to also testify, and
they are really in support of it also. Thank you very much for your consideration and
the opportunity to talk to you guys today again.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for your testimony.
Yes, Ms. Sugimura. We have a question for you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Mark, for being here. Ernest Delima, who also
did the nomination forthe Iron Maehara Baseball, he couldn't be here so I'm glad you're
speaking in behalf of the both of you who took care of the naming and appreciate, you
said it best, I mean he definitely lived and his theme was for the kids. So thank you,
thank you very much.
MR. MAKIMOTO: Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, how many more do we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we currently have six individuals left signed up to testify.
The next person signed up to testify is the individual calling in from the phone number
ending with these last four digits, 7600. To be followed by the person calling in from
the phone number ending with these last four digits, 9808.
MS. TERRY KRISTIANSEN (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-107):
Good morning, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. I'm sorry about the previous difficulty
in my microphone. My name is Terry Kristiansen. I am testifying on CR 21-107. My
husband and I live on our six-acre farm for the past 25 years. We grow vegetables,
fruits varieties, and sell eggs at the Hana Farmer's Market each week, and at
Hasegawa's General Store. We live in a one-bedroom home and our permitted B&B
is located in the original cottage that was here when we purchased the then flower
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 58
farm. This cottage is our second bedroom where our family and friends stay when they
come to visit us. When not occupied by family and friends, we are able to supplement
our farm income by renting our B&B.
Having guests on ag land provides a very special and unique experience for tourists
while on the eastside. Our guests staying at the B&B have no detrimental effect on
the neighborhood, rather they are here long enough to contribute to the economy of
Hana. We believe that consideration should be given to those who work their ag land
in the Hana area when it comes to reducing the number of B&Bs. We hope that you
realize that not all visitors want to stay at the big resorts. Please do not limit the number
of B&Bs we have in East Maui.
We turn 80 next year, should we have to sell our land, the current permit is not
transferable should the buyer of our land want to apply for a permit. We ask that you
consider not instituting the five-year waiting period. That farmer is going to need to be
able to supplement their income just as we have. Consider making an exception to
those holding permits on ag land, particularly in East Maui. We ail have a commitment
to contribute to the food source in our community. Help farmers to continue to do just
that without instituting the five-year waiting period. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you, Mrs. Kristiansen.
MS. KRISTIANSEN: Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is the individual calling
in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 9808. To be followed by
Clare Apana.
MR. CLARK JOHNSON (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-96):
We're on the phone, ending in 9808. We are also registered, we were also registered
in the queue to speak, but this will take care of us. We are owners in Makena and part-
time residents. We have owned the property for over 30 years, and we're testifying on
behalf of the ‘aina kupuna tax rates for the County. We appreciate this as a wonderful
gesture to help us keep our home. We would like to apply for the tax rate on half acre
in Makena. We live here part-time, and we rent on  ashort-term basis to pay our taxes
which have doubled from $36,000 for a 2,000 square foot home in 2017 to $72,000
currently in 2021.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 59
The, the property has been in our, in our family for many, many decades. We don't
know exactly the date that my wife's father, Chris Cockett purchased the property. We
know it's been in the family many years prior to my in-laws building the home here in
1968, which they occupied until they passed away in the late 80s. The last sale date
of this land is listed on the County records as 1900 according to the online sources.
We also like to request that the County extend the grandfathering date for short-term
rentals till May of 2012 to December of 2012. We received our permit that month, and
we had been pending transient vacation rental application for three to four years with
the Planning Department, prior to their switching to short-term rental permits and
issuing eight of those in 2012 and 2013. So we have been in the process for over three
to four years.
And finally, we'd like to point out that Discovery Corporation has offered, indicated to
buy our property. They want to turn it into a conference center for the luxury mainland
people. We would like to keep the property in our family as we use it for family
gatherings and rent short-term to pay for the operating costs. So we support the local
economy through gardeners, managers, etc. Discovery thinks it's wonderful that the
price will ... but we don't, we think of a price appreciation as a problem, because the
taxes continue to skyrocket and make the house unaffordable and difficult to keep in
the family. So we appreciate what you guys are doing. We thank you for this
opportunity and thank you for your consideration. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is the person calling
in, apologies, is Clare Apana. To be followed by Cassandra Abdul.
MS. CLARE APANA (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 21-95, 21-96, 21-98, and 21-107):
Thank you. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. APANA: Good morning, Councilmembers. I cannot believe how many forward thinking
and innovative bills are on the docket today. I can, I can only have enough brain space
to support some of them, but I think most of them are just really fabulous. Thank you
so much for your hard work. First, I'd like to support the ‘aina kupuna bill. That, that
is really tremendous, tremendous work you've done, and thank you for that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 60
And the wetlands bill, I thank you and support that whole-heartedly.
And, and there's a lot of talk about the transient or the, the vacation rentals, and it is
a hard thing to, to have to try to stop the influx of the loss of, oh sorry, for the loss of
the, the ability of regular people to buy homes and be in homes and rent homes. So
anyway, thank you for trying to solve this.
And then I would like to go to the Wai'ale project and thank you for that. And there are
many people who have come in the years, and I will try to be brief, but I first want to
thank you. Council, for proposing, and going forward with this acquisition of lands.
Traditional burial grounds for Malama Kakanilua which is an organization of which I am
the head of and the founder, it was really born because of the sand dunes and burials
in it. And we have done many good works as an organization, and the acquisition of
such a parcel of burial grounds is by far the most amazing thing that has ever
happened.
I want to thank Annette Hew, who brought the history of Kakanilua and the Battle of
Kakanilua to our group and has stood by and fought with all of the iwi protectors
throughout the years. And in 2012 after the Wai'ale LUC . . . was the granting of the
zoning change, I was really quite dismayed and didn't know what to do. I did try to ask
for a better AIS, which was not completed, and wrote one of the first legal documents.
It was not successful, but anyway, just to say that if you feel that there is something
that really needs to be done, that by all means you have to keep trying. And really this
is what our group has done, what I've done. And Lucienne de Naie first showed me
all the burial areas with orange fences in these sand dunes and I was appalled. But
I've never been able to stop thinking about them. And we've had traditional ceremonies
where people came from all islands, we've held vigils, and always connecting further
to the ‘aina and to the kupuna there.
So one of the things that we tried to do was to see . . . and in 2008 when the LUC
proposal first came up it was handwritten chicken scratch map and so we wrote an
objection to that which was eight pages and longer than their whole proposal. And
later a burial treatment report came that was like 120 pages. But the Burial Council.
CHAIR LEE; Clare, Clare?
MS. APANA: I'm going to finish.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, great, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 61
MS. APANA: And the Burial Council never did see it, see it. So these burial areas and the
over 100 kupuna who have been literally disturbed, desecrated, pulled through the
sands by bulldozers still do not have that burial treatment plan. So I thank you for the
opportunity to be able to finish this for those kupuna, and this is just one of the, one of
the things I just wanted you to know that, that this is something that's been sitting,
waiting for over a decade and ! thank you, Council, for making this possible. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo. Clare. Any questions, Members? If not, thank you so much for your
testimony.
Mr. Clerk, how many more do we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have four individuals signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, do you want to take a short break, or do you want to finish up
with the four?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Finish up.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Finish up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, proceed. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. The next person signed up to testify is Cassandra Abdul.
To be followed by the person calling in with the phone number ending with these last
four digits, 3914.
MS. CASSANDRA ABDUL. NA HALE O MAUI [testifying on Bill No. Ill (2021)1:
Aloha, Chair, and Councilmembers. Thank you for all your hard work and especially
for your perseverance as you listen to all of the opinions of your constituents here in
Maui County.
1 wanted to comment on Bill No. 111. We are delighted that you have taken the interest
to work on the affordable housing and workforce housing ordinances and we do
appreciate that. As you know that nonprofits are also involved in creating housing, and
our programs are very different than the for-profit developers. That would apply to all
the nonprofits including Habitat for Humanity, Lokahi Pacific, and Na Hale O Maui.
Our particular program is very different, because we sell our houses leasehold, and
that's how we can help reduce the costs substantially. So it's very difficult for us to fit
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 62
in with all of the rest of the developers. We have a four-step program that our
applicants must go through in order to be on our qualified buyer list and have the
opportunity to buy one of our homes. You know, if you just go strictly by AMI, and we
were to receive those people, we would still have to run them through our program and
many people don't necessarily want to own leasehold property. So it can create an
issue and as been mentioned earlier, the lenders want to see our qualified list and not
just a general list for a project.
So basically, you know, we support whatever you are doing with affordable housing,
but we would like the consideration to be given to nonprofits to be able to continue to
work with their constituents with their specific programs, and their specific qualified
buyer lists. Go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: No, no, I thought that was the end. Sorry.
MS. ABDUL: It is basically, yes. Go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members?
Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Just a quick clarifying question for you,
Cassandra. Do you know, and do you understand that the County will allow designees
to be in charge as well, so do you understand that you could be considered a
designee?
MS. ABDUL: Yes, I did read that. It's hard to understand that, how that would actually work
out in fact? And I'm not sure if those designees would be responsible only for their
own program, or for a larger program?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: That's true.
MS. ABDUL: So if there is a mechanism for us to be able to continue that would be wonderful.
Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, alright. I'm just clarifying. So, thank you for your
response. Thank you. Chair. No further questions.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Cassandra.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 63
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next individual signed to testify is the person calling in from
the phone number ending with these last four digits, 3914. To be followed by La'akea
Low.
MS. JEN RUSSO. MAUI VACATION RENTAL ASSOCIATION (testifying on Committee
Report Nos. 21-95 and 21-1071:
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Aloha.
MS. RUSSO; Thank you for opportunity to make comment on a few agenda items today and
thank you so much for all your hard work and consideration in these matters. My name
is Jen Russo, I am testifying in my capacity as Executive Director of Maui Vacation
Rental Association. I am testifying on CR 21-107 and CR 21-95.
We support 21-107, the proposed bill that amends both the STRH and the B&B
ordinances. Many of the changes are positive, but one could negatively affect our
residents and we would ask to amend that. Of particular concern is a new requirement
that the B&B applicant must own the property for at least five years. This would mean
that no one could ever inherit the B&B or purchase an existing one and apply for a
permit to continue the established operation. 1 think an amendment that would allow
for the purchase of an existing B&B or inheritance that existed more than five years
should not have to wait the five years would be reasonable.
The intent of the proposed changes were to reduce speculation and encourage a
connection to the neighborhood. However, lots of testimony during the planning
commission meetings revealed that the current application process allows for this
connection to the neighborhoods as the property has to prove that it does not change
the neighborhood in any way, shape, or form. Neighbors do not, neighbors also get to
weigh-in during the process. The planning commission did not support this revision
and did not recommend it for Maui, and I think the bill should reflect that sentiment and
recommendation. Bed and breakfast operations are run by Maui residents and
supported in the Countywide Policy Plan.
It was brought up at earlier testimony that using  atrust could be an answer. But what
is not clear is if a property with an existing permit in a person's name can switch that
permit to being in the name of a trust, or once the land is in the trust that you can pass
that permit from one family member to the next generation? If that's the intent, that is
not clear, and it wouldn't be fair to make them start the application process over in the
family. Also, if you were to put your property into a trust, does that start the clock on a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 64
five-year change because you've just changed that title? These are the things that I
think should be clear in that proposed biil.
And then in CR 21-95, the ‘aina kupuna lands, \ns support this proposal to add a
section to the tax code relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as ‘aina kupuna. The
Committee agreed to amend the proposed bill to allow real properties dedicated as
‘aina kupuna to be used for transient vacation rentals. However, I think the way the
ordinance is written to be so specific to qualifying with a particular conditional permit
by a certain year along with that specific tax classification, and such, is too narrow.
The law should indicate that if you owned your land since 1940 and have legal permit
to do legal use, and you are a lineal descendant owner, then you could qualify for this
exemption.
Many of the lineal descendants utilizing their properties have seen tax increases that
have been exorbitant, and those that have had to make commercial uses to pay
property taxes and keep their land should not be punished. They should also qualify.
Considerations too should be made for those lineal descendants who may be unable
to farm their lands, and even when a descendant can qualify for a tax break on the
property tax, there are other expenses like steep flood insurance and hurricane
coverages and mortgages that could still force them off the land. So allowing and
considering those that have to do this commercial use in order to make these expenses
would be fair in the intent of the proposed biil.
Making the scope bigger, when there may be other lineal descendant ohanas out there
or others that decide they would like to make a legal permit to do B&B and other visitor-
related home businesses with their lands seems fair. Again, I thank you so much for
your consideration and for listening to my testimony. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Russo. Any questions?
Yes, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Because of your position, Jen, thank you for
testifying. I have a question by your last statement of others that may want to, or do
you know how many other properties have bed & breakfast that would be affected by
this? Or could be affected by this?
MS. RUSSO: I don't. No, I tried to look up the, the properties, you know, just in the real
property tax records, but the ownership records there are not definitive enough to reach
back to the qualifications that are in this bill. So, you know, I reached out to a few of
the folks I knew that did have this kind of ownership to see, you know, how that would
affect them and if they could qualify. But I'm also looking into the future, you know, of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 65
a particular property, if somebody wanted to get  aB&B, and qualify for this, you know
that should be open. Because we shouldn't be limiting the folks that could qualify.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you for answering my question.
MS. RUSSO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is La'akea
Low. To be followed by Oliver Kenfield.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Low.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: La'akea Low, I see that you're connected to the meeting, but
you're muted on your end, we cannot unmute you.
MR. LA'AKEA LOW [testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95 and Bill No. Ill (2021)1:
E kala mai kakou o La'akea Low.
(Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Aloha, I wanted to testify today fast kind on CR 21-95 and Bill 111. Sol want to send
a mahaio to Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez for the ‘aina kupuna, CR 21-95. I think it's
long overdue and it's because we have a progressive Council who put legislation like
this through for the people of Maui Nui. it's, the one thing I would say for the
commercial use is kind of similar to what other people was saying, I think that ag
shouldn't be the only commercial use allowed. I think it should be like whatever is
zoned in the area should be allowed.
You know, we support small business, we support local entrepreneurship. And so, you
know, to say that you can only do ag, I think it kind of restricts those sort of, you know
innovations from occurring. I think it also pigeon holes the kanaka community. As you
know we're very innovative people and farming is not the only endeavor that we pursue.
And so I would just like to see that any, you know, business zoned for the area would
be allowed for the 'aina kupuna legislation.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 66
And then for Bill 111,1 just want to testify in strong support. Again, mahalo to this
Council for taking steps towards more progressive and just action for our communities.
You know, we've seen in the past workforce housing going to folks with not very deep
ties to Hawaii. And so it would be nice to see, you know, multi-generational on, be
given priority for those opportunities. Mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions? If not, thank you, and Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Oliver Kenfield. To
be followed by Natasha Chang. Natasha Chang is the last individual we have signed
up to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
MR. OLIVER KENFIELD (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-107):
Hello. Aloha, Council. Thank you so much for your time. I’m here with my son, Kai
and so I'll try and make this quick, I know everybody including the Council and Kai are
getting fussy about the time. So I, I'm here to talk about 21-107. You know, I'm one
of the recipients of a permit, and I sent Councilmembers an email yesterday regarding
our story a little bit. One of the things I just hope that you look into is this five-year
requirement for new permits to have owned the home for five years. We have lived on
Maui for three years before buying the home, and the permit process as is is incredibly
difficult.
It took us a whole year, 12 months, with consultation from Ms. Halperin to get through
the process. It also was a big job to talk with neighbors. We sent out lots of flyers.
We interacted with members of our neighborhood one-on-one to discuss this and make
sure that they didn't have issues with it. And so there's, there's a long process to, to
do this. And as a young family, it has really provided us the opportunity to, to interact
with tourists, to give them a local sense of things to do outside of the resorts.
I mentioned in my email that the types of local businesses we're able to support are,
are numerous, including our own. My wife and I have a vegan dessert product which
you may see at Down to Earth, any of the coffee shops called SoReai. These, this, a
part of soaps and other things are something we provide for our, our guests. We live
here in our cottage, which is where I'm at, to make sure that there's no issues that they
comply by the neighborhood standards and quiet hours. And so there's, there's a lot
that goes into this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 67
We were one of eleven total permits that were allowed in 2020. I believe looking at the
list from this year, there has only been two permits in 2021 for bed & breakfast that
have been allowed. And so I just think that we're being targeted a little bit just from
these, these restrictions. And it's something that has really allowed us to interact with,
with our community, with other local businesses. And so I just ask that you maybe
relook at the language in the bill and, and find maybe another way to, to do this? So i
appreciate your time, and again, I know it's been  along day. So thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Kenfield. Any questions? If not, thank you again.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair the last person we have sign up to testify is Natasha
Chang.
MS. NATASHA CHANG [testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95 and Bill No. Ill (202111:
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. CHANG: Hi, I'm Natasha Chang, descendant, oh I'm in support of the ‘aina kupuna bill
CR 21-95. I'm a descendant of John and Kamaka Kukahiko, their iwi is here down the
road from us, also known as Five Graves. Their daughter Ha'eha'e and her daughter
Hattie, which married my great grandfather Aana Chang, their iwi kupuna, it's show
and tell today, their iwi kupuna is right here on our property, our Chang ohana property.
Then it was passed down to our grandfather, David Chang, which passed it down to
my father Steven Chang, that's the current caretaker.
Growing up here in Makena, very few homes, most was family. Today, I feel like an
outsider, because you pretty much have to be rich to live here in Makena surrounded
by million-dollar mansions. Today on our ‘aina kupuna, we, we are farming. It's very
important for today's time just trying to be sustainable, growing all types of plants,
loofas, bananas, papaya, dry land kalo, and just to preserve the culture. We have dry
land kalo, we from huki the kalo to making pa‘i ‘ai, pounding pa‘i ‘ai, and just our
kuleana as Hawaiians in general.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 68
This bill will help us continue our ohana's legacy here in Makena for our keikis and
generations to come. And pretty much like Councilmember Alice Lee said earlier, for
us to be like koa trees and our ‘aina kupuna to stay within our ohana long and strong.
That is it. Thank you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Very good. Thank you, Ms. Chang. Any questions for Natasha? If not, thank
you so much for testifying. Members apparently this concludes the oral testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections to accepting the written testimony into the record?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Christopher Delaunay, Pacific Resource Partnership:
Sharyn Stone;
Edward Y. Chang Jr.;
Manuel Wayne Makahiapo DeCosta Kuloloio;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Jennifer Noelani Ahia;
Keiki Kawai'ae'a;
Matt "Oliver" and Kati Kenfield;
Natasha Chang;
Aloha ‘Aina Legal Group, LLC;
Kayla Annen;
Allanette Apo;
Kaitlin Arita-Chang;
Carmelito F. Arkangel;
Dennis and Laurie Barger;
Maryann Nakoa Barros;
Ann Ralston Bauer;
Renee Bertenthal;
Sheron Leihuanani Bissen;
Sayble Bissen;
Meredith Buck;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 69
22. Kaleileihua Cabanas;
Lee Chamberlain:
Christopher Chang;
Deashia Lei Chang;
Kenneth Chang;
Lani Chang;
Steven Chang;
Wyman Pono'ola Chang;
Monica Leihua Nani Crabbe;
Sandra Ululani Nakoa Cristofaro;
Eddie Crutcher;
Johnnie Noelani Chang Dano;
Ernest Delima;
Lindsey Drayer;
Mary Drayer;
Julia Kamaile Estigoy-Kaho'onei;
Anna Fenderson;
Sharde Freitas;
Forest Frizzell;
Rebecca Gagnon;
Melissa Garcia;
Ryan Garcia;
Dorothy Genn;
Scott J. Glenn, Flawaii State Energy Office State of Flawaii;
Gareth Green;
Charmaine Haleakala;
Flawaii Regional Council of Carpenters;
Cullen Kaleihoku Flunter;
Kanoa Flunter;
Momi Flunter;
Terry Flunter;
Mitchell A. Imanaka, ARDA Flawaii;
P. Ingram;
Erik Iwanaga;
Jelina Jarra;
Paul and Roberta Jelniker;
Kiana Johnson;
Tom Juliano;
Claymat "Clem" Kawai‘ae‘a;
Kamaulihiwa Kawai‘ae‘a;
Dana Keawe;
Janice N. Kekahuna;
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22. 2021
Page 70
64. Beth Keolanui;
Puena Chang Keolanui;
Stanley R. Keolanui Jr;
Bo Kim;
Napualani Kitashima;
Danette Kong;
Verdine Kong;
Glenn M. Kosaka
Dan Kouchi;
James Opio Kuloloio;
Kekane Kuloloio;
Kevin Landers;
Carmen Hulu Lindsey, Office of Hav^/aiian Affairs;
Mark Logan;
Gaylene Kulamanu Chang Nikora Lolofie;
Maile Lu‘u\A/ai;
Keali'ilalanikulani Lopez, AARP Hawaii;
Deborah M. Lum;
A. U'ilani Tanigawa Lum;
Veronica Magoun;
Kananinohea Maka'imoku;
Lurline Makahanaloa;
Lindsey Mignano;
Robert Mowll;
Ashley Mukaihata;
Herman Nakoa Jr;
Robert W. Nelson;
Karen Lei Noland;
Katrina-Ann Kapa Oliveira;
Terry Oyafuso;
Cody Pueo Pata;
Sue Pavelka;
Mesa Phan;
Victoria Napua Puaoi;
S. KT'ope Raymond;
Kyle Reiniger;
Yvette Ha'eha'e Simoes;
Jack Smith;
Wayne Chung Tanaka;
James W. Tavares;
Leina'ala Kuloloio Vedder;
Roxanne WhiteLight;
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 22, 2021
Page 71
106. Edwina Wilmington;
Kalani H. Wilmington;
Gillian and Dennis Worms;
Felicia Yadao;
Michele Yoshimura, Budget Director; and
Kristen Young.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered on both. Members at this time, due to technical difficulties, we're
going to adjourn this meeting. I've been advised to adjourn the meeting. Of course, I
want to see you back on November 5. So without further ado, this meeting is
adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of October 22, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 12:38 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
211022/jm
RECEIVEDTestimony of
Pacific Resource Partnership
ZOZIOCT2I A.NI0:50City Council
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair ‘--OUNTY CLERK
OFrlCE OF THE
Sill 111—Countywide workforce housing interest list and related policies
Friday, October 22, 2021
9:00 A.M.
City Council Chamber
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council.
Pacific Resource Partnership (PRP) is a non-profit market recovery trust fund which represents approximately
7,000 men and women union carpenters and 240 large and small contractors. With our expertise in research,
compliance, marketing, and project advocacy, we are committed to building a stronger, more sustainable
Hawaii in a way that promotes a vibrant economy, creates jobs, and enhances the quality of life for all
residents of Hawaii.
PRP writes in strong opposition of Bill 111, establishing a countywide workforce housing interest list and
related policies for residents interested in workforce housing rental or ownership units.
The proposed bill will further complicate and prolong the process of getting Maui's residents into affordable
housing and likely increase the overall cost of housing units.
Affordable housing projects using government subsidies, including but not limited to Low Income Housing
Tax Credits (LIHTC), are highly regulated by County, State, and Federal agencies. Agencies have specific
requirements regarding tenant selection, financial qualifications, fair housing and accessibility. Adding an
additional layer of regulation to the selection process and taking away the developer, its partners, or its
management company's ability to establish a wait list is unnecessary and equates to more risk for the
developer, tax credit investors, debt financiers, and private equity investors. This risk alone may deter
developers from building affordable housing in Maui.
Moreover, the proposed amendments will put a heavy burden on the Department of Housing and Human
Concerns (DHHC) to ensure that all County, State, and Federal regulations are followed in a timely manner.
This will likely require DHHC to hire and retain more staff with experience in developing affordable housing,
and require DHHC to invest in additional resources to deliver these new responsibilities. Furthermore, DHHC
or its designee will likely be held liable for any errors occurring during the qualification process.
rATiriCJSSOyaC? PJUTNfPSHi*-
THE POWER OF PARTNERSHIP WWW.PRP-HAWAM.COM
WWV/.FACEBOOK.COM/
PACIPCRESOURCEPARTNFRSHIP
PHONE 808.528.55571 ^ 00 ALAKEA STREET / 4TH FLOOR
HONOLULU/HI 96813
TWITTER;
OPRPHAWAII© o
(Continued From Page 1)
We are also concerned that changing the sales period from 90 days to 120 days will create additional
carrying costs for projects thereby making housing more expensive.
We have witnessed and continue to see how Maui's overregulation of affordable housing projects have kept
this county in its current housing crisis. We need to find new ways to incentivize developers to build more
affordable housing before the problem gets worse. Given the above, we respectfully recommend that this
Council defer this bill and consider policies that encourage the construction of more affordable housing.
Thank you for this opportunity to submit written testimony.
THE POWER OP PARTNERSHIP
Aloha” members of Maui County Council. I’m testifying on CR 21-107.
My name is Sharyn Stone, and I and my husband, Jeff have owned and
operated one of Maui’s first ‘legal’ Bed & Breakfasts since our first approval
in 2011. Ten YEARS after I first applied, so you’ll gather this isn’t an easy
process and not one lightly taken on. However, I took it ono with the aim
that one day, our son, Kai, may be able to take over the business and stay
here on Maui, on land we’ve owned for almost thirty years.
Imagine my distress, then, to discover that if my husband and I pass away
and bequeath my son his childhood home ... under the proposed changes,
my son (who has lived in Maui his whole life) would then have to ‘live’ on
this property, with no source of income, unable to conduct the business
started by his parents, before he could even BEGIN to APPLY for a permit
... because he now has to ‘own’ the property for  5years before doing so -
despite the fact it’s always been his home. In addition to that, since we first
obtained our permit, B&B’s are no longer allowed in the SMA area, so no
promises there either.
We are deeply connected to our neighborhood. I’ve been on the road
committee for years. My job is to go around all our neighbors and ask for
money for much needed road repairs because nobody can decide who
‘owns’ Door of Faith Rd (despite the fact the county paved half of it a
thousand years ago). Year after year, we ask for it to be repaired and year
after year, that request is ignored. Let’s just say everybody on our road
knows that when I come around, they’re going to have a chat and get their
check books out. Our land has been organically cared for since we bought
it in 1992. Much of our neighborhood shares similar values. Yes, you could
say we have deep connections.
Originally this five year rule was proposed only for Molokai and Lanai - and
was NOT recommended by the Planning Commission for Maui. Yet the
council has chosen to stick it in this new bill anyway. It seems that this is
contrary to the county’s own policy plan which clearly states its support for
home based businesses that are appropriate for and in character with the
community, as well “encouraging resident ownership of visitor-related
businesses and facilities.” If we had more resident own businesses and
fewer huge corporate owned hotels, i might be able to find a park at
Ho’okipa when 1, as a resident, would like to go to the beach.
This proposed action would effectively make a mockery of the 20 years
we’ve put into developing our business. It would be taking away my son’s
birth right. What other businesses do you know of, where a kid can’t take
over a parent’s business when the parents pass away. The Council voices
concerns over ‘discrimination’. But the actions proposed in this bill would
certainly ‘discriminate’ against local long-term residents like myself.
I would also like to point out that there are only 149 permitted B&Bs on
Maui. There are 74,000 housing units, including 13,000 vacant units. So
permitted B&B’s are only POINT zero zero two percent (.002%) of Maui
housing stock. The proposed actions would certainly be discriminating
against .002% of our population!
One of the major arguments used to discriminate against Bnb’s is that we
commit the sin of ‘taking away affordable housing for island residents’. May
I point out: 1. We are island residents and 2. By being able to run our
B&B’s. we provide housing for ourselves and our families. Otherwise, WE
would be banging on YOUR door, demanding more affordable housing.
We’re not the problem. We’re part of the solution.
May I suggest that you consider removing the five-year ownership
requirement for properties where a B&B permit has been in effect for 5
years? And also, please consider allowing parents to transfer their B&B
permits to their adult child who would live on site.
I’m asking you, Maui County, to LOOK AFTER LONG TIME MAUI
RESIDENTS LIKE MY FAMILY, AND HELP CREATE AN AVENUE FOR
US TO KEEP OUR LAND, HOUSE AND BUSINESS AS A LEGACY FOR
OUR KIDS AND GRAND-KIDS. Don’t force us all to sell off to the highest
bidder and leave our homes, because that has been happening for way too
long.
Thank you!
Sharyn Stone
Om
C "n 73CD<n mom moo T) zs:
m *H m
aoCO
TO: The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair, Maui County Council
RBCliv
mi OCJ 19 PH I: HI
Aloha Chair Lee and Members of the Council.
OFFICE OF TM’~
My name is Edward Chang, and I would like to thank you for the opf?rpgurjijty|Ta p,
testify in favor of the Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95. that would provide much needed tax^^"^^
relief to families who own ancestral lands.
My family has lived and owned land in Makena since the 1870s, being one of the
original occupants of this region, which served as home to many native Hawaiian
families for more than a century. However, government and private sector influences in
the 1950s and 1960s, led to the uncontrolled development of Makena, forever changing
the landscape and leading to the displacement of many native Hawaiian families. The
resulting developments created a haven for speculation, ultimately turning southwest
Maui into a playground for resorts and individuals with the means to build extravagant
homes, driving real estate values through the roof. This activity pressured many local
families to sell their ancestral lands and move out of Makena.
My father’s generation, my generation, and now my children’s generation are in a
constant struggle to keep this land in our family. Developments and speculation have
driven property taxes to all-time highs! This year, my property tax is $13,639. However,
in 2019 my taxes reached a high of $22,000. That is an increase of 425% over previous
years. These property taxes are mainly for an 11,000 square foot parcel where my
primary home resides. Please understand that my home is only 75% completed, and
my decision to finish this project is largely affected by the significant increases in my
property taxes. My wife and I presently live in a small structure on the property, which
has become more difficult to sustain due to my age and my wife’s declining health. I
have appealed my taxes for the past four years. Yet, in each of those years, the
reduced tax is still more than I can afford as an 89 year old man living mainly on Social
Security. I have had to ask my children for help with the taxes so that we can keep our
land. This shouldn’t happen to families who lived here long before the developers
came! They should not cause us to be forced out!
The ‘Aina Kupuna Bill will correct this wrong and enable families to keep their
ancestral lands so they can pass it on to future generations. Land has a very special
meaning to native Hawaiians, and ancestral lands even more so. Many of us hold these
lands in the highest regard, as if they were a member of our family. The tax relief
provided by this bill will help people like us to keep our lands - “our family” - together
for many generations to come.
I humbly ask the Council to approve bill CR 21-95. This bill will serve to correct
injustices that have occurred in the past, and pave the way for future generations to
perpetuate the legacy that was bestowed upon them by their ancestors.
This concludes my testimony, and again, thank you for the opportunity to address
the Council on this important matter. Mahalo.
»  r r— r~v
tiD
SUBJECT: ‘Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
Sincerely,
Edward (Ed) Y. Chang Jr.
4800 Makena Alanui St.
Kihei, HI 96753
(808) 874-6475
Count^CleHc
Manuel Kuloloio <manuelkuloloio@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 7:50 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Gabe Johnson; Tasha A. Kama; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura
Manny Kuloloio; Ala
Written Testimony of Mr. Manuel Makahiapo Kuloloio in Support of CR 21-95 BFED
Committee Report relating to 'Aina Kupuna Lands: Regular Meeting of October 22,
2021, Council of the County of Maui, AGENDA K., Committee Reports
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Some people who received this message don't often get email from manuelkuloloio@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Chairperson Alice Lee, Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Councilman Gabe Johnson, Councilwoman Tasha
Kama, Councilwoman Kelly King, Councilman Mike Molina, Councilwoman Tamara Paltin, Councilman Shane Sinenci, and
Councilwoman Yuki-Lei Sugimura,
RE: Written Testimony of Mr. Manuel Makahiapo Kuloloio in Support of CR 21-95 BFED Committee Report relating to
*Aina Kupuna Lands; Regular Meeting of October 22, 2021, Council of the County of Maui, AGENDA K., Committee
Reports
I humbly write this morning requesting your unanimous support of AGENDA Item, K. Committee Reports: Budget,
Finance, and Economic Development Committee, CR 21-95 Recommending First Reading of "A Bill for an Ordinance
Relating to 'Aina Kupuna Lands" amending Chapter 3.48, Real Property Tax, Maui County Code, to add a section
3.48.361 relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as 'aina kupuna.
My Grandpa Wallace Aipalena Kuloloi'a, Grandma Alice Akuna (Kuhaulua Kaholokula) Kuloloio, Father Leslie Apiu
Aipalena Kuloloio, and Mother Lucille Philomena Leialoha DeCosta Kuloloio would share with me how, when I was still in
my mother's womb, they would walk into the Wailuku Courthouse to present Oral testimony in support of keeping their
ancestral lands and precluding the insidious attempts to disinter and remove ancestors buried on family land at the
Kukahiko Graveyard at 'A'awa Bay, the ancestral home of my Tutu Moloa, a fisherwoman kilo and daughter of John
Kukahiko and Kamaka Kuhaulua. The judge, without hearing the voice, a word of and from my family, would pound his
gavel and declare, "DENIED!"
Refusing to succumb to the righteous anger, rage, disappointment, and discouragement that would destroy any mere
common mortal, I witnessed, first-hand, the uncommon and extraordinary commitment, love, compassion, dedication,
filial duty, determination, vision, and passion of my Grandparents, Parents, Tutus, Uncles and Aunties, and Cousins to
protect, preserve, and perpetuate our Honua'ula and Makena graveyard(s), gregarious generational gatherings,
gathering of gifts from God, and generosity.
We walked the King's Trail of Kihaapi'ilani, lit only by the moonlight, stars, and Milky-Way above, from Palauea Beach,
passing the Hale of Uncle Angus and Uncle Eddie at Paipu, of Uncle Duck and Uncle Pluto and Grandpa Wally on the
Ulupalakua to Makena Government Road up at "Beverly Hills", of Aunty Keaka, of Tutu Kuamo'o Kuloloi'a and Aunty
Maipela and Tutu John and Angelina at Makena Landing, of Uncle Abner and Aunty Caroline and Uncle Frank and Uncle
Pardee at Apuakehau, of Uncle Makua and Uncle Lono at Keawala'i, of Uncle George at Naupaka and Maluaka, and out
to Keone'o'io of Uncle Willie and Marie by Pu'u o Kanaloa below the 1791 flow from Ka Lua o Lapa.
Thank You: Aunty Helen Ryan of O'ahu; Aunty Kuamo'o and Uncle William; Uncle Adolph and Ransom and Aunty Hattie;
Uncle Eddie and Lawrence and Eddie Jr and Aunty Harriett and Laurie; Uncle Boxie and Aunty Maggie; Aunty Lizzie and
Uncle Llewellyn; Uncle Abner and Aunty Caroline; Uncle Alfred and Aunty Violet; and Uncle Mogie, Aunty Kamaka, Aunty
Moana, Uncle Angus.
1
Thank you Grandpa Wally, Mother Lucille, Grandma Alice, and Dad for passing down to me, to us, an extraordinary and
uncommon history of struggle, sacrifice, service, and satisfaction to malama our Beautiful Makena, Land of Aloha.
In the spirit of responsibility, respect, and reverence, I have passed down this history to my sisters Leina'ala and Kekane
and to their children. 1 continue to pass down this obligation, the storied persons, places, and resources of Honua'ula to
my young children Piper Ann Kekauonohi DeCosta Kuloloia and Abraham Kahiapo Kekahuna Kuloloia. My keiki, more
importantly, are also learning from their Aunty Leina'ala and Aunty Kekane, from their cousins Puniawa,
Kuumakalehiwaonalani, Kamaluokalani and Yukie, and from their Uncle Garrett and Uncle Josh. When my two children
interact and engage with their extended 'Ghana, they are my seeds, promise, and hope of extending and continuing this
legacy, history, culture, and tradition for the NEXT 7 generations.
When my offspring Kekauonohi and Abraham speak of Maui, they both think of Makena, playing in the sands and ocean
at Ka Pipi (the cow pen) at Makena Landing; filled with joy at the Hale of Uncle Bobby, Aunty Helen, Uncle Kalei, Uncle
Kalehua, and Uncle Ka'uhane; laughing in communion with their extended family at the Kukahiko Corporation Hale
contiguous to the Kukahiko graveyard.
We thank each of you, County of Maui Council, for your consideration, granting us a chance, an opportunity, to keep
'Aina Kupuna Lands, now surrounded by millionaires and billionaires of means and extravagance that drive and drove
real property taxes to exorbitant, excessive, and egregious levels of recent, compounded by the extraordinary impacts
and limitations of novel COVID-19 Chapter 127 Emergency restrictions.
LA'A; MA'A; PA'A!
Aloha Ke Akua,
Me Ke Aloha Maluhia,
Manny
Manuel Wayne Makahiapo DeCosta Kuloloio
LU ^
Q o6UJ h~ LU
> IL.-aC ao>-o lUCSJ h-o 22i.l3
Oo
LU CJ
CD
cn
2
;  DAUGHTER OF ULUmAREIHEl
OlECriN .
HONQtUUU. AUG. 25vlS39
■ PnvalE
Dining
U05
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF SUSiNESS
CR 21-95
Parcels Dedicated as ‘Aina Kupuna
Friday, October 22, 2021
Dear Chair Lee
Members of the Maui County Council
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
We agree with and support this bill to take care of longstanding families in our
community, so they are not taxed out of their land. We would like to share our thoughts
on certain aspects of this bill.
Given what this bill was created to achieve, we feel it should be a rolling timeframe
where a property that belongs in a family for 80 years should qualify. If anything
purchased from 1940 and beyond has been family owned for 80 years (3 generations or
more) should be included in the program as well. It will not only help existing landowners
but support future generation’s land ownership for the children and grandchildren of
these families going forward. With our extreme shortage of affordable housing and
rentals, this may be the only way local families can remain in Maui County.
We would also suggest including the legal definition of lineal descendants as a definition
in the bill, which we understand is “a blood relative in the direct line of descent, meaning
the children grandchildren, great-grandchildren, etc.” The goal is to look at how we can
help protect land for lineal descendants, while also being fair and provide an incentive to
those who truly need it and want to remain in Maui County.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
V.7-
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
I62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808*2444)081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.coib
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 21-109
Public Hearing on West Maui Community Plan
Friday, October 22, 2021
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We strongly support this resolution to hold a public hearing on the West Maui
Community Plan. We heard from numerous West Maui residents who felt the process
was not fair nor balanced and that all the voices of the community were not fully heard.
This was exemplified by the findings in the report by the Matrix Consulting Group, hired
by the Council, who wrote that the practice of the CPAC calling experts and citizens to
testify at meetings and having landowners explain their future plans needs to stop. They
even recommended that the CPAC portion of the process be eliminated, as there are
many other opportunities for community engagement, and recommend in exchange, a
citizen’s working group who would serve as the liaison between the community and staff,
assist planning staff in the development and review of the plan, and attend the majority
of the community engagement sessions. We feel this public hearing will give members
of the community a needed opportunity to share their concerns.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely.
\..,X/■
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
I62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChaniberxom MauiChambercoib
MAUIi CHAMBER OF COMME RCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Bill 106
Net Zero Housing
Friday, October 22, 2021
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We support innovative ideas and pilot projects that help us further our clean energy
goals and we like the concept of this. However, want to ensure that this cost to be a
verified zero net energy home does not prevent multigenerational homes from being
built as such housing aids our community during our affordable/attainable housing and
rental crisis as multi-generational homes multi-generational homes and we do not want
to hamper this practice.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
I62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChambencoi
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Bill 111
Residential Workforce Housing Policy Applicant Selection Priority
Friday, October 22, 2021
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Members of the Maui County Council.
We understand that the bill would create a master interest list administered and
maintained by the Department of Housing and Human Concerns, who could then
create specific project lists for each development and share it with developers.
However, in collaborating with our committee, it was made clear that developers need
to maintain their own waitlists to show project lenders that they have a list of qualified
buyers which is a requirement for them to qualify for the much-needed financial
assistance that is necessary to build affordable housing. Additionally, nonprofits have
certain federal requirements necessary for financial assistance that mandates they
control their own list. Therefore, while we understand the idea, we think it will require
considerable time and effort and may not net the benefit anticipated. While Kauai also
maintains their own list, they also do their own building.
Going from 90 days to 120 days may not seem like  asubstantial change, but it is for
homebuilders who are having to carry the costs and interest on the property.
Developers may have to increase the price of housing to factor in an extended
carrying period. Given this, we ask the Council to reconsider and not extend the
timeframe out further or find ways for the county to subsidize the extra cost.
Lastly, the proposal of selling to the County or having the County as a buyer is an
interesting idea. While the County has typically granted the one-off homes that
foreclose to nonprofits, we question what the County will do with the housing if they
have more than one home at a time to deal with. Will the County find a way to put
families in these homes and what will that process look like? Will the County look to
resell these properties? If so, is the assumption that the County will have a better
chance at reselling homes versus developers who have longstanding experience and
histories of selling their properties? We hope to see a more solid plan for this proposal
before action is taken.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui's unique
community characteristics.
I1  808-2444)081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChambercoi62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 I
County Clerk
RForp, I'pig)
m\ ocr 2 /AH 7: 5
Jennifer Noelani Ahia <jennahia@yahoo.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 7:40 AM
County Clerk
SUPPORT FORCR-21-95
From:
Sent: 8
i rICE Of TP
' OUNTY CLERK
<
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from jennahia@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
I strongly support CR 21-95.
Mahalo,
Noelani Ahia
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEIVED
Z02I OCT 20 AH & 36
To: The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair Maui County Council
For Meeting: County Council, 10/22/2021, 9am
Subject: ‘Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
● .rFICE OF THi-
COUNTY CLERK
/—
E na lala o ka ‘Aha Kalana o Maui
Aloha pumehana ‘oukou;
Mahalo for this opportunity to express my strong support for the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR
21-95 and thank you personally for your support of this long overdue bill. My name is
Keiki Kawai‘ae‘a and 1 am a descendant of the Kukahiko ‘ohana who has lived in Makena
for nearly 140 years. My grandfather Eddie Chang worked on his ‘aina kupuna until his
passing at almost 90 years old. The locals would marvel at this elderly kupuna working in
the hot sun cutting and packing dry alfalfa for his animals. He loved Makena and after
working in the hot Makena sun, he would make himself a late afternoon highball of vodka
and grapefruit Juice and walk along the shoreline talking story and educating the local
people and tourists by sharing his aloha for Makena. You might have heard of this place
the locals call it Chang's Beach.
My parents are now at that elderly age and live in a small structure beside their dream
home that sits uncompleted at the same place where my grandfather once grew alfalfa.
My father always planned to retire in Makena returning to the place where he grew up
because Makena is home. During his time, he has raised papaya's, assorted native plants,
and different kinds of landscaping trees and palms to subsidize his limited retirement
income.
Each generation has had its share of struggles to keep up with the rising property tax
costs. For example, my father's property tax between 2016-2019 soared to 425% before
his tax appeal. Over the last four years he has appealed his tax and we have watched his
frustration grow and the weight of his worry about the property tax consume much of the
Joy he should be enjoying in the senior years of his life.
Makena has become an overpriced community for the very wealthy, mostly non-residents
who can afford to buy high-end speculation homes that raise the property tax to an
unreasonable and unaffordable amount for local families. There is something, not
/767/7D when the families who are the very footprint of a community are displaced and
taxed out of their ancestral lands for others who don't actually live in and contribute to
the fabric of the community.
I think about our Kukahiko Hale and the wisdom and sacrifice that my grandfather's
generation made to keep our ‘aina kupuna in the ‘ohana by creating a family corporation
of lineal descendants where the branches of our family tree would come together to
collectively malama our ‘aina kupuna located next to our family gravesite at Pamoelepo
the locals call “5 graves." The property tax for 2021 increased $10,000 in one year to
$83,000. The speculation house on the right is for sale for $25 million. How much more
will the property tax increase after that house is sold?
For us, “Makena is us and we are Makena." This is where our ancestors set deep roots for
the ‘ohana and where we continue to pass our aloha for Makena from one generation to
another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our ‘aina for our children and
grandchildren. We need a solution to this long overdue land issue and ask your full
support to pass the ‘Aina KOpuna bill CR 21-95 with amended changes.
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Mike J. Molina
Thursday, October 21, 2021 1:14 PM
County Clerk
kauhalebreeze@gmail.conn
FW: Opposition to CR 21-107
Neighbor letter 2812.pdf
ooO 'T,
H
73To: c=>
mCc:
oSubject:
Attachments:
rs3m 1co “T3“n czx:f—
^ nrPlease see attached testimony from Matt Kenfield. atsOX m OO
Matt, thank you for providing your testimony.
Mike
From: Matt Kenfield <kauhalebreeze@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 21, 2021 1:05 PM
To: Mike J. Molina <Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Opposition to CR 21-107
You don't often get email from kauhalebreeze@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Thank you for your time.
I am writing to you to voice how strongly I oppose the new B&B/STRH regulations being considered, particularly for
ownership of a BNB home for 5 years before applying for a permit. Not only would this law vastly hurt my ability to sell
my home and business to a potential resident, but I'm writing for the future young families, such as ourselves, who want
to take part in our visitor economy, and won't be able to.
Similar to other other BNB applicants, It took us over 12 months, with a consultant, to finally receive our permit in
February of 2020. There were only 5 applicants approved in all of 2020. This application process is not for the faint of
heart or the get rich quick folks. We spent hundreds of hours to work through application packets, meetings with
inspectors, one on one meetings with neighbors and plenty of red tape to navigate at county offices. I've owned
businesses and property in other states, and this was by far the hardest permit I've ever had to work for. My point being,
the process as is, ensures the applicant wants to make the effort to truly make this business model work in their
neighborhood.
Because we live here and are able to take part of this thriving industry, there is an economy of small business owners
who benefit. We are able to support local soap and lotion makers such as Kari with Bella Vita Apothecary. Hire local
wood workers for custom bed frames, such as Michael and Emily with Made By Rand. We have contracted Taylor and
Karley Kiker of Writefully Said, who do all of our website and marketing. We are able to support our favorite causes,
such as Mele with Kokua Diapers, where we support  5local families who couldn't afford cloth diaper service otherwise,
keeping disposables out of landfills. We refer Mike across the street who rents his Ford Mustang. We support our
neighbor Jess, two doors down, who's cleaning service we utilize. We support Tyler, who takes our guests out on Kayak
tours. There Is an entire local economy around what we're doing here, and I'm unsure why council is taking such a
priority to make us the scape goat for local housing issues.
1
Hasn't the planning commission strongly advised against this ownership language? Have they not been vocal with the
council as to their recommendations to keep this  5year requirement out of the bill? The permitting process works, the
neighbors have a voice with any new rental applying, Airbnb/VRBO both have partnered to help Maui countv find and
confirm only permitted rentals. We are a small local business, permitted by the county, following every rule there is, and
we are continually made out to be bad people, keeping local families homeless.
I would love the opportunity to answer any questions as to our experience or discuss any questions you have for us. I
appreciate your time and hope you strongly consider the negative impact keeping this language and bill as is would have
for local families. Thank you for.
Sources:
Our Bed and Breakfast, The Kauhale Breeze
Attached: Our notice and letter to neighbors, before the county required notice
HA COWTRY FARMS
Aloha,
Matt “Oliver” Kenfield
808-666-1045
2
Aloha Neighbor!
We are the Kenfield’s and we own the property at 2812 Kauhale. We are applying for a
Bed and Breakfast permit and we understand that there are a lot of mixed feelings on this in
our neighborhood. We want to make sure that we communicate with our community our
intentions with the property. While we have already discussed this with our immediate
neighbors, the main concerns that we have heard are noise, parking and the character of the
neighborhood.
As a part of the BNB permit, we will renting out the main house, and living on site in the
cottage directly across. This way we will be able to manage any noise issues should they arise
immediately. We are quiet and early to bed, so we will want to have guests who have a similar
lifestyle. All prospective guests will be screened by us. You can rest assured - no bachelor/
bachelorette party groups (or similar types) will be able to book with us.
We will also have noise and house rules listed and communicated personally before any
booking to make sure guests understand and comply with the peaceful nature of the
neighborhood. It is important to us to be here on site, interacting with everyone who stays on
the property with us. We will have a very “hands on” approach to this business and want to
ensure, in person, that it won’t disrupt the nature of the neighborhood.
Regarding parking: all parking will be on site. There will be no parking on the street by anyone
staying on the property.
The last main concern that has been communicated to us is “if one gets a permit, then many
will follow and we don’t want a neighborhood full of vacation rentals!” We completely
understand this concern. However, we do not foresee this as being an issue. As of November
2019, we are only the 5th application for the Kihei-Makena area. These are just applications,
not approvals. The process to become a legal, permitted B&B is long, expensive, and
frustrating. The home must pass strict building, electrical and plumbing codes. Once a house
passes these inspections and becomes permitted, this automatically triggers the “500ft” code.
Should any one else want to apply within 500ft, they will be required to undergo a Planning
Commission hearing where neighbors can voice their concerns. The reason for this law is to
make sure that one house doesn’t follow the next after the next etc. The path to a legal permit
is long and arduous, and there are many legal road blocks to keep rentals to a bare minimum
that have been put in place by the County.
Lastly, we are living here and starting a family. It is important to us as well that we support our
local community with a portion of the income from this business, that we otherwise couldn’t.
We are members of the Kihei Community Association and will be donating $500 from the home
rental every month to local charities. Currently, our favorites are Grow Some Good
(www.grQwsQmegQod.QrQV The Marine Institute (httD://mQcmarineinstitute.ora/). and The Maui
Humane Society (http://www.mauihumanesocietv.orQ/). We have already made initial donations
to these organizations to show our commitment.
It’s extremely important to us that we are good neighbors and are communicative! If you have
any questions or concerns, we want to make sure to address them. We’ll see you around!
Aloha,
Matt “Oliver” and Kati Kenfield
808-666-1045
oliverkenfield@gmail.com
Count^£|eH<
From:
Sent:
changnatasha <changnatasha@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 9:28 PM
County Clerk
Testimony
Z02IOCT2i AH 7: 57To:
Subject: C;FFiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from changnatasha@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
I strongly support the 'aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and extra additions to the bill that will help families maintain and
sustain their 'aina kupuna through an ancestral land dedication. This bill affects me specifically because i live & farm on
our 'aina kupuna in Makena. My father, Steven Chang is the current caregiver of our 'aina kupuna. With taxes constantly
rising., my generation will not be able to afford it. Mahalo for your insight to create such an important bill to keep long
time kama'aina families, such as ours, on their ancestral lands.
Mahalo
Natasha Chang
Sent from my Galaxy
1
County Clerk
■'■'RflOEi 'v'gp
mi OCT 22 AH & 00
From:
Sent:
Aloha Aina Legal Group <alohaainaiegal@gmail.com>
Friday, October 22, 2021 7:41 AM
County Clerk
Support for CR21-95
To:
Subject:
OhFlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don't often get email from alohaainalegal@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
Aloha 'Aina Legal Group, LLLC submits this testimony in SUPPORT of CR21-95.
Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able to maintain their ancestral lands for generations represent
a foundation of Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and help to maintain important connections to the past and to the
'aina that have informed, and continue to inform, Maui's social fabric and unique community values. This bill will help
more of these families hold on to their 'ohana lands, especially amidst global real estate speculation, skyrocketing
property values, and resulting property tax assessments that may exceed what many can afford. Accordingly, this
measure will help to perpetuate Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and preserve that which has helped to make Maui
and all of Hawai'i such a unique and special place to live.
Land grabs and speculation by off-island investors should never lead to long-time kama'aina families being taxed into
poverty, or off of their ancestral lands. This bill will protect Maui's families and the legacy they represent, from property
tax increases due to forces well beyond their control.
The dispossession of land has deep, profound, and unique impacts on Native Hawaiians, whose health and well-being
are based on their feelings for and deep attachment to the 'aina. Other kama'aina who have maintained their family
lands since the Great Depression are likely to have also developed a deep, familial attachment to their lands that would
be devastating to lose. This bill will provide critical protection for Native Hawaiian and other 'ohana who may be forced
to choose between the devastation of selling their ancestral lands, or paying tax assessments that they are increasingly
unable to afford.
The county government has benefited greatly from skyrocketing property values and associated property taxes, driven
by real estate speculation, foreign investment, and the global demand for land in Hawai'i. Sadly, this surge in property
values is now pushing Maui's long-time 'ohana to the brink of losing their ancestral lands, going into poverty to pay their
property taxes, or monetizing their 'aina in ways that erode their character, and the overall character of Maui's unique
communities. As its coffers continue to fill from the foreign desire for Maui's lands, the county must take steps to
provide targeted tax relief for its long-time 'ohana, and the last living vestiges of Maui's social and cultural heritage that
they embody.
Mahalo,
Aloha 'Aina Legal Group, LLLC
(808) 594-8274
1
Count^ClerJc pirr-i'/Fn
From:
Sent:
Kayla Annen <kuu.annen@gmail.com>
Monday, October 18, 2021 2:10 PM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna Bill
m\ OCT 18 PH 2 17
To:
FICE OF THt
OUNTY CLERK
crSubject:
n
You don't often get email from kuu.annen@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
Sending an email regarding the 'Aina Kupuna in Makena.
I strongly support the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill that will help families
maintain and sustain their ‘aina kupuna through an ancestral land dedication. Mahalo for your insight to
create such an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina families on their ancestral lands.
Mahalo for your time
Kayla Annen
1
Aloha, my name is Allanette Alana Apo and I am a descendant of the Kukahiko bloodline.
My Kukahiko ohana originated from Makena where they lived and thrived. I was born to a
generation that would experience an Era of great change. To see a whole hilltop filled with
kiawe trees that hid a shack which hosted many family gatherings with the rest of the
residents in that area. Another home that overlooked the point in which there is a shark
cave my uncles would dive in to catch fish for our ohana to eat are no longer there.
Unfortunately, throughout the years many of my ohana have been uprooted and forced to
move elsewhere that was more affordable to live and survive in this economically growing
society. Now there are only a few of my ohana homes left there and one of which has an
area that a few of our tutu's graves rest on. In order to keep that property and what is left of
our roots/connection to that area we have to share/ rent to outsiders in order to pay for the
cost to hold on to our ancestral land.
So, I humbly ask that you please pass the "'Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95" so that we may be
able to afford to give our future generations a place to gather and stay connected with their
ohana and ancestors. Mahalo for your time and the opportunity to share my mana'o.
Allanette Apo
nn
7DCD> I
mn
O O-i hO
C.) moo 3=«
m●n —i CO
aw
RECtr.i\/ED
mi OCT 2j
7: 5MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
FULL COUNCIL MEETING
Alice Lee, Chair
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
7
O rr rrrI
'-'CUNTY clerk
Friday, October 22, 2021, 9:00 AM
Online via BlueJeans
Testimony for Committee Report No. 21-95, a bill amending Chapter 3.48, Real
Property Tax, Maul County Code, to add a section relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as
'aina kupuna.
Re:
Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council:
1 write in support of CR No. 21-95 with Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez's amendments, which
would amend the current property tax code to add  asection dedicated to 'aina kupuna lands.
This new provision would be defined as portions of real property that are owned in whole or in
part by a lineal descendent of the person who held title to the property on June 30,1940.
The Maui County 2030 General Plan states that "in  arapidly developing and increasingly
homogenous global society, losing the places and characteristics that make Maui County unique
and special would be unfortunate."
And yet, we move closer to this "unfortunate" reality every day. As a member of the Kukahiko
'ohana, I have seen firsthand the struggle that my family has endured to keep our 'aina
kupuna—and understand the reality that this bill is one of the only steps we can take to save
our family property.
For families like mine, 'aina kupuna are more than just plots of land. Our 'aina kupuna hold the
iwi of our ancestors, nurture generations of keiki and serve as gathering places that bring us
back home to Maui. However, holding on to 'aina kupuna becomes more untenable every year
due to excessive property taxes.
I grew up watching my parents, aunties and uncles agonize over how to pay property taxes and
hang on for Just another year, all as luxury home after luxury home sprung up around us. When
we would drive to the Kukahiko Hale, my dad would point out the parcels of land that used to
belong to our family until we were forced to sell to pay back taxes. Without fail, these
properties were developed into hotels or vacation rentals.
We are not asking for special treatment—simply for a fair shot. According to the U.S. Census
Bureau, the 2019 median household income in Maui County was $80,948. There is no way that
local families can continue to afford property when neighboring parcels sell for upwards of $20
million.
As we contemplate the future of our island home, it is my sincere hope that the Council will
agree that there is a place for families like mine. If this bill is passed and enacted, future
generations will not grow up like I did, learning about the land that we lost. They will instead
know of the 'aina kupuna that we saved.
Mahalo for your consideration of this important matter.
Sincerely,
Kaitlin Arita-Chang
Countj^^lerk RFnnvFn
From;
Sent:
Lito Arkangel <lito1975@aol.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 5:41 PM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
Z0ZIGCT21 Af17:57
To:
crncp OF
COUNTY CLE
T « I r“
f n L:Subject:
You don't often get email from lito1975@aol.com. Learn why this is important
To: The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair Maui County Council
For Meeting: County Council, 10/22/2021, 9am
Subject: 'Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
I "strongly support" the 'aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill that will help families
maintain and sustain their ‘aina kupuna through ancestral land dedication. Mahalo for your insight to create
such an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina families on their ancestral lands.
Sincerely,
Carmelito F. Arkangel
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^£leH< REQ£iV£D
ZOZI OCT 18 AH T- 50From:
Sent:
LL Tanner <adicma@msn.com>
Sunday, October 17, 2021 2:26 PM
County Clerk
Agenda Item CR 12-95 Written Testimony
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from adicma@msn.com. Learn why this is important
This testimony to Chairperson Lee and the County Council is sent with heartfelt
concern that fairness and pono will prevail for the AINA KUPUNA BILL, amending
Chapter 3.48, Real Property Tax, Maui County Code, to add a section reiating to taxes
on parcels DEDICATED AS AINA KUPUNA.
Long-Term Members of my Hawaiian Congregational Church in Makena are In dire
circumstances due to the outrageous high-end speculation of real estate and
specialty houses built for the 1%, the very wealthy. How can any family, any
individual (widows and widowers), any resident whose home has been land
bequeathed through generations beginning 1883, pay tens of thousands of dollars
every year in taxes on their ancestral lands??? We could not; could you?
Our beloved County and State MUST protect island families from destitution and
landlessness through no fault of their own. The unbelievable costs of taxes in our
Makena aina and other Maui locations (which are nothing for the 1% very rich) being
passed along to normal 99% of people is unconscionable and against all that Hawaii
Nei values stand for.
PLEASE vote YES to protect the land's true generational ownership, the Native
Hawaiian people and its values. DO NOT LET 2021 real estate taxes force people
into destitution and suffering by not being able to pay such high-end annual fees;
PROTECT our 'Ohana from current and future back taxes no 'real person' could ever
pay. The amounts of $ are extreme. Our Kupuna, church and aina need your
leadership and common sense to save it.
Please contact us (below) should you doubt the sincerity of our plea for our church
members, for those who hold decades of knowledge about Makena through their
family ties and religious upbringing, and to decrease the extraordinary losses that
Hawaii Nei will endure due to commerce, rather than conscience.
MAHALO FOR YOUR EFFORTS AS COUNTY COUNCIL MEMBERS,
LITERALLY PROTECTING LIFE AND AINA with an amendment to Chapter 3.48
known as "Aina Kupuna".
1
Kahu Dennis Barger (Reverend, Ret.) and Mrs. Laurie Barger (Ret. Maui public school
teacher)
283 Palanehe St.
Kihei, HI 96753
Tel: 808.874.1998
2
County Clerk
Rro::'Vi:D
Maryann Barros <ohanalomi@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 8;10 AM
County Clerk
Bill CR21-95 , 'Aina Kupuna Land Dedication testimony
From:
Sent: m\ OCT 19 AH 8M I
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from ohanalomi@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Our Kukahiko family has been in Makena for over 140 years. We are a large family with many descendants of
the John and Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep up
with the property taxes and as a result, many of the ‘ohana have been displaced over the years with only a
few parcels remaining. Where once our ‘ohana was one of the largest in Makena, today we have only a few
remaining who are still struggling to keep our ‘aina in the family. We strongly support the intent of the ‘Aina
KOpuna bill CR 21-95 and ask that you pass the bill with additional revisions:
1. Please include the terms corporation and shareholders in the definition of ‘Aina Kupuna. Our ‘ohana
has many lineal descendants and in order to keep the land in the family, a corporation was created in
1973. Shares are owned only by family members.
2. Our ‘ohana currently hosts events on the Kukahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes and upkeep of
the property and structure. We ask that a paragraph be included to define profit as "excess of
monetary returns over expenditures and costs to maintain, improve or expand the property, any
structures on the property, the minimum tax, or similar business costs." This will support the
sustainability of the property for the ‘ohana.
3. The property tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. We ask for your support
for back tax forgiveness, interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax burdens for the 2020 and
2021 tax years.
Makena has become a community with many wealthy non-residents who have bought high-end speculation
homes. For us, Makena is home. It is where many of our ancestors are buried and we continue to pass our
aloha for Makena from one generation to another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our 'aina
for our children and grandchildren. We are a family who is trying to abide by the law while struggling to
keep our lands. As the community has become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay in Makena we ask
your support to pass the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with additional changes.
Maryann Nakoa Barros
Decendant of Moloa Nakoa Kukahiko
808-359-1335
1
Count^CleH< R ? w t: pN
From:
Sent:
h.ann.GS@t-online.de
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 9:09 AM
County Clerk
Aina Kupuna bill CR21-95, with proposed additionsOFFiCE OF THr
COUNTY CLERK
im OCT 19 AK 9: 55
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from h.ann.es@t-online.de. Learn why this is important
I am a lineal descendent of Charles Copp, who purchased property in Huelo, Maui, in 1862. I am now the owner of the
land that my ancestors lived on and worked. Some of them are buried there. Now it has become my kuleana to preserve
this land for my children and their children. At the same time, I am being deluged with offers from realtors and developers
to buy the property.
I have no intention of turning my ancestral land into profit, but, when neighboring parcels were sold and developed, my
property taxes increased exponentially. My children would like to keep the land but have no wish to struggle to pay
property taxes, as I am doing. One day, the graves of my ancestors may be razed to build a hotel with golf course where
my family raised pia, pineapple, and, later, cattle.
My hope is that the Aina Kupuna bill, CR 21-95, with the proposed additions, may alleviate this critical situation, and Maui
will remain as we know it.
Ann Ralston Bauer
1
Count^Clei^
Renee Bertenthal <rbertenthal@sbcg[obal.net>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 9:50 AM
County Clerk
CR21-95
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from rbertenthal(S)sbcglobal.net. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I support the Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95.
r—J
ocO "11
CZ!
73o m<r>
o2;o ro“im<
oo*n
rnc?m-i O73X
7;m o
1
1
RECEIVED
20ZIOCT2i Af!7.'57
c OF THE●— r- t r'
i ' T' I v-' ir
UNTY CLERKy-^
Great Great Granddaughter of MOLOA KUKAHIKO
Sheron Leihuanani Bissen 808.855.8123 117 W Papa Ave 96732 slbissen(p).QmaH.com
RE: WRITTEN EMAILED TESTIMONY- Supporting ‘AINA KUPUNA BILL CR21-95
Aloha,
I am the great great granddaughter of- Tutu MOLOA KUKAHIKO:
● Daughter of John & Kamaka (KUHAULUA) Kukahiko
● Wife of J o h n AWE LOA
● Mother of Mary Malia NAKOA( David Kaia\A/aianui NAKOA)
● Grandmother of ALFRED KALAWAIANUI NAKOA- my grandfather
● Great Grandmother of EDNA L. BISSEN - my mom
Generations ago, my grandfather(a businessman who owned the first Maui poi
factory) taught me the importance of taking care of our Kahakuloa land, planting
and growing taro for food and survival.. . he gifted our Makena land to the ‘Ohana
because even back then- the taxes were burdensome for HIS generation.
He would expect me to do this, to write to you and to honor their decisions of
generosity with our ‘aina so it is still here today. It’s about kuleana and legacy.
I believe we all have kuleana, legacy, a calling in this Life. We have a
commonality in being born, living,growing up on Maui- we also have the same
responsibility to take care of it so that this aina- which cannot be replaced- is
healthy, affordable and available for our surviving kupuna and their
descendants.
Where once our ‘ohana was the largest in Makena, today we have only a
few remaining who are still struggling to keep our ‘aina in the family. I
strongly support the intent of the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21 -95 and ask that
you pass the bill with the additional amendments before you.
2
This bill isn't about one family, it's about all our Kuleana and Legacy. What will
you and I Ho’iho'i?- Give Back by our actions that my ancestors did so
unselfishly? Aina KQpuna represents all that is pono and the process of passing
it gives life and breath to DOING WHAT IS RIGHT - for ALL KQpuna who have
passed AND for the kupuna we have left and their future generations. That's
all OUR Kuleana! To be great caretakers, to do what is right, within our capacity
to malama ‘aina, live safely, and in an affordable manner.
Please pass Bill OR 21-95 on behalf of all our Maui ‘Aina Kupuna who sacrificed
everything to give their descendants more than they could ever dream possible!
We owe it to ALL KQPUNA, not just yours and mine, to do what is right, for
without them, their sacrifices and the legacy they left... none of us would be there
today.
Mahalo nui loa for your hard work and your vision to create such an important bill to
keep long-time kama'aina families on their ancestral lands.
Respectfully,
Sheron Leihuanani Bissen
Lineal Descendent-KUKAHIKO ‘GHANA
Shareholder, Kukahiko Corporation
£ount^£lerk
SKB <skbissen@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 7:45 AM
County Clerk
Testimony in support of the CR 21-95, 'Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from skbissen@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To whom this may concern,
I "strongly support" the ‘aina kGpuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill that will help
families maintain and sustain their ‘aina kupuna through an ancestral land dedication. Mahalo for
your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina families on their
ancestral lands.
Mahalo nui loa,
ooO n-)
cm
50m
73Sayble Bissen
Descendent- Moloa Kukahiko
c=> rn<r>
Z oO  ;T1-<
O <o-nr* m{Ti <?? oXAi KjJrr-'; 17; O
1
Count^^led<
Z9?l OCT 21 AH T- 58
From:
Sent:
Meredith Buck <mbucknova@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 3:01 AM
County Clerk
Testimony: 'Aina KCipuna Tax Relief Bill
To:
Subject:
^■f'rlCE OF THE
JOUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from mbucknova@gmail.com, Learn why this is important
Aloha,
My name is Meredith Buck, and i live in Kailua Kona, Hawai'i Island. I am writing to express my support for the 'Aina
Kupuna Tax Relief Bill.
Below I will share some community concerns and viewpoints which I share and support.
Mahalo nui loa.
Meredith Buck
96740
1. Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able to maintain their ancestral lands for generations
represent a foundation of Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and help to maintain important connections to the past
and to the 'aina that have informed, and continue to inform, Maui's social fabric and unique community values. This
bill will help more of these families hold on to their 'ohana lands, especially amidst global real estate
speculation, skyrocketing property values, and resulting property tax assessments that may exceed what many can
afford. Accordingly, this measure will help to perpetuate Maul's historical and cultural legacy, and
preserve that which has helped to make Maui and ail of Hawai'i such a unique and special place to live.
2. Land grabs and speculation by off-island investors should never lead to long-time kama'aina families being taxed into
poverty, or off of their ancestral lands. This bill will protect Maui's families and the legacy they represent, from
property tax increases due to forces well beyond their control.
3. The dispossession of land has deep, profound, and unique impacts on Native Hawaiians, whose health and well-being
are based on their feelings for and deep attachment to the 'aina. Other kama'aina who have maintained
their family lands since the Great Depression are likely to have also developed a deep, familial attachment to their lands
that would be devastating to lose. This bill will provide critical protection for Native Hawaiian and other 'ohana who
may be forced to choose between the devastation of selling their ancestral lands, or paying tax assessments that they
are Increasingly unable to afford.
4. The county government has benefited greatly from skyrocketing property values and associated property taxes,
driven by real estate speculation, foreign investment, and the global demand for land in Hawai'i. Sadly, this surge in
property values is now pushing Maui's long-time 'ohana to the brink of losing their ancestral lands, going into poverty to
pay their property taxes, or monetizing their 'aina in ways that erode their character, and the overall character of Maui's
unique communities. As its coffers continue to fill from the foreign desire for Maul's lands, the county must take
steps to provide targeted tax relief for its long-time 'ohana, and the last living vestiges of Maui's social and cultural
heritage that they embody.
1
Count^£leHc RECEIVED
Kaleileihua Cabanas <chloegrl@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 8:56 PM
County Clerk
TESTIMONY supporting CR 21-95
From:
Sent: 20?! OCT 21 All 7: 57
To:
Subject: OrRCE Or T I '
» n u
COUNTY CLf£R
You don't often get email from chloegrl@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
Testimony in support of the CR 21-95, 'Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
Our kupuna lived and taught us to aloha the ‘aina that sustained our ‘ohana for generations. They
made many sacrifices and lived simply to hold on to our ‘aina so that it would be there for us and
the mo'opuna to come. It's our turn now to make sure that that legacy continues.
I "strongly support" the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill that will help
families maintain and sustain their ‘aina kupuna through an ancestral land dedication. Mahalo for
your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina families on their
ancestral lands.
Mahalo nui loa,
Kaleileihua Cabanas
Descendent- Moloa Kukahiko
Do not be afraid, just have faith." Mark 5:36
1
Count^£let^
Lee Chamberlain <Lee@ridesmartmaui.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 1:41 PM
County Clerk
Donna Clayton; Tamara A. Paltin; Jennifer Maydan; planning@mauicounty.gov; Pam
Eaton; lauren@hiphi.org; Maui MPO; Mayors.Office@co.maui.hi.us
<Mayors.Office@co.maui.hi.us>
West Maui Community Plan amendment' Section 2 under goal 2.2— testimony
submission for hearing October 22, 2021
WMG_GreenwayValue.docx; WMG_Options.docx
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
. The policy should include in : "Require new development, redevelopment and Chapter 20IH. HRS and
Chapter 2.97. MCC housing projects to incorporate the planned West Maui Greenway into their
project and provide rights of wav for the greenwav if the alignment crosses the property.'*
This is further supported by the recent signing of State of Hawaii Bill SB 1402.
Purpose of this Act is to modernize Hawaii's ground transportation infrastructure
by providing additional metrics, considerations, and assistance to the
department of transportation in order to move Hawaii forward into the
twenty-first century.
The shift away from automobile dependency due, in part, to increased cost
of living and transportation expenses. For instance, buying or leasing a
car also includes other expenses such as auto insurance premiums, fuel
costs, and vehicle maintenance, which make owning  acar an expensive means
of transportation. A recent report by AAA noted that, on average, these
additional expenses cost each car owner $8,849 per year. However,
utilizing public transportation, biking, walking, and living close to work
instead of owning or leasing a car can significantly reduce the cost of
transportation and measurably improve public health. Yet, in those
communities in which there is no infrastructure available to travel except
by car, residents are forced to pay higher cost of living expenses and
enjoy fewer options to improve their qualities of life.
The legislature found that over the last century, Hawaii's ground
transportation was built as a car-centric system, with little attention to
alternatives, which has raised the cost of living in the islands, impacted
the quality of life, and resulted in some of the highest transportation-
related fatality rates in the nation. Merely adding lanes to reduce
traffic does not address Hawaii's most pressing traffic, safety, health,
and other issues. In fact, it can often make them worse. Studies show
that the traffic benefits of spending tens of millions of dollars adding
lanes to accommodate more cars are often eliminated in just a few years by
additional cars incentivized to fill that space. Those funds could have
had a more significant and longer-lasting benefit if they were expended to
address other issues, such as expanding options for people to commute by
1
public transportation, biking, or walking, especially for those in low-
income communities.
Ground transportation facilities. (a) The Department
of transportation shall develop and implement a plan for the
§264-
establishment of the following:
(1) A contiguous network of motor vehicle highways connecting communities throughout each
island, in which intersections with other modes of transportation shall be minimized and a priority
and preference for access shall be given to public mass transportation;
(2) A contiguous network of bicycle and electric bicycle highways or pathways connecting
communities throughout each island, in which intersections with other modes of transportation
shall be minimized; provided that the bicycle and electric bicycle highways and pathways shall be
separated and protected from vehicular traffic by physical or natural barriers or by meaningful
distance or elevation; and
(3) A contiguous network of pedestrian highways or pathways connecting communities
throughout each island, in which intersections with other modes of transportation shall be
minimized; provided that the pedestrian highways and pathways shall be separated and protected
from vehicular and bicycle traffic by physical or natural barriers, or by meaningful distance or
elevation.
Within each community or communities, the department of
Transportation shall coordinate with the applicable county to
develop a comprehensive plan for the establishment of any
portion of the following within the department or county's
jurisdiction, as applicable:
(1) A contiguous network of bicycle and pedestrian pathways connecting all public schools and
libraries in each school complex area to one another, and to its respective state and county
transportation infrastructure, in which intersections with other modes of transportation shall be
minimized; provided that the pathway network shall be separated and protected from vehicular
traffic by physical or natural barriers, or by meaningful distance or elevation;
(2) A contiguous network of bicycle and pedestrian pathways connecting commercial business
and shopping hubs to residential areas, and to its respective state and county transportation
infrastructure, in which intersections with other modes of transportation shall be minimized;
provided that the pathway network shall be separated and protected from vehicular traffic by
physical or natural baixiers, or by meaningful distance or elevation; and
(3) Pedestrian exercise and active health pathways of meaningful length in which intersections
with other modes of transportation shall be minimized; provided that these pathways shall be
2
separated and protected from vehicular traffic by physical or natural barriers, or by meaningful
distance or elevation, and easily accessible to residential and high density communities where
appropriate.
Please see attachments for the West Maui Greenway:
Sent from Mail for Windows esa
oo 73o T* CD
mc
2 0
<r?
o-im <3
●< o <-oO *n
nrn Oo
3
(/)Ul
West Maui Greenway
Overview
The West Maui Greenway is a proposed 25-mile, multi-use trail that uses and transforms the abandoned cane
haul road into a recreational ribbon connecting residents and visitors alike to the outdoors and community
destinations. The trail is intended to provide a safe and family friendly place to enjoy the outdoors away from
the heavy traffic on Honoapiilani Highway and connect communities and destinations, while offering alternative
transportation.
This document presents the big picture, with suggestions for options that can be considered for the first phase
of the project. One of the goals of this first phase is to provide a facility that can be appreciated and used by
residents and visitors. It should allow people to understand the potential of a connected greenway system that
would allow both recreation and transportation options for users. The West Maui Greenway Alliance
recommends that the first phase of the project consist of an option that allows for a pilot, one in which users
can test it out to build understanding, use, and support for implementation of the entire route. It should also be
the option that provides a connection with cost and time in mind. In other words, a route that requires the
reasonable land acquisition, easements or leases and one that allows for the involvement of community and
partnerships to facilitate a cost effective solution for the first phase.
Options for Consideration
The County is contracting with a consultant to complete the design work for this first phase. This document
outlines route options for the first phase. We recommend that a simple check list be developed for the
consultant to review the options, and then use the alignment that best meets the needs as the preferred
alternative. This would provide a level of analysis that can allow the County to pursue the option that is most
likely to be successful in reaching the ultimate goal of the full West Maui Greenway. Once the preferred option
is defined, the design work can continue within the contract (e.g. $300,000). There are basically two options for
alignment, with options for start and terminus for the phase I project. The West Maui Greenway within the 2003
State of Hawaii Master Bike Plan recommends a separated bike path along the existing cane haul road as a
Priority 1 project. The plan recognizes the need to work between County and State agencies to make the project
a reality. The other option is to combine the cane haul road with the sugar train track alignment as either a rail
with a trail adjacent to it or a rail trail, meaning the tracks are converted into a paved path.
The following map provides a range of alternatives. It seems that the first step in the scope of work (SOW) for a
consultant would be to do preliminary investigations on the most cost and time effective option for the first
phase. This could be done by a simple check list that considers factors that would allow for a timely and cost-
efficient option for Phase I. Once this is determined, a further design could be pursued on the preferred option.
Map 1 Overview Map
West Maui Greenway
This map shows possible abgnement altematives for phase I mplementabon
Legend
Feature 1
● Feabjre6
Option 1 Cane Heti Road akgnmeni from PuukoM Road to LahainaCtvic Cerrter
● ● Option 2 - Cane Haul Road Lahaina Civic Center to Keawe Street
Option 3 ● Sugar Train Track Mgnment from Fleming Road to Keawe Street
T Rocks and Bolders block the access to the Cane Haul Road here
Sugar Cane Trari Kaanapat Lancing Station
3 USPostOffice
Option I - Cane Haul Road alignment; from Puukolii Road to Civic Center
This alignment would follow the existing cane haul road from Puukolii Road to the Civic Center. Much of the land
in this alignment is owned by Kaanapali Land Management Corporation. The 2020 Plan includes a greenway
concept, and there are several scenarios that could be developed to either have the cane haul road right-of-way
deeded over to the County, or a long term lease of the land to allow the County to improve and maintain the
property. The best case scenario would be for the Kaanapali Land Management Corporation to gift the land
(Greenway ROW} to the County, in exchange for the improvements, access, and maintenance of the Greenway.
This gift of land could result in in-kind matching funds that the county could use with federal funds. This scenario
would require careful negotiations with Kaanapali with clear benefits that they would gain, such as increased
property values for the company. For more information on basic requirements for matching funds see: 2 CFR
200.300(di & (r) - Cost Sharing or Matching.
Option 2 - Cane Haul Road alignment from Puukolii Road to Lahainaluna (smoke
stack)
This option could include a shorter alignment, should the cost to go to Lahainaluna Road be too far. This option
includes lands that are owned by the state. It appears that much of the land up until Keawe Street may be state
owned, thus making the shorter option a possibility, as it would still bring people to destinations within the path.
Ideally it would be good to connect to Lahainaluna, given the population and connections it could provide.
Option 3 - Cane Haul Road plus Sugar Train alignment from Fleming Road to Keawe
Street (DPW Suggested Alignment)
This alignment could be an option, however, if the alignment is going to require land acquisition, a conversion
from rail lines to pavement, and has any historic significance or proponents of the train tracks that feel that it is
significant from a historical perspectives, this could cause significant delays. This position is based on the
difficulties that the State Department of Transportation (HDOT) has experienced on Oahu with the project on
the OR&L alignment that was deeded over to the state. This project, without land acquisition needs, has been in
the works since 1980, when the agreement instructed HDOT to convert the alignment to a multi-use trail. It
seems that the greenway alignment that is within the State Bike Plan and that already has an existing road {in
various conditions), should be a consideration, in the event that this alternative has too many land
complications. However, this option does offer a nice alignment, and should be considered through the first
check list phase as there may be reasons this is preferred.
Benefits of a Greenway
Greenways for America defines a greenway as a linear open space established along either a natural corridor,
such as a riverfront, stream valley, or ridgeline, or overland along a railroad or abandoned road right-of-way
converted to recreational use, a canal, scenic road, or other route. It is any natural or landscaped course for
pedestrian and bicycle passage. An open-space connector linking parks, nature reserves, cultural features or
historic sites with each other and with populated areas. The West Maui Greenway would connect people to
many destinations and provide stunning views. It will be a resource for locals and visitors alike if it can connect
people safely to destinations. It can address traffic congestion by getting people off the road for short trips.
There are many different types of standards for a greenway. For design guidelines, planning suggestions and
Federal Highway Administration general guidelines, please find the following;
● Separated Bike Lane Planning and Design Guide
● General Guidance with access to multiple FHWA guidelines and practices
● Compliance related to Bicycle and Pedestrian Provisions of Federal Transportation Legislation
● Context Sensitive Solutions
Previously Discussed Management/Ownership/Liability Considerations
The following is from our design charrette meeting that took place in March 2016.
1. Preferred by the County is that the cane haul road stays in County ownership where that currently
exists, and that easements are granted over to the County for areas that are currently under private
land ownership.
2. Maintenance:
a. County maintenance was suggested as a way to keep the maintenance standard high, and have
a way of enforcing the maintenance. It was suggested that there would have to be funding for
the position so that it could be managed over the long term
b. There could be a partnership and friends group that worked with messaging, support,
community engagement- similar to the Kauai PATH model,
c. Bikeway: recommended that it go to Public Works for the long term management and
maintenance. Responsible for the position and long term responsibility.
Back up for the Public Works EP position would be an option to pay an organization to do the role. Contract and
include performance requirements. Kalima 0 Maui is an example of how it has worked for their organization and
provided training and labor for Maui's young people
Appendix A Federal Highway Administration Guidance: Bicycle and
Pedestrian Provisions of Federal Transportation Legislation:
Streamlining Procedures
Bicycling, walking, and enhancing accessibility embody the goals and objectives of Federal surface
transportation law: they quietly, cleanly, efficiently, and effectively serve local transportation needs,
providing access to jobs, education, health care, and other essential services. They are also critical to
ensuring that people can get to and from transit services. Because of that, FHWA has provided
maximum opportunities for States to streamline the approval and implementation of bicycle and
pedestrian projects and programs. It is unnecessary for activities such as crosswalk striping, bicycle
parking installation, and bike lane marking — which usually require no additional right-of-way and
cause no negative environmental impact — to have the same approval process as a multi-iane
highway construction project. States and MPOs are encouraged to take advantage of the following
streamlining measures and to take any additional steps they can to speed up the implementation of
projects that improve conditions for bicycling and walking.
Environmental Review Streamlining
● Construction of bicycle and pedestrian facilities have the potential to impact the environment,
although by experience, these impacts are normally trivial or minor and the requirements of
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) may be easily satisfied. Thus, except in unusual
circumstances, sponsors of bicycle and pedestrian projects are excluded from the requirement to
prepare either an environmental impact statement or an environmental assessment.
Nevertheless, project sponsors must consider impacts of construction of pedestrian access routes
and bicycle and pedestrian lanes, paths, and facilities in order to verify that making a
"Categorical Exclusion (CE)" determination is appropriate. FHWA has long recognized that
building bicycle and pedestrian facilities is an action that does not result in any significant
impacts on the environment and identifies this action in its regulations (23 CFR 771.117(c)(3)j.
This action normally does not require any individual NEPA approval by the FHWA. Project
sponsors may apply this CE regardless of whether or not their specific project requires new right-
of-way or project total cost.
● Bicycle and pedestrian facility projects should be defined as standalone projects and not be
inappropriately segmented from larger highway projects in order to simplify their environmental
review.
● Bicycle and pedestrian facility project sponsors should work closely with their State DOTs and
FHWA division staff to understand how to consider the impacts of these projects and record any
resulting impacts that demonstrate that a CE determination is appropriate.
● For multimodal projects, under certain conditions, one U.S. Department of Transportation
operating administration or agency may use the CE authority of another operating administration
or agency. (49 U.S.C. 304) See FHWA O & A on MAP-21 Multimodal Projects and Eligibility to Use
the 49 U.S.C. 5304 Process.
● Except in unusual circumstances, bicycle and pedestrian projects are not normally required to
undergo a Section 4(f) evaluation. fFHWA Memo. May 23. 1977) See Section 4ff) Policy Paper,
Part II. Section 15.
● Stand-alone bicycle and pedestrian facilities are exempt from transportation conformity
requirements. However, bicycle and pedestrian projects that are incidental elements of larger
transportation projects may be subject to transportation conformity as part of a larger project.
● Many projects not located within highway right-of-way may be procured using State procedures
and do not need to follow Federal procurement procedures. See Procurement Memo. However,
TAP projects must be treated as projects on Federal-aid highways. (23 U.S.C. 213(e)).
Funding
● There are flexibilities for the Federal share for bicycle and pedestrian projects using RTF funds
(see link).
● States may allow in-kind contributions such as volunteer labor, land donations, and in-kind
services to count towards State matching costs provided that reasonable cash value can be
attributed to the donated time, resource or product. See Donations.
● Bicycle and pedestrian projects of a similar nature may be grouped together for the purposes of
funding without each project having to be approved individually.
A.
U)
lU
West Maui Greenway
Overview
The West Maui Greenway is a proposed 25-mile, multi-use trail that uses and transforms the abandoned cane
haul road into a recreational ribbon connecting residents and visitors alike to the outdoors and community
destinations. The trail is intended to provide a safe and family friendly place to enjoy the outdoors away from
the heavy traffic on Honoapiilani Highway and connect communities and destinations, while offering alternative
transportation.
Benefits of a Greenway
Greenways for America^ defines a greenway as a linear open space established along either a natural corridor,
such as a riverfront, stream valley, or ridgeline, or overland along a railroad or abandoned road right-of-way
converted to recreational use, a canal, scenic road, or other route. It is any natural or landscaped course for
pedestrian and bicycle passage. An open-space connector linking parks, nature reserves, cultural features or
historic sites with each other and with populated areas. The West Maui Greenway would connect people to
many destinations and provide stunning views. It will be a resource for locals and visitors alike if it can connect
people safely to destinations. It can address traffic congestion by getting people off the road for short trips. It
could support a bike share system if planned with the County and visitor industry.
Economic Benefits
Benefits of a greenway and infrastructure that supports active transportation have been quantified in different
ways. A scenic greenway can attract tourists and visitors and become a destination^ it increases property values
to those properties that have access to the greenway, it can increase the frequency of visits with spending per
visit equivalent to vehicle trips^ and it can help to spur new local businesses that address a new service or need
from the greenway and its users. It can be found to increase economic benefits to a city. In Sydney, Australia a
study was conducted that found that in adding 200 kilometers of cycling infrastructure to the city would yield a
return of $500 million, or $3.88, for every dollar spent in wider benefits'^.
Greenway corridors provide a variety of amenities such as scenic views, open space preservation, and
convenient recreation and transportation opportunities. People value these amenities. It has also been found
that real property values can rise as a result of having a greenway near property, and there is an increased
marketability for property located near open space. Realtor associations have been increasingly interested and
investing in partnerships that support rail trails and greenways. One reason is that trails have been found to
increase property value with recent home buyers ranking proximity to a trail second in importance out of 18
possible neighborhood amenities when shopping for  anew home {Rails to Trails Conservancy), in Europe, where
^ Flink, Charles A. and Robert M. Seams. Greenways: A Guide to Planning, Design, and Development. Island Press. 1993
^ See New Zealand Transportation Agency Report: National Business Case for Investing in Making Cycling a safer and more attractive
Transportation Choice. Referenced found at: https://www.nzta.govt.nz/assets/resources/cycling-strategic-assessment/docs/cycling-
strategic-assessment.pdf
^ See Consumer Behavior and Travel Choices: A focus on Cyclists and Pedestrians (USA) Reference found at: http://nacto.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/04/consumer_behavior_and_travel_choices_clifton.pdf
See Cycling equals big financial benefits plus fewer cars, says new study. Reference found at: http://www.sydneymedia.com.au/4256-
cycling-equals-big-financial-benefits-plus-fewer-cars-says-new-study/
bicycling infrastructure and use is much higher than in the US, house prices rise when in close proximity to low
traffic volumes, as well as walkable and cycle-friendly infrastructure^ Today bike trails, bike lanes, bike share
systems, and other forms of active transportation infrastructure are helping spur a new generation of "trail
oriented development" states a recently released report by the Urban Land Institute that profiles 10 such
developments. The report, "Active Transportation and Real Estate: The Next Frontier", cites a considerable
statistic: on a national scale, the values of homes in areas with "above-average" access to active transportation
are higher than those of comparable properties by as much as $34,000. Homes in proximity to the bike-able
Indianapolis Cultural Trail, for instance, have seen an astronomical rise in value since the trail's opening six years
ago -148%, the report states. In Radnor Township, PA., the Radnor Trail has raised the values of properties
within a quarter mile by an average approaching $70,000. Similar trends have also emerged in Atlanta and
Dallas®.
A study in Ohio found that the Little Miami Scenic Trail positively impacted single-family residential property
values, with sale prices increasing by $7.05 for every foot closer a property is located to the trail. The study
looked at how the trail affects the sale prices of single-family residential properties using structural,
neighborhood and environmental variables, and a hedonic price modeP. A 2014 survey commissioned by
Transportation for America and conducted by Global Strategy Group® found that more than 80% of millennials
said it is important for their city to offer opportunities to live and work without relying on a car. More than half
would consider moving to another city if it offered a wider, better range of transportation options. And two-
thirds said access to good transportation is one of their top three criteria when choosing a placed to live.
Natural open space and trails are prime attractions for potential home buyers. A study of property values near
greenbelts in Boulder Colorado in the 1990s noted that housing prices declined an average of $4.20 for each
foot of distance from a greenbelt up to 3,200 feet. In one neighborhood, this figure was $10.20 for each foot of
distance. The same study determine that, other variables being equal, the average value of property adjacent to
the greenbelt would be 32% higher than those 3,200 feet away (Correll, Liliydahl, and Singell, 1978)®. The Burke-
Gilman Trail in Seattle increased the value of properties. Homes near trail sold for 6.5% more and were easier to
sell. Homes on the trail showed no effect. (1987 survey of local real estate agents). Mountain Bay Trail in
Wisconsin found that the property lots adjacent the trail sold faster and for 9% more. (1998 study). Trails were
also ranked as the 2nd most important community amenity out of a list of 18 choices. (2002 survey of recent
home buyers by NAR and NAHB). All of these studies point to the same conclusion: greenways can boost
property values and are desired by people.
There are other economic values that can be placed on active transportation. In 2009, the most recent year for
which national data is available. Rails to Trails Conservancy estimated the annual value of walking and biking at:
►  $4 billion in gasoline not purchased
^ Reference found at; https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/syst em/uploads/attachment_data/file/509587/value-of-cycling.pdf
® Referenced from Wheei Estate: Bike Paths Lift Home Values: Suzanne De Vita, April 13, 2016 found at
htto://blog.rismedia.com/2016/wheel-estate-bike-paths-lift-home- values/
^ Download the complete thesis by Duygu Karadeniz, The Impact of the Little Miami Scenic Trail on Single Family Residential Property
Values (pdf 1.0 mb)
^ Referenced from Alternative Transportation Spurs Development, Joan Mooney, National Association of Realtors
^Referenced from Economic Impacts of Protecting Rivers, Trails and Greenway Corridors, National Park service
►  14 million tons of carbon dioxide not emitted (conservatively worth $147 million)
►  $235 billion saved due to the health benefits from active transportation that result in the prevention of
premature deaths
Added together, the monetary value of these savings is $239 billion per year. Depending on how quickly active-
transportation use increases, these benefits will reach a value of between $300 billion to $400 billion per year
just by 2020. Moreover, not all benefits are quantified nationally, such as local economic and private
development; therefore, the benefits may be even higher. When the transportation, health, environmental and
social benefits of active transportation are monetized, the economic incentives become clear, giving decision
makers the leverage they need to Justify further investment. West Maui should recognize the trends, the
benefits, and make the West Maui Greenway a reality. The current congestion, infrastructure constraints, and
community concerns make the greenway a smart investment. Below are options that are being considered for
the planning and implementation of the first phase of the project.
Addressing Landowner concerns about Granting Public Access to Private
Property
A number of concerns generally arise when a landowner Is asked to grant public access. Typically, there are
concerns with liability, privacy, trespassers and disorderly visitors, property damage, and interference with
business operation. Landowners can limit their liability by entering into an agreement to be indemnified by an
insured easement holder. For the case of West Maui Greenway, that would be the County of Maui. For the
landowner to qualify for immunity under a recreational use statue, a landowner must grant free public access to
their land for outdoor recreational purposes. There are design features of a greenway that can help keep people
on the greenway, and limit trespassing onto the adjacent property. Fences, vegetation, signs, and rope are some
simple solutions that can help. Rules that define the proper use of the trail, types of use, and enforcement are
other ways to keep the greenway functioning as a recreation and alternative transportation route. Together,
these tools have been found to work well, with positive results such as Increased property values and economic
benefits being increased. The value of the Greenway to a community can become a social and community
building amenity, benefiting the health, social fabric of communities, and transportation and recreation needs.
Options for Consideration for the West Maui Greenway
The County is contracting with a consultant to complete the design work for this first phase. The first phase of
the project would open up a portion of the larger 25-mile greenway, allowing people to experience and use the
greenway and to gather data on the impact that the greenway can have from a transportation, congestion,
health, and economic perspective. For phase I, there are basically two options for alignment, with options that
vary based on the start and terminus for the phase I project. The West Maui Greenway, within the 2003 State of
Hawaii Master Bike Plan, recommends a separated bike path along the existing cane haul road as a Priority 1
project. The plan recognizes the need to work between County and State agencies as well as private land owners
to make the project a reality. The other option is to combine the cane haul road with the sugar train track
alignment as either a rail with a trail adjacent to it or a rail trail, meaning the tracks are converted into a paved
path. The map below and the alternative options descriptions provide options for this first phase of the project.
We are working with the County to help define the preferred alternative by working with the consultant.
Map 1 Overview Map
West Maui Greenway
This map shows possible alignement alternatives for phase I implementationKaanipaii
Legend
Feature 1
● Features
Option 1 Cane Haul Road alignment from Puukolii Road to Lahaina Civic Center
* ● Option 2 - Cane Haul Road Lahaina Civic Center to Keawe Street
- - Option 3 ● Sugar Train TrackAfi^ment from Fleming Road to Keawe Street
T Rocks and Solders block the access to the Cane Haul Road here
" Sugar Cane Train Kaanapab Landing Station
a US Post Office
V'
"WahiKuii
,V;
/ft
1-.
kOj t ■■
Bt' ● I
l
raS l
Option I - Cane Haul Road alignment: from Puukolii Road to Civic Center
This alignment would follow the existing cane haul road from Puukolii Road to the Civic Center. Much of the land
in this alignment is owned by Kaanapali Land Management Corporation. The 2020 Plan includes a greenway
concept, and there are several scenarios that could be developed to either have the cane haul road right-of-way
deeded over to the County, or a long term lease of the land to allow the County to improve and maintain the
property. The best case scenario would be for the Kaanapali Land Management Corporation to gift the land
{Greenway ROW) to the County, in exchange for the County to take on the cost of improving the greenway to
standards, work with the community to include design and amenities to support a safe path, develop proper
access, and be responsible for the liability concerns and maintenance of the Greenway. This gift of land could
result in in-kind matching funds that the county could use with federal funds. For more information on basic
requirements for matching funds see: 2 CFR 200.3Q0(d) & (e) - Cost Sharing or Matching.
Option 2 - Cane Haul Road alignment from Puukolii Road to Lahainaluna (smoke stack)
This option could include a shorter alignment, should the cost to go to Lahainaluna Road be too far. This option
includes lands that are owned by the state. It appears that much of the land up until Keawe Street may be state
owned, thus making the shorter option a possibility, as it would still bring people to destinations within the path.
Ideally it would be good to connect to Lahainaluna, given the population and connections it could provide.
Option 3 - Cane Haul Road plus Sugar Train alignment from Fleming Road to Keawe Street
This alignment could be an option, however, if the alignment is going to require land acquisition, a conversion
from rail lines to pavement, and has any historic significance or proponents of the train tracks that feel that it is
significant from a historical perspectives, this could cause significant delays. This position is based on the
difficulties that the State Department of Transportation (HDOT) has experienced on Oahu with the project on
the OR&L alignment that was deeded over to the state. This project, without land acquisition needs, has been in
the works since 1980, when the agreement instructed HDOT to convert the alignment to a multi-use trail. It
seems that the greenway alignment that is within the State Bike Plan and that already has an existing road (in
various conditions), should be a consideration, in the event that this alternative has too many land
complications. However, this option does offer a nice alignment, and should be considered through the first
check list phase as there may be reasons this is preferred.
Previously Discussed Management/Ownership/Liability Considerations
The following is from our design charrette meeting that took place in March 2016.
1. Preferred by the County is that the cane haul road stays in County ownership where that currently
exists, and that easements are granted over to the County for areas that are currently under private
land ownership.
2. Maintenance:
a. County maintenance was suggested as a way to keep the maintenance standard high, and have
a way of enforcing the maintenance. It was suggested that there would have to be funding for
the position so that it could be managed over the long term
b. There could be a partnership and friends group that worked with messaging, support,
community engagement- similar to the Kauai PATH model,
c. Bikeway: recommended that it go to Public Works for the long term management and
maintenance. Responsible for the position and long term responsibility.
Back up for the Public Works EP position would be an option to pay an organization to do the role. Contract and
include performance requirements. Kalima 0 Maui is an example of how it has worked for their organization and
provided training and labor for Maui's young people.
Count^CleH< R£G£iVED
Christopher Chang <cphchang@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 5:05 PM
County Clerk
CR 21-95,'Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
From:
Sent: ZOZIOCT21 AH 7: 57
To:
Subject: OrriCE Or THE
uOUr^TY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from cphchang@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important
Our Kukahiko family has lived in Makena for nearly 140 years. We are a large family with many descendants of
the John and Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep up
with the property taxes and as a result, many of the ‘ohana have been displaced over the years with only a few
parcels of ‘aina remaining.
Once our ‘ohana was one of the largest in Makena, today we have only a few remaining families who are still
struggling to keep our ‘aina in the family. Makena has become a
community of wealthy homeowners, many non-residents who continue to buy high-end speculation homes that
raise the property tax to an unreasonable and unaffordable amount for local families.
For us, Makena is home. It is where many of our ancestors are buried and we continue to pass our aloha for
Makena from one generation to another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our ‘aina for our
children and grandchildren. As the community has become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay in
Makena, we ask your support to pass the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with amended changes.
Christopher Chang
Get Outlook for Android
1
^')VEDCount^CleH<
Deashia Lei Chang <deashialeichang@gmail.com> QCT  I8 AH 7* 54
Saturday, October 16, 2021 8:51 AM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna CR 21-95 Testimony Or-FICE OF THE
From:
Sent:
To:
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[You don't often get email from deashialeichang@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
My name is Deashia Lei Chang and I STRONGLY support the 'Aina Kupuna CR 21-95 bill.
It has been far too long that the people of Hawai'i have been getting pushed out of their homes due to rising property
taxes. No local family is able to afford these rising prices, forcing them to move from their land and home. How much
longer will it take for this State to realize that Hawai'i is not Hawai'i without Hawaiians? There is so much development
of multi million dollar real estate, luxury hotels and vacation homes causing local people to eat the cost for someone's
vacation. Most of those people don't even live in Hawai'i full time. Why would we continue this genocide by
gentrification? Please, listen to the PEOPLE OF HAWAI'I. Keep this place home to the many 'ohana who are struggling to
stay here! Make it right!
1
RECr■■ ) \
:dCount^Cler^
From:
Sent:
Kenneth Chang <crzhwn@hotmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 7:07 AM
County Clerk
CR 12-95
202! OCT 19 W1 7: 54
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
IYou don't often get email from crzhwn@hotmail.com. Learn whv this is important
I am Kenneth Chang Jr, son of Kenneth Chang and eldest grandson of Samuel B Chang whom was born on the Makena
family land. I was 12 years old when I first experience the beauty of the Makena. I am 60 now. Back then there was
Keawe trees and Panini cactus. All of that has given way to hotels and very expensive homes. Developer's have been
trying to push out our ohana through taxes. Another example of PRICING OUT OUR PEOPLE! SO WRONG! So i
strongly support the aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and
other additions to the bill that will help families maintain and sustain their ‘aina kupuna through an
ancestral land dedication. Mahalo for your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time
kama'aina families on their ancestral lands.
Our Kukahiko family has lived in Makena for nearly 140 years.
1
Count^£lerJ< TTTZ C !VE'U
Z82I0CT2I AM 7: 57
lanich@hawaiiantel.net
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 10:01 PM
County Clerk
CR 21-95 Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
iCt OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
r
You don't often get email from lanich@hawaiiantel.net. Learn why this is important
I strongly support the aina kupuna bill CR 21-95, and other additions to the bill.
My grandfather always spoke with great pride and love for Makena.
Through his eyes I grew to love Makena and all the families who were and some who are still living in the
area. My ancestors are buried in Makena. Makena is always home to me.
I believe strongly in this bill, a path will be created to help local families maintain and sustain their
aina through ancestral land dedication. I am deeply grateful for your willingness to create such a bill
which will allow long time families to stay connected to their ancestor's lands.
Mahalo,
Lani Chang
1
Count^^CleH<
c c .g,T DSteven chang <schang1965@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 7:45 PM
County Clerk
Agenda Item cr 21-95
From:
Sent: M OCT 21 AH 7:57To:
Subject:
^rrlCE Of THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from schang1965@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha. My name is steven chang. I currently reside on the chang property and i was born in 1965. My older sister and i
are from my dad's second marriage. My dad was born in 1915 and his parents (my grand parent) were 2 generations
before us. My children is the fourth generation to be part of the aina and currently my daughter is farming and trying to
preserve whats left of makena. The high taxes are forcing the Kamaainas out and paving the way for a new pimpers
paradise. When i was young and asked where i lived, i replied in makena. The response was you live in the sticks or
boonies. Now the response is your rich, far from it. The original 2 story neighbor owner before selling said if we allowed
Verizon to put a tower up, that our land value would go down and i smiled and said goodi That would help my
taxes. Bottom line he sold for 6 million plus and got his value. Our value and i speak for many kamaainas is
Home. Mahalo for Listening.
Sent from my Verizon, Samsung Galaxy smartphone
Get Outlook for Android
1
DCount^£let^
Wyman Chang <mistahchang77@gmail.com>«--. W 8: 33Tuesday, October 19, 2021 8:16 AM
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from mistahchang77@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha! My name is Wyman Chang. 1 am the son of Kenneth K. Chang and grandson of Samuel B Chang. Samuel was born and
raised in Makena, Maui. Unfortunately I was too young to witness the natural beauty of Makena because it was taken then
bought and sold to the highest bidder and is now  aland of resorts and tourists. I was blessed to hear the stories from my
grandfather, father and older brother of the land and the Kukahikp family gatherings. This is why I strongly support the aina
kupuna bill CR 21-95 and
other additions to the bill that will help families maintain and sustain their ‘aina kOpuna through an
ancestral land dedication. Mahalo for your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time
kama'aina families on their ancestral lands.
Our Kukahiko family
Sincerely,
Wyman Pono'ola Chang
1
October 20,2021
To: Council ofthe County of Maui
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair of Maui County Council
RE: ‘Aina Kupuna, CR 21-95
AKA: BFED-78 CC 21-29 COUNTY PROPERTY TAX
REFORM
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO ‘AINA
kOpunalands
To amend Chapter 3.48, Maui County Code, to add a
section relating to taxes
on parcels dedicated as" ‘Aina Kupuna
From: Monica Leihua Crabbe
Descendant of Kupuna Lands dating back before the time of
Kamehameha Hi and before the Great Mahele.
Thank you for allowing me to send in this letter on behalf of hoping to pass
this proposal for
‘Aina Kupuna, CR 21-95.
I am a Maui descendant of Pikonui,
kupuna kahiko mai ka 'aina o Kipahulu o ka makani ka‘ili aloha.
! live on the island of Maui, and like my mother before me, have a fondness
for our 'aina,
Wailamoa and Kakalahale, Kipahulu.
I can relate very well the Chang 'ohana (Kukahiko family & descendants), as
my family continues to pay for land taxes since I can remember, eventually
hoping one day they/we will return to Kipahulu.
However, due to skyrocketing property values associated with property
taxes, real estate, foreign investment and global demand for land in
Hawai'i we are being taxed on our family land (aka: Kupuna ‘Aina),
which has not had a hale (house) on it for over 100 years, no plumbing no
electricity, no road(s), no new improvements in other words, just land,
just ‘aina, ‘Aina Kupuna. The 'aina is in the same state as when it was given
to my kupuna great-great-great grand father, great-great-grand mother,
great-grand mother, grand mother, uncles and cousins.
Annually, we go to chop down the trees, clear the weeds, burn the rubbish,
gather 'a'ama (crab), he'e (squid) ‘opihi, and leho (cowrie shells). We do this
to honor those who have walked these paths and those who have lived the
lives of a time gone by after all. we are stewards and care takers to our
‘Aina Kupuna; they are not a commodity as real estate agents or investors
would otherwise have vou believe.
our Maui Council hasThe rape of our ‘Aina Kupuna must stop, and you.
the opportunity to turn the direction of this Westernized thinking:
and therefore, to amend Chapter 3.48, Maui County Code, to add a
section relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as ‘Aina Kupuna. Or,
have the stain of generational genocide on your conscience.
Please let your conscience and heart be your guide today, to hear our ‘Aina
Kupuna, to hear their voices in the wind
to right a \wrong that will stand for generations in years to come.
The county government has benefited greatly from skyrocketing
property values and associated property taxes, driven by real estate
speculation, foreign investment, and the global demand for land in
Hawai'i. Sadly, this surge in property values is now pushing Maui's
long-time 'ohana to the brink of losing their ancestral lands, going
into poverty to pay their property taxes or monetizing their ‘aina in
ways that erode their character, and the overall character of Maui's
unique communities. As its coffers continue to fill from the
foreign desire for Maui's lands, the county must take steps to
provide targeted tax relief for its long-time 'ohana, and the last
living vestiges of Maui's social and cultural heritage that they
embody.
The dispossession of land has deep, profound, and unique impacts on
Native Hawaiians, whose health and well-being are based on their feelings
for and deep attachment to the 'aina. Other kama'aina who have maintained
their family lands since the Great Depression are likely to have also
developed a deep, familial attachment to their lands that would be
devastating to lose. This bill will provide critical protections for Native
Hawaiian and other ‘ohana who may be forced to choose between the
devastation of selling their ancestral lands, or paying tax assessments
that they are increasingly unable to afford.
Land grabs and speculation by off-island investors should never lead to
long-time kama'aina families being taxed into poverty, or off of their
ancestral lands. This bill will protect Maui's families and the legacy they
represent, from property tax increases due to forces well beyond their
control.
Therefore, I strongly support this 'aina kOpuna bill: ‘Aina Kupuna, CR
21-95
(AKA: BFED-78 CC 21-29 County Property Tax Reform, to amend Chapter
3.48, Maui County Code, to add a section relating to taxes on parcels
dedicated as ‘Aina Kupuna. This proposal will provide tax relief for lineal
descents who continue to live and care for their ancestral lands, as my
'ohana and I have also been doing for many years in Kipahulu.
Please support this bill.
Me ka ha'aha'a. ‘o wan iho no.
/
yj/|.
Monica Leihua Nani Crabbe
Cell: 808.281.7152
RECEIVED
?ll?l QCT SO AH 0< 3SCount^^leHk
From:
Sent:
Sandra Cristofaro <scristo24@yahoo.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 6:55 PM
County Clerk
Bill number CR 21-95
FICE or Ti-:E
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
You don't often get email from scristo24@yahoo.com. Learn whv this is important
I, Sandra (Nakoa) Cristofaro, "strongly support" the 'aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill
that will help families maintain and sustain their 'aina kupuna through an ancestral land dedication.
Mahalo for your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina families on their ancestral
lands.
Sandra Ululani Nakoa Cristofaro
Descendant: Kukahiko and Nakoa lineage
1
Count^£ler^ <'EGLiVCD
From:
Sent:
(null) (null) <eddie_w7@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 4:56 PM
County Clerk
Kukahiko Ghana plea for bill number is CR 21 -95
M OCT 21 AM 7: 57
To:
Subject:
-r.OijNTY CLE
rr —V-- tc O r i» r r-n-
\r%
IYou don't often get email from eddie_w7@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
My name is Eddie Crutcher
My mother is Luella Nohea Chang and my Grandfather is Eddie Chang. 1 am named after him and there is a
beach in Makena named after him.
We are direct descendent of the Chang branch of the Kukahiko family who names and connections are too
long to list here and as our Hawaiian lineage predates written record.
My grandmother is Hariett Chang who is a descendant of the royal families of Molokai and who’s lineage also
predates written record.
My most loved and respected ancestors are buried at both the Kukahiko house and across the street at our
other family burial site.
Visiting these sites are some of my earliest memories and when I was a kid many elders were still alive to
tell me family stories.
1 was called by my great grandfathers name because of our resemblance for example.
1 cannot express to its full extent our families love for this place. It simply is not possible.
I have watched my mother, uncles and aunts not be able to build or afford to build even modest homes on
their own land for decades now. They live in fear of daring to live on their own land.
It has been a point of mystery and disbelief to me and my 35 cousins aunts and uncles. Explaining it to the
children of my first cousins (who I lost count of but are well over 100) leads to a sad, deep and powerless
acceptance of its unfairness.
I live and work in NYC now mostly because of the job market. In spite of having a decent job here I still
could not afford even the tax on the Kukahiko house much less to help my mom subdivide and build on her
own land.
My mom is 84 now and lives off the grid and has had very rough living conditions at times. Carrying water,
temporary tents etc.... She has worked her way back to a comfortable level but only because of her
exceptional sacrifices and budgeting skills.
All of this after a long career of helping people. First as the head of Emergency rooms in both Illinois
(where she studied) and Oahu. She co-founded an alcoholism and drug addiction treatment facility in
California where she ran the business for decades and helped thousands of people in need.
My mom returned to her home, Hawaii for her remaining years over two decades ago. She has never lived on
her own land and I doubt she knew this would happen when she left to study nursing in the 50’s. She and all
of my Ghana deser^^e more then this type of treatment.
I have written too much but not nearly enough.
Please see my dear cousins notes below detailing our situation and take it to heart.
1
Our Kukahiko family has been in Makena for over 140 years. We are a large family with many descendants of
the John and Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep up
with the property taxes and as a result, many of the ‘ohana have been displaced over the years with only a
few parcels remaining. Where once our ‘ohana was one of the largest in Makena, today we have only a few
remaining who are still struggling to keep our ‘aina in the family. We strongly support the intent of the 'Aina
KOpuna bill CR 21-95 and ask that you pass the bill with additional revisions:
1. Please include the terms corporation and shareholders in the definition of ‘Aina Kupuna. Our ‘ohana
has many lineal descendants and in order to keep the land in the family, a corporation was created in
1973. Shares are owned only by family members.
2. Our ‘ohana currently hosts events on the Kukahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes and upkeep of
the property and structure. We ask that a paragraph be included to define profit as "excess of
monetary returns over expenditures and costs to maintain, improve or expand the property, any
structures on the property, the minimum tax, or similar business costs." This will support the
sustainability of the property for the ‘ohana.
3. The property tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. We ask for your support
for back tax forgiveness, interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax burdens for the 2020 and
2021 tax years.
Makena has become a community with many wealthy non-residents who have bought high-end speculation
homes. For us, Makena is home. It is where many of our ancestors are buried and we continue to pass our
aloha for Makena from one generation to another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our ‘aina
for our children and grandchildren. As the community has become unaffordable for Locals to continue to stay
in Makena we ask your support to pass the ‘Aina KGpuna bill CR 21-95 with additional changes.
Thank you,
Eddie Crutcher
2
County Clerk
Johnnie Dano <noedano@hotmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 4:22 PM
County Clerk
CR 21-95, 'Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
From:
Sent: 20ZI OCT 19 PH £|: 23
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don't often get email from noedano@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important
"strongly support" the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill that will help families
maintain and sustain their ‘aina kupuna through an ancestral land dedication. I am a descendant of the
Kukahiko family. Displaced in Houston, Texas. My great grandfather rests in the gravesite, as does my
great grandmother (and other Kupuna) - never having met them, nor their oldest son, my grandfather as
my Tutu was pregnant when he was involved in a truck accident when on route to selling some fish in the
late 1920s. I have read a great many of interviews and stories of my great family. Such little land left -
but such great preservation of the ‘aina. I urge all council members to vote yes on this very important
bill. Please keep the Kukahiko family property alive and perpetuated in righteousness. Mahalo for your
insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina families on their ancestral lands.
Aloha,
Johnnie Noelani Chang Dano
Houston, Texas
Born and raised in Kaneohe, Hawaii!!!!!
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Ernest Delima <ekdelima@netscape.net>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 7:44 AM
County Clerk; Jordan.k.molina@co.maui.hi.us
kuuleikamaile@gmail.com
Re: Testimony - Written on behalf of Glenn Otani  -Iron Maehara Stadium
Glenn Otani Testimony_101921.pdf
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
You don't often get email from ekdelima@netscape.net. Learn why this is important
I had sent my original email to the wrong address, find the attached on behalf of Glenn T. Otani.
OO
O
<=s>
Mahalo.
73CD
mc~>Ernest Delima
D3 District Administrator
808-357-6782
ekdelima@aol.com
^ OH ONOfTJ-< O moon
rnrr 9? ou»—Original Message—
From: Ernest Delima <ekdelima@netscape.net>
To: county.clerk@mauicounty.org <county.clerk@mauicounty.org>; Jordan.k.moiina@co.maui.hi.us
<jordan.k.molina@co.maui.hi.us>
Sent: Tue, Oct 19, 2021 9:13 pm
Subject: Testimony - Written on behalf of Glenn Otani - Iron Maehara Stadium
t; 1 CN
Dear Sirs,
Please find the attached information for testimony for the hearing scheduled for October 22, 2021 to name the score
booth at Iron Maehara after Mr. Glenn T. Otani. I unfortunately will not be able to attend the hearing as I have prior work
commitments and was notified of the hearing today.
I have provided testimony on two (2) previous occasions to the different committees.
On behalf of District 3 Little League we humbly request that the Council authorize the naming of the score booth at Iron
Maehara Stadium after Mr. Glenn T. Otani,
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me
Mahalo.
Ernest Delima
D3 District Administrator
808-357-6782
ekdelima@aol.com
1
COUNTY OF MAUI
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
ENGINEERING DIVISION
200 S. HIGH STREET
WAILUKU. HAWAII 96793
APPLICATION FOR NAMING
AND RENAMING EXISTING
COUNTY PARKS AND FACILITIES
Naming the scorebox after - Glenn OtaniIron Maehara Stadium
Proposed Park or Facility NameCurrent Park or Facility Name
Central Maui
Tax Max Key No.County Department In Control of Park or Facility
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
Applicants are required to submit twelve (12) copies of the typed application and supporting documents to
the Department of Public Works, Engineering Division. The following supporting documents must be attached
the application;
1. Location map and/or plot plan oftheparic or facility that is 8-1/2” x 14” in size and dated.
2. Explanation of the purpose for renaming the park or facility and the significance of the proposed name.
3. When renaming to commemorate a person or organization, provide all of the following:
For a person, provide a brief biography of the person including their full name, date of birth, date of death
(if applicable), address of last known residence, and their association with the park or facility,
b. For an organization, provide the organization’s name and address, all current officers and directors, date
of formation, and its association with the park or facility,
c. Explain the significance of the person’s or organization’s association with the park or facility,
d. List/attach all outstanding and invaluable civic contributions made by the person or organization to
programs in the region where park or facility is located.
List/attach any recognitions (newspaper articles, certificates, letters, resolutions, etc.) received by the
person or organization on the County, State, national, or international level for contributions to the region
or to the park or facility itself,
f. One letter of recommendation from the director of the County department in control ofthe park or facility
confirming contributions ofthe person or organization to the region where paric or fswiUty is located.
Minimum of four additional letters of recommendation from various community members confirming the
ition to the region where park or facility is located.
a.
e.
E-
contributions ofthe person or
04/13/2021Ernest Delima !5a^Applfi^nt SignatureApplicant Name
808-357-6782P.O. Box 2124, Wailuku, HI '9:
Telephone No.Mailing Address
808-357-6782Ernest DelimaProposed Name Selected By:
Telephone No.Name
YESf 1 NO I 1I *FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY* Conaty of Maul owoership verifled?
STANDARDS FOR RENAMING fSECTlON 2.98.040. MAUI COUNTY CODE)
Unless otherwise renamed in accordance with the Maui County Code, existing parks or facilities shall retain the name which
has been historically accepted through common usage. Existing parks or facilities may be renamed (1) for the neighborhood,
community, district, region, or other identifying geographical locations in which the park or fecility is located; (2) in the
Hawaiian language, in a manner which describes significant features of the area or which describes the site or its use,
function, or purpose; or (3) in exceptional cases, named to commemorate a person or organization that has a significant
association with the park or facility, has contributed significantly to programs in the region where the park or facility is
located, or has achieved significant recognition on the County, State, national, or international level for contributions to the
region or to the park or facility itself.
The Public Works Commission shall review any proposed naming or renaming and make its recommendations to the Maui
County Council. The Council may adopt, modify, or reject the Commission’s recommendations. Requests to rename a
park or facility shall be reviewed by the Public Works Commission and the Cultural Resources Commission.
The Public Works Commission may recommend to establish commemorative plaques at the park or facility in lieu of, or in
addition to, naming or renaming a park or facility for a person or organization. Establishment of commemorative plaques
is contingent upon there being sufficient funding to erect and maintain such commemorative plaques.
REV201V.I2
To whom It may concern:
It is my sincere pleasure to recommend that the press box at Maehara Stadium be named in honor of
Glenn Otani.
I knew Glenn for nearly 30 years, basically ever since I was hired as a sports writer for The Maui News in
August 1990. He was seemingly always at the stadium for one reason or another and took over as the
main scorekeeper for nearly every baseball game imaginable — from Little League to AJA to MIL to state
tournaments — after Warren Shimabukuro stepped away from the duties about 20 years ago.
Others who have held the job of Maui's “officiar’ scorekeeper have included Kenji Kawaguchi, the first MIL
Executive Secretary from 1960-86; Shimabukuro; and Wayne Tanaka, the veteran sports editor of The
Maui News who passed away many years ago.
None of those great men did the job with the aplomb that Glenn did. He always had a smile on his face,
always greeted all of his helpers in the room: the public address announcer, the scoreboard operator, his
spotters, and any other helpers.
He always brought large jars full of M&Ms with him as well, putting smiles on the faces of everyone
around him.
It was my distinct pleasure to have known Glenn and I highly recommend the press box at Maehara
Stadium after him in his honor.
If there are any other questions from me on this matter, please feel free to call my cell at 808-269-2608.
Also, if I may Include the obituary that I wrote on Glenn upon his passing as evidence to his Impact on the
Maui baseball community.
https://www.mauinews.com/sDorts/local-sports/202Q/08/otani-remembered-fondlv-for-his-dedication-to-
baseball/
Sincerely,
Rob Collias.
($ruva ^IjQaaa, OOmoAa
64 Maiha Street
Lahaina, HI 96761
(808) 269-7140
jakanaha808@gmail.com
January 4, 2021
County of Maui
Department of Public Works
Engineering Division
Re; Iron Maehara Baseball Stadium Scorebox Dedication
Aloha!
It Is with much enthusiasm that I recommend Mr. Glenn Otani to be recognized for the dedication In
which he deserves the honor for all he has done for our keiki of Maul in regards to baseball.
Glenn was an overly dedicated volunteer as Tournament Director for every District 3 Little League
tournament and every MIL game played at the Iron Maehara Baseball Stadium. You could say the
scorebox was his second home during baseball season!
I am honored to have worked closely with Glenn during my time as President of the West Maui Little
League. I continued my tenure with the District 3 staff in 2017, assisting In the scorebox during Little
League tournaments, working next to Glenn and his scorekeeping staff.
His physical presence is no longer in the scorebox, but with a plaque in Memory of Glenn will always
make us remember his dedication, his generosity, his reliability and his special spark. He will truly be
missed.
Please let me know if I can provide additional information.
Mahalol
Anna Kanaha
District 3 Little League Staff Member
(808) 269-7140
iakanaha808@gmail.com
64 Maiha Street
Lahaina, HI 96761
https://mall.aol.com/webrnaB-sM/etvus/Pt1ntMessage1/3/2021
From: hanaomlc@aol.com,
To: ekdelima@netscape.net,
Date: Sun, Jan 3,2021 8:15 am
January 02, 2021
County of Maul
Department of Public Works
Engineering Division
Re: Iron Maehara Baseball Stadium Scorebox Dedication
Aloha,
Glenn Otani, has earned the honor for which I recommend he be recognized for the dedication in
which he dedicated a lifetime in key positions to kids who want to play baseball to make it happen.
Where would baseball without a scorekeeper?
Glenn was a tireless and dedicated volunteer where Iron Maehara's Baseball Scorebox was his second
home during baseball season. He had scorebooks from every tournament for Little League Junior,
Senior and Big League tournaments of District and State. He was there planted for every MIL game
and tournaments played at Iron Maehara Baseball Stadium for Maui, and State levels.
Glenn never failed to made ready his back up volunteers so that the games would always be
with an official scorekeeper and scorebox operator. He gathered and trained volunteers in his quiet
and humble way.
During my past administration, I have witnessed Glenn take his vacation time every year to dedicate
to tournament days of scorekeeping. Twieve hour days which do not end when the game ends.
Loved, respected, and missed. His physical presence no longer in that scorebox but that scorebox
with a plaque In Memory Of Glenn will always make us remember his dedication, his energy, his
generosity with time, his reliability, his personality, and his M&M's when the new official scorekeepers
tire of the long hours and days.
Please feel free to call me should there be any questions or concerns.
Much aloha for your time and consideration.
H.A. Naomi Campbell
Former District 3 Administator
Hawaii State Little League
(808) 877-6699 or cell- 808-205-0050
Email: hanaomic@aol.com
Mail-188 W. Hawaii St, Kahului, Hi 96732
1/2http9;//mall.aol.com/webmall-std/en-us/Prin(Me$sage
DISTRICT 3 LITTLE LEAGUE
P.O. BOX 2124
WAILUKU, HI 96793
ekdelima(5>aol.com. 357-6782^ s e B
October 22, 2020
Ms. Karla Peters
Director
Maui County Parks and Recreation
County of Maui
700 Halia Nakoa Street, Unit 2
Wailuku, HI 96793
RE: IN MEMORY OF GLENN OTANI
Dear Ms. Peters,
On behalf of District 3 Little League we would like to humbly make a formal request to the Maui
County Parks and Recreation Department regarding our long time Tournament Director and long time
Maui Interscholastic League (MIL) storekeeper in charge Mr. Glenn Otani.
Mr. Otani passed suddenly on July 30,2020. Glenn's sudden passing has had a profound effect
on all of us who knew him and will leave a lasting void both in District 3 Little League and the MIL.
We would like to make a formal request to name the scorebox located at Iron Maehara Stadium
after Mr. Otani. As you know Mr. Otani spent countless hours scorekeeping, conducting tournaments
and being a true ambassador for baseball here on Maui in that very scorebox. We will be honoring Mr.
Otani at the 2021 Hawaii State Little League, Major State Tournament slated to take place in July at
Dorvin Leis Field in Kihei.
We do feel that Mr. Otani should also be honored during the upcoming 2021 MIL baseball
season and naming the scorebox would be a fitting tribute.
District 3 Little League would be willing to contribute a commemorative plaque or something
along those lines that can be placed In the scorebox in memory of Glenn.
We look forward to hearing from you and will work with the County on making this request
come true.
District Administrator"
Otani remembered fondly for his dedication to baseball | News, Sports, Jobs - Maui News10/23/2020
The Maui News
Otani remembered fondly for
his dedication to baseball
THANK YDUMAUlf
SHOOTSI SEE VtJU NEXT TIMei
t
iGlenn Otani (middle with hat) was part of the Maui volunteer scoring crew at Maehara Stadium for the
Wally Yonamine State Baseball Tournament in May 2019. He was joined by (from left, standing) Howard
Nakasone, Kyle Galdeira, John Eno and Neal Fujiwara. Sitting in the front row are Masayo Sutton (left)
and Gail Juan. — Screenshot courtesy of OC16
https ;//www.mauinews.com/sports/locaksports/2020/08/otani*remembered>fondly*for-his-dedication-to-baseball/ 1/5
Otani remembered fondly for his dedication to baseball | News. Sports. Jobs - Maui News10/23/2020
Glenn Otani seemingly lived his entire life for Maui baseball at all levels.
For the last quarter century, he was a fixture at nearly every organized
baseball game on the island, leading his crew in the volunteer side of the
Maehara Stadium most notably as scorekeeper for the Maui Interscholastic
League.
Otani died July 30. He was 68.
“It is with deep sadness that we mourn the passing of Mr. Glenn Otani, a
longtime MIL baseball volunteer, official and scorekeeper,” MIL baseball
coordinator and Baldwin High School Wade Hondo said in a prepared
statement to The Maui News. “At the same time it is with much love and
aloha that we celebrate his life and his impact on our program and our
community.”
Otani was born and raised in Kula and graduated from Maui High in 1969.
In 1980 he was one of the original players for the Kula Farmers softball
team.
Otani was a coach and manager of West Maui Little League teams in Kula.
Soon after his time on the field was finished, he stayed on with the Little
League programs as a scorekeeper and official.
Since 1995, he had been the Assistant District Administrator and official
scorekeeper for Hawaii State District III (Maui County) games. He helped
with Maui AJA since 2008 and the Pono baseball tournament since its
inception.
He had been the official scorekeeper of the Maui High preseason
tournament for the last 35 years and the Baldwin pre-season tournament
for the last 30 years.
Otani started as a MIL official scorekeeper in 2000 and since then had
done the books for almost every high school preseason, regular season or
MIL tournament game. He had also been the scorekeeper at all the
HHSAA state tournament games held in Maehara Stadium since then.
2/5ht(ps://www.mauinews.com/sports/local-spor1s/2020/0d/otanl-remembered-fondly*for-hls-dedication-to-baseball/
Otani remembered fondly for his dedication to baseball 1 News. Sports. Jobs ● Maui News10/23/2020
Otani always showed up early to make sure all of the essential preparations
were done — he always had enough M&Ms with him for everyone around.
''As a person, Glenn was honest, congenial and unbelievably generous
with his time and energy. He was humble, dedicated and loved baseball,''
Hondo wrote. "He enjoyed being around those that shared that same
passion for the game and its many opportunities it gave all our kids in the
MIL. In the scorebox, he surrounded himself with  ateam of the same type
of wonderful people."
Masayo Sutton was one of those team members, often sitting next to Otani
for 12-hour days in tournament play. Sutton was interested in
scorekeeping when her son Sammy Sutton was coming up through youth
baseball — he was later a standout for Maui High.
"I met Glenn when Sammy was lo years old," Masayo Sutton said. "I
knew the basics of scorekeeping, but he's the one that really taught me
how. I learned a lot from him."
Masayo Sutton went on to become the official scorekeeper for the Na Koa
Ikaika independent professional baseball team; she will never forget Otani.
‘His motto is f'or the kids,'" Sutton said.
Retired Baldwin AD Kahai Shishido worked with Otani as the MIL baseball
coordinator for many years.
“Glenn has been involved with baseball on Maui for several decades,"
Shishido said. "He has served in just about every capacity from coach to
board member to scorekeeper. He always came well prepared, with a
positive attitude and a big smile.... He was a very giving man and will be
dearly missed.”
Joe Kanahuna, who helps maintain the field at Maehara Stadium, knew
Otani since they were children. They worked together for most of their
lives and were classmates at Maui High.
"We go back to kindergarten days,"Kanahuna said. "He was a person
that everybody got along with. Basically, he was  abaseball guy. He loved
3/5https;//www.mauinews.com/sports/local*sports/2020/08/o(ani-remembered-fonclly<for-his>dedication-to«baseball/
Otani remembered fondly for his dedication to baseball | News, Sports. Jobs - Maui News10/23/2020
thafs the guy, thafs who hehis baseball He loved to be the statistician
was.
Kanahuna will miss his lifelong friend.
“He was positive, he was witty, supportive, trusting, knowledgable,
respeciful, joyous,'' Kanahuna said. "He was a big-hearted person, very
big-hearted, very lovable. He was just a great guy every time you saw
him."
Former Molokai High head coach and current Baldwin assistant Eddie
Espiritu also worked closely with Otani at ail levels of baseball.
"The first time I met him was in the early '80s when he brought Kula
Farmers softball to our softball tournament on Molokai," Espiritu said.
“He took that team to the Hana Mountainball Tournament nearly every
year, from the '80s to just recently."
Espiritu remembers Otani stepping up to become the MIL scorekeeper
when Shishido recognized a need more than two decades ago.
“Baseball-wise, he was always giving," Espiritu said. “I remember when
years ago we were going to Molokai for a 9-10-year-old tournament. He
was going to stay at my house, but he said ‘You have got to take me up on
the boat because Tm going to bring boxes.’ What he did was really amazing
— he had Upcountry kids donate things from home. He took it there and
he donated it all to the Salvation Army.
“It was things like that that really stand out about Glenn."
Otani is survived by his children Dawn (Alfredo) Hernandez, Russell and
Kraig (Heather); grandchildren Brendan, Jaeden, Kaitlyn, Kaia and
Kensie; father Yukio; and sisters Sharon (Roy) Tanaka and Diane (Harvey)
Owara.
Services are pending. Condolences can be sent to the Otani Family at P.O.
Box 328 Kula, HI 96790.
4/5https://www,mauin8ws.com/spoi1s/Iocal-sports/2020/08/otani-remembered-fondly-for-his*dedication-to-ba8eball/
Otani remembered fondly for his dedication to baseball | News, Sports. Jobs - Maui News10/23/2020
NEWSLETTER
Today's breaking news and more in your inbox
EMAIL ADDRESS
I'm interested in (please check all that apply)
□ Daily Newsletter □ Breaking News
5/5https://www.mauinews.eom/sports/l ocal-sports/2020/08/otani-remembered-fondly-for*hi8-dedication-to-baseball/
Naming Scorebox @ Iron
Maehara - Glenn Otani
[
We are asking to
name the
scorebox at Iron
Maehara after
Mr. Glenn Otani.
Count^^leH< RfeGi:
im OCT 20 PH |: 06Lindsey Drayer <lindseydrayer@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 1:03 PM
County Clerk
Support of Bill
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from lindseydrayer@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am submitting written testimony in Support of:
Support: "'Aina Kupuna" bil
CR 21-95 - amending section 2.08 - Maui County Code
Support: Wailuku Redevelopment Area zoning standards
CR-108 - amending Title 19
Mahalo for providing this opportunity via e-mail to express our opinions.
Lindsey Drayer
71 Waiaka Labe 35-103
Wailuku, HI 96793
(808) 385-5061
1
County Clerk
mary drayer <mdrayerhome@msn.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 8:51 AM
County Clerk
mary drayer
Testimony for Maui County Council meeting of October 22, 2021
From;
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from mdrayerhome@msn.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am submitting written testimony in Support of:
r-~o
2^^O "n
C CD
CD mohOm-< o mcSupport: '''Aina Kupuna" bill
CR 21-95 - amending section 2.08 - Maui County Code
o T5
m m9?
Ot: m NO
Support: Wailuku Redevelopment Area zoning standards
CR-108 - amending Title 19
Mahalo for providing this opportunity via e-mail to express our opinions.
Mary Drayer
557 Imi Dr, Wailuku, Hi
808-244-5646
Sent from Mail for Windows
1
Count^^lerk r:! V n
Julia Estigoy-Kaho'onei <jestigoyk@outlook.com>
Friday, October 22, 2021 7:16 AM
County Clerk
SUPPORT ofCR21-95
From:
Sent: ?0ZI OCT 22 AH 8- 04
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email fromjestigoyk@outlook.com. Learn why this is important
This is my written testimony in support of CR 21-95 concerning the 'Aina Kupuna tax relief.
In brief I believe that government needs to keep the land and the native peoples of Hawaii as their top priority all
legislative measures. There has been much damage caused by the historical trauma here in Hawai'i and it's an uphill
battle to undo much of that damage but it should never be set aside for profit or for benefit of foreigners. All of Hawaii
needs to be preserved and protected as the unique culture that it is, but more so on the islands that been culturally
decimated by the influx and greed of American wealth such as Maui.
All talking points listed below needs to be heard and supported if government wants to see Hawaii thrive
1. Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able to maintain their ancestral lands for generations
represent a foundation of Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and help to maintain important connections to the past
and to the 'aina that have informed, and continue to inform, Maui's social fabric and unique community values. This
bill will help more of these families hold on to their 'ohana lands, especially amidst global real estate
speculation, skyrocketing property values, and resulting property tax assessments that may exceed what many can
afford. Accordingly, this measure will help to perpetuate Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and
preserve that which has helped to make Maui and all of Hawai'i such a unique and special place to live.
2. Land grabs and speculation by off-island investors should never lead to long-time kama'aina families being taxed into
poverty, or off of their ancestral lands. This bill will protect Maui's families and the legacy they represent, from
property tax increases due to forces well beyond their control.
3. The dispossession of land has deep, profound, and unique impacts on Native Hawaiians, whose health and well-being
are based on their feelings for and deep attachment to the 'aina. Other kama'aina who have maintained
their family lands since the Great Depression are likely to have also developed a deep, familial attachment to their lands
that would be devastating to lose. This bill will provide critical protection for Native Hawaiian and other 'ohana who
may be forced to choose between the devastation of selling their ancestral lands, or paying tax assessments that they
are increasingly unable to afford.
4. The county government has benefited greatly from skyrocketing property values and associated property taxes,
driven by real estate speculation, foreign investment, and the global demand for land in Hawai'i. Sadly, this surge in
property values is now pushing Maui's long-time 'ohana to the brink of losing their ancestral lands, going into poverty to
pay their property taxes, or monetizing their 'aina in ways that erode their character, and the overall character of Maui's
unique communities. As its coffers continue to fill from the foreign desire for Maui's lands, the county must take
steps to provide targeted tax relief for its long-time 'ohana, and the last living vestiges of Maui's social and cultural
heritage that they embody.
Julia Katnaik Estigoy-Kaho’onei
JEstigoyK@outlook.com
1
County Clerk
RCGLiMro
From;
Sent:
Anna Fenderson <fenderson.anna@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 8:56 AM
County Clerk
Support for CR21-95
Ml OCT 20 AM 9^ 03To:
Subject: CR-ICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from fenderson.anna@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez:
I strongly support the Aina Kupuna Bill CR21-95 that will help families maintain and sustain their aina kupuna through an
ancestral land dedication. Mahalo foryour insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina families
on their ancestral lands.
Sincerely,
Anna Fenderson
Anna Fenderson Great granddaughter of TuTu Haehae Kukahiko
166 Vineyard Circle
Yountville, CA 94599
Cell (707) 483-0010
1
Count^£IeH<
Sharde Freitas <skmfreitas@gmail.com>
Friday, October 22, 2021 7:37 AM
County Clerk
Support for CR21 -95
From:
Sent: 20ZI OCT 22 AH 8:
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from skmfreitas@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I submit this testimony in SUPPORT of CR21-95.
Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able to maintain their ancestral lands for generations represent
a foundation of Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and help to maintain important connections to the past and to the
'aina that have informed, and continue to inform, Maui's social fabric and unique community values. This bill will help
more of these families hold on to their 'ohana lands, especially amidst global real estate speculation, skyrocketing
property values, and resulting property tax assessments that may exceed what many can afford. Accordingly, this
measure will help to perpetuate Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and preserve that which has helped to make Maui
and all of Hawai'i such a unique and special place to live.
Land grabs and speculation by off-island investors should never lead to long-time kama'aina families being taxed into
poverty, or off of their ancestral lands. This bill will protect Maui's families and the legacy they represent, from property
tax increases due to forces well beyond their control.
The dispossession of land has deep, profound, and unique impacts on Native Hawaiians, whose health and well-being
are based on their feelings for and deep attachment to the 'aina. Other kama'aina who have maintained their family
lands since the Great Depression are likely to have also developed a deep, familial attachment to their lands that would
be devastating to lose. This bill will provide critical protection for Native Hawaiian and other 'ohana who may be forced
to choose between the devastation of selling their ancestral lands, or paying tax assessments that they are increasingly
unable to afford.
The county government has benefited greatly from skyrocketing property values and associated property taxes, driven
by real estate speculation, foreign investment, and the global demand for land in Hawai'i. Sadly, this surge in property
values is now pushing Maui's long-time 'ohana to the brink of losing their ancestral lands, going into poverty to pay their
property taxes, or monetizing their 'aina in ways that erode their character, and the overall character of Maui's unique
communities. As its coffers continue to fill from the foreign desire for Maui's lands, the county must take steps to
provide targeted tax relief for its long-time 'ohana, and the last living vestiges of Maui's social and cultural heritage that
they embody.
Mahalo,
Sharde Freitas, Esq., MPH
1
CountyClerk PP r-:--
2MIQC121
office of thf
^OUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Forest Frizzell <forestaf@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 8;27 AM
County Clerk
SUPPORT ofCR21-95
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from forestaf@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am a Honolulu County resident however 1 strand in strong support of CR 21-95.1 believe we need to do more across all
counties to help keep ancestral Hawaiian land with Hawaiian families. While I did not author the 4 points below, it
speaks best to why this is important. Thank you for your support in this matter.
1. Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able to maintain their ancestral lands for generations
represent a foundation of Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and help to maintain important connections to the past
and to the 'aina that have informed, and continue to inform, Maui's social fabric and unique community values. This bill
will help more of these families hold on to their 'ohana lands, especially amidst global real estate speculation,
skyrocketing property values, and resulting property tax assessments that may exceed what many can
afford. Accordingly, this measure will help to perpetuate Maui's historical and cultural legacy, and preserve that which
has helped to make Maui and all of Hawai'i such a unique and special place to live.
2. Land grabs and speculation by off-island investors should never lead to long-time kama'aina families being taxed into
poverty, or off of their ancestral lands. This bill will protect Maui's families and the legacy they represent, from property
tax increases due to forces well beyond their control.
3. The dispossession of land has deep, profound, and unique impacts on Native Hawaiians, whose health and well-being
are based on their feelings for and deep attachment to the 'aina. Other kama'aina who have maintained their family
lands since the Great Depression are likely to have also developed a deep, familial attachment to their lands that would
be devastating to lose. This bill will provide critical protection for Native Hawaiian and other 'ohana who may be forced
to choose between the devastation of selling their ancestral lands, or paying tax assessments that they are increasingly
unable to afford.
4. The county government has benefited greatly from skyrocketing property values and associated property taxes,
driven by real estate speculation, foreign investment, and the global demand for land in Hawai'i. Sadly, this surge in
property values is now pushing Maui's long-time 'ohana to the brink of losing their ancestral lands, going into poverty to
pay their property taxes, or monetizing their 'aina in ways that erode their character, and the overall character of Maui's
unique communities. As its coffers continue to fill from the foreign desire for Maui's lands, the county must take steps
to provide targeted tax relief for its long-time 'ohana, and the last living vestiges of Maui's social and cultural heritage
that they embody.
Mahalo,
Forest
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka 'Aina i ka Pono - Kamehameha 111 (born Kauikeaouli)
1
Count^^Clerk
mi OCT 21 AH 7:58
^  i^iCE OF THE
-OUNTY CLERK
j i
Rebecca Gagnon <r.khaugen20@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 5:59 AM
County Clerk
Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from r.khaugen20@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To whom it may concern,
I support the Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95.
Thanks,
Rebecca
1
Count^£JeH<
Z0« OCT 2i AH 7: 57Melissa Garcia <garciamagarc@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 9:33 PM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFIC-E OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don't often get email from garciamagarc@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha Alice Lee, Chair Maui County Council,
I strongly support the 'Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95. The 'Aina Kupuna, including corporation and shareholders, should not
be taxed out of their land. My family has been on our land for 6 generations, and as a whole family (many
households/immediate family groups) we have been struggling to keep the land we've had for decades. Thank you for
taking notice to such an important bill that will impact many 'Ghana.
Mahalo,
Melissa Garcia
1
Count^£lerk pjrr^m\/i=n
21121 OCT 20 Pil M: 24Ryan Garcia <ryangarcia5174@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 4:20 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for bill CR 21-95, 'Aina Kupuna Land
From:
Sent:
To:
OF THESubject: r-cOrFl
COUNTY CLERK
v-y W
IYou don't often get email from ryangarcia5174@yahoo.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha Chair Lee and Council Members,
This email serves to voice my strong support of bill CR 21-95.1 believe this bill is an incredibly important
step in the right direction. I truly believe this bill will have an incredible impact on the Hawaiian families
living on Maui and potentially influence positive change for the other neighbor islands. It has been tragic
to see my family work so hard and sacrifice so much just to hold on to pieces of the land they grew up
on and which was passed down to them. The areas surrounding my family's land in Makena is almost
unrecognizable due to luxury development for foreign visitors. Hawaiians struggling to find affordable
housing has always been common knowledge but learning of this issue, being taxed out of long
time family lands, is a lesser known and equally tragic problem. I truly appreciate your consideration and
reflection on this issue.
Again, 1, Ryan Garcia, strongly support CR 21-95.
Mahalo,
Ryan Garcia
1
RECEIVEDCount^Clerk
Z02I OCT 20 PH 12= 53Dorothy Genn <genndorothy@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 12:04 PM
County Clerk
Aina KQpuna bill number CR 21-95
From:
Sent:
To: fr-FiCE OF THE
OUNTY CLERKSubject:
(You don't often get email from genndorothy@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Maui County Council members,
Though I am now living in McLean Virginia, and being aware of this important bill, I strongly support the 'aina kupuna bill
CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill that will help long-time kama'aina families maintain and sustain their 'aina
kupuna through ancestral land dedication.
Sincerely,
Dorothy Genn
1
DAVID Y. IGE
GOVERNORHAWAII STATE ENERGY OFFICE
STATE OF HAWAII SCOTT J. GLENN
CHIEF ENERGY OFFICER
(808) 587-3807
energy.hawaii.gov
235 South Beretania Street, 5th Floor, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, Hawaii 96804
Telephone:
Web:
Testimony of
SCOTT J. GLENN, Chief Energy Officer ooOm 73CD
mnC c~>
before the
MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL O'i m ro m-<o
r~
m —IOctober 22, 2021
9;00 AM
mo OX
m O
Comments in support of
BILL 106
RELATING TO ENERGY CODE COMPLIANCE
FOR LARGE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council, the
Hawaii State Energy Office (HSEO) supports Bill 106, which would require new one-
and two-family residential buildings over 5,000 square feet to be zero net energy
homes, and looks forward to further refinements of the measure.
We are all aware of reports from the United Nations, from scientific organizations
and other distinguished bodies indicating that climate change is accelerating and which
point to worsening droughts, forest fires, floods and rising sea levels. Scientists agree
that rising temperatures caused by man-made CO2 emissions are the prime cause of
these catastrophes.
Bill 106 is part of a national shift that recognizes the importance of building codes
to steer our buildings, and the energy systems that support them, to more sustainable
and efficient designs. Both our buildings and our energy infrastructure generally last
more than 50 years.
Measures such as this are intended to move the builders of high-end residences
toward highly efficient windows, roofs, air conditioning and water heating technologies
which in turn would help to bring these products to Hawaii.
Page 1 of 2
Hawaii State Energy Office Testimony
Bill 106 Relating to Energy Code Compliance for Large Residential Buildings -
Support
October 22, 2021
Perhaps just as importantly, these measures spark conversation and creative
thought, as we recognize the importance and lasting impact of the facilities and systems
that are built today, and hear about the potential interactions between home design,
energy resources, and our natural environment.
Greater building efficiency, and the ability of homes to produce their own energy,
reduce pressure on using our limited land, especially agricultural land, for renewable
energy development.
The Hawaii State Energy Office looks forward to participating in discussions as
Maui and the state of Hawaii move toward energy self-sufficiency.  In joining forces with
similar initiatives across the country, advanced building codes and standards have the
potential to move the CO2 needle downward and contribute to Hawaii’s net carbon
negative goal.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
Count^CIet^
klECE
Ml OCT 21 PM i: 08
O.-FICE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
*'/ED1 V'
From:
Sent:
Gareth Green <greeng@outlook.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 11:26 AM
County Clerk
Testimony CR 21-107
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from greeng@outlook.com. Learn why this is important
)car Maui County Council,
I am in opposed to several provisions in CR 21-107. First, the provision that would require 5 years of ownership before
being eligible to apply for a B&B license is not consistent with Maui County’s tradition of acting more favorably towards
B&Bs than Short-Term Rentals. Acting favorable toward B&Bs makes sense because it supports home based businesses
and resident ownership of visitor-related businesses. I believe these are central to the Maui Countywide Policy Plan.
I really feel strongly that benefits from the tourism industry should go to local Maui residents rather than large
corporations. However, the 5-year ownership makes it harder for locals and new homeowners to begin home based
businesses. This is not only bad for local residents but also reduces potential tax revenue to Maui County.
I appreciate the situation we are in regarding the cost of housing in Maui County, but limiting B&B’s is not going to make
a difference with this problem. There are only about 150 B&B’s operating on Maui yet there are more than 74,000
housing units. How can restricting this small number of house units make a difference? You need to focus on solving the
housing problem, don’t spend your valuable time on options that will not make a difference. This policy seems like a
waste of tax dollars and county official’s time ~ we don’t have resources to waste.
1 am not the only person that feels that the 5-year ownership provision is not a good idea. When this bill was heard at the
Maui Planning Commission, almost all of the testimony was against these 5-year requirement, so the Maui Planning
Commission took it out. Why was the 5-year ownership provision added back into the policy? It seems this was added
without an opportunity for Maui residents to discuss and be heard. Why?
If the goal is to make more housing units available to local Maui County residents. Council Members should be focusing
on policy that will make a difference and not hurt local Maui residents. Maybe as an alternative you could change the
policy to be that applicants have to be residents of Maui or Hawaii for 5-years to be eligible to apply for a B&B license.
However. I believe spending any time on the B&B policy is a waste of time since it is such a small portion of the Maui
housing market - spend your time something that matters, like Short-Term Rentals valued under $3 million that are zoned
in non-commercial family neighborhoods. Spend your resources on something that will help Maui County residents rather
than just waste Maui County resources.
For all the above reasons, please remove the proposed 5-year construction and ownership requirements. They are a waste
of time and harm local people.
Sincerely,
Gareth Green
860 S Rihei Rd
Kihei, HI 96753
greeng@outlook.com
1
RECEIVEDCount^Oerk
2021 OCT 20 AH & 36From:
Sent:
Charmaine Haleakala <nawaieha7@aol.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 7:19 AM
County Clerk
CR21-95 Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don't often get email from nawaieha7@aol.com. Learn why this is important
support the bill CR21-95, our family lands should be kept in our ohana. It is sad that our hawaiian people keep losing
their lands. It also should be that when seniors reach over 50, they should not pay any land tax. It is not a housing
problem, but a LIFE PROBLEM!!!!! Thank you
1
t^PENTWS,
Hawaii Regional Council of
Carpenters
so0^1
C“n
H
CD
October 22, 2021 CD m
ots>m●< moo “O
City Council
Council ofthe County of Maui
Councilmember Alice L Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
“n
m H m
oxm o
statement of the Hawaii Regionai Council of Carpenters - OPPOSiTIOISJ for Resoiution Bill 111—
Countywide workforce housing interest list and related policies
Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the council
The Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenters is in opposition to Bill 111, which would establish a
countywide workforce housing interest list and related policies for residents interested in workforce
housing rental or ownership units.
This proposed bill would complicate and prolong the process of developing affordable housing on Maui
and will only serve to create barriers to the creation of more units on Maui.
Of particular concern is the additional layer of regulation that is being imposed on the tenant selection
process and the elimination of the wait list that developers would use for prospective renters.
These proposed amendments would create unnecessary liability for the Department of Housing and
Human Concerns, or its designee, for any potential errors that could arise during the tenant qualification
process.
With complicated regulations that govern affordable housing development, coupled with a depleted
amount of public financing, then further burdened by an overly lengthy entitlement process have
created an environment that is openly hostile to developers of more affordable units.
We believe that simplifying rules, shortening the entitlement process, and not politicizing the policy
around affordable housing would help stimulate the development of more affordable units.
Mahalo for the opportunity to testify.
STATE HEADQUARTERS & BUSINESS OFFICES
OAHU: 1311 Houghtailing Street Honolulu Hawaii 96817-2712 ● Ph. (808) 847-5761 Fax (808) 440-9188
HILO OFFICE; 525 Kllauea Avenue, Room 205, Hilo, Hawaii 96720-3050 ● Ph. (808) 935-8575 Fax (808) 935-8576
KONA OFFICE; 75-126 Lunapule Road, Kailua-Koiia, Hawaii 96740-2106 ● Ph. (808) 329-7355 Fax (808) 326-9376
MAUI OFFICE: 330 Hookahi StreetWailuku, Maui 96793-1449 ● Pli. (808) 242-6891 Fax (808) 242-5961
KAUAI OFnCB: Kuhlo Medical Ctr Bldg., 3-3295 Kuliio Hwy,Suite 201, Lihue, Kauai 96766-1040 ● Ph.(808)245-8511 Fax (808) 245-8911
Count^£lerk nrrr'i'frnI \ I ! V ; L-/
Kaleihoku Hunter <somethingmythological@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 3:44 PM
County Clerk
Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
From:
Sent: m\ OCT 20 PM 4: 04
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from somethingmythological@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui Council,
1 strongly support this bill Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95. 1want to support this bill because family is precious to everyone in
Hawaii. Every building and land tells a story younger generations can participate and add to as of historical matter, and
memory matter.
Thank you for your time,
Cullen Kaleihoku Hunter
1
Count^Clei^ i \
From:
Sent:
Hunter, Kanoa <hunterka@dickinson.edu>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 2:38 PM
County Clerk
CR 21-95, 'Aina Kupuna Land Dedication Testiomony
m\ OCT 20 PH ? 58
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from hunterka@dickinson.edu. Learn whv this is important
I am in strong support of the'aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill that will help
families maintain and sustain their ‘aina kupuna through an ancestral land dedication. A Lot of
housing on Maui is owned by people who visit on occasion and are not permanent residents or have
ancestral ties. I strongly believe that the bill and the additions to it will help native families
maintain their land and allow them to grow and prosper.
1
Count^ClerJ< ED.Em
From:
Sent:
Momi Hunter <momihunter@me.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 1;31 PM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95
m\ OCT 20 PH 1= 32
To:
JFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
r'
Subject:
(You don't often get email from momihunter(S)me.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Dear Council Members,
Thank you so much for your time and consideration of 'Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95.
Our Kukahiko family has been in Makena for over 140 years. We are a large family with many descendants of the John
and Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep up with the property
taxes and as a result, many of the 'ohana have been displaced over the years with only a few parcels remaining. Where
once our 'ohana was one of the largest in Makena, today we have only a few remaining who are still struggling to keep
our 'aina in the family. We strongly support the intent of the 'Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 and ask that you pass the bill
with additional revisions:
1. Please include the terms corporation and shareholders in the definition of 'Aina Kupuna. Our 'ohana has many lineal
descendants and in order to keep the land in the family, a corporation was created in 1973. Shares are owned only by
family members.
2. Our 'ohana currently hosts events on the Kukahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes and upkeep of the property and
structure. We ask that a paragraph be included to define profit as "excess of monetary returns over expenditures and
costs to maintain, improve or expand the property, any structures on the property, the minimum tax, or similar business
costs." This will support the sustainability of the property for the 'ohana.
3. The property tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. We ask for your support for back tax
forgiveness, Interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax burdens for the 2020 and 2021 tax years.
Makena has become a community with many wealthy non-residents who have bought high-end speculation homes. For
us, Makena is home. It is where many of our ancestors are buried and we continue to pass our aloha for Makena from
one generation to another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our 'aina for our children and grandchildren.
As the community has become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay in Makena we ask your support to pass the
'Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with additional changes.
With gratitude,
Momi Hunter
Sent from my iPad
1
Count^^leH<
ncci /;td
W.\ OCT 21 AH 7: 58
From:
Sent:
Terry HUNTER <Terry.Hunter@kp.org>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 6:52 AM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95
To:
Subject:
office of theCOUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from terry.hunter@kp.org. Learn why this is important
Aloha, Though I am not a native Hawai'ian, and only involved by marriage and not "in-line" to inherit lands, I fully
endorse this bill.
The Kukahiko family has been in Makena for over 140 years. They are a large family with many descendants
of the John and Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep
up with the property taxes and as a result, many of the 'ohana have been displaced over the years with only
a few parcels remaining. Where once their 'ohana was one of the largest in Makena, today there are only a
few remaining who are still struggling to keep the ‘aina in the family. I strongly support the intent of the
‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 and ask that you pass the bill with additional revisions:
1. Please include the terms corporation and shareholders in the definition of ‘Aina Kupuna. Their ‘ohana has
many lineal descendants and in order to keep the land in the family, a corporation was created in 1973.
Shares are owned only by family members.
2. Their ‘ohana currently hosts events on the Kukahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes and upkeep of the
property and structure. 1 ask that a paragraph be included to define profit as "excess of monetary returns
over expenditures and costs to maintain, improve or expand the property, any structures on the property,
the minimum tax, or similar business costs." This will support the sustainability of the property for the
'ohana.
3. The property tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. I ask for your support for
back tax forgiveness, interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax burdens for the 2020 and 2021 tax
years.
Makena has become a community with many wealthy non-residents who have bought high-end speculation
homes. For the Kukahiko ‘ohana, Makena is home. It is where many of their ancestors are buried and
continue to pass their aloha for Makena from one generation to another. They need help to continue to live
and maintain their ‘aina for their children and grandchildren. As the community has become unaffordable
for locals to continue to stay in Makena I ask your support to pass the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with
additional changes.
Mahalo nui for your consideration,
Terry Hunter,MD
NOTICE TO RECIPIENT: If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are prohibited from sharing, copying, or otherwise using or disclosing
its contents. If you have received this e-maii in error, please notify the sender immediately by reply e-mail and permanently delete this e-mail and any
attachments without reading, fonwarding or saving them, v.173.295 Thank you.
1
11
imeshare with e=9
73o-n
cZ! o mcr>
oOctober 19, 2021 ro
m-<
O -xtOTO: Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins- Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members for the Maui County Council
*T»
r* mni
73X
7^ m
OoCO
AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA Hawaii)FR:
RE: Support of CR 21-107 ("CR 21-107") ("A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTERS 19.35, 19.64 AND 19.65, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
ACCESSORY DWELLING, BED AND BREAKFAST HOME, AND SHORT-TERM
RENTAL HOME PERMITS")
Hearing date: Friday, October 22, 2021 at 9:00AM
(Sent via e-mail to county.clerk@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing ARDA Hawaii to submit testimony in Support of the proposed
bill relating to Short-Term Rental Home ("STRH") permits. ARDA Hawaii is the local chapter of
the trade association for the timeshare industry. Timeshare is an important and stabilizing part of
the tourism industry' and Maui’s economy.
As currently draft CR 21-107 intends to further restrict STRHs in residential
neighborhoods. Primarily, CR 21-107 limits STRH permits to one person and one per property.
The measure further requires: 1) STRH permits may only be issued for single-family dwellings
constructed at least 15 years prior to the application and owned by the applicant for at least 15
years; and 2) Bed and Breakfast Home ("B&B") permits may only be issued for single-family
dwellings constructed at least five years prior to the application and owned by the applicant for at
least five years. The bill also allows Accessory Dwelling Units ("ADU") to be eligible for STRH
and B&B permits and improves notification requirements for both permit applications.
At it's core the purpose of CR 21-107 appears to be a desire to mitigate the impact of
tourism in Maui by reducing the effects of visitors on local neighborhoods. Specifically, the bill
intends to limit STRHs in residential neighborhoods by reducing the amount of STRHs that can
occur on a single property. This language will prevent multiple STRHs on a single lot and in turn
will result in additional housing inventory for local residents. Accordingly, CR 21-107 will have
the added benefit of directing visitors back towards resort zoned districts to lessen the impacts of
tourism on residential neighborhoods.
1
Limiting the supply of transient accommodations through further regulation of STRtls may
result in a substantial reduction in the impacts of tourism on Maui County. STRHs are currently
part of the fastest growing segment of Maui's visitor accommodations industry. Limitations on
STRHs would provide the greatest impact in reducing the amount of visitors. Specifically,
regulation of STRHs will: 1) reduce the number of visitors in residential portions of Maui; and 2)
increase available housing stock for Maui residents.
In addition, reduction of STRHs will NOT result in negative impacts and will accomplish
the County's goal without: 1) eliminating good paying jobs for Maui residents; and 2) shutting
down local businesses that are critical to Maui's economic recovery. In addition, other counties
tliroughout the state are also working on measures to better enforce zoning restrictions on STRHs
as well as limit the impact on local communities.
ARDA Hawaii supports several of the Council's proposed initiatives to limit STRHs
throughout Maui. These bills accomplish the Council's goals of managing the tourism on Maui
without the negative economic impacts on the economy. STRHs have the greatest impact on Maui
residents as these units are intertwined in residential and apartment districts. Hotel and resort
districts are the areas which visitor accommodations should be focused to insulate Maui residents
from the impacts of tourist.
Mahalo for your consideration of our comments. We look forward to working with the
Council to implement policy to regulate STRHs that will preserve the character of residential
neighborhoods and responsibly accommodate tourist in hotel and resort designated areas.
Accordingly, ARDA Hawaii respectfully supports this measure.
Respectfully Submitted,
D
Mitchell A. Imanaka
Chair
American Resort Development Association of Hawaii
2
CountyCleH< ^  r: nvmf
From:
Sent;
pjtazzzz@aol.com
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 12:19 PM
County Clerk
CR 21-95
202! OCT 19 PH I? 35
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from pjtaz22z@aol.com. Learn whv this is important
Good Morning,
My family is in total support of this bill. Families who have inherited this land for generations should not be penalized
with the taxation that is and has been occurring. Big money built around them and caused this issue. These are hard
working people who love the land and have to take  2or 3 jobs to keep them on their birthright. Some could not keep up
and in turn lost what they loved and sweated over. My hope is that you seriously consider doing what is right for these
families.
Regards, P.Ingram
Sent from the all new AOL app for Android
1
Count^CJetj<
From:
Sent:
Erik Iwanaga <erik.iwanaga@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 9:35 AM
County Clerk
Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with proposed additions
m\ OCT 20 AH 10 10
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from erik.iwanaga@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am sending this to voice my support of the Ed Chang ohana and the need for the Aina Kupuna bill. I emphatically
support CR21-95 because I do not want to see anymore local multi generational families of Maui get taxed out of their
way of life for the sake of development the same way my family did, especially in an area that is already
developmentally saturated.
As a descendant of the Kanialama/Kahanu/inciong ohana, who had to sell the family property in 1991 for the very same
reason this bill was created, I can attest that this issue has deeply fractured my ohana and have felt to this day the loss
of our connection to the cultural legacy we once had. Let's not let this happen to the Chang ohana nor to any other
families in the same situation.
Please pass this resolution and allow our kupuna to retain their ancestral lands and enable them to pass their
cultural legacies on for generations. Let’s preserve what we have left of what truly makes Hawaii a special place in this
world.
Mahalo,
LTC(R) Erik Iwanaga
Kamehameha c/o 1982
Son of David W, Kahanu
Kamehameha c/o 1953
1
RFnr-;vED
2021 OCT 20 AH 8: 35
Count^ClerJc
Jelina <jelinajarra@yahoo.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 6:01 PM
County Clerk
I am for CR 21-95 Aina Kupuna Bill
From;
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[You don’t often get email from jelinajarra@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
My name is Jelina Jarra and I was raised in Makena with the Chang Ghana. I am for CR 21-95 Aina Kupuna Bill. I was
fortunate to grow up in a place that taught me my foundation as an adult. As part Hawaiian 1 was taught my culture
there and no where else. I would like to continue these same traditions that I was taught to my keiki and to my
mo'opuna. My Ghana means so much to me and the aina is just as special. 1 know for a fact that is Hawaiians will take
better care for the aina then anyone else will. Please help our people and protect us.
Mahalo,
Jelina Jarra
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^£leH< RCCL
2I1ZI OCT 20 mw- 10
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
PAULJELNIKER <pjelniker@aol.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 11:06 AM
County Clerk; Lee Chamberlain
Green way Bicycle path
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from pjelniker@aol.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
We live in West Maui and bicycle 3-4 times a week as Senior citizens improving and extending recreational paths is most
important sooner than later Paul and Roberta Jelniker
3543 Lower Honoapiilani Rd
Papakea F-408
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^£leH< RPCFi '^Fn
im OCT 20 AH & 35From:
Sent:
Kiana Johnson <kianaj815@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 5:32 PM
County Clerk
Support Bill CR 21-95
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from kianaj815@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha,
I am writing this letter I'm support of Bill CR 21-95 to help 'ohana that have 'Aina kupuna to be eligible for a tax
exemption.
I have been to the Chang's Ghana's property in Makena, Maui and while it sits amongst all the mansions and other
modern development it still holds so much mana and value above everything it's surrounded by. Their property grows
many food sources but most especially growing Kalo which is a staple food for us Kanaka. Passing this bill will help ease
stress on this ohana and they can continue to malama 'Aina.
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^£Ierk
TOM JULIANO <haiiipua2@aol.com>
Monday, October 18, 2021 12:37 PM
County Clerk
CR21-95
From:
Sent:
To;
Subject:
^  You don't often get email from haliipua2@aol.com. Learn whv this is important
Our Kukahiko family has been in Makena for over 140 years. We are a large family with many descendants of
the John and Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep up
with the property taxes and as a result, many of the ‘ohana have been displaced over the years with only a
few parcels remaining. Where once our ‘ohana was one of the largest in Makena, today we have only a few
remaining who are still struggling to keep our ‘aina in the family. We strongly support the intent of the 'Aina
Kupuna bill CR 21-95 and ask that you pass the bill with additional revisions:
1. Please include the terms corporation and shareholders in the definition of 'Aina Kupuna. Our ‘ohana
has many lineal descendants and in order to keep the land in the family, a corporation was created in
1973. Shares are owned only by family members.
2. Our 'ohana currently hosts events on the Kukahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes and upkeep of
the property and structure. We ask that a paragraph be included to define profit as "excess of
monetary returns over expenditures and costs to maintain, improve or expand the property, any
structures on the property, the minimum tax, or similar business costs." This will support the
sustainability of the property for the ‘ohana.
3. The property tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. We ask for your support
for back tax forgiveness, interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax burdens for the 2020 and
2021 tax years.
Makena has become a community with many wealthy non-residents who have bought high-end speculation
homes. For us, Makena is home. It is where many of our ancestors are buried and we continue to pass our
aloha for Makena from one generation to another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our 'aina
for our children and grandchildren. As the community has become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay
in Makena we ask your support to pass the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with additional changes.
Pick a side and represent what you believe.
Sent from my iPad
OC
O m
C“n
73c=> mC~3
m-< CO fT!OO “O*n
mm M
^ -i- Ow
1
Countj/^IeH<
-cu
Claymat Kawaiaea <ckawaiaea@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 3:10 AM
County Clerk
Maui County Council Meeting 10/22, 9am - 'Aina KDpuna Bill, CR21-^^ THE
'BOUNTY CLERK
?0?l ocr 21 AH 7: 5
From:
Sent: 8To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from ckawaiaea@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To; The Honorable Alice Lee. Chair Maui County Council
For Meeting: County Council, 10/22/2021, 9am
Subject: ‘Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
Aloha kakou.
My name is Claymat Kawai'ae'a, my wife is Keiki. I'm sending my whole hearted support to this bill that council woman
Keani Rawlins has been leading. I would like to mahalo her, and her support team, for their time and efforts to help our
local 'ohana who are fighting to remain on their 'aina kupuna. Like my dad's family who's roots are from Kaupo, east
side of Maui, the Chang 'Ghana's roots have enmeshed their character and history in the Makena community from the
past, present, and hopefully on into the future.
Mahalo nui loa,
Claymat "Clem" Kawai'ae'a
1
Count^Oerk
' 'HlOU .'gp'"
Ml OCT 21 Afi 7: 58
Kamaulihiwa Kawaiaea <maulikawaiaea.83@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 7:45 AM
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Jrr-|CE OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
'' You don't often get email from maulikawaiaea.83@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To: The Honorable Alice Lee
Chair Maui County Council
For Meeting; County Council,
10/22/2021,9am
Subject: Aina kupuna bill, CR 21-95
Aloha, I am truly and strongly in support of this bill. Please understand that the magnitude of this bill passing will
support not only the generations of Hawaiian families but also restore change to what's really happened to the people
and origins of this land. I hope that the council can understand that we need change in Hawaii or they will run the
Hawaiians out. Mahalo nui!
1
Count^£JetJ<
From:
Sent:
Malina Keawe <danamalina@yahoo.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 9:19 AM
County Clerk
SUPPORT of CR 21-95, concerning the 'Aina Kupuna tax relief bill,
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from danamalina@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
, Dana Keawe, a resident of Hawai'i island and a Native Hawaiian/Kanaka Maoli am in SUPPORT of
CR 21-95, concerning the 'Aina Kupuna tax relief bill.
Please vote in SUPPORT of CR 21-95, concerning the ‘Aina Kupuna tax relief bill
Mahalo,
Dana Keawe
danakeawe@gmail.com
ooOm
CZ:
50“i m
7DCD
mCD
oto
:*n-<
oor“ mm -H ●o
O:x)m
1
Count^£Ierk
Janice N Kekahuna <Uapoina1011@mail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 8:50 PM
County Clerk
FW: TESTIMONY FOR 'AINA KUPUNA BILL CR-21-95
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from uapoinal 011 @mail.com. Learn why this is important
Sent from Mail for Windows
From:
Sent: Tuesday, October 19, 2021 8:46 PM
To: countv.clerk@mauicountv
Subject: FW: TESTIMONY FOR 'AINA KUPUNA BILL CR-21-95 o
czy
mc~>
o oiTi-< O (T1Sent from Mail for Windows Oo 3^T1 ZS.
rnm ~i
Xi X.From: Janice N Kekahuna
Sent: Tuesday, October 19, 2021 8:45 PM
To: Keani.Rawlins(5)mauicountv.us
Subject: RE: TESTIMONY FOR 'AINA KUPUNA BILL CR-21-95
<X)
Or I
CN
Aloha Maui County Council:
CR12-95, 'Aina Kupuna Land Dedication:
I Janice Naomi Hoewa'a-Koa-Kekahuna the descendant of Arthur Kunane
Hoewa'a Sr from the North shores of Kahakuloa Village as well as David Koa Sr from
Honokohau "Strongly support" the 'Aina Kupuna bill CR-21-95 and other additions to the
bill that will help families maintain and sustain their 'Aina Kupuna through an ancestral land
dedication. If we don't preserve the land that is pass down to many families. The outsiders
with money will greedily buy it away.
Mahalo for your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina
families on their ancestral lands.
Mahalo nui loa
Janice N. Kekahuna
632 Pohala Street
Wailuku, Maui Hi 96793
1
CountyClerk
Janice N Kekahuna <Uapoina1011@mail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 10:46 AM
County Clerk; Keani N. Rawlins
Kukahiko 'Ghana Testimony for CR 21-95, 'Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from uapoina1011@mail.com. Learn why this is important
10/20/21 10:45am
Aloha Kakou:
I 'Strongly Support the 'Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95 and other additions to
the bill that help families maintain and sustain their 'aina kupuna through an
ancestral land dedication.
The Kukahiko families has been in Makena for over 140 years. Each generations
has had challenges to keep up with the property taxes and as a result, many of the
families has been displaced over the years with a few parcels remaining. Also it
makes it harder when this COVlD-19 spreaded out within the world that effected
financially some families whom been struggling to keep their Land in the family.
Again, I Janice N. Kekahuna a descendant of Arthur Kunane Hoewa'a Sr &
David Koa Sr strongly support the intent of the 'Aina Kupuna Bill CR21-95 and ask
that you pass the bill with additional revisions: John & Kamaka Kukahiko of 'Aina
Kupuna. That was created in 1973.
Your's truly;
Janice N. Kekahuna
632 Pohala Street
Wailuku Maui Hi 96793
1
£ount^CleH<
niiolivcD
ZOZI OCT 20 AH & 35
From:
Sent:
Beth Keolanui <beth.keolanui@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 4:41 PM
County Clerk
Beth Keolanui
Aloha - please support CR 21-95
To:
Cc:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
IYou don't often get email from beth.keolanui@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha,
Mahalo in advance for reading this message. My name is Beth Keolanui, and I am the granddaughter of Ed
and Laurie Chang in Makena (my mother is Puena Chang Keolanui). This bill is extremely important to our
family, and for future generations like me to ensure we can support the ‘aina kOpuna. Our ‘aina kupuna is so
important -- it is the truly the place that 1 call home. The ‘aina kupuna is so important that my husband and
! were recently married in Makena and had our 'ohana gathering beforehand at the Kukahiko house in July
2019. There are no words to describe how special it was to bring all of our family together in our ‘aina
kupuna. (We had four generations together eating Hawaiian food and sharing stories!) I hope we have many
more opportunities to do so, and this bill would ensure we could for many more generations.
Our Kukahiko family has been in Makena for over 140 years. We are a large family with many descendants of
the John and Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep up
with the property taxes and as a result, many of the ‘ohana have been displaced over the years with only a
few parcels remaining. Where once our ‘ohana was one of the largest in Makena, today we have only a few
remaining who are still struggling to keep our 'aina in the family. We strongly support the intent of the ‘Aina
Kupuna bill CR 21-95 and ask that you pass the bill with additional revisions:
1. Please include the terms corporation and shareholders in the definition of ‘Aina Kupuna. Our ‘ohana
has many lineal descendants and in order to keep the land in the family, a corporation was created in
1973. Shares are owned only by family members.
2. Our ‘ohana currently hosts events on the Kukahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes and upkeep of
the property and structure. We ask that a paragraph be included to define profit as "excess of
monetary returns over expenditures and costs to maintain, improve or expand the property, any
structures on the property, the minimum tax, or similar business costs." This will support the
sustainability of the property for the ‘ohana.
3. The property tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. We ask for your support
for back tax forgiveness, interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax burdens for the 2020 and
2021 tax years.
Makena has become a community with many wealthy non-residents who have bought high-end speculation
homes. For us, Makena is home, it is where many of our ancestors are buried and we continue to pass our
aloha for Makena from one generation to another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our ‘aina
for our children and grandchildren. As the community has become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay
in Makena we ask your support to pass the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with additional changes.
Mahalo Nui loa for reading this and, I hope, for your support!
Mahalo,
1
Beth
Beth Keolanui
beth.keQlanui@gmail.com
2
Count^^Cjetjc RLi. 1  I
From:
Sent:
p.keolanui(5)hawaiiantel.net
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 12:42 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for bill CR 21-95, 'Aina Kupuna Land
Testimony CR 21-95, P. Keolanui.pdf
m\ OCT 20 PH {? 53
To;
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
Attachments:
IYou don't often get email from p.keolanui@hawaiiantel.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha Chair Lee and Council Members,
Please find attached my testimony for bill CR 21-95, ‘Aina Kupuna Land Dedication, which is on your
agenda for October 22, 2021 at 9:00 am.
Thank you so much for allowing us to address our concerns and for the support you have given to us.
Aloha,
Puena (Chang) Keolanui
1
received
20ZI OCT 20 AH 9= 03Maui County Council
Regular Meeting on October 22, 2021
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
SUBJ: Testimony in favor of the Aina Kupuna bill, CR 21-95
To the Maui County Council, ATTTJ; Chair Lee.
Aloha Chair Lee and members of the Maui County Council. My name is Stanley R. Keolanui
Jr., and I strongly support the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95, with additions, that will help families
maintain and sustain their ‘Aina Kupuna through an ancestral land dedication.
This bill addresses a problem that occurred over 60 years ago, when the development of
southwest Maui essentially forced out local families in favor of high-end neighborhoods and
sprawling resorts. Your actions in favor of this bill will preserve a part of Hawaii's history, and
put an end to families having to choose between their ancestral lands and their livelihood - that
really needs to stop!
Thank you for creating such an important bill that allows native hawaiian and long-time local
families to keep their ancestral lands. I encourage your support and approval for this bill and
sincerely appreciate all that you do.
Mahalo nui,
Stanley R. Keolanui Jr (husband to Puena M (Chang) Keolanui, daughter of Edward & Laurie
Chang)
808-722-8687
Count^Clerk Ri:3r::\'rD
Bo Kim <bojeongkim@gmaii.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 12:37 PM
County Clerk
Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95
From:
Sent: m\ OCT 19 PH 12: 51
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from bojeongkim@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha
I would like to voice my support for Bill CR 21-95. I am a local resident and have friends that are
affected by this bill. The property value does not match, not even closely match, the median income
of our local residents. Because Maui is a favorite market for out of state wealthy buyers, how are
hawaii residents able to compete when Maui doesn't even have the capacity or available jobs that can
afford million dollar properties? It just doesn't make sense.
Please take into consideration the families that have owned these lands for generations know how to
take care of the land and not demo or build an investment property. They solely wish to be able to
afford to live on the land and hold onto their generational wealth that their ancestors have put their
hearts and souls into. Honestly, these lands should be considered historical, therefore, 100%
unethical to put such high property taxes when their neighbors have been bought out by the wealthy.
Best regards
Bo-Kim
1
RECEIVED
?n?i nrT i« m ■;«Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Napualani Kitashima <napua1217@gmail.com>
Saturday, October 16, 2021 11:01 AM
County Clerk
CR21-95
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
You don't often get email from napua1217@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha! I am in strong support of the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95. Please pass this soon as possible, it
would greatly benefit my ohana. Mahalo! Sincerely, Napualani Kitashima
1
Count^£leH<
From:
Sent:
Danette Kong <danettekong@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 9:40 PM
County Clerk
IN SUPPORT OF THE ‘AINA KUPUNA BILL, CR-21-95, AND ITS AMENDMENT
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from danettekong@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members -
Mahalo for giving this bill and its proposed amendment the hearing and attention it deserves.
As a keiki 'o ka 'dina, bom and reared on O'ahu,  Ibecame a full time resident of Maui a mere
eight years ago, when I was hired to be chaplain at Maui Memorial Medical Center. Now retired
from that position, and looking back over my 67 years of life, I recall sitting silently with
sadness and frustration as my own family had to sell off land held in our family for
generations. My sisters and I realized we would not be able to afford the upkeep my
grandfather had lovingly provided to his property, nor the increasing taxes assessed. It is a loss
I will continue to grieve until the day I die, as it was akin to erasing a lifetime of memories from
my childhood - memories of my grandparents and the loving, carefree environment they
provided for us; memories of our extended 'ohana gathered to talk story over poi and lomi
salmon, 'opihi, oxtail soup and pigs feet; and memories of playing hide-and-seek amidst the
acres of lychee trees, sugar cane, lilikoi, bananas, oranges, avocados, and many flowers my
Kung Kung raised. It has not been just a loss of place or time^ but a wound to my heart.
These feelings reverberate as I watch what is happening to my dear friends in Makena. As a
member of Keawala'i Congregational Church, I have had the pleasure of personally knowing
the Chang family and other members of their 'ohana. Auntie Laurie, now in her 90s, has been a
faithful and beloved member of the choir for decades, even before I became her choir director.
Extended 'ohana of the Changs have worked hard to help preserve the legacy and uphold
Hawaiian values instilled by their kupuna. They quickly found themselves drowning in the
avalanche of taxes being heaped upon the property, as land values skyrocketed. What was once
a simple gathering place for 'ohana took on the necessity of creating a backdrop for weddings
which could provide income to keep the property solvent. The stress heaped upon this family
under these circumstances is unimaginable. The wounds to their collective hearts...are
painful.
If I had my way, I would completely do away with all taxes assessed on lands belonging to
lineal descendants. 'Auwe — if only that could be so! But as that does not appear to be a
possibility, then please allow the amendment now under your consideration. It is not asking for
permission to profit from commercial endeavors, but simply asking for a means to pay taxes.
It has been many years, but from my youth I recall an old television commercial which featured
a Native American Indian chief overlooking land, rivers, and sky overrun by various forms of
pollution. As the spot came to a close, the camera focused on the aged warrior’s face, which
held a single tear falling down his cheek. Recasting this commercial in my mind’s eye, I
imagine our ancestors weeping as one for all that is being lost as our 'dina is parceled out and
lost forever. Council members, we are witnessing  apollution of the soul of Hawan,
Please take action to turn this travesty around and create a way for Native Hawaiians to hold
onto the 'dina. Please pass THE AINA KIJPUNA BILL, #CR-21-95, AND ITS
AMENDMENT.
Mahalo for your consideration,
(Rev.) Danette Kong
788 Upper Kimo Drive
Kula,HI 96790
Ph: (808) 497-3644
Danette Kong
(pronouns: she, her)
o CJ
O Ti 73CDcm mr-)
*im Ors;>
-< o inoo 3S»-
<“n
mm —<
7s m
9? awCk
2
Count^Clerk RCOl! .‘CD
Verdine <verdine001@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 2:51 PM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95
From:
Sent: m\ OCT 19To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from verdine001@gmail.com, Learn why this is important
October 19, 2022
Dear Council Members,
1 write in strong support of 'Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95. As you know, many locals are unable to afford the rising housing
costs on Maui. Such conditions have forced many to leave for other places on the Continent where housing and the cost
of living is more commensurate with employment income. Hawai'i is becoming a place for the wealthy. With the rise in
housing costs, comes the rise in property taxes. We cannot continue in this direction as it will eventually destroy the
culture we have so long been proud of. Soon, locals who live in houses handed down through generations will be priced
out of their homes by soaring property taxes. We want our keiki and young families to experience the Hawai'i we knew
as we were growing up. Our island home is a very special place with special people. By your support of CR-21-95, we
will better ensure that ancestral lands will remain in Hawaiian hands for years to come. PLEASE preserve our Hawaiian
lands for the people of the land. Mahalo for your time and your consideration of this request.
Verdine Kong
872 Haunani Place
Wailuku, HI 96793
(808)268-1414
Sent from Mail for Windows
1
GLENN M. KOSAKA
Attorney at Law
Vineyard Court, Suite 203
1931 Vineyard Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
P P p L_ n / p pstelecopfei*: (fiCW M4-56TITelephone No.; (808) 242-8220
0CI2I AM 7:57
'* IC c G F T f"{ F
COUNTY CLC nkOctober 20, 2021
Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
and Councilmembers
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
Committee Report No. 21-25, Budget, Finance and Economic Development
Committee, _Recommending First Reading for a Bill for An Ordinance
Relating to 'Aina Kupuna Lands; Proposal to Amend §3.48.361, Definition
of "Owner" to Include Settlors, Grantors and Trustors of Revocable Trust(s);
Scheduled for First Reading October 22, 2021
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
Re:
I have reviewed the form of the bill approved by the Budget, Finance and Economic
Development Committee. I have concerns about its coverage because of its wording
combined with the definition of "owner" (paragraph 4).
Many owners are creating revocable trusts wherein they deed their property to the
Trustee (usually but not always the same person as the Settlor). The technical legal owner
of property subject to a revocable trust is usually the Trustee. The creator of the revocable
trust is customarily called the Settlor, Grantor or Trustor of the Trust. This is the person who
has the equitable ownership of the property (while the Trustee is the legal owner).
As written, the Settlor (etc.) may be excluded as an owner of the 'aina kOpuna
because paragraph 4 says the "Owner" means a fee simple owner of 'aina kupuna.
I suggest that the definition be clarified by adding language as follows:
4. "Owner" means a fee simple owner of 'aina kOpuna^
including the Settlor, Grantor or Trustor of a revocable trust,
in the present form of the Bill, paragraph 2 says in pertinent part:
'Aina kupuna may be considered owned by a lineal descendent
where the owner is a trust, nonprofit organization, corporation,
or similar entity where the majority of its trustees or board of
directors, or shareholders are lineal descendants of the
person(s) who held title to the property on June 30, 1940.
Under this provision, a Settlor (etc.) of a revocable trust may not qualify because the
legal owner is the Trustee, who could be a different person.
ro coukTf cov*>C4
Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
and Councilmembers
Maui County Council
October 20, 2021
Page Two
1 request that the Council consider this change in the definition to ensure that
property subject to a revocable trust qualifies as 'aina kupuna. I believe that this is consistent
with the intent of the bill.
Thank you for your consideration.
Should you have any questions or require additional information, please contact me.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Glenn M. Kosaka
GMK:hl
RECEIVED
202! OCT 2! AH 9= 24MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
FULL COUNCIL MEETING
Alice Lee, Chair
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair FIGE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
r-
wr
Friday, October 22, 2021, 9:00 AM
Testimony for Committee Report No. 21-95, a bill amending Chapter 3.48, Real
Property Tax, Maui County Code, to add a section relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as
'aina kupuna.
Re:
Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council:
I'm writing this testimony in support of CR No. 21-95, which would amend the current property
tax code to add a section dedicated to 'aina kOpuna lands. This new provision would be defined
as portions of real property that are owned in whole or in part by a lineal descendent of the
person who held title to the property on June 30, 1940.
Although 1 write this testimony in my own individual capacity, I have personal ties with the
Kukahiko family through my fiancee. Over the last few years, Tve learned about this issue
through members of the family and have had the opportunity to spend time at the Makena
properties that would be impacted through this legislation.
The Kukahiko family purchased parcels of land in Makena that can be traced back to 1883 and
have lived and cared for these lands through today. In 1973, the family formed the Kukahiko
Corporation to keep the land with the original 59 'ohana shareholders; however, over the years,
parcels have had to be sold to help pay back taxes. The current Kukahiko home in Makena has
been rented out for weddings to help pay for property taxes and upkeep. However, due to the
ongoing COVID pandemic, the house has had very few events. This has resulted in a high
backlog of property taxes.
We have seen and heard the stories about local families being "priced out of paradise," and
something needs to be done to help support these families, especially if they can trace back
their property for decades or even centuries, like the Kukahiko 'ohana. At a time when the
properties around theirs are selling for over $20 million, including the recent purchase of a
property assessed at more than $46 million just down the road in Makena by Amazon founder
Jeff Bezos, how can we expect families to continue to live in these high-priced areas?
I support this legislation and any amendments that could be made to ensure that families like
the Kukahiko 'ohana would be able to benefit from this change In real property taxes to be able
pay reasonable property taxes and remain in possession of the properties that have been in
their family for centuries.
Mahalo for your consideration of my testimony,
Dan Kouchi
REC VEDi
L
James Opio Kuloloio
PO Box 1787
Wailuku, HI 96793
10-16-2021
2021 OCT 18 AH 7: 54
OFFiCE Or THEAloha Council Chair and Council members
COUNTY CLERK
I am submitting testimony on CR 21-95
My name is James Opio Kuloloio. I am the great - great - great grandson of John and Kamaka Kukahiko.
My father is Wallace Eldon Kuloloio, Grandfather Wallace Aipalena Kuloloio, Great grandparents Kekia
Auweloa married to Aipalena Kuloloia, Great - great grandparents Moloa the daughter of John and
Kamaka Kukahio married to Auweloa,
"1 strongly support the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95.'
I strongly support the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 as amended by councilmember Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez as it provides a vehicle for the Kukahiko Corporation whose land has been in our ohana for
138 years to continue to rent the subject property in order to pay off large back taxes and to continue
to care for the 'aina and hale.
My grandfather Wallace Aipalena Kuloloio was the first president of the Kukahiko Corporation which
was established by several ohana and his cousins in 1973 to keep the land in the 'ohana with 59
original' ohana shareholders that was up for land speculation.
Property taxes keeps rising and will continue to do so as wealthy non-residents build their beachfront
mansions as vacation homes. The assessment values of these mansions drive the property taxes way
beyond affordable for local island families. How can our local families compete, The Kukahiko ohana
hale is located along side our Kukahiko gravesite between 2 very high-end speculation/specialty
homes.
0 The house to the left just sold for $20 million  -SOSOMakena Road - luxury home on MAUI Hawaii - YouTube
O The house on the right on the market for $25 million -Makena l.S Acre Direct Oceanfront New Construction
Resort Style Home I 5022 Makena Road - YouTube
2020-2021 - Property tax - $73,192.11 (2020) and $83,311.80 (2021)
● Back taxes are now $177,495.11 including penalties
● Kukahiko hale is rented primariy for weddings to pay property taxes and upkeep. Why? Short term
usage and minimal damage to property.
● The Kukahiko Hale has had very few weddings over the last year and a half due to the COVID
pandemic hence the large back taxes
It is important to me and my ohana to pass this bill as it not only allows us the opportunity to
continue to retain this land which has been passed down several generations but it also allows local
families across Maui to do the same. Please be fair and don't allow another local family to succumb to
bankruptcy or worse to be forced to sell because of land speculation. This is our families legacy. And I
hope and pray that it remains to be that way as it was intended in to perpetuity by our kupuna.
Mahalo Nui Loa,
James Opio Kuloloio
RECPSVEDCount^Cler^
Kekane Ruidas <kekaneruidas@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 9;27 AM
County Clerk
'Aina Kupuna Bill CR21-95 support
From:
Sent:
2021 OCT 19 AH 9: 55
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don't often get email from kekaneruidas@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
i strongly support 'alna kupuna bill CR 21-95,
Our Kukahiko family has been in Makena for over 140 years. We are a large family with many descendants of the John and
Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep up with the property taxes and as
a result, many of the 'ohana have been displaced over the years with only a few parcels remaining. Where once our ‘ohana
was one of the largest in Makena, today we have only a few remaining who are still struggling to keep our ‘aina in the family.
We strongly support the intent of the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 and ask that you pass the bill with additional revisions:
1. Please include the terms corporation and shareholders in the definition of 'Aina Kupuna. Our ‘ohana has many lineal
descendants and in order to keep the land in the family, a corporation was created in 1973. Shares are owned only by
family members.
2. Our ‘ohana currently hosts events on the Kukahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes and upkeep of the property
and structure. We ask that a paragraph be included to define profit as "excess of monetary returns over expenditures
and costs to maintain, improve or expand the property, any structures on the property, the minimum tax, or similar
business costs." This will support the sustainability of the property for the ‘ohana.
3. The property tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. We ask for your support for back tax
forgiveness, interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax burdens for the 2020 and 2021 tax years.
Makena has become a community with many wealthy non-residents who have bought high-end homes. For us, Makena is
home. It is where many of our ancestors are buried and we continue to pass our aloha for Makena from one generation to
another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our 'aina for our children and grandchildren. As the community has
become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay in Makena we ask your support to pass the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with
additional changes.
I was raised by my tutu Alice Ka'ohiki Akuna Kuloloio and father Leslie Apiu Aipalena Kuloloio along with our other cousins
Lu’uwai, Ferreira, Peters, and Kuloloia 'ohana camping, down in Makena at her property of "Beverly Hills" overlooking Makena
Landing. I take pride and feel very privileged to have shares in the Kukahiko Estate. I do the cleaning of the house before and
after each wedding without pay just so that my family can earn enough money to pay the property tax. With covid our family
has fallen behind with our bill. As I was told by my dad, "tell me what Hawaiian family has this privilege of being on fine
linens on a beach front property, be proud!" Please help the people of Hawaii, help my 'ohana.
Kekane Kuloloio
1
n VEDRE L
Count^£lerk
29?10CT21 AH 9: 24From:
Sent:
Kvn Lndrs <kvnplndrs@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 8:21 AM
County Clerk
SUPPORT FORCR21-95
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from kvnplndrs@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha
Stop the displacement of Hawaiians. Stop commodifying Hawaiians ancestral homelands. When is enough enough? No
more real estate speculation, no more theft!
in solidarity.
Kevin Landers
808.777.7214
1
RECEIVED
2121 OCT 21 AH O 50Office of Hawaiian affairs
Testimony of Carmen Hulu Lindsey
Chair, Board of Trustees
OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
f-' €T
r r I vyi—
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-484
SUPPORTING THE HUAMAKAHINA DECLARATION AND THE EFFORTS TO PROTECT & ADVANCE
THE PRACTICE OF HULA, AND TO PREVENT ITS CONTINUED ECONOMIC EXPLOITATION AND
APPROPRIATION
Maui County Council
^Okakopa 22, 2021 Halawai Keleka‘a‘ike9:00 a.m.
The Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA) SUPPORTS the coordinated efforts of
Huamakahikina in its efforts to bring the collective intellectual, spiritual, and physical practices
of multiple Hula lineages together to fully protect and advance the practice of Hula. OHA
applauds all the Kumu Hula and individuals that not only organized this endeavor, but also those
that participated and shared their ‘\ke or knowledge for this Declaration.
OHA is a constitutionally-established organization aimed at improving the conditions of
Native Hawaiians. OHA's updated strategic plan continues to prioritize Hawaiian cultural
vibrancy based on our cultural foundation of mo‘omeheu (culture) as it continues to influence
the overall wellbeing of the identity and wellbeing of the lahui. We devoted efforts for system-
wide policies to implement a culturally rich foundation to all the work we do and the way in
which we do our work. OHA added significant value to our efforts to increase the number of
Native Hawaiians who appreciate their history and culture. Between 2010 and 2018, OHA has
awarded a total of $9.6 million to grantees furthering and perpetuating our culture.^
Hawaiians have fought hard to keep the Hula traditions alive, and Hula has always been
more than just a form of entertainment, but an integral part of Hawaiian history. Without a
written language. Hula was how our kupuna expressed and remembered stories, histories,
genealogies, and religion. However, like most other cultural practices. Hula was banned
publicly in 1830 as a direct result of colonization and the attempt to stifle anything related to the
Hawaiian identity. During the 1 860s, Hula went underground, and was only taught in secret.
While Hula restrictions started to ease in 1 870, when King Kalakaua came to office, he sought to
bring Hula back to its original form and insisted on public Hula performances on ‘lolani palace
grounds for his coronation in 1883. Huamakahikina's efforts reflect the ongoing effort of
Hawaiians to revitalize our culture and traditions.
As such, OHA urges this council to support this measure as it represents a vital step
towards protecting against any unwanted further commodification and disrespect of Hula. The
’ The Office Of Hawaiian Affairs, Strategic Plan: Lahui Imapact Report 2010-2018 47 (2018), available at
https://19of32x2vL'L'js8o4xza0gf14-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-contc!nt/iiploads/OHALaliuilmpaclReport-2010.pcif
Huainakahikina Declaration not only affirms needed protections for Hula, but also builds upon
and is consistent with principles set forth in the Paoakalani Declaration.^ Cultural experts, who
have the knowledge and authority are asking this Council to support them in their endeavors to
protect a vital part of the Hawaiian culture. As King Kalakaua stated, "Hula is the language of the
heart, and therefore the heartbeat of the Hawaiian people."
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony on this matter.
^ Paoakalani Declaration, Ka ‘Aha Pono '03: Native Hawaiian Intellectual Property Rights Conference, WaikJkT,
Hawai'i, Hawai'i, Oct. 2003, available at https://19of32x2vl33s8o4xza0gfl4-wDeneine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-
content/uploads/Paoakalani-Declaration.pdf
received
ZOZ! OCT 21 7: 57
"’'^rlCE OF THE
■OUNTY CLERK
@HAOffice of Hawaiian Affairs
Testimony of Carmen Hulu Lindsey
Chair, Board of Trustees
Maui County Council
Committee Report No. 21-95
COUNTY PROPERTY TAX REFORM
October 22. 2021 Online Meeting9:30 a.m.
The Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA) SUPPORTS the Budget, Finance, and Economic
Development Committee's recommendation, per CR 21-95, to pass on first reading "A Bill for an
Ordinance Relating to 'Aina Kupuna Lands." This proposed bill would protect Native Hawaiian
and other Maui county families from unprecedented tax burdens that may lead to the
dispossession of their 'aina kupuna, or ancestral lands. Allowing such families to pay the
minimum tax on lands that have sustained them for at least three generations will help to
ensure that the speculation-driven increase in Maui property values does not further dispossess
Native Hawaiians from their ancestral lands, and erode away the living vestiges of Maui's
cultural heritage.
As a preliminary matter, OHA emphasizes that the Westernization of land tenure in
Hawai'i, and the distribution of land and power that occurred subsequent to the illegal
overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom, have had profound and unique impacts on the Native
Hawaiian people. Such impacts include the physical, spiritual, and socioeconomic harms arising
from the dispossession of Native Hawaiians' ancestral lands, and from the myriad other
circumstances that have strained or eroded away Native Hawaiians' connection to the 'aina
that have sustained their 'ohana since time immemorial.^ Sadly, much of the lands that Native
Hawaiians were able to acquire during Hawai'i's transition to a Western property system have
already been lost, abandoned, sold, seized, or stolen, and various factors today continue to
place great strain on the ability of Native Hawaiian families to continue maintaining a
connection to, and ownership of, their ancestral 'aina.
In addition, OHA notes that Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able
to maintain their ancestral lands for generations represent a foundation of Maui's historical and
cultural legacy. Their continued stewardship and presence on their lands helps to maintain
important connections to the past and to the 'aina that can uphold the unique values and
character of Maul's communities - a role that may be increasingly critical in light of a rapidly
transforming socioeconomic landscape resulting, in part, from the real estate trends the county
has been experiencing.
^ See, e.g., The Apology Resolution, Pub. L. No. 103-150 {"[Tjhe health and well-being of the Native Hawaiian
people is intrinsically tied to their deep feelings and attachment to the land"}.
Maui County Council
Committee Report No. 21-95 - County Property Tax Reform
October 22, 2021
Page 2
OHA therefore strongly supports the recommendation of CR 21-95 to pass on first
reading the proposed bill to provide tax relief to parcels dedicated as 'aina kupuna. This
proposed bill will provide critical and much-needed protection for the few remaining Native
Hawaiian and other kama'aina families who have maintained their family lands for at least
three generations. Over the past several decades, the Western commodification of land has
manifested in a continuous and almost exponential surge in property taxes, particularly in areas
where real estate speculation and resort or luxury development have driven property values to
an all-time high.^ While taxes on lands that have become subject to the lucrative activities of
real estate speculators and developers may be an appropriate and needed mechanism can
provide the county with much-needed revenues, the increase in property values and associated
property taxes has also had devastating impacts to a small number of Native Hawaiian and
long-time Maui families; such families, facing an unprecedented tax burden, have been forced
to sell portions of their ancestral lands, or monetize them in inappropriate and sometimes
painful ways. The proposed bill would provide these families with narrow and targeted relief,
by allowing them to pay the minimum tax on their ancestral lands in exchange for a
commitment to not convey the lands to non-lineal descendants, and to not use these lands for
commercial purposes, with limited exceptions. This measure would therefore allow Maui's
families to maintain their ownership of and deep connection to their ancestral lands, in the
face of economic and real property trends well beyond their control - preventing the further
dispossession of Native Hawaiians' ancestral lands, and protecting a historical foundation of
Maui's unique values and cultural character from further erosion.
OHA does appreciate potential concerns regarding  apossible reduction in county
revenues, but notes that the narrow requirements of the proposed bill would significantly limit
those who would qualify, and who would desire to apply for, the proposed tax relief. OHA
further understands that property values of non-'aina kupuna lands have also continued and
will likely further continue to increase,^ providing increased county revenues that will offset any
fiscal Impacts of the measure.
The proposed bill in BFED Committee Report No. 21-95 will provide a critical means to
protect Native Hawaiian and long-time kama'aina families from the impacts of Maui's
speculation-driven real estate boom; prevent the further dispossession of Native Hawaiians'
ancestral lands, which has had and will continue to have devastating impacts on Native
^ See Puanani Fernandez Akamine, Taxed Out: Increasing land taxes force Hawaiians off their ancestral lands, KA
WAI OLA, Feb. 28, 2020, available at https://kawaiota.news/covet7taxed-out-
^ See, e.g., Redfin.Com, Maui County Housing Market: Trends, httos://www-redfin.com/countv/667/HI/Maui-
Countv/housing-market {last accessed Oct. 19, 2021) ("In September 2021, Maui County home prices were up
19.8% compared to last year, selling for a median price of $863K. On average, homes in Maui County sell after 69
days on the market compared to 86 days last year. There were 288 homes sold in September this year, up from
187 last year.").
Maui County Council
Committee Report No. 21-95 - County Property Tax Reform
October 22, 2021
Page 3
Hawaiian families and the Native Hawaiian community as a whole; and help to avoid the
further erosion of the social and cultural heritage of Maui county, embodied by those who have
been able to maintain their 'aina kupuna for multiple generations.
Accordingly, OHA respectfully urges the Maui County Council to adopt the
recommendation of BFED Committee Report No. 21-95 and PASS the proposed bill on first
reading. Mahalo nui for the opportunity to testify.
Count^^lerk
marklogan2000@aol.com
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 4:58 PM
County Clerk
testimony on the First Reading by the Maui County Council of CR 21-107
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from marklogan2000@aol.com. Learn why this is important
Hi
1 would like to offer the following testimony on the First Reading by the Maui County Council of CR 21-107.
I have an existing 3 year BnB permit. I received in at the end of 2019 and it is up for renewal next year (2022). While I
have owned the property in question for more than  5years, the specific structure that the permit is for was constructed
during 2017-2018, but not completed until early 2018. I am concerned about the wording of the bill regarding the B&B
Five Year Ownership Requirement Change, Because when I submit my renewal application, the already permitted BnB
structure will not have been existing for more than 5 years. So, does that mean my renewal application will be
rejected? That doesn't seem right. I don’t know how many other people might be in this same, “gap” situation. I would
guess not many but I would ask that the language be clarify to exempt existing permits, or the renewal of them, from this
new requirement. I believe that the Council in general is acting in the best interests of all of the residents as it considers
all of these changes. However, I hope that my particular situation is an unintended consequence and that you would see
fit to address it in the bill.
' OC) XJCDn <r-> 1 {
Thanks and best regards ofsj;ni o moMark Logan
T1 -4 mCO:n 11 O-r- 1
1
Count^^lerk
Gaylene Nikora <gaylGne@dreamnav.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 5:45 AM
County Clerk
CR 21-95, Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
From:
Sent: m\ OCT 19 AH 7: 5^
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from gaylene@dreamnav.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Members of the County Council,
Mahalo Nui for taking the time to review this bill. My name is Gaylene Kulamanu Chang Nikora Lolofie and I am in
strong support of this bill.
Our Kukahiko family has lived in Makena for nearly 140 years. We are a large family with many descendants of
the John and Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep up
with the property taxes and as a result, many of the ‘ohana have been displaced over the years with only a few
parcels of ‘aina remaining.
Once our ‘ohana was one of the largest in Makena, today we have only a few remaining families who are still
struggling to keep our ‘aina in the family. Makena has become a
community of wealthy homeowners, many non-residents who continue to buy high-end speculation homes that
raise the property tax to an unreasonable and unaffordable amount for looal families.
For us, Makena is home. It is where many of our ancestors are buried and we continue to pass our aloha for
Makena from one generation to another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our ‘aina for our
children and grandchildren. As the community has become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay in
Makena, we ask your support to pass the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with amended changes.
With Aloha
Gaylene
Helping our People NavisQte Towards a Brighter Future
1
RECEIVED
ZOnOCT2l AH&OiCouncil of the County of Maui
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKHearing Date; September 22, 2021
RE: Testimony in Support of CR 21-95. Kununa Land Dedication
Honorable Council Members:
'Hiis testimony is in support of CR 21-95, ’Aina Kupuna Land Dedication.
Our Kukaliiko family has been in Makcna for over 140 years. Wc are descendants of the Jolm
and Kamaka Kukaliiko who had 10 children. The Liruwai 'Ghana descended from their daughter
Min'ic Kukaliiko. She is my grandfather, John Lifuwai’s. mother, tuid hence, my great
grandmother.
Witli the building of Uie road into Makena. developers and the ultra-rich cjuickly followed to
build homes that no average Maui resident could ever afford. With no roots, most then sold and
continue to sell their properties for jistronomical prices.
As a result, the properly la.xes in Miikena has increased e.xponenlially. Tliere is little we can do to
control the buy & sell mentality of outsiders and profit mongers, but this bill is the first critical
step to address a tax stnicture that has negatively impacted Native Hawaiian and kama'aina
‘ohmia across the County of Maui.
Many ‘ohana, like our Kukaliiko "ohana, have struggled to keep up with property Ui.xes. Many
have been forced to sell. A lot of ‘ohana that remain are forced to set up businesses to try to
keep up with mid pay for the properly taxes.
My parents, Boogie & Violent Im'uvvai, established and operated the Makena Bed & Breakfast
for 15 years in order to pay Makena property taxes. Tlieir retirement income was not eiiougli.
My Uncle Bobby's ‘ohana continues the business purely out of necessity to pay the property tax
bilk
If nothing is done to address the inequities of the tax structure, our ‘ohana will forced to sell our
properties and thus, tlie last of the pre-contact Hawaiians in Makena will be gone. 'Hiis bill will
provide critical protections for our ‘ohana and kama‘aina ‘ohana who have deep roots in Maui
county.
I strongly support the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 mid ask tlial you pass the bill with additional
revisions:
1. Please include the teniis corporation and shareholders in the definition of ’Aina
Kupuna. Our ‘ohana has many lineal descendants and in order to keep the land in the
family, a coiporation was created in 1973. Shares ai'e owned only by family members.
Support Testimony-CR 21-95, ‘Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
Page 1 of 2
2. Oui' ‘ohana currently hosts events on Hie Knkahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes
and upkeep of the property and structure. We ask that a pai'agraph be included to define
profit as "excess of monetary returns over expenditures and costs to maintain, improve or
expand the propert}-’, any structui’es on the property-', the minimum tax, or similai’ business
costs." Tliis will support the sustainability of the property for the ‘ohana.
3. Tlie propeity tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. We ask
for your support for back tax forgiveness, interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax
bui'dens for the 2020 and 2021 tax years.
I warmly extend our malialo to Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Femandez for leading and
advancing this bill forward.
In addition to providing needed tax relief and lifting a heavy burden off many "ohana, your vote
would have a significant and potential statewide impact by creating a model tax bill for other
counties to follow.
Your vote to support this bill is greatly appreciated.
Mahalo,
Made Lu‘uwai
m aile@luuwailaw. com
1518 Auwae Road
Hilo, HI 96720
808.280.0083
Support Testimony-CR 21-95, ‘AinaKupunaLand Dedication
Page 2 of 2
«MRP 1001 Bishop Street I Suite 625 ! Honolulu, HI 96813-2830
1-866-295-7282 ! Fax: 808-536-2882
aarp.org/hi I aarDhi@aarp.ore I twitter.com/AARPHawail
facebook.com/AARPHawaiiHawaii
Maui County Council
Regular Meeting on October 22, 2021
9:00 a.m.
0-1
2;oH
The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair,
Maui County Council
TO:
73CDC-i m
mRelating to AINA KUPUNA LANDS (CR-21-95)RE: -< CO rnoo <r"Ti
Aloha Chair Lee and Members of the Council; rnm -i «o73'X aps m
My name is Kealillalanikulani Lopez and I am the State Director for AARP Hawai 'i. AARP is^
membership organization of people age fifty and over, with nearly 140,000 members in Hawai'i
and 36,860 in Maui County.
4D
AARP Hawai'i supports CR-21-95 which would protect Native Hawaiians and other long-time
Maui families from steeply escalating property taxes on ancestral lands. Too often, these
increases are caused by adjacent development and speculation—factors that our kupuna
cannot control.
Because of inordinate tax increases on these ancestral lands, owners have had to sell off
portions or covert them to other uses. Too often, this has diminished the cultural value of
those lands. Moreover, it has also denied our kupuna the option to age in place in familiar
settings of their choice.
This bill will fix those shortcomings. However, CR-21-95 is more than a vehicle for correcting a
taxation inequity. It speaks to the value of our kupuna and our respect for Hawaii's host
culture. AARP Hawaii strongly recommends that this bill be passed by the Maui County Council
and signed into law by the Mayor of Maui County.
Sincerely,
Keali'i Lopez, State Director
Count^kH< P?-r-r
francis.kahou@hawaiiantel.net
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 9:35 AM
County Clerk
Support for CR21-95
From:
Sent: ZllZi OCT 20 AH 10: 10
office of theCOUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from francis.kahou@hawaiiantel.net. Learn why this is important
Dear Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez:
I strongly support the Aina Kupuna Bill CR21-95 that will help families maintain and sustain their aina kupuna through an
ancestral land dedication. Mahalo for your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time kama’aina families
on their ancestral lands.
Sincerely,
Deborah M Lum
Great granddaughter of TuTu Haehae Kukahiko
59-523 Alapio Rd. Haleiwa, HI 96712
1
RECEIVED
Zll?l OCT 21 AH 10: 51
A. U'ilani Tanigawa Luni, Esq.
anclauilani@gmail.com
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
October 21,2021
RE: Testimony in support of CC-21-484: Supporting the Huamakahikina
Declaration
Aloha mai c Chair Lee, Vice- Chair Rawlins-Fcrnandcz, and Councilmcmbcrs,
Mahalo for this opportunity to testify in strong support of CC-21-484, which supports the
Huamakahikina Declaration. My name is U‘ilani Tanigawa Lum and I am an attorney and
hula practitioner. I was born and raised in Makawao, Maui, where the communities that raised
me also helped to shape my trajcctoiy and passions as an adult. Earlier this year, after over 20
years of training, I underwent formal ‘uniki ceremonies as a Ho‘opa‘a under the direction of my
Kumu Hula, Napua Greig.
Cultural practices, like hula, provide an important compass for kanaka. For me, hula taught me
about our ‘aina, our water systems, our history, our language, and perhaps most importantly, my
kulcana to each of those aspects. This kulcana drove me to secure a Bachelor’s and Master’s
degree in Hawaiian Studies, as well as a J.D. specializing in Native Hawaiian Law. Aside from
my role as a hula practitioner, my work as an attorney now largely seeks to perpetuate and
actualize important protections around traditional and customary rights and practices like hula.
'Fhis measure is an important step to directly suppordng the cultural practitioners within our own
community.
Finally, as leaders and foremost cultural experts this measure appropriately and formally
articulates Kumu Hula’s agency over the practice of Hula. As steadfast beacons within our
community, Kumu Hula have nonetheless ensured the perpetuation of this practice even wdthout
wide public or private support. Please vote to pass this measure today.
Alahalo for your hard work and advocacy on behalf of our Maui community and ‘aina aloha.
Me ka ha‘aha‘a,
A. U‘ilani Tanigawa Lum
RECEIVED
im OCT 21 AM 10= 50
A. U‘ilani I'anigawa Lum, Esq.
anclauilani@gmail.com
OFFICE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
October 21, 2021
RE: Testimony in support of CR21-95, the ‘Aina Kupuna Tax Relief Bill
Aloha mai c Chair Lee, Vice- Chair Rawlins-Fcrnandcz, and Councilmcmbcrs,
Mahalo for this opportunity to testify in strong support of CR21-95, the ‘Aina Kupuna tax
relief bill. My name is U'ilani Tanigawa Lum and  1am an attorney and hula practitioner. I
was born and raised in Makawao, Maui, where the communities that raised me also helped to
shape my trajectory and passions as an adult.
As a kupa of Maui deeply passionate about our community and tiydng to get home to Maui, 1
have firsthand experience with the skyrocketing home prices that make moving home largely out
of reach. My ‘ohana has lived on the same property for over three decades. This ‘aina currently
supports four generations of our ‘ohana. Measures like this arc a crucial step to sustaining our
island community in the face of over tourism and out-of-state investors. It will provide an
important tool to ensure that Maui’s community scr\^cs the people who have kulcana to this
place: kama‘aina. This in turn, also supports Maui’s unique fabric and ensures it is upheld as no
ka ‘oi.
Please vote to pass this measure today. While I am hopeful that this measure will secure ‘aina, I
also know that we need more efforts of this kind.
Mahalo for your hard work and advocacy on behalf of our Maui community and ‘aina aloha.
Me ka ha‘aha‘a,
A. U‘ilani Tanigawa Lum
Count^£lerk
veronica magoun <veronicamagoun@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 10:14 AM
County Clerk
CR21-95
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from veronicamagoun@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
1 am Veronica Magoun daughter of Kenneth Chang and eldest granddaughter of Samuel B Chang whom was born on the
Makena family land. I remember taking a family trip with my grandfather and witnessing the beauty of Makena with
him. Now all of that has given way to hotels and very expensive homes. Developer's have been trying to push out our
ohana through taxes. Another example of PRICING OUT OUR PEOPLE! SO WRONG! So i strongly support the aina
kupuna bill CR 21-95
other additions to the bii! that will help families maintain and sustain their 'aina kupuna through an
ancestral land dedication. Mahalo for your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time
kama'aina families on their ancestral lands.
Our Kukahiko family has lived in Makena for nearly 140 years.
ooO-n CD
niCD
Orom 1
oo 5>*
rnm H
73 Xm O
CD
1
RECEIVED
The Honorable Alice Lee. Chair Maui County CouncilTo:
ZIIZI OCT 21 AH 7: 57For Meeting: County Council, 10/22/2021,9am
Subject: 'Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
CrnCE OF THE
Ho‘okelewaiwa?OUNTY CLERKAloha e ke Komike Mo'ohelu. ‘Oihana Kala a me ka Ho‘omohala
Mahalo nui for this opportunity to share my strong support of the CR 21-95, ‘Aina Kupuna bill
that provides tax relief for lineal descents who continue to reside and care for their ancestral
lands, the natural resources, and the community's people. My name is Kananinohea
Maka‘imoku. the eldest granddaughter of Eddie & Laureen Chang that reside in Makena. They
are one of the few remaining family members who live on our ancestral lands in Makena. For
over 30 years. 1 have watched my grandfather plan, organize, and make many sacrifices so that
the land can be passed on to future generations.
My grandfather grew up in Makena. There, he learned to fish, farm, raise pigs, live off the land,
share with others, and care for the land's resources. As a result, he can identify the traditional
names and stories of the points, the bays, the prime fishing spots, and the significant areas of his
beloved homeland. It was at Makena that he observed and learned from the older generations and
the community that shaped his values of kuleana in serving your community.
It is because of the efforts of my grandfather that I am tied affectionately to Makena. Yet, every
time I return to Makena, I am heartbroken by the drastic changing landscape and the people that
occupy Makena. 1 fondly remember:
● Playing with cousins and other local kids from families that would camp over the
weekends.
● Walking to my aunties' and uncles' house for a family party.
● Chatting with family members after church service.
And many, many cherished memories. Memories that are etched in my heart and that have
shaped my identity. Experiences that 1 fear my children and grandchildren will seldom get to
experience in Makena.
Makena is ovenvhelmcd by empty vacation homes and tourists that aren't concerned about the
welfare of the land, the conservation of Makena's natural resources, or its community. I ask you
to visualize the long-term impacts on Mau‘i‘s land, Maui‘s resources, and Maui’s people. The
very core of Maui's cultural fabric relies on the decision you make today.
1 strongly support the intent of the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 and ask that you pass the bill
with additional revisions:
Please include the terms corporation and shareholders in the definition of 'Aina Kupuna.
Our 'ohana has many lineal descendants and in order to keep the land in the family, a
corporation was created in 1973. Shares are owned only by family members.
Our ‘ohana currently hosts events on the Kukahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes and
upkeep of the property and structure. We ask that  aparagraph be included to define profit
as "excess of monetary returns over expenditures and costs to maintain, improve or
expand the propeity, any structures on the property, the minimum tax, or similar business
costs." This will support the sustainability of the property for the ‘ohana.
The properly tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. We ask for
your support for back tax forgiveness, interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax
burdens for the 2020 and 2021 tax years.
I.
9
3.
Me ka ‘oia'i‘o.
Kananinohea Maka‘imoku
Count^^CIerk RFnPi ''/gp
OCT 20 AH a- 35
■ 'f-riCE OF THE
-OUNTY CLERK
Lurline M <lurlinemsm@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 6:00 PM
County Clerk
I support CR 21-95!
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from lurlinemsm@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To whom it may concern.
I am in full support of CR 21-95.1 believe that Hawaiian lands should remain in Hawaiian hands. These much needed tax
exemptions are necessary for our ohana to continue their stewardship of the land that they have come from for many
generations. It is not fair that the development in many areas of Hawaii have raised taxes to the point that many families
cannot afford to keep up. We need to protect what we have left to preserve our culture for future generations!
Mahalo,
Lurline Makahanaloa
1
Count^GeH<
Lindsey Mignano <llibed@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 9:56 AM
County Clerk
Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from llibed@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I support the "Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95".
Sent from my iPhone. Please excuse any typos.
O r*N
73O -n
C3!
H
CD
mCD
ofsDm rn<
oo a:T1
mm o
arr: o
1
Count^^lerk R&crn.Fn
im OCT 19 ftH 9: 55
From:
Sent:
Bob <mowll@tampabay.rr.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 8:51 AM
County Clerk
Makena Tax
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from mowll@tampabay.rr.com. Learn why this is important
Tm in full agreement that the ohana should receive/continue the tax break while living on the land and producing crops
thereon.
Robert Mowll, long- time Kailua, Oahu resident
Sent from Mail for Windows
This email has been checked for viruses by Avast antivirus software.
www.avast.com(Ql Avast
1
Count^^Jed< R E 'v,^ :
Ashley Mukaihata <ashleymukaihata@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 5:42 PM
County Clerk
CR 21-95 BFED Aina Kupuna Bill
From:
Sent: 2021 OCT 21 AH 7: 57To:
Subject: Or-TICE OF THE
OO’JNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from ashleymukaihata@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.1
Good evening,
I'm sending this email in support of the Aina Kupuna Bill. This bill is needed 100%. Our local Hawaiian Families need our
support to keep their Aina Kupuna lands in their hands. I'm writing in specifically to support my Chang Ghana living in
Makena, Maui! Please pass this bill and keep these lands in their rightful owners hands without the financial strains.
These families deserve to continue to live and thrive in their homes without the unnecessary stress or struggle to pay
the ridiculous amount of land taxes that are so unjust. Let's do what is right!
Mahalo,
Ashley MukaihataM*ui < < V4IIKII MiTfinc. OttolKT 22. 2021 »i V.«>
Vr ( K 21-^ III-1 {■ < cMUaillrr Krpuil M ' Mm Kljpnm H>ll
HKSI Kl M.'lMi n( bill l 4^. Kiul
VIjj ( '.■>df4> C k' kU * V> lt>«
Cl 'Jew kuru-d
●  t .» u...     .
‘  ---A
● it(ta< K 21-051
.A> '
A
Jr.fifflm.Up(iaju
Kw Bral «<»> )(»●■> K w 'kitw £i.«lrif(k< b»b lir-pli
● Wkbk l-in.in.ijjoi ittS itifct fTK<tir# c>»}c 2v52»'f "«
● VnJoitwifmnkc A'.ii., 2 '.■2.'','■ V
hrt,f\ prwr h-i i-icciirj i
● f»l. VJ»
● I'fiMttnMnl: IVirOHI VM. 'll si IciiJmi
ill
I 'I '
1^
ri n< !● Ih- iwMsalni
ii/ .'LV-Jl :i2'.- IL;
●! ●Offnv c>l C 1. Wrii inw-2'n-’'4xi
>tuiltiUckN)Mil;
a.'l h» vlrvixj MaLii
● \<rj>I
● Li'<'ITC4IT<J ;
ra-i-\ M.-x (  ‘ I
Sent from my iPhone
1
RE: Testimony in support of the CR 21-95, 'Aina Kupuna Land
Dedication
Our kupuna lived and taught us to aloha the ‘aina that sustained our ‘ohana for
generations. They made many sacrifices and lived simply to hold on to our ‘aina so
that it would be there for us and the mo'opuna to come. It's our turn now to make
sure that that legacy continues. 1 "strongly support" the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and
other additions to the bill that will help families maintain and sustain their 'aina
kupuna through an ancestral land dedication. Mahalo for your insight to create such
an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina families on their ancestral lands,
Mahalo nui loa,
Herman Nakoa Jr.
Descendant- Moloa Kukahiko
O oOm
C m
H
PDCD
mr~>
om-<OO ~n
mm -i
72X
7^ m
9? oro
Count^^|eH<
Bob Nelson <bobnorma@me.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 1;02 PM
County Clerk
CR-21-95
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from bobnorma@me.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Councilmembers,
I very strongly support the 'aina kupuna bill CR-21-95. Being acquainted with a number of individuals and families and
worshipping at Keawala'i Congregational church for many years, 1 truly believe that it is extremely important to the
Kukahiko 'Ghana be able to retain their place in Makena. It is not their fault that speculators have come into Makena
and increased the assessments and the resultant taxes on their ancestral lands. It is not their fault that their wedding
business has fallen off as a result of the Covid pandemic. Without this legislation, ownership and the resulting taxes will
be horrendous! Ho'opono and pass CR-21-95.
Rev. Dr. Robert W. Nelson
93 Laukahi Street
Kihei, Maui, HI 96753
808-276-8803
=3*
Lii Sc:
X ccQ
LU UJ
a_ OoUJ . >CK
UJO K
UJ C_3
o01 LL-O
Oo
1
Count^£lerk ppr
From:
Sent:
Karen Noland <kaukini@maui.net> 2021 OCT 19 m 7: 54Monday, October 18, 2021 11:10 PM
To: County Clerk
CR 21-95 - BFED Committee Report for 'Aina Kupuna Bill OFF ICE THE
COUNTY CLERK
OrSubject:
I  You don't often get email from kaukini@maui.net. Learn why this is important
Date: Oct. 18th, 2021
RE: Maui County Council Meeting: October 22, 2021 at 9:00 AM
CR 21-95 - BFED Committee Report for 'Aina Kupuna Bill
Written Testimony
Dear Council members,
Mahalo for your consideration in passing this bill for local families who have lived on their land for many generations.
Maui is becoming a place where only the rich can live and afford to buy homes and pay their taxes. Where will we go if we
cannot afford the taxes alone, on ancestral
lands, that have otherwise been paid in full for  acentury or more? In Makena, where our Ghana owns their ancestral land,
our annual property taxes cost more than many local people make in one years time.
How are we expected to survive and to pass this gift from our Kupuna to the next generation. This is our home. We want to
save it for our Keiki and their Keiki as well. We feel as if we are being forced out of
our ancestral lands due to the tax burden. We cannot even build homes on it in the fear that the taxes will rise to a new level
and we will be forced out. We want to live on our land, farm it, and save it for
future generations to enjoy.
In Makena there are so few of us left who can claim these ties to the Aina. Please help us to keep our property. We do not
want to lose it. Fight for local families and
aide them in retaining their ancestral lands. We would be deeply indebted to you for helping us win this battle.
Sincerely,
Karen Lei Noland
1
Count^^leH<
K. Oliveira <kapaoliveira@gmai!.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 10:54 AM
County Clerk
STRONG SUPPORT FOR CR 21 - 95 Tax Bill
From;
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from kapaoliveira@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Maui County Council
FROM: Katrina-Ann Kapa Oliveira
CR 21-95 - BFED Committee Report for 'Aina Kupuna Bill
TO:
RE:
Aloha! I implore you to recommend the FIRST READING of the bill amending Chapter 3.48, Real Property Tax,
Maui County Code, to add a section relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as ‘aina kupuna.
My kupuna, John Kukahiko, purchased land in 1883 in Makena during the Hawaiian Monarchy era, years before the
overthrow of the Hawaiian Monarchy. Today, our family is being taxed out of our ‘aina kupuna due to wealthy
speculators purchasing the properties adjacent to ours for tens of millions of dollars. Our ‘ohana are not speculators; we
are kama‘aina to Makena. For more than 138 years, we have lived and cared for our ‘aina kupuna.
On an annual basis, our ‘ohana struggles to pay the exorbitant property taxes driven by neighboring speculator properties.
In 1999, in an attempt to protect ancestral graves and build the Kukahiko hale to generate revenue to pay our property
taxes, our ‘ohana was forced to sell two other parcels in Makena. While we operate a legal wedding business, due to
COVID restrictions, we have only booked a few weddings over throughout the pandemic. Today, our property taxes,
including penalties, total $177,495.11.
Taxes keep rising and will continue to grow due to high-end luxury homes designed for extremely wealthy non-Hawai‘i
residents. Sadly, our kama‘aina ‘ohana is being taxed out of our ‘aina kupuna. Makena is home! It is where we are from
and at the core of our family identity, history, and genealogy. It’s vital to the Kukahiko ‘ohana to have a place where our
multi-generation families can continue to gather and pass on our family knowledge of Makena to our younger generations.
To do that, we must have a way to pay the taxes and upkeep our ‘aina kupuna. Taxes will surely go up again next year!
How will we pay those additional taxes?
I urge you to do what is pono. I beg you to recommend the FIRST READING of the bill amending Chapter 3.48,
Real Property Tax, Maui County Code, to add a section relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as ‘aina kupuna.
1
County Clerk pprc:.\/r-n
From:
Sent:
toyafuso@hawaiiantel.net
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 5:04 PM
County Clerk
I support the 'aina kupuna bill CR 21-95
im OCT 20 AH 8: 35
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from toyafuso@hawaiiantel.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Councilmembers,
My name is Terry Oyafuso and I live in Honolulu, Hawaii. I was born and raised in Kokomo, Maui. I come from a large
family. My parents had 12 children. I have family who are living on Maui and they are having a difficulty time to find
affordable housing.
I am writing to you because I "strongly support" the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the
bill that will help long-time kama'aina families maintain and sustain their 'aina kupuna through ancestral
land dedication.
I find it heartbreaking that many descendants who have had family land passed down from generation to
generation are in this financial predicament of the possibility of losing or selling their land. The challenges
they face to keep up with the rising cost of property taxes. Local families need help to continue to live and
maintain the ‘aina for their future generations.
Makena is home for the "Kukahiko" ohana. Their ancestors are buried on the land and descendants
have lived in Makena for nearly 140 years. Makena has become a
community of wealthy homeowners, many non-residents who continue to buy high-end speculation
homes that raise the property tax to an unreasonable and unaffordable amount for local families. As the
community has become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay in Makena, I ask for your support to
pass the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with amended changes.
I appreciate your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time kama‘aina families on their
ancestral lands. Mahalo for your time and taking on this long overdue issue.
Sincerely and Mahalo,
Terry Oyafuso
1
Count^^ler^ rr^
Cody Pata <pupata75@gmaii.com>
Friday, October 22, 2021 7:45 AM
County Clerk
Keani N. Rawlins
Testimony in support of CC 21-484
From:
Sent: ?0?l OCT 22 Afi 8: 00
To:
Cc: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
Aloha mai, e Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez & County Council Members'-
My name is Cody Pueo Pata, and I am the Kumu Hula of Ka Malama Mahilani here on
Maui. I am also a Hawaiian culture and language teacher and consultant.
I write to ask that the Council passes: CC 21-484 "SUPPORTING THE HUAMAKAHIKINA
DECLARATION AND THE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND ADVANCE THE PRACTICE OF
HULA, AND TO PREVENT ITS CONTINUED ECONOMIC EXPLOITATION AND
APPROPRIATION."
200 members of the Huamakahikina Coalition of Kumu Hula have unanimously voted for
ratification of the "Huamakahikina Declaration on the Integrity, Stewardship, and
Protection of Hula", thus testifying that the Declaration accurately expresses their
thoughts and will regarding the integrity, stewardship, and Protection of Hula.
Beginning in late October 2020, the Kumu Hula of the Huamakahikina coalition of Kumu
Hula from across Hawaii and around the world began to work on a formal declaration
regarding Hula. We recognized that there was not  asingle entity—government, social,
private, or otherwise—that could speak on behalf of Kumu Hula & Hula better than Kumu
Hula, themselves. As such, the processes for the declaration building began.
Between October 2020 to June 2021, the input of around 60 Kumu Hula was reflected in
the verbiage of the declaration draft. By late July 2021, the draft was then handed over to a
specially-chosen Strategy Support Team, which consisted of 1 Kumu Hula representative, 1
Strategist, and 6 lawyers (with specialties in Hawaiian Law, Intellectual Property, and
Policy Making), with the task of refinement and polish.
On August 21-22, 2021, around 160 Kumu Hula from around the world convened at the
historic gathering, Kupukalala Kumu Hula Convention, which was largely funded by the
County of Maui, and broadcasted virtually from UHMC. The main purpose of this
convention was to modify and ratify what would become the "Huamakahikina Declaration
on the Integrity, Stewardship, and Protection of Hula."
To accomplish this, every paragraph was raised in plenary for democratic vote by
Huamakahikina Kumu Hula members. The choices were (translated into English): Yes,
No, abstain. Although every single paragraph was overwhelmingly passed, registrants who
voted "no" or "abstain" were asked to log their reasons into the open chat. These mana^o
were then gathered by the hefty team of specially trained staff, and were used in the next
steps.
After the initial plenary vote took place, all of the Kumu Hula registrants were split into
12-14 breakout sessions led by one specially trained moderator, and equipped with one
specially trained note-taker. The Kumu Hula were then given time to debate the mana‘o
garnered from the plenary session, and submit possible solutions. Reactions and
comments were meticulously logged.
Altogether, there were 3 refinement processes which engaged the Kumu Hula registrants.
On the last day of the Kupukalala Kumu Hula Convention, the Declaration was given a
final reading, and was unanimously ratified by all Kumu Hula registrants. The ratification
process continued for 10 more days as members of the Leo Kahoa Steering Committee of
Huamakahikina contacted elderly Kumu Hula and those who are not tech-saavy for their
mana‘o.
Ultimately every Kumu Hula involved in the creation of the "Huamakahikina Declaration
on the Integrity, Stewardship, and Protection of Hula" unanimously voted for ratification,
thus testifying that the Declaration accurately expresses their thoughts and will. As such, I
humbly ask that the Maui County Council Council passes: CC 21-
484 "SUPPORTING THE HUAMAKAHIKINA DECLARATION AND THE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND
ADVANCE THE PRACTICE OF HULA, AND TO PREVENT ITS CONTINUED ECONOMIC EXPLOITATION
AND APPROPRIATION."
Me ka ‘oia‘i‘o a me ka ha‘aha‘a,
Kumu Hula Cody Pueo Pata
808 281-0714
Count^£leij< pppCjVra
Sue Pavelka <spavGlka@charter.net>
Monday, October 18, 2021 6:15 PM
County Clerk
In reference to Aina Kupuna bill CR 21 -95
From:
Sent: im OCT 19 AH 7: 5^
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from spavelka@charter.net. Learn why this is important
My name is Sue Pavelka. I was born on Oahu, but my family came from Maui. Makawao section!! My family was of
the Copp and Hardy families!! I support Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95!!! The Hawaiian people have already lost a lot of
their lands, and those who want to hand their properties down to their families, shoud NOT have such high taxes that
they lose their properties!! My great-gramdmother's estate at Makawao was lost because no one could pay the
taxes!!! Such ashame!!! I have a second cousin who wrote to me, and wanted my help in supporting this bill, and i
gladly support it. He and his wife could lose their land, if this bill is not passed, so please pass this bill. My ohana would
appreciate it!!! MahaloH! Great-grandaughter of Ellen Copp Hardy, Sue E. Pavelka
1
Count^^leHc
2021 OCT 20 PH 12= 53
From:
Sent:
Mesa Phan <mesa.phan@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 12:03 PM
County Clerk
Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from mesa.phan@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To: The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair Maui County Council
For Meeting: County Council, 10/22/2021, 9am
I STRONGLY SUPPORT the aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill that will help families maintain and
sustain their aina kupuna through ancestral land dedication. I grew up on Maui and went to school with Chang family
members, one of whom I'm still very close to. As little kids, we would play around the Chang property - this was before
all the multi-million dollar homes were built, before all the condos, before the road to their humble home was paved
and was just a dirt road. As the rightful residents of this sacred land, it's completely unfair to make them pay these
outrageous taxes when THEY WERE THERE FIRST!
1 hope you will consider supporting these kama'aina in their efforts to preserve what is left of their aina. Thank you for
your insight to create such an important bill to keep longtime kama'aina families on their ancestral lands.
Mahalo,
Mesa Phan
1
Count^^Clerk ;  V /
Victoria Napua Puaoi <napuapuaoilmt@gmail.com>
Saturday, October 16, 2021 8:19 AM
County Clerk
'Aina kupuna bill CR 21-95
From:
Sent: im OCT IS AH 7: 54
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
iYou don't often get email from napuapuaoilmt@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To whom it may concern.
I am writing to you today in strong support of the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95.
Aloha, my name is Victoria Napuaakeali'iamo'ili'ili Kuloloio Puaoi and I am a descendant of John and Kamaka Kukahiko, i
fall under their daughter Moloa.
My 'Ghana Connection - John Kukahiko and Kamaka Kuhaulua had 10 children
□ 5 kane = Ka'ahanui, Mahele, Kauwekane, Lu'uwai, Halelau
□ 5 wahine = Keolakai, Ha'eha'e, Moloa, Ka'aipuni, Annie
1883 - Hawai'i was its own nation governed under the Hawaiian monarchy. John Kukahiko bought 2
parcels of land in Makena for which the Kukahiko 'ohana has lived and cared for over 138 years.
1973 -The land was partitioned and the Kukahiko Corporation was formed by our kupuna to keep
the land in the 'ohana with 59 original 'ohana shareholders.
1999 -The 'ohana has struggled for many years to hold on to our 'aina kupuna. 2 parcels were sold to
pay back taxes and build the current Kukahiko house that is located along side our Kukahiko
gravesite - .811 acres.
2020-2021 - Property tax - $73,192.11 (2020) and $83,311.80 (2021)
□ Back taxes are now $177,495.11 including penalties
□ Kukahiko hale is rented primariy for weddings to pay property taxes and upkeep.
Why? Short term usage and minimal damage to property.
□ The Kukahiko Hale has had very few weddings over the last year and a half due to the COVID
pandemic hence the large back taxes.
Taxes keep rising and will continue to rise due to high end speculation and specialty houses built for
the very wealthy. These owners are not residents of Hawai'i and the assessment value of these homes
drive the property taxes way beyond affordable for the local island fami lies. Kukahiko hale is located
between 2 very high-end speculation/specialty homes:
1
o The house to the left just sold for $20 million
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tbbCr75KMsc
o The house on the right on the market for $25 million -
https://www.voutube.com/watch?v=K5uR6uatCKQ
Makeno is home! It is where we are from and at the core of our family identity, history and
genealogy. It's important to the Kukahiko 'ohana to have a place where their multi-generation
families can continue to gather and pass on their family knowledge of Makena to the younger
generations. To do that it must have a way to pay the taxes and upkeep our 'aina kupuna. Taxes will
surely go up again next year! How will we pay those additional taxes?
2
Count^lerk
From:
Sent:
Stanley Raymond, II < kiope@hawaii.edu >
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 11:05 AM
County Clerk
Support for CR 21-95
20?} OCT 19 rai2:35
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from kiope@hawaii.edu. Learn why this is important
Aloha
My name is Stanley KT'ope Raymond; a resident of Maui residing at 740 Copp Road, Kula 96790.
I support bill CR 21-95, the ‘aina kOpuna bill - with proposed additions - that provides tax relief for lineal descents
who continue to live and care for their ancestral lands.
It will be unconscionable for you to not pass this bill. The tourism industry, among others, by enticing the very rich
have fueled a metaphorical - out of control "Hawaii is for sale - get yours now!" fire. It threatens to engulf anyone
living on ‘aina that an affluent mii/bit-lionare wants to build on but not - necessarily - live on. Then, the ostentatious
and unaffordable mansions are flipped to others of the same ilk who also have to disburse their excess capital. And
what happens to the kanaka that have been living and working the land for generations; living on the ‘aina out of
necessity? They are property-taxed out of their homes. Shame on you if you do not pass this bill!
Mahalo!
S. KT'ope Raymond
Professor, HWST (retired)
UH Maui College
(808) 280-5149
'O ko kakou makemake io no ia o ka loaa o kekahi mea oiaio loa." J. H. Kanepit 'u
1
Count^^let^ R&rRiVELl
Kyle Reiniger <kyle.reiniger1@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 1:55 PM
County Clerk
Bill CR 21-95
From:
Sent: 20ZIOCT2I PH 2-03
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from kyle.reiniger1@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I SUPPORT the Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95
Thank you,
Kyle Reiniger
1
Count^£IetJ<
Yvette Simoes <ysImoes@bmwhawaii.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 12:55 PM
County Clerk
Bill # CR 21 -95. Aina Kupuna Land Dedication
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from ysimoes@bmwhawaii.com. Learn why this is important
I " Strongly Support" the Aina Kupuna Land Dedication and other additions to the bill that will help families
maintain and sustain their 'aina kupuna through our ancestral land. Bill # CR 21-95 is Very Important for
many of us as we inherited our land from 4-5 generations back. We are from a long line of descendants who are
normal working people and would like to keep our undeveloped properties and developed ones in our families.
For me personally, I have two parcels that are undeveloped and have no access roads or water ways. It has
always been zoned as agriculture and has now been changed. Which has caused the yearly property tax to increase
to a exuberant amount. My situation is now harder due to how many generations have passed down there
portions of the parcei's to there moopuna. I have one parcel with over 50 names attached to it and do not now know .
any of them personally, except that we are from the same Great, Great, Great Grandparents. Only once in my
inheriting this land for over 30 years was there one person wanting to sell. It did not happen. I am connected to my
Mother, Grandmother, Great Grandmother and my Tutu Ha'eha'e who I am named after because of this land.
I have only seen it from the top side of Ulupalakua. I have never walked on it. But still it's in me and grounds me to
that Island. I live and work on O'ahu but have always known Makena is where my roots are. Please for the sake
of our Parents and there Parents and so forth who worked hard to claim the lands and where kind enough to pass
it on. Let Us hold onto it and not price us out that we have to give it up.
Mahalo for taking the time hear us.
Yvette Ha'eha'e Simoes (Kukahiko blood line from Makena)
523 Kapaia Street
Honolulu, Hawaii 96825
vhsimoes(g)vahoo.com
(808) 3S8-6869
=T
LU ^
Q inLU
> u_OO-
Oi : ‘ >-CN
o QzLU CD
cc: ii-O
OoC=3
1
Count^£leH<
Jack Smith <jtsmithjr@gmail.com>
Monday, October 18, 2021 3:23 PM
County Clerk
Comment CR 21-95
From:
Sent: ZflZI OCT 18 PH 31To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from jtsmithjr@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
My comment is to support the first reading of CR 21-95 with the proposed additions, and
look forward to its final passage.
Aloha, Jack Smith
1
RFn.-n/fTQ
OCT 21 AH I- 58
Count^^lerk
Wayne Tanaka <wctanaka@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 12:05 AM
From:
Sent:
County Clerk
Testimony in SUPPORT of CR21-95, 'Aina Kupuna Tax Relief f' FICcIT
To:
OFSubject: T » « r-
<-'NTY clerk
You don't often get email from wctanaka(5)gmail.com. Learn why this Is important
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of the Maui County Council,
My name is Wayne Chung Tanaka and I am testifying in my personal capacity to express my STRONG SUPPORT for the
'aina kupuna tax relief proposal before you today. This measure, with its additional proposed amendments, will provide
significant, critical relief necessary to prevent the further permanent loss of family 'aina that Native Hawaiian and other
longtime residents of Maui County have lived on and cherished for generations, and ensure that these lands can
continue to support their future generations -- thereby preserving the people and the heart of what makes Maui such a
unique and special place to live.
I am grateful for your favorable consideration before the Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee, and
respectfully ask that you keep up the momentum behind this measure, which has already provided so much hope to
those who have been pushed ever closer to the brink of losing their connections to their ancestral lands.
Mahalo nui loa,
Wayne Chung Tanaka
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
James Tavares <tavaresjam@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 21, 2021 8:56 PM
County Clerk
Support For CR 21-95
2fl?l OCT 22 AH 8^ 04
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from tavaresjam@gmail.com. Learn v/hv this is important
My name is James William Tavares, a resident of Maui and residing at 579 Hana Highway in Kuau.
I am writing to support passage of the "Aina Kupuna" bill with proposed additions.
My family has owned land here in beautiful Kuau for over a hundred years. My grandfather Antone Tavares purchased
oceanfront property and raised his family of 12 children there. We have been blessed that my father Bill Tavares whom
some of you may remember as the founder of COMET (Committee For More Equitable Taxation), gave each of his 5
children a piece of Maui so that he and my mom could live out their golden years enjoying their children, grandchildren
and great grandchildren living close by. Dad passed away 2 1/2 years ago and would have been 100 years old next
month. I know if he were alive, he would be there at the meeting urging each of you for your support of this bill. He was
thankful for the "Circuit Breaker" bill the Council passed years ago because it helped many people who used to call him,
some crying on the phone begging him and his committee for help.
We have seen property values in Kuau skyrocketing over the years and recently saw a property 2 doors down from mine
advertised for $6 million and then finally sold for $8 million. I'm pretty sure I would expect my property taxes to increase
dramatically in the next year or two. We have put the property into a trust for my children and was considering setting
up a special account to help them pay the taxes and other expenses hoping that would help them to hang on to it for
their children to enjoy. Hopefully that won't be necessary with your passage of CR 21-95.
Thank you councilmember Rawlins and the rest of your committee, for your efforts in drafting this bill. Also thank you
councilmembers Lee and Molina foryour past support of my dad Bill Tavares and COMET. I know he will be smiling on all
of us when this bill passes. Please vote Aye.
James Tavares
James W. Tavares
P.O. Box 3037
Kahului, Hawaii 96733
(808)579-8536
(808)264-1619
1
RECEIVED
Testimony of Leina‘ala Kuloloio Vedder
County of Maui
October 18, 2021
im OCT 19 AH 7:5ii
OFFICE OF T f-i E
Aloha Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Coirfniit^TY CLERK
Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez and Maui County Council Members. My
name is Leina‘ala Kuloloio Vedder and I strongly support CR 21-95 ‘Aina
Kupuna Land Dedication and other additions to the bill that will help
families maintain and sustain their ‘aina kupuna through an ancestral land
dedication.
Lineal descendants continue to maintain lands that have been in their family
for generations. Our ‘aina kupuna lands are our pu‘uhonua, our place of
refuge, peace, solace, and safety. Our places of refuge are surrounded by
outlandish structures and imported landscapes. Many ‘ohana have been
displaced over the years with only a few who continue to live on ancestral
lands struggling to pay sky-rocketed taxes in a system that does not
empower us. Places like Makena, Palauea, Keone‘o‘io, Hana, and Olowalu,
to name a few, continue to encounter gentrification. There are also lineal
descendents, like myself, who have inherited ‘aina kupuna and continue to
financially make ends meet to pay taxes in an unbalanced capitalist system.
Once again, I ask for you support to pass CR 21-95 ‘Aina Kupuna Land
Dedication and other additions to the bill.
Me ka ha‘aha‘a.
Leina‘ala Kuloloio Vedder
Kuloloi ‘a Lineage: I Ke Kai o Kuloloia
Count^CleH< RCClIIvCD
Roxanne WhiteLight <rwhitelight@gmail.conn>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 6:40 PM
County Clerk
CR-12-95
From:
Sent: im OCT 20 AM 8: 35
To:
Subject: OFr^lCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from rwhitelight@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
My name is Roxanne WhiteLight. I am a resident of Maui County. I am writing to express my support for CR-12-95
regarding ancestral lands..
As we all know, the kingdom of Hawaii was stolen by the private interests and US government. It is the least we can do
for the long time hawaiian families that remain to allow them to not be subject to the crazy inflation of prices that is
occurring in our county. Please please vote yes to give them this peace of mind.
Rev. Roxanne WhiteLight
773 s. AluRd
Wailuku, HI 96793
1
RECount^Cleij<
f~\ r~ ,
Edwina Wilmington <memissmaui@gmail.com >mi OCT 19 PH £1- 9:1Tuesday, October 19, 2021 4:15 PM
County Clerk
Aina KOpuna bill number CR 21-95 0)-rlCE OF THE
COUN
From:
Sent:
To:
TY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from memissmaui@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Councilmembers,
My name is Edwina Wilmington and I reside at 95-461 Kakae PI in Mililani, Hawaii. I was born and raised in
Lahaina (Mala) and still consider Maui my home.
I am writing to you because I "strongly support" the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill
that will help long-time kama'aina families maintain and sustain their ‘aina kOpuna through ancestral land
dedication.
I find it heartbreaking that many descendants who have had family land passed down from generation to
generation are in this financial predicament of the possibility of losing or selling their land. The challenges
they face to keep up with the rising cost of property taxes. Local families need help to continue to live and
maintain the 'aina for their future generations.
Makena is home for the "Kukahiko" ohana. Their ancestors are buried on the land and descendants
have lived in Makena for nearly 140 years. Makena has become a
community of wealthy homeowners, many non-residents who continue to buy high-end speculation homes that
raise the property tax to an unreasonable and unaffordable amount for local families. As the community has
become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay in Makena, I ask for your support to pass the ‘Aina Kupuna
bill CR 21-95 with amended changes.
I appreciate your insight to create such an important bill to keep long-time kama'aina families on their ancestral
lands. Mahalo for your time and taking on this long overdue issue.
Sincerely,
Edwina WImington
1
Count^Clerk RFrP'VFn
From:
Sent:
Kalani Wilmington <khw461@gmail.com>
Monday, October 18, 2021 4:25 PM
County Clerk
Written Testimony for CR 21-95,'Aina Kupuna Land DedicatiorCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
29?l OCT 18 PM
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from khw461 @gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I "strongly support" the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 and other additions to the bill that will help families
maintain and sustain their ‘aina kupuna through an ancestral land dedication.
Our Kukahiko family has been in Makena for over 140 years. We are a large family with many descendants of
the John and Kamaka Kukahiko family who had 10 children. Each generation has had challenges to keep up
with the property taxes and as a result, many of the ‘ohana have been displaced over the years with only a
few parcels remaining. Where once our ‘ohana was one of the largest in Makena, today we have only a few
remaining who are still struggling to keep our ‘aina in the family. We strongly support the intent of the ‘Aina
Kupuna bill CR 21-95 and ask that you pass the bill with additional revisions:
1. Please include the terms corporation and shareholders in the definition of ‘Aina Kupuna. Our ‘ohana
has many lineal descendants and in order to keep the land in the family, a corporation was created in
1973. Shares are owned only by family members.
2. Our 'ohana currently hosts events on the Kukahiko Hale property to pay for the taxes and upkeep of
the property and structure. We ask that a paragraph be included to define profit as "excess of
monetary returns over expenditures and costs to maintain, improve or expand the property, any
structures on the property, the minimum tax, or similar business costs." This will support the
sustainability of the property for the ‘ohana.
3. The property tax has been very difficult to pay due to the COVID pandemic. We ask for your support
for back tax forgiveness, interest, and a waiver for penalties to assist tax burdens for the 2020 and
2021 tax years.
Makena has become a community with many wealthy non-residents who have bought high-end speculation
homes. For us, Makena is home. It is where many of our ancestors are buried and we continue to pass our
aloha for Makena from one generation to another. We need help to continue to live and maintain our ‘aina
for our children and grandchildren. As the community has become unaffordable for locals to continue to stay
in Makena we ask your support to pass the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 with additional changes.
Thank you for the opportunity to provide my testimony.
Kalani H Wilmington
1
RtCElVED
IU\ OCT 20 PH 12: 53
County Clerk
,  Tc£"oFTf^-OUNTY CLERK
r r
Gillian Worms <gillianworms@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 12:16 PM
County Clerk
Aina Kupuna Bill, CR21-95
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from gillianworms@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
We strongly support the "Aina Kapuna" bill, CR21-95.
We feel these families should be able to carry on history of their legacy and live and work on the lands the families have
owned for Generations. They provide a beautiful history for the islands and an understanding of how the Islands
survived and prospered over these decades.
We asked for the council members to support this bill and the amendments city councilman Keani Rawlins-Fernandez
will introduce at the meeting scheduled for October 22nd.
Thank you for your consideration & help,
Gillian & Dennis Worms
1
RECEIVEDCoimt^£!eH<
m\ OCT 20 AH 8-- 35Felicia <felicia.yadao@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 7:39 PM
County Clerk
SUPPORT 'Aina Kupuna (CR 21-95)
From:
Sent:
To: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don't often get email from felicia.yadao@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am writing in support of ‘Aina Kupuna (CR 21-95). Enough is enough. This should have been in place  along time ago.
How can a government be so okay with
Hawaiians being priced out of their own land. Their own home. Land that has been in their ohana for generations. We
have enough "luxury" homes. Enough hotels. Enough condos. Enough vacation rentals. How is it okay to see Hawaiians
being forced off their land? Why are we selling Hawaii to mainland and foreign buyers?
It’s time for our government to support locals and Hawaiians. It's time for our government to take care of what we have
and be sustainable. It's time we stop selling Hawaii to the highest bidder.
Mahalo
1
.5^Michael P. Victorino
Mayor
■  >
RECEIVEDSananda K. Baz
Managing Director : .. k'
2021 OCT 18 PH t]: mOFFICE OF THE MAYOR
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 S. HIGH STREET
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
vvww.mauicouniv.pnv
October 18, 2021
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
Mayor, County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
APPROVED FOR TRANSMITTAL
fMFor Transmittal to: ayor Date
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
and Members of the Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair Lee and Members:
SUBJECT: COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-485
As it relates to County Communication 21-485 on the October 22 Council
meeting agenda, I am transmitting the following documents for your reference:
1. Preliminary Title Report for TMK: 3-8-006-004:0002;
2. Preliminary Title Report for TMK; 3-8-102:009; and
3. Declaration of Condominium Property Regime for TMK: 3-8-006:004.
Should you have any questions, please contact me at ext. 7212.
Sincerely,
MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA
Budget Director
Attachments
PRELIMINARY REPORT
(No Liability Hereunder)
This report {and any revisions thereto) is issued solely for the
convenience of the titleholder, the titleholder's agent,
purchaser or mortgagee, or the person ordering it for the purpose of
facilitating the issuance of a policy of title insurance by Title
Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC and no liability will arise under this report.
counsel.
SCHEDULE A
Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC (the “Company”) hereby reports that,
subject to those matters set forth in Schedule ”B" hereof, the title
to the estate or interest to the land described in Schedule “C” hereof
is vested in:
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company,
as Fee Owner
This report is dated as of September 24, 2021 at 8:00 a.m.
Inquiries concerning this report should be directed to:
Title Officer - Reiko Crabtree; Office; (808) 539-7704
Email: rcrabtree@tghawaii.com
Please reference Title Order No. 202147983.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUeeN ST.. KOKOtULU. HAWAII 96813. PH: (008) 533«261
202147983 Page 1
SCHEDULE B
EXCEPTIONS
Real Property Taxes if any, that may be due and owing.1.
Tax Key: (2) 3-8-0Q6-0Q4 C.P.R. 0002 Apt./Unit 2
-Notes:-
Attention is invited to the fact that the premises covered
herein may be subject to possible rollback or retroactive
property taxes.
(A)
(B) Attention is invited to the fact that the premises covered
herein may be subject to possible rollback or retroactive
property taxes due to possible loss of exemption status.
Mineral and water rights of any nature.2.
Any and all existing roadways, trails, easements, rights of way,
flumes and irrigation ditches.
3.
Flumes and ditches, as contained in EXCHANGE DEED dated June 23,
1924, recorded in Liber 740 at Page 134.
4.
5. GRANT
MAUI ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITEDTO
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
May 25, 1982
Liber 16383 Page 392
a right and easement over Easement "1” for utility
purposes being more particularly described therein
and as referenced on map attached thereto
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN 8T., HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (608} 5334261
Page 2202147983
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
6. GRANT
TO COUNTY OF MAUI
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
September 3, 1985
Liber 19Q66 Page 747
a non-exclusive easement over Easement "1" for
water pipeline purposes being more particularly
described therein
The terms and provisions contained in the following:7 .
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (AGRICULTURAL USE)INSTRUMENT ;
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
March 10, 1987
Liber 21128 Page 275
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. and the COUNTY OF MAUI,
through its Department of Public Works
The terms and provisions contained in the following:8.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)INSTRUMENT ;
March 10, 1987
Liber 21128 Page 284
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation,
and the COUNTY OF MAUI
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:9.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)INSTRUMENT :
January 5, 1988
Liber 21534 Pa
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation,
and the COUNTY OF MAUI
ge 206
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ET.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96B13. PH: (808] S33«281
Page 3202147983
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
The terms and provisions contained in the following:10.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (THREE LOTS OR LESS)INSTRUMENT :
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
January 5, 1988
Liber 21534 Page 215
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation,
and the COUNTY OF MAUI
The terms and provisions contained in the following:11.
INSTRUMENT : SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (THREE LOTS OR LESS)
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
June 14, 1995
Document No. 95-089570
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., and the COUNTY OF MAUI
The terms and provisions contained in the following:12.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)INSTRUMENT :
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
June 27, 1995
Document No. 95-089571
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , and the COUNTY OF MAUI
The terms and provisions contained in the following;13 .
INSTRUMENT : SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
June 14, 1995
Document No. 95-094770
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , and the COUNTY OF MAUI
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23SQUEEMST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 9S813. PH; (808)S334261
202147983 Page 4
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
The terras and provisions contained in the following:14.
INSTRUMENT : DEFERRAL OP SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENT AGREEMENT
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
July 13, 1995
Document No. 95-114079
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation,
and the DEPARTMENT OP WATER SUPPLY of the County of
Maui
The terms and provisions contained in the following:15.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (DEFERRAL OF ROAD WIDENING
LOTS)
INSTRUMENT :
November 9, 1995
Document No. 95-147052
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation,
and the COUNTY OF MAUI, a political subdivision of
the State of Hawaii
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
16. The terms and provisions contained in the following:
INSTRUMENT : DEFERRAL OF SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS AGREEMENT
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
August 31, 1995
Document No. 95-158022
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation,
and the DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY of the County of
Maui
€) Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QUeeN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813, PH: (606) 533-8261
Page 5202147983
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
17. Easement in favor of MAUI ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED, a Hawaii
corporation, acquired by FINAL ORDER OP CONDEMNATION dated
November 1996, filed in the Circuit Court of the Second
Circuit, State of Hawaii, Civil No. 96-0929 (3) (Condemnation) ,
on November 26, 1996, recorded as Document No. 96-170196, said
easement being Easement "ll", area 339,564 square feet or 7.795
acres, more or less, for electrical transmission line purposes,
being more particularly described therein.
The terms and provisions contained in the following:18.
INSTRUMENT : SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (AGRICULTURAL USE)
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
June 14, 2000
Document No. 2000-087672
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , and the COUNTY OF MAUI,
through its Department of Public Works and Waste
Management, a body politic and corporate, and a
political subdivision of the State of Hawaii
The terms and provisions contained in the following:19.
INSTRUMENT ; DECLARATION OF CONDITIONS
— (acknowledged April 19, 2004)
Document No, 2004-078771
DATED
RECORDED
Joinder by ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation, dated
  (acknowledged April 19, 2004), recorded as Document No. 2004-
078772.
The terms and provisions contained in the following:20.
INSTRUMENT : DECLARATION OF CONDITIONS
DATED
RECORDED
:  June 27, 2005
:  Document No. 2005-128814
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813. PH: (808) 533.6261
202147983 Page 6
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
21, (15 feet wide) for sewer lineDESIGNATION OF EASEMENT
purposes in favor of Tax Map Key (2) 3-8-006-001, as set forth in
DECIARATION OF EASEMENT dated January 11, 2001, recorded as
Document No. 2008-010966/ as referenced on map attached thereto.
"1"
22. The terms and provisions contained in the following:
INSTRUMENT : UNILATERAL AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION FOR
CONDITIONAL ZONING
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
November 18, 2009
Document No. 2009-187098
MAHI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY, INC., a Hawaii non
profit corporation, "MEO”, and ALEXANDER & BALDWIN,
INC., a Hawai'i corporation, "Declarant II
The terms and provisions contained in the following:23.
AGREEMENT FOR ALLOCATION OF FUTURE SUBDIVISION
POTENTIAL
INSTRUMENT :
March 23, 2011
Document No. 2011-051296
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. and A&B PROPERTIES, INC. ,
"Subdivider", and the COUNTY OF MAUI, through its
Department of Public Works, a political subdivision
of the State of Hawaii, "County II
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:24.
INSTRUMENT : FIRST AMENDED AND RESTATED SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT
(LARGE LOTS)
:  April 18, 2011
;  Document No. 2011-065270
DATED
RECORDED
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QUEEN ST., HONOLULU. HAWAII 9S813. PH: (80^ 533^1
202147983 Page 7
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
PARTIES :  ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. and A&B PROPERTIES, INC. ,
"Owner", and the COUNTY OF MAUI, through its
Department of Public Works, a body politic and
corporate, and a political subdivision of the State
of Hawaii
The foregoing Restated Agreement supercedes in its entirety that
certain Agreement dated September 2, 2009, recorded as Document
No. 2009-139108.
25. GRANT
MAUI ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED, a Hawaii
corporation, and HAWAIIAN TELCOM, INC. , a Hawaii
corporation
TO
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
March 17, 2011
Document No. 2011-053742
a right and easement for utility purposes as
referenced on the map attached thereto
The terms and provisions contained in the following:26.
INSTRUMENT : SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (AGRICULTURAL USE)
March 30, 2011
Document No. 2011-057405
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. and A&B PROPERTIES, INC. ,
"Owner", and the COUNTY OF MAUI, through its
Department of Planning, a body politic and
corporate, and a political subdivision of the State
of Hawaii
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following;27.
INSTRUMENT : SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (SECTION 18.04.030.B-5
EXCEPTION)
April 18, 2011
Document No. 2011-065269
DATED
RECORDED
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN 6T.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813, PH: (808) S388261
202147983 Page 8
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
PARTIES A&B PROPERTIES, INC. and ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. ,
"Owner", and the COUNTY OF MAUI, through its
Department of Public Works, a body politic and
corporate, and a political subdivision of the State
of Hawaii, "County"
28. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "E-1
electrical
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land
Surveyor dated May 28, 2008, last revised May 11,
2012, approved by the Department of Public Works,
County of Maui, Subdivision File No, 3.2208, on May
3, 2011, corrected on May 18, 2012
PURPOSE :
REFERENCED :
29. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "E-2"
electrical
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land
Surveyor dated May 28, 2008, last revised May 11,
2012, approved by the Department of Public Works,
County of Maui, Subdivision File No. 3.2208, on May
3, 2011, corrected on May 18, 2012
PURPOSE :
REFERENCED :
30. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "E-3 II
electrical
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land
Surveyor dated May 28, 2008, last revised May 11,
2012, approved by the Department of Public Works,
County of Maui, Subdivision File No. 3.2208, on May
3, 2011, corrected on May 18, 2012
PURPOSE j
REFERENCED ;
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC295 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII S6813. PH: (600) 5334261
202147983 Page 9
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
31. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "E-4
electrical
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land
Surveyor dated May 28, 2008, last revised May 11,
2012, approved by the Department of Public Works,
County of Maui, Subdivision File No. 3.2208, on May
3, 2011, corrected on May 18, 2012
PURPOSE ;
REFERENCED :
32. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT ”E-5
PURPOSE
REFERENCED :
:  electrical
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land
Surveyor dated May 28, 2008, last revised May 11,
2012, approved by the Department of Public Works,
County of Maui, Subdivision File No. 3.2208, on May
3, 2011, corrected on May 18, 2012
33. GRANT
TO ;  ALEXANDER Sc BALDWIN, LLC, a Hawaii limited
liability company
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
December 27, 2012
Document No. A-47440534
a non-exclusive easement in gross for irrigation
purposes over, under, through and across Easement
"IR-l'*, being more particularly described therein
and as referenced on the map attached thereto
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23SQUEeN8T.. HONOLULU, HAWAH 96813, PM (B08) 533^1
202147983 Page 10
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
34. GRANT
TO ALEXANDER & BALDWIN^ LLC, a Hawaii limited
liability company, formerly known as ALEXANDER &
BALDWIN, INC.
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
December 21, 2012
Document No. A-47440535
the right, in the nature of an easement for sewer
purposes, over and across Easement ”S-1A" for sewer
purposes, being more particularly described therein
and as referenced on the map attached thereto
35. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT for sewer purposes in favor of Tax
Map Keys (2) 3-8-006-001, (2) 3-8-006-003 and Lot 2-C-4-C-1-E as
set forth in DECLARATION OF SEWER EASEMENT dated December 27,
2012, recorded as Document No. A-47440536, being more
particularly described therein and as referenced on the map
attached thereto.
36. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "S-6" for sewer purposes in favor of Tax
Map Keys (2) 3-8-006-001, (2) 3-8-006-003 and Lot 2-C-4-C-1-E as
set forth in DECLARATION OF SEWER EASEMENT dated December 27,
2012, recorded as Document No. A-47440537, being more
particularly described therein and as referenced on the map
attached thereto.
37. GRANT
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC, a hawaii limited
liability company
TO
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
December 27, 2012
Document No. A-47440538
a non-exclusive easement for sewer purposes over,
under, through and across Easement "S-3", being
more particularly described therein and as
referenced on the map attached thereto
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813. PH: (600) 533^61
202147983 Page 11
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
38. GRANT
TO MAUI BUSINESS PARK PHASE II ASSOCIATION INC., a
Hawaii nonprofit corporation
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
December 27, 2012
Document No. A-47440540
a non-exclusive easement on, over, across, under
and through Easement "WM-1" for potable water meter
purposes, being more particularly described therein
and as referenced on the map attached thereto
The terms and provisions contained in the following:39.
DECLARATION OF CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REGIME FOR
■'MAUI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY CONDOMINIUM”
INSTRUMENT :
December 27, 2012
Document No. A-47440542
5149 and any amendments thereto
DATED
RECORDED
MAP
Any recorded amendments to said Declaration affecting
apartments other than the specific apartment described
herein, are not shown.
-Note; -
The terms and provisions contained in the following:40.
INSTRUMENT : BY-LAWS OF THE ASSOCIATION OF UNIT OWNERS
  (acknowledged December 27, 2012)
Document No. A-47440543
DATED
RECORDED
€) Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813. PK (608) 5334261
202147983 Page 12
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
41. GRANT
TO MAUI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY, INC. , a Hawaii nonprofit
corporation
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
as of December 27, 2012
Document No. A-47440545
the right, in the nature of a nonexclusive easement
for sewer purposes, on, over, across, under and
through Easement "S-6
therein and as referenced on the map attached
thereto
more particularly describedI
The terras and provisions contained in the following:42.
INSTRUMENT : SEWER SERVICE BILLING AGREEMENT
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
October 7, 2013
Document No. A-5Q42Q868
COUNTY OF MAUI, ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., and MAUI
BUSINESS PARK PHASE II ASSOCIATION
CLARIFICATION OF SEWER SERVICE BILLING AGREEMENT dated December
31, 2013, recorded as Document No. A-51290700A thru A-51290700B
The terms and provisions contained in the following:43.
INSTRUMENT : HOLD-HARMLESS AGREEMENT
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
May 8, 2015
Document No. A-65330998
MAUI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY, INC. , "Applicant”, and
the COUNTY OF MAUI, "County II
No joinder by ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAH 06813. PH: (808) 5338261
202147983 Page 13
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
Claims arising out of customary and traditional rights and
practices, including without limitation those exercised for
subsistence, cultural, religious, access or gathering purposes,
as provided for in the Hawaii Constitution or the Hawaii Revised
Statutes.
44.
Discrepancies, conflicts in boundary lines, shortage in area,
encroachments or any other matters which a correct survey or
archaeological study would disclose.
45.
Any unrecorded leases and matters arising from or affecting the
same.
46.
The Developer's Public Report for the MAUI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY
condominium project is not filed in the Real Estate Commission of
the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs.
47.
Any lien (or claim of lien) for services, labor or material
arising from an improvement or work related to the land described
in Schedule C herein.
48.
END OF SCHEDULE B
O Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN 8T.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96B13. PH: (808) 833^81
Page 14202147983
SCHEDULE C
All of those certain premises comprising a portion of that certain
condominium project known as "MAUI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY CONDOMINIUM”
(the "Condominium") , more particularly described in that certain
Declaration of Condominium Property Regime dated as of December 27,
2012, recorded in the Bureau of Conveyances of the State of Hawaii
(the "Bureau") as Document No. A-47440542, and any improvements and
appurtenances thereof as described in and established by the
Declaration, as the same may have been or may be hereafter amended or
restated from time to time (the "Declaration") , and as shown on the
plans of the Condominium filed as Condominium Map No. 5149 in said
Bureau, as the same may have been or may be later amended from time to
time (the "Condominium Map"), described as follows:
-FIRST:-
Unit No. 2 of the Condominium as described in the Declaration and
as shown on the Condominium Map.
Together with easements appurtenant to said Unit established by and
described in the Declaration.
-SECOND:-
interest in all common elements of theAn undivided
Project, as established for said Unit by the Declaration, or such
other percentage interest as hereafter established for said Unit by
any amendment of the Declaration, as tenant in common with all other
owners from time to time of undivided interests in and to said common
elements.
95.77%
SUBJECT as to said common elements to the right of all other unit
owners to use the common elements.
The land upon which said Condominium Project "Maui Economic
Opportunity Condominium" is located is described as follows:
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN 8T^ HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813, PH; (608) 6m261
202147983 Page 15
SCHEDULE C CONTINUED
All of that certain parcel of land (being portion(s) of land(s)
described in and covered by Grant 3343 to Claus Spreckels) situate,
lying and being at Puunene, Wailuku, Island and County of Maui, State
of Hawaii, being LOT 2-C-4-C-1-E, being a portion of Lot 2-C-4-C-1 of
the "FIRST ASSEMBLY OF GOD SUBDIVISION", approved by the Department of
Public Works, County of Maui, on May 31, 2011, corrected and accepted
on May 18, 2012, Subdivision File No. 3.2208, area 237.059 acres, more
or less.
Said parcel of land being more particularly described in Declaration
of Condominium Property Regime dated as of December 27, 2012, recorded
in the Bureau of Conveyances of the State of Hawaii as Document No, A-
47440542.
Together with a non-exclusive easement for drainage purposes over,
under and across the burdened property in the location generally
described in Exhibit "A" attached thereto, identified as Easement ”D-
5" {10-foot wide), as granted by GRANT OF DRAINAGE EASEMENT dated
September 29, 2011, recorded as Document No. 2011-161644; and subject
to the terms and provisions contained therein.
Together also with the right, in the nature of a nonexclusive easement
for irrigation purposes over Easement "MW-1", as granted by GRANT OP
IRRIGATION EASEMENT (MW-1), dated as of December 27, 2012, recorded as
Document No, A-47440539, being more particularly described therein;
and subject to the terms and provisions contained therein.
BEING THE PREMISES ACQUIRED BY DEED
HAWAIIAN COMMERCIAL AND SUGAR COMPANY, a
corporation duly organized and existing under and
by virtue of the laws of the State of California
GRANTOR
HAWAIIAN COMMERCIAL AND SUGAR COMPANY, LIMITED, a
corporation duly organized and existing under and
by virtue of the laws of the Territory of Hawaii
GRANTEE
€> Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QU£e< 6T. HONOLULU. HAWAII 06013. PH; (608) 533-6261
Page 16202147983
SCHEDULE C CONTINUED
:  effectivs December 31, 1926
:  Liber 865 Page 8
DATED
RECORDED
END OF SCHEDULE C
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU, HAWAII 06813. PH: (806) 533^1
202147983 Page 17
GENERAL NOTES
There is hereby omitted from any covenants, conditions and
reservations contained herein any covenant or restriction based
on race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, familial
status, marital status, disability, handicap, national origin,
ancestry, or source of income, as set forth in applicable state
or federal laws, except to the extent that said covenant or
restriction is permitted by applicable law.
under state or federal law on the age of occupants in senior
housing or housing for older persons shall not be construed as
restrictions based on familial status.
Lawful restrictions
1.
Filed with the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs of the
State of Hawaii (Business Registration), is the Merger of
HAWAIIAN COMMERCIAL AND SUGAR COMPANY, LIMITED with and into
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LIMITED on January 2, 1962.
2 .
The name of ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LIMITED was changed to ALEXANDER
& BALDWIN, INC. by instrument dated January 2, 1962, recorded in
Liber 4191 at Page 481.
3.
CERTIFICATE OF MERGER dated December 5, 2011, filed as Land Court
Document No. 4116765, also recorded as Document No. 2011-205352,
sets forth the merger of A&B-HAWAII, INC., a Hawaii corporation
with and into ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation.
4.
Filed with the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs of the
State of Hawaii (Business Registration), is the CERTIFICATE OF
MERGER of ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation, to
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC, a Hawaii limited liability company,
effective June 7, 2012, as set forth by instrument dated June 7,
2012, recorded as Document No. A-45531116, also filed as PETITION
FOR ORDER REGARDING CONVERSION dated July 25, 2012, filed as Land
Court Document No. T-8267279, sets forth the conversion of
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation to ALEXANDER &
BALDWIN, LLC, a Hawaii limited liability company.
5.
O Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23& QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813, PH: {BOB) 53»«261
Page 18202147983
GENERAIi NOTES
6.. CERTIFICATE OF CONVERSION OF OTHER ENTITY TO A LIMITED LIABILITY
COMPANY of ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC, a Hawaii limitsd liability
company to ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company, filed in the State of Delaware, Secretary of State,
Division of Corporations on December 19, 2016, but effective
December 21, 2016.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96B13. PH: (808) 533^261
Page 19202147983
GUIDELIITES FOR THE ISSUANCE OF INSURANCE
A. Taxes shown in. Schedule B are as of the date such information is available
from the taxing authority. Evidence of payment of all taxes and
assessments subsequent to such date must be provided prior to recordation.
B. Evidence of authority regarding the execution of all documents pertaining
to the transaction is required prior to recordation. This includes
corporate resolutions, copies of partnership agreements, powers of
attorney and trust instruments.
C. If an entity (corporation, partnership, limited liability company, etc.)
is not registered in Hawaii, evidence of its formation and existence under
the laws where such entity is formed must be presented prior to
recordation.
the following isD. If the transaction involves a construction loan
required t
(1) a letter confirming that there is no construction prior to
recordation; or
(2) if there is such construction, appropriate indemnity agreements,
financial statements and other relevant information from the owner,
developer, general contractor and major sub-contractors must be
submitted to the Company for approval at least one week prior to the
anticipated date of recordation.
Forms are available upon request from the Company.
E. Chapter 669, Hawaii Revised Statutes, sets forth acceptable tolerances for
discrepancies in structures or improvements relative to private property
boundaries for various classes of real property. If your survey map shows
a position discrepancy that falls within the tolerances of Chapter 669,
call your title officer as affirmative coverage may be available to
insured lenders.
F. The right is reserved to make additional exceptions and/or requirements
upon examination of all documents submitted in connection with this
transaction.
G. If a policy of title insurance is issued, it will exclude from coverage
all matters set forth in Schedule B of this report and in the printed
Exclusions from Coverage contained in an ALTA policy or in the Hawaii
Standard Owner's Policy, as applicable. Different forms may have
different exclusions and should be reviewed. Copies of the policy forms
are available upon request from the Company or on our website at
WWW.tghawaii.com.
H. Please be aware that due to the conflict between federal and state laws
concerning the cultivation, distribution, manufacture or sale of
marijuana, the Company is not able to close or insure any transaction
involving Land that is associated with these activities.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC2H5 QUEEN ST., HONOLULU. HAWAII 96613. PH: (B08) $3^6261
Page 20202147983
DATE PRINTED: 10/01/2021
STATEMENT OF ASSESSED VALUES AJJD REAL PROPERTY TAXES DUE
TAX MAP KEY
DIVISION ZONE SECTION PLAT PARCEL HPR NO.
006 004 0002(2) 3 8
CLASS: NON-OWNER-OCCUPIED & etc 227.019 ACAREA ASSESSED:
ASSESSED VALUES FOR CURRENT YEAR TAXES: 2021
The records of this division show the assessed values and taxes on
the property designated by Tax Key shown ahove are as follows:
$ 134,500
134,500
BUILDING
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
LAND
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
TOTAL NET VALUE $
$
$
$
$
$
0
4,189,100
395,600
3,793,500
3,793,500
7/01/2021Installment (1 - due 8/20; 2 - due 2/20) Tax Info As Of
Installment Tax
Amount
Total
Amount
Tax
Year
Penalty
Amount
Interest
Amount
Other
Amount
2021
2021
2020
2020
2019
2019
2 12,003.98
12,003.98
11,686.57
11,686.58
10,343,27
10,343.27
PENDING
PENDING
PAID
PAID
PAID
PAID
12,003.98
12,003.98
11,686.57
11,686.58
10,343.27
10,343.27
1
2
1
2
1
Total Amount Due; 24,007.96
Penalty and Interest Computed to: 7/01/2021
The real property tax information provided ia based on information furnished by the respective
counties, is deemed reliable but not guaranteed, and no warranties are given e:qjre8s or
in^lied. Billing and tax collection details may have changed. Please refer to the appropriate
county real property tax offices for any further information or updates for the subject property.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813, PH; (80^ S334261
Page 21202147983
DATE PRINTED: 10/01/2021
CLASS BREAKDOWN FOR TAX MAP KEY BELOW:
TAX MAP KEY
DIVISION ZONE SECTION PLAT PARCEL HPR NO.
006 004 0002
AREA ASSESSED:
(2) 3 8
CLASS: NON-OWNER-OCCUPIED 217.113 AC
$BUILDING
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
LAND
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
TOTAL NET VALUE
134,500
134,500$
$ 0
$ 2,472,700
395,600
2,077,100
2,077,100
$
$
$
TAX MAP KEY
DIVISION ZONE SECTION PLAT PARCEL HPR NO.
006 004 0002
AREA ASSESSED:
(2) 3 8
CLASS: COMMERCIAL 9.906 AC
$BUILDING
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
LAND
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
TOTAL NET VALUE
0
$ 0
$ 0
$ 1,716,400
$ 0
$ 1,716,400
1,716,400$
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST., HONOLULU, HAWAII S6813, PH: (SOe) 533.6261
Page 22202147983
PRELIMINARY REPORT
(No Liability Hereunder)
This report (and any revisions thereto) is issued solely for the
convenience of the titleholder, the titleholder's agent# counsel#
purchaser or mortgagee# or the person ordering it for the purpose of
facilitating the issuance of a policy of title insurance by Title
Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC and no liability will arise under this report.
SCHEDULE A
Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC (the ‘'Company") hereby reports that,
subject to those matters set forth in Schedule "B" hereof# the title
to the estate or interest to the land described in Schedule "C" hereof
is vested in;
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC#
a Delaware limited liability company,
as Fee Owner
This report is dated as of September 24, 2021 at 8:00 a.m.
Inquiries concerning this report should be directed to:
Title Officer - Reiko Crabtree; Office: (808) 539-7704
Email: rcrabtree@tghawaii.com
Please reference Title Order No. 202147982.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII S6S13, PH; (806) 533^61
202147982 Page 1
SCHEDULE B
EXCEPTIONS
Real Property Taxes, if any, that may be due and owing.1.
Area Assessed: 0.38 acresTax Key: (2) 3-8-102-009
Attention is invited to the fact that the premises
covered herein may be subject to possible rollback or
retroactive property taxes due to possible loss of
exemption status.
-Note:-
Mineral and water rights of any nature.2.
PERPETUAL RIGHT AND EASEMENT in favor of MAUI ELECTRIC COMPANY,
LIMITED, dated May 25, 1982, recorded in Liber 163U83 at Page
392, granting a right and easement for utility purposes over,
under, upon, across and through Easement "1”, said easement being
more particularly described in Exhibit "A" attached thereto, and
also shown on the map attached thereto as Exhibit ''B".
3 .
The terms and provisions contained in the following:4.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)INSTRUMENT :
March 10, 1987
Liber 21128 Page 284
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation
("Owner")^ and the COUNTY OF MAUI, a body politic
and corporate, and a political subdivision of the
state of Hawaii ("County")
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:5.
INSTRUMENT : SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)
:  January 5, 1988
:  Liber 21534 Page 206
DATED
RECORDED
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC239 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII S6813, PH: (809) 533^81
Page 2202147982
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
:  ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation
("Owner”), and the COUNTY OF MAUI, a body politic
and corporate, and a political subdivision of the
State of Hawaii ("County”)
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:6.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (THREE LOTS OR LESS)INSTRUMENT ;
January 5, 1988
Liber 21534 Page 215
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation
("Owner") , and the COUNTY OF MAUI, a body politic
and corporate, and a political subdivision of the
State of Hawaii ("County")
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:7.
INSTRUMENT : DECLARATION
:  December 18, 1990
;  Document No. 90-196794
DATED
RECORDED
The terms and provisions contained in the following:8.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (THREE LOTS OR LESS)INSTRUMENT :
June 14, 1995
Document No. 95-089570
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. ("Owner") and the COUNTY
OF MAUI, a body politic and corporate and a
political subdivision of the State of Hawaii
("County")
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:9.
INSTRUMENT : SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)
:  June 27, 1995DATED
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU, HAWAII 96S13, PH: (806) 533^61
Page 3202147982
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
:  Document No. 95-089571
:  ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. ("Owner”) and the COUNTY
OP MAUI, a body politic and corporate and a
political subdivision of the State of Hawaii
("County")
RECORDED
PARTIES
10. The terms and provisions contained in the following:
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)INSTRUMENT :
June 14, 1995
Document No. 95-094770
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. ("Owner") and the COUNTY
OF MAUI, a body politic and corporate and a
political subdivision of the State of Hawaii
{"County")
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:11.
DEFERRAL OF SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS AGREEMENTINSTRUMENT :
July 13, 1995
Document No. 95-114079
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation
("Subdivider") , and the DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY
of the County of Maui ("Department")
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
12. The terms and provisions contained in the following;
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (DEFERRAL OF ROAD WIDENING
LOTS)
INSTRUMENT :
November 9, 1995
Document No. 95-147052
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation
("Owner") , and the COUNTY OF MAUI, a political
subdivision of the State of Hawaii ("County")
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QUEEN ST.. HONOLUIU. HAWAII 96813. PH: (BOS) S334261
Page 4202147982
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
The terms and provisions contained in the following:13.
INSTRUMENT : DEFERRAL OF SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS AGREEMENT
August 31, 1995
Document No. 95-158022
ALEXANDER t BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation
("Stlbdivider'') , and the DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY
of the County of Maui ("Department")
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:14.
INSTRUMENT : DECLARATION OF CONDITIONS
  (acknowledged April 19, 2004)
Document No. 2004-078771
DATED
RECORDED
Joinder by ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawaii corporation, dated
 (acknowledged April 19, 2004) , recorded as Document No. 2004-
078772.
The terms and provisions contained in the following:15.
INSTRUMENT : DECLARATION OF CONDITIONS
:  J\ine 27, 2005
:  Document No. 2005-128814
DATED
RECORDED
The terms and provisions contained in the following:16.
UNILATERAL AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION FOR
CONDITIONAL ZONING
INSTRUMENT :
April 7, 2008
Document No. 2008-057029
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. , a Hawai*i corporation,
"Declarant"
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN &T.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96B13, PH: (806) 533^1
Page 5202147982
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
GRANT in favor of MAUI ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED and HAWAIIAN
TELCOM, INC., dated March 17, 2011, recorded as Document No.
2011-053742, granting a right and easement for utility purposes.
17.
The terms and provisions contained in the following:18.
FIRST AMENDED AND RESTATED SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT
(LARGE LOTS)
INSTRUMENT :
April 18, 2011
Document No. 2011-065270
ALEXANDER &. BALDWIN, INC. and A&B PROPERTIES, INC,,
"Owner”, and the COUNTY OF MAUI, through its
Department of Public Works, a body politic and
corporate, and a political subdivision of the State
of Hawaii, "County"
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
Said First Amended and Restated Subdivision Agreement amends and
supersedes in its entirety that certain Subdivision Agreement
(Large Lots) dated September 2, 2009, recorded as Document No.
2009-139108.
The terms and provisions contained in the following:19.
SEWER SERVICE BILLING AGREEMENTINSTRUMENT :
October 7, 2013
Document No. A-50420868
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES County", ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC,IICOUNTY OF MAUI,
a Hawaii limited liability company, formerly known
as Alexander & Baldwin, Inc., "A&B", and MAUI
BUSINESS PARK PHASE II ASSOCIATION, a Hawaii non¬
profit corporation, "Association"
CLARIFICATION OF SEWER SERVICE BILLING AGREEMENT dated December
31, 2013, but effective as of October 7, 2013, by and among
COUNTY OF MAUI, "County", ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC, a Hawaii
limited liability company, "A&B", and MAUI BUSINESS PARK PHASE II
ASSOCIATION, a Hawaii non-profit corporation, "Association",
recorded as Document Nos. A-51290700A thru A-51290700B.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QUEEN ST., HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813. PH: (B06> 533.8261
Page 6202147982
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
20. GRANT OF ACCESS EASEMENT in favor Of PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, "PDC LLC", and PDC I,
INC. , a Delaware corporation, "PDC I", dated November 8, 2013,
recorded as Document No. A~50600300, granting a nonexclusive
easement over and across Easement "SA-l", said easement being
more particularly described in Exhibit "1" attached thereto, and
approximately shown on map attached thereto as Exhibit "2".
Designation of Easement "U-1" for utility purposes, as referenced
Condominium Map 5241 recorded in the Bureau of Conveyances of
the State of Hawaii.
on
21.
Non-exclusive easement for ingress and egress over and across
said Easement "SA-L", appurtenant to Unit B-1 of the "MBP
HO'OKELE CONDOMINIUM", as granted by instrument dated December 3,
2014, recorded as Document Nos. A-54510177A thru A-54510177B,
said easements being more particularly described therein.
22 ,
Non-exclusive easement for ingress and egress over and across
said Easements "SA-1", appurtenant to Unit B-2 of the
HO'OKELE CONDOMINIUM", as granted by instrument dated December 3,
2014, recorded as Document Nos. A-54510178A thru A-54510178B,
said easements being more particularly described therein.
MBP
23 .
for access and utility purposes, asExisting Easement "SA-1
referenced on subdivision map prepared by Justin R. Shaw,
Professional Land Surveyor, dated January 26, 2015, revised on
June 17, 2015, approved by the Department of Public Works, County
of Maui, on August 5, 2015, (Subdivision File No. 3.2323) .
24.
€) Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813, PH: (805) 5334261
Page 7202147982
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
25. GRANT
TO MAUI BUSINESS PARK PHASE II ASSOCIATION INC, a
Hawaii nonprofit co2Tporation
August 20, 2015
Document No. A-5714Q668
a nonexclusive easement for drainage purposes, on,
over, across, under and through Easement U-1; said
easement being more particularly described therein
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
Said Grant was amended by instrument dated as of November 21,
2016, recorded as Document No. A-617Q1190. Re: amending purpose
of easement from drainage to underground utility lines.
Rights of others who may have easement or access rights in the
land described in Schedule C.
26.
Claims arising out of the failure to convey the land described
herein together with an easement or right of access.
27.
This will be deleted from the policy if such conveyance
occurs prior to the policy date.
-Note:-
Discrepancies, conflicts in boundary lines, shortage in area,
encroachments or any other matters which a correct survey or
archaeological study would disclose.
28.
Any unrecorded leases and matters arising from or affecting the
same.
29.
Any lien (or claim of lien) for services, labor or material
arising from an improvement or work related to the land described
in Schedule C herein.
30.
END OF SCHEDULE B
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813. PH; (608) S3S8261
Page 8202147982
SCHEDULE C
All of that certain parcel of land (being portion(s) of the land(s)
described in and covered by Royal Patent Grant Number 3343 to Claus
Spreckels) situate, lying and being at Puunene, Wailuku, Island and
County of Maui, State of Hawaii, being LOT 2-C-4-C-1-B-1-G of the
FIRST ASSEMBLY OF GOD SUBDIVISION, as shown on map approved by the
Director of Public Works, County of Maui on August 5, 2015,
Subdivision File No. 3.2323, and thus bounded and described as per
survey dated July 24, 2015;
Beginning at the southwest corner of this parcel of land at a point on
the northerly boundary of Lot 2-C-4-C-1-E of the First Assembly of God
Subdivision (Subdivision File No. 3.2208) also being the southeast
corner of Lot 2-C-4-C-1-A of the First Assembly of God Sxxbdivision
(Subdivision File No. 3.2208), the coordinates of said point of
beginning referred to Government Survey Triangualtion station
being 2,331.06 feet south and 14,418.65 feet east and running by
azimuths measured clockwise from true South:
LUKE",
feet along said Lot 2-C-4-C-1-A to
Lot 2-C-4-C-1-B-2 of the First
Assembly of God Subdivision
(subdivision File NO. 3.2322);
205.991. 153® 39'
feet along said Lot 2-C-4-C-1-B-2 to
Lot 2-C-4-C-1-B-1-C of the First
Assembly of God Subdivision
(Subdivision File No. 3.2323) ;
2. 243® 39' 80.00
feet along said Lot 2-C-4-C-1-B-1-C o
said Lot 2-C-4-C-1-E;
3. 333® 39 208.11
feet along said Lot 2-C-4-C-1-E to
the point of beginning and containing
an area of 0.381 acres, more or less.
80.0365® 104.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96B13, PH; (BOB) 633S281
Page 9202147982
SCHEDULE C CONTINUED
Said above described parcel of land having been acquired by the
following;
By HAWAIIAN COMMERCIAL AND SUGAR COMPANY, LIMITED, a corporation
duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of
the Territory of Hawaii by DEED of HAWAIIAN COMMERCIAL AND SUGAR
COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of California, dated —
effective December 31, 1926, recorded in Liber 865 at Page 008;
and
1.
By ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC, a Hawaii limited liability company
by QUITCLAIM DEED of AMERICAN SAVINGS BANK, F.S.B., a federal
savings bank, dated August 20, 2015, recorded as Document No. A-
57140665.
2.
END OF SCHEDtJLB C
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU, HAWAU 968t3, PH: (806) 533«261
Page 10202147982
GENERAL NOTES
There is hereby omitted from any covenants, conditions and
reservations contained herein any covenant or restriction based
on race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, familial
status, marital status, disability, handicap, national origin,
ancestry, or source of income, as set forth in applicable state
or federal laws, except to the extent that said covenant or
restriction is permitted by applicable law. Lawful restrictions
under state or federal law on the age of occupants in senior
housing or housing for older persons shall not be construed as
restrictions based on familial status.
1.
Filed with the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs of the
state of Hawaii {Business Registration), is the merger of of
HAWAIIAN COMMERCIAL AND SUGAR COMPANY, LIMITED with and into
ALEXANDER U BALDWIN, LIMITED on January 2, 1962.
2.
The name of ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LIMITED was changed to ALEXANDER
& BALDWIN, INC. by instrument dated January 2, 1962, recorded in
Liber 4191 at Page 481.
3 .
Filed with the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs of the
State of Hawaii {Business Registration) is the conversion of
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. a Hawaii profit corporation, to
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC, a Hawaii limited liability company,
effective June 7, 2012, as set forth by instrument recorded as
Document No. A-45531116.
4.
CERTIFICATE OF CONVERSION OF OTHER ENTITY TO A LIMITED LIABILITY
COMPANY of ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC, a Hawaii limited liability
company to ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company,
Division of Corporations on December 19,
December 21, 2016.
filed in the State of Delaware, Secretary of State,
2016, but effective
5.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QUeEN ST., HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813. PH; (809) 633-6261
Page 11202147982
guidelines for the issuance of insurance
A. Taxes shown in Schedule B are as of the date such information is available
from the taxing authority. Evidence of payment of all taxes and
assessments stibsequent to such date must be provided prior to recordation.
B. Evidence of authority regarding the execution of all documents pertaining
to the transaction is required prior to recordation. This includes
corporate resolutions, copies of partnership agreements, powers of
attorney and trust instruments.
C. If an entity (corporation, partnership, limited liability company, etc.)
is not registered in Hawaii, evidence of its formation and existence under
the laws where such entity is formed must be presented prior to
recordation.
D. If the transaction involves a construction loan, the following is
required:
(1) a letter confirming that there is no construction prior to
recordation; or
(2) if there is such construction, appropriate indemnity agreements,
financial statements and other relevant information from the owner,
developer, general contractor and major sub-contractors must be
submitted to the Company for approval at least one week prior to the
anticipated date of recordation.
Forms are available upon request from the Company.
E. Chapter 669, Hawaii Revised Statutes, seta forth acceptable tolerances for
discrepancies in structures or improvements relative to private property
boundaries for various classes of real property. If your survey map shows
a position discrepancy that falls within the tolerances of Chapter 669,
call your title officer as affirmative coverage may be available to
insured lenders.
F. The right is reserved to make additional exceptions and/or requirements
upon examination of all documents s\ibmitted in connection with this
transaction.
G. If a policy of title insurance is issued, it will exclude from coverage
all matters set forth in Schedule B of this report and in the printed
Exclusions from Coverage contained in an ALTA policy or in the Hawaii
Standard Owner’s Policy, as applicable. Different forms may have
different exclusions and should be reviewed. Copies of the policy forms
are available upon request from the Company or on our website at
www.tghawaii.com.
H. Please be aware that due to the conflict between federal and state laws
concerning the cultivation, distribution, manufacture or sale of
marijuana, the Company is not able to close or insure any transaction
involving Land that is associated with these activities.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813. PH; (6Ce) 53S«261
Page 12202147982
DATE PRINTED: 10/01/2021
STATEMENT OP ASSESSED VALUES AND REAL PROPERTY TAXES DUE
TAX MAP KEY
DIVISION ZONE SECTION PLAT PARCEL HPR NO.
102 009 0000(2) 83
16,553 SFAREA ASSESSED:CLASS; INDUSTRIAL
ASSESSED VALUES FOR CURRENT YEAR TAXES: 2021
The records of this division show the assessed values and taxes on
the property designated by Tax Key shown above are as follows:
$ 0BUILDING
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
LAND
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
TOTAL NET VALUE $
$
$
$
$
$
0
0
100
100
0
0
1/01/2016Installment <1 - due 8/20; 2 - due 2/20) Tax Info As Of
Total
Amount
Other
Amount
Interest
Amount
Penalty
Amount
Installment Tax
Amount
Tax
Year
The real property tax information provided is based on information furnished by the respective
counties, is deemed reliable but not guaranteed, and no warranties are given express or
implied. Billing and tax collection details may have changed. Please refer to the appropriate
county real property tax offices for any further information or updates for the subject property.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC23S QUE6N ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII M813. PK (606) 5366261
Page 13202147982
J
V
STATE OF HAWAII
BUREAU OF CONVEYANCES
RECORDED
I \ December 27, 2012 0:01 AM
fj Doc NoCs) A-47440542
[i
^ . V . -■!
Lf
'4
/9/ NICK! ANN THOMPSON
REGISTRAR
KEO9/^2S3
B-32185934
Return by Mail ( ) Pickup { ) To:
Charles W. Loomis
Alexander & Baldwin, LLC.
822 Bishop Street
Honolulu, HI 96813
'KC\
T6igs A1-ZOl(--me"! \M£6-j
Document containa-53 pages
Tax Map Key No. (2) 3-8-006-004:
DECLARATION OF CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REGIME OF
MAUI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY CONDOMINIUM
(managcDB;2234898.)(
I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
Page
1Defined Terms
Name of the Condominium
Description of Land
Division of the Condominium
4.1 Units
4.2 Access
4,3 Common Elements
Common Interest
Description of Buildings
Easements
7.1 In Common Elements
7.2 Additional Easements
Alteration and Transfer of Interests
Use
9.1 Permitted Uses
9.2 Leasing
9.3 Transfer Notices
Administration of Condominium
10.1 Association Obligations
10.2 Unit Owner’s Obligations
10,3 Appointment of Representatives
Service of Process
Common Expenses
12.1 General
12.2 Allocation among Unit Owners.
12.3 Lien and Enforcement
Insurance
13.1 Common Elements
13.2 Unit Owners
Casualty
1.
32.
33.
34.
3
4
4
45.
46,
57.
5
5
58.
59.
5
6
6
610,
6
6
6
611.
612.
6
7
7
713.
7
7
714.
Ilm{krage08:2224898.II
I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
Page
714»1 Common Elements
14.2 Units
Alteration of the Condominium Units
15.1 Right to Alter
15.2 Special Power of Attorney for Building Pennit and Use Applications.
Amendment of Declaration
16.1 General
16.2 Unit Owners' Rights to Amend
16.3 Declarant's Ri^ts to Amend
Declarant's Reserved Rights
17.1 Reserved Right to Subdivide and Consolidate Units
17.2 Reserved Ri^ts to Subdivide Land and Terminate the Condominium
17.3 Grant of Easements and Encroachment Agreements
17.4 Opting Out of Part VI of the Act
17.5 Special Power of Attorney to Exercise Declarant's Rights
17.6 Assignment of Declarant's Rights
Certain Limitations on Remedies
Dispute Resolution.......
19.1 Notice
19.2 Arbitration of Disputes, Controversies and Claims
19.3 Selection of Arbitrator(s)
19.4 Time for Hearing
19.5 Arbitration Process
19.6 Modification of Time Schedule
19.7 Costs of Arbitration
19.8 Provisional Remedies
Conflicts; Changes in Law
Binding Effect
Mortgage Subordination
Invalidity
7
715.
7
8
816.
8
8
9
917.
9
10
11
11
11
12
1218.
1319.
13
13
13
14
14
15
15
15
1520.
1521.
1622.
1623.
iitmanDgeDB;222489«.l 1
2>
t
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
Page
1624. Waiver
25. Captions
26. Compliance with Zoning and Building Ordinances and Codes
27. Condemnation
16
16
16
iiitmanageDB;2224898.II
DECLARATION OF CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REGIME OF
MAUI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY CONDOMINIUM
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC., a Hawaii limited liability company formerly
known as Alexander & Baldwin^ Inc.("Declarant”) with address at 822 Bishop Street, Honolulu,
Hawaii 96813, is the owner in fee simple of certain real property situated at Makawao, Maui,
Hawaii described in Exhibit A attached (the "Land'’) and executes this Declaration as of
December ^ 2012;
The Declarant desires to establish a condominium property regime including units and
common elements, in accordance with the plans filed in the Record Office defined below as
Condominium Map (the "Condominium Map,") which Condominium Map is
incorporated by reference in this Declaration;
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to create a condominium property regime consisting of the
Land and the improvem^ts constructed or to be constructed on the Land (the "Condominium"),
the Declarant submits the Land and all of its interests in the Land to a Condominium Property
Regime est^lished under the Act, Chapter 514B, Hawaii Revised Statutes, as amended,
(the "Act*'), and m^es the following declarations as to divisions, limitations, restrictions,
covenants and conditions, and declares and agrees that the Land is held and shall be held,
conveyed, mortgaged, encumbered, leased, rented, used, occupied and improved subject to the
declarations, restrictions and conditions contained in this Declaration as the same may be
amended from time to time, which declarations, restrictions, and conditions shall constitute
covenants and equitable servitudes running with the Land and shall be binding on and for the
benefit of the Declarant and its successors and assigns, and all subsequent owners, lessees and
sublessees of all or any part of the Condominium:
Defined Terms. The terms used in this Declaration shall have the meanings given to
them in the Act, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Declaration. Unless clearly
repugnant to the context, the following terms, whenever used in this Declaration, shall be given
the following meanings:
1.
’Association" means the Association of Unit Owners of the Condominium acting1.1
together.
Board" means the Board of Directors of the Association elected in accordance1J2
with the Bylaws.
Bylaws" means the Bylaws of the Association of Unit Owners of the
Condominium recorded in the Record Office substantially concurrently with this Declaration.
'Common Elements" means all portions of the Condominium other than the
1.3
1.4
Units.
Common Expenses" means the expenses designated as Common Expenses under1.5
this Declaration.
lm8iug«DB:222489S.H
"Common Interest" means each Unifs undivided percentage interest in the
Common Elements as described in Section 5.
'Condominium*' means the Land, the buildings and all other Improvements on the
land (including the Units and the Common Elements) and all easements, rights and
appurtenances belonging to them, and all other property with respect to which a condominium
property regime shall exist from time to time in accordance with this Declaration.
Conveyed Unit" means a Unit that has been conveyed by a Unit Deed.
1.6
1.7
1.8
Declaration” means this Declaration of Condominium Property Regime, as1.9
amended from time to time.
Declarant" means Alexander & Baldwin, LLC. and its respective successors and1.10
assigns as Declarant.
1.11 "Floor Plane*' for each Unit means the plane parallel to sea level, shown on the
Condominium Map for that Unit. The Floor Plane shown on the Condominium Map refers to
feet above sea level.
1.12 "Include" or "including" means, including without limitation.
1.13 "Improvements" means buildings, fences, walls or other improvements, and all
alterations, additions or replacements to them.
1.14 "Majority" or "Majority of Unit Owners" means the Owners of Units to which are
appurtenant more than fifty percent (50%) of the Common Interests, and any specified
percentage of the Unit Owners means the Owners of Units to which are appurtenant such
percentage of the Common Interests.
1.15 "Mortgage" means any mortgage (together with the promissory notes secured by
the mortgage and security instruments collateral to the mortgage) now or later recorded against
any Unit, together with any increase, amendment, extension, refinancing or recasting of those
documents.
Owner" or "Unit Owner" means a Person owning, or the Persons owning jointly
or in common, a Unit and its appurtenant Contmon Interest, to the extent of such ownership;
p^o^dded that, to such extent and for such purposes, including the exercise of voting rights, as
shall be provided by lease recorded in the Record Office, the lessee of a Unit or interest in it shall
be deemed to be the owner of such Unit, and provided fiirther that, so long as the Act so requires,
the purchaser of a Unit under a recorded agreement of sale shall have all the rights of a Unit
Owner, including the right to vote, provided that the seller may retain such rights to vote on
matters substantially affecting its security interest in the Unit, as the Act shall permit on the date
the agreement of sale is recorded,
’person" means any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, trust, or other fonn of entity.
1.16
1.17
2
]manageDB;2224898.M
1.18 "Recoixl Office" means the Bureau of Conveyances of the State of Hawaii.
1.19 "Record" means record in the Record Office.
1.20 "Subdivision" means the subdivision of the Land as described in Section 17.
1.21 "Unit" means a Unit in the Condominium, within the meaning of that tenn as used
in the Act, as designated and described in this Declaration and shown on the Condominium Map.
1.22 "Unit Deed" means a condominium unit deed conveying a Unit in the
Condominium, together with its appurtenant Common Interest.
Name of the Condomintiitw. The condominium property regime established by this2.
Declaration shall be known as "Maui Economic Opportumty Condominium".
Description of Land. All of the Land is submitted to the condominium property regime.
The Condominium is divided into the followingDivision of the Condominium,
3.
separate freehold estates:
4.
Units. Two (2) separate freehold estates are now established in the spaces within
the imaginary vertical suifaccs and horizontal planes of each of the two (2) Units in the
Condominium, as shown on the Condominium Map. The two (2) Units in the Condominium are
Units 1 and 2 are identified by unit number on die Condominium Map and are located in the
Condominium as shown on the Condominium Map. Each Unit is a three dimensional spatial uiut
at the ^iproximate location and having the approximate dimensions shown on Sheet 1 of the
Condominium Map. Sheet 1 of the Condominium Map shows the perimeter of each Unit and
define its vertical boundaries by metes and bounds and those boundaries are ima^nary surfaces
tbflt extend upwards and downwards from the perimeter at a ninety degree (90®) angle to the
Floor Plane for the Unit. The metes and bounds of the vertical boundaries of the Units arc
described in Exhibit A-1 and A-2. The top horizontal boundary of each Unit is defined by an
imaginary plane parallel to its "Floor Plane" at the elevation above its Floor Plane listed below.
The bottom horizontal boundary of each Unit is defined by an imaginary plane parallel to the
Floor Plane, at the depth below the Floor Plane listed below. Each Unit is the space bounded by
these vertical surfaces and horizontal planes, together with any Improvements within the Unit.
The elevations of each Unit are shown on Sheet 5 of the Condominium Map. The areas within
each Unit's vertical boundaries and height above and depth below Ihe Floor Plane are the
following:
4.1
Feet below
Floor Plane
Floor Plane feet Feet above
above Sea Level Floor PlaneUnit No. Acres
501504510.0401
5045 150227.0192
3
lmanageDa*222489£.l 1
1
Notwithstanding the limits of die Unit and the Declarant's and each Owner's rights to
make alterations within the Units or to modify the Units as provided in Section 15 or in any
other section of this Declaration, any Improvements installed within the Units must comply with
all zoning and building ordinances and codes and all applicable permitting requirements adopted
by the County of Maui, and it may not be possible to install building or other Improvements
within the entire space within the Unit.
Should the descriptions and divisions set forth in this Declaration conflict with the
depictions and divisions shown on the Condominium Map, the Condominium Map shall control.
The Condominium Map, however, is intended to show only the layout, location, boundaries, umt
numbers and dimensions of the Units and elevations of the Units (and the floor plans and
elevations of the buildings within Unit 2) and is not intended and shall not be deemed to contain
or make any other representation or warranty.
Access. Unit 1 has access to Hansen Road a public road via Easement A-1 and
Easement RW-1 within Unit 2 as shown on the Condominium Map. Unit 2 has access to Pulehu
Road and Hansen Road both public roads.
Common Elements. One freehold estate is designated in the Common Elements.
The Common Elements are the Land in fee simple to the extent that it is not part of a Unit,
including:
4.2
4.3
the portion of the Land below each Unit; and
the airspace above each Unit.
Common Interest. Each Unit shall have an appurtenant undivided percentage interest in
the Common Elements of the Condominium, and except as provided in Section 12, the same
proportionate share in all common profits and expenses of frie Condominium and for all other
purposes, including voting, as follows:
Unitl
(a)
(b)
5.
4.23%
95.77%Unit 2
Total
The percentages of Common Interests appurtenant to the Units in the Condominium were
determined by the Declarant.
Description of Buildings. This Declaration does not impose any obligation on the part of
any Unit Owner to make or retain Improvements within the Unit Owner's Unit. As of the date of
diis Declaration there are six (6) single-story buildings located within the boundaries of Unit 2.
The floor plans and elevations of the buildings currently within Unit 2 are shown on Sheets 2, 3
and 4 of the Condominium Map as required by Section 514-33(a) (2) of the Act.
100.00%
6.
4
lmanageDB.-2224898.il
%
7. Easements.
In Common Elements. In addition to any easements described in Exhibit ''A"
each Unit shall have appurtenant nonexclusive easements in the Common Elements for use
according to their respective purposes.
Additional Easements. The Association shall not grant any easement over the
Common Elements, without the unanimous consent of the Unit Owners. Easements may be
granted by Declarant in the exercise of its Reserved Rights. Unit Owners may giant easements
through their respective Units.
Alteration and Transfer of Interests. Except as otherwise provided in Section 15,
Section 17 or in any other sections of this Declaration, the Common Interest and easements
appurtenant to each Unit shall have a permanent character. The Common Interests shall not be
altered without the consent of all Owners of Units affected by the alteration as expressed in an
amendment to this Declaration duly recorded in the Record Office, shall not be separated from
the Unit to which they appertain, and shall be deemed to be conveyed, leased or encumbered
witib such Unit even though not expressly mentioned or described in the conv^ance or other
instrument. The Common Elemwits shall remain undivided, and no right sbail exist to partition
or divide any part of the Common Elemaits except as provided by the Act.
Use.
7,1
7.2
8.
9.
Permitted Uses.
9.1.1 Each Unit may be used for any nonresidential purpose pennitted by
applicable zoning and other laws unless restricted in the Unit Deed or any subsequent deed of the
Unit, The Owners of each Unit shall be liable to the Owners of the other Unit for trespass,
nuisance or other causes of action for persons or materials that enter one Unit from the other Unit
to the same extent that they would be if the Units were subdivided lots.
9.1.2 Unit 2 may be used for limited residential purposes as provided in this
Section 9.1.2. Two structures within Unit 2, shown on the Condominium Map as Building 2 and
Building 3 are currently occupied for residential purposes by retirees and their family members.
As each structure is vacated the structure shall be limited to nonresidential purposes and when
both structures are vacated Unit 2 shall be limited to the nonresidential purposes provided in
Section 9.1.1.
9-1
9.1.3 Each Owner shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Declarant and
other Unit Owners (each an ''Indemnitee'’) from and against all claims, demands, actions, losses,
damages, liabilities, costs and expenses, including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, asserted
against or incurred by Indemnitee, which arise out of any violation of law or injury, death or
damage to person, property or business, that occurs on the indemnifying Owner's Unit, including
but not limited to zoning violations and liability arising from release of hazardous materials onto
the into the Common Elements or other Units; provided, however, this indemnification shall not
apply to claims, demands, actions, losses, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses caused by the
proven (and not merely alleged) willful misconduct of any Indemnitee, and unless the
Indemnitee's willful misconduct shall be established by a final, non-appealable judgment of a
5
(manageDB:222489S.11
Q
court of competent jurisdiction, any Indemnitee shall be entitled to the full benefits of this
indemnification, including the right to reimbursement for all costs and expenses, including
attorneys’ fees, incurred in the defense of any claims or demands asserted by any party against
any Indemnitee.
Leasing. Any Owner leasing all or any part of its Unit shall at all times remain
piitnarily and severally liable to all other Unit Owners and to the Association for any failure on
the part of such Owner's tenant(s) to observe and comply with this Declaration and applicable
laws.
9.2
9.3 Transfer Notices. In order to maintain proper Association records, at least seven
(7) days prior to any transfer, a transferring Unit Owner shall notify the Association in writing of
the name and address of the proposed transferee and the projected date of closing. The failure of
the transferring Unit Owner to furnish such notice shall not operate to invalidate or have any
other effect on the transfer but the new Unit Owner shall have the obligation to give the notice.
10. Adminiatration of r.nndftminiinw.
10.1 Association Obligatioiis. The Association shall be responsible for administration
of the Condominium, and the maintenance and repair, additions, alterations and replacements to
any Improvements of the Common Elements, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
Act and this Declaration.
10.2 Unit Owner's Obligations. The Owner of each Unit, and not the Association,
shall be responsible to keep the Owner’s Unit including all Improvements in the Unit, in good
order and condition. Nothing in this Declaration shall require the Owner of a Unit to retain the
Improvements, which may be demolished by the Unit Owner.
10.3 Appointment of Representatives. Each Unit Owner shall from time to time
appoint a representative with full authority to represent the Unit Owner and on its behalf to make
such agreements or give such consents as may be required from time to time by this Declaration.
11. Service of Process. Service of legal process upon the Association may be made upon any
member of the Board of the Association. Declarant is designated as the agent to receive service
of process until such time as the Declarant designates a successor agent to receive service of
process.
Common Expenses.12.
12.1 General. All charges, costs and expenses, if any, incurred by the Association for
or in connection with the administration of the Condominium, including all charges for taxes
(except real property taxes and such other taxes which are now or may later be assessed
sq)arately on each Unit and its appurtenant Common Interest or the personal property or any
other interest of the Unit Owner), assessments, insurance, any liability whatsoever for loss or
damage arising out of or in connection with the Conunon Elements or any accident, fire or
the Common Elements, costs of repair, reinstatement, rebuilding, replacement, and
restoration of any Improvements in the Common Elements and all other sums designated as
Common Expenses und^ applicable provisions of the Act and this Declaration shall constitute
nuisance on
6
lmanBgeOB:2224898.l
(0
Common Expenses for which Unit Owners shall be severally liable as provided in this
Section 12. However, all charges, costs and expenses incurred by the Association which are
necessitated by the negligence, misuse or neglect of a Unit Owner or occupant or any Person
under either of them shall be charged to such Unit Owner or the Unit Owner of the Unit of such
occupant, as a special assessment secured by the Hen created under this Section 12. Reserve
Funds shall be maintained to the minimum extent required by the Act.
12.2 Aliocatioa among Unit Owners. To the maximum extent practical utility
services shall be charged by the utility provider directly to the Units. If any utility services are
charged to the Association by fee utility provider the costs shall be apportioned in accordance
with use of the utility by check metering or estimates of usage based on consultant reports. All
other Common Expenses of the Condominium shall be allocated based on Common Interests.
12.3 Lien and Enforcement. To the extent required by the Act or in the event that
any Common Expenses are anticipated the Association shall prepare an annual budget and assess
the Common Expenses to the Unit Owners on an annual or other periodic basis. Any assessed
but unpaid Common Expenses shall be secured by a Hen having priority as provided in Section
514B-146 (a) and (b) of the Act. The lien may be foreclosed in the manner provided in Section
514B-146{a) of the Act and assessments not recovered in such foreclosure may be assessed
against the Units in accordance with Section 514B-I46(b) of the Act.
13. Insurance.
13.1 Common Elements. If the Unit Owners unanimously agree or tiie Act require
the same, then the Association shall cany such insurance on the Common Elements as the Unit
Owners shall determine. Premiums for such agreed insurance on the Common Elements shall be
a Common Expense.
13.2 Unit Owners. Each Unit Owner shall be responsible for insuring its Unit, all
Improvements within the Unit and all contents for the Unit Owner’s own benefit and at the Unit
Owner’s own expense.
14. Casualty.
14.1 Common Elements. If there are Improvements to the Common Elements they
shall be rebuilt, repaired or restored unless the Unit Owners vote unanimously not to rebuild,
rq>air or restore.
14.2 Units. Each Unit Owner will determine whether or not to rebuild any
Improvements within its Unit that are damaged or destroyed by any casualty. Any restoration or
repair and any demolition will be at the Unit Owner’s expense. 7^ny Improvements within a Unit
that are not restored or repaired shall be demolished if the damage is visible from the exterior of
the Improvement or if necessary for safety.
15. Alteration of the Condominium Units.
15.1 Right to Alter, No matter what any other provision in this Declaration says, the
Owner of any Unit may from time to time make any Improvements within the Owner’s Unit,
7
ljTiaMeeDB:2224898.H
except to the extent such Improvements may be restricted by the Unit Deed or any subsequent
deed of the Unit. In each case, (a) the Unit Owner shall obtain written approval, including
approval of the Unit Owner's plans for the Improvements, by the appropriate agencies of the
State of Hawaii and the County of Maui, to the extent required by applicable laws and
ordinances and (b) upon completion of the Improvements, the floor area of all Improvements
within the Unit shall not exceed the floor area that would be permitted by applicable laws and
ordinances if the Unit were a subdivided lot with the area shown on die Condominium Map.
Improvements may he undertaken or demolished without an amendment to this Declaration or
filing of a complete set of floor plans of the Improvements. Neither the Association, nor its
Board, shall have the right to approve or disapprove any Improvements, within a Unit except as
required by the Act. To the maximum extent possible the Declarant and the Unit Owners waive
or opt out of any provision of the Act requiring such consent.
15.2 Special Power of Attorney for Building Permit and Use Applications. In the
event the Units are not considered separate zoning lots by the County of Maui, if required by the
building department, or any other agency or department of die County of Maui, each Unit
Owner, with respect to Improvements to be constructed or demolished by the Unit Owner in the
Unit, in accordance widi Section 15.1, shall have the right to apply for building, demolition, ^e
or other permits on behalf of all Owners. Each Unit Owner (the "appointing Owner") appoints
each other Unit Owner (the "applying Owner"), with respect to those uses or Improvement to be
constructed or demolished by the applying Owner in the applying Owner's Unit, as the
appointing Owner's attoniey-in-fact with full power of substitution, to execute and deliver such
permit applications and to do such things on the appointing Unit Owners' bdialf, which grant of
such power, being coupled with an interest, is irrevocable, and shall not be affected by the
disability of such party or parties, and which grant of such power shall be binding upon any
assignee of, or successor-in-interest to, any such party and shall be deemed to be automatically
granted anew by any such assignee or successor-in-interest upon any transfer of any Unit or any
interest in it, whedier by deed, mortgage, lease, agreement of sale, or any other instrument of
This power of attorney shall extend to the amendment ri^t provided in
Section 16.2. However, this power of attorney shall not permit the applying Owner to agree to
any obligations binding on the appointing Owner or any encumbrances on the appointing
Owner’s Unit without the consent of the appointing Owner; and the applying Owner may not use
this power of attorney to give such consent.
16. Amendment of Declaration.
16.1 General. Exc^t as otherwise provided in this Declaration or in portions of the
Act from which the Unit Owners cannot opt out, this Declaration may be amended by the
unanimous affirraative vote or written consent of the Unit Owners. Any amendment to this
Declaration shall be effective only upon the recording in the Record Office of an instrument
setting out the amendment and reciting the vote or written consent, duly executed by the proper
officers of the Association if incorporated, and if not by the Unit Owners.
16.2 Unit Owners* Rights to Amend. In addition to amendments under Section 16.1
each Unit Owner shall have the right to successively amend this Declaration (and, when
applicable, the Condominium Map), without the approval, consent or joinder of any Persons then
owning or leasing any Unit, or any other Person, to make such amendments necessary or
conveyance.
8
ImanageOS:222489&] I
12.
appropriate to reflect such alterations to the Unit which the Unit Owner is pamitted to make in
accordance with Section 15, inclvulmg to the extent required by the Act the "as-built"
amendment for the Improvements. If necessary the amending Unit Owner may use the power of
attorney provided in Section 15,2 in order to effect the amendment.
16.3 Declarant's Rights to Amend, No matter what else this Declaration says.
Declarant shall have the right (but not the obligation) to amend this Declaration (and the
Condominium Map, if appropriate) without the consent or joinder of any Unit owner, lienholder
or other person or entity, for the purpose of meeting any requirement imposed by (i) any
applicable law, (ii) any title insurance company issuing a title insurance policy on the
Condominium or any of the Units, (iii) any institutional lender lending funds on the security of
the Condominium or any of the Units, or (iv) any other govemmenlal or quasi-gpvemmental
agency,. However, except as provided in Section 16, no amendment which would change the
Common Interest ^purt^ant to a Unit or materially change the design, location or size of a Unit
shall be made without the consent of all persons having an interest in that Unit. Developer
cannot use its power of attorney under Section 17.5 to grant itself any consent required by this
Section 16,3.
Declarant's Reserved Rinhts.17.
Reserved Right to Subdivide and Consolidate Units. Declarant shall have the17.1
right:
17.1.1 With respect to any Unit which it owns to: divide the Unit to create two or
more Units provided that the total Common Interest appurtenant to the newly created Units shall
equal the common interest appurtenant to the original Unit.
17.1.2 With respect to Units that it owns to consolidate two or more Units
provided that the common interest in the consolidated Unit is equal to the aggregate of the
common interests
17.1.3 The ri^ts to consolidate and divide may be used together so that Units
may be consolidated and resubdivided in the same amendment.
17.1.4 The rights to further amend the Declaration and adopt bylaws applying
only to such newly created Unit providing for the maintenance, operation, repair, replacement
and insurance of any facilities used in common by the newly created Units and the creation of
assessments of the newly created Units to pay the costs of such functions.
Any such alteration, division or consolidation of Unit(s) shall be effective if these procedures are
followed:
(a) Declarant records or causes to be recorded an amendment to this
Declaration describing the Unit(s) in question and setting out at least: (1) a description of the
newly formed Unit(s); (2) any provisions adopted in accordance with Section 17.1.4; (3) in the
of the consolidation of Units, the common interest appurtenant to the newly formed Unit,
which shall be calculated by adding together the common interests for the Units to be
consolidated; (4) in the case of the division of  aUnit the common interest appurtenant to each of
the newly formed Units, which shall equal the total of the common inlerest appurtenant to the
case
9
lmanageDB:2224g98.l)
(3
onginal Unit. In the event of concurrent consolidation and resubdivision the common interests
of the resulting Units shall equal the total Common Interests of all Units consolidated; and
Declarant shall record or cause to be recorded an amaidment to the
Condominium Map for the Unit<s) being subdivided or consolidated complying with
Section 514B-34; and
(b)
(c) Any such alteration shall comply in all respects with all applicable
governmental codes, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, or with all variances granted
from them.
17.1:5 In the event that Declarant as grantor and the grantee agree in a Unit Deed
that the transaction constitutes the sale of units in bulk under the provisions of
Section 514B-51(b)(3) of the Act, then the rights of Declarant under this Section 17.1 shall be
held by the grantee under the Unit Deed with respect to the Unit or Units conveyed by the Unit
Deed.
17.2 Reserved Rights to Subdivide Land and Terminate the Condominium.
Declarant has applied for subdivision approval of the Land into three (3) lots. One lot shall have
the same perimeter boundaries as die vertical boundaries of Unit 1 (’’Lot 1”). The other lots shall
have perimeter boundaries (excluding their common boundary) that are the same as the vertical
boundaries of Unit 2 ("Lot 2 and "Roadway Lot"). Declarant reserves the ri^t to take all actions
that Declarant considers necessary or desirable in connection with the processing of the
Subdivision, including any action to satisfy conditions of Subdivision approvd, such as entering
into covenants, designating or granting easements or making any change to the proposed
Subdivision map. Declarant shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to pursue, process and
obtain such Subdivision.
17.2.1 Notwithstanding the foregoing, Declarant shall not designate any
easements affecting Unit 1 without the Unit 1 owner’s prior written consent, whidi consent may
be withheld in the Unit 1 Owner's sole discretion; except that such consent shall not be required
for any easement lying within fifteen (15) feet of any boundary of Unit I.
17.2.2 Within a conunercially reasonable time after final approval of the
Subdivision, Declarant shall have the ri^t to and shall terminate the condominium property
regime. Concurrently the Owners of the Units shall execute all necessary documents to convey
fee simple title to Lot I to the Owner of Unit 1, to convey fee simple title to Lot 2 to the Owner
of Unit 2 and convey fee simple title to the Roadway Lot, at the election of the Owner of Unit 2,
either to the Owner of Unit 2 or to the County of Maui for roadway widening purposes.
17.2.3 Conveyances under this Section 17.2 will be subject only to: (a) the
recorded encumbrances currently on the l^and; the designation of such easements as may be
shown on the approved Subdivision map subject to the limitation contained in Section 17.2.1, (b)
any grants of easement made in accordance with Declarant's reserved ri^ts under this
Declaration and required for such Subdivision subject to the limitation contained in Section
17.2.1 and (d) such covenants, if any, as any governmental authority may require as a condition
of approving the Subdivision. It is anticipated that Unit 1 will be conveyed by Declarant prior to
10
imanagcDB;2224S98.JI
1^
Subdivision approval. The conveyance of Unit I shall also contain such disclaimers, indemnities
and other pro^dsions as the Unit Deed to Unit 1 except those specific to the conveyance of a
condominium Unit. The conveyance of Unit 1 shall be together with and with the benefit of,
such appurtenances and easements which benefit Unit 1 under the terms of its Unit Deed, or of
which Unit 1 shall have received the benefit after the recording of said Unit Deed. Declarant
reserves the ri^t to take all actions, which may include the execution, acknowledgment, delivery
and filing of any instruments as Declarant considers necessary or desirable in connection with
withdrawal and conveyance.
D^larant reserves the ri^t to take all actions necessary or in Declarant’s ojpinion
desirable to carry out the Subdivision, withdrawal, termination and conveyance described in this
Section 17.2, The rights of Declarant to convey lots under this Section 17.2 and the power of
attorney granted to Declarant by Section 17.5 to convey such lots, will survive the withdrawal of
land and termination of the condominium property regime.
17.3 Grant of Easements and Encroachment Agreements. Srtbject to the limitation
contained in Section 17JS.1, Declarant reserves the right from time to time to designee or
relocate any and all easements for access, electrical, gas, tel^hone, cable television,
communicatiDns and other utility purposes, easements for sanitary sewer, drainage and drain
line, waterline, irrigation and flowage purposes, easements for all other purposes and
encroachment agreements, over, under, across, along, upon and through the Land, and to take
such actions (which shall include the execution, aclmowledgment, delivery and filing of any
instrumrats) as Declarant considers necessary or desirable in connection with the same,
including the obtaining of all necessary governmental approvals of subdivision m^s and
recording surveyor's certifications of metes and bounds descriptions. To the extent any such
easement is throu^ a Unit not owned by Declarant or encroachment agreement is onto or fiom a
Unit not owned by Declarant, it is a condition of Declarant's ri^t under this Section 173 that
5U(^ easement or encroachment agreements shall not have a material adverse impact on the use
of the Unit. In the event any easement shown on the Condoraimum M^, is relocated by
Declarant in die exercise of any rights reserved in this Declaration or in a Unit Deed then
Declarant's rights shall include the ri^t to amend the Condominium Map to reflect such
relocation.
17.4 Opting Out of Part VI of the Act. After the Condominium is limited to
nonresidential use in accordance with Section 9.1 Declarant may amend this Declaration to elect
that Part VI of the Act entitled Management of Condominiums shall not apply to this
Condominium, as permitted by Section 514B-101 (b) of the Act, except that Section 514B-132
entitled Managing Agents shall apply so long as that is required by Section 514B-101 of the Act.
In the event that Declarant amends this Declaration to make such election then Declarant may
also either terminate the Bylaws or may amend the Bylaws to delete or amend those portions of
the Bylaws that Declarant deems unsuitable for a nonresidential Condominium.
17.5 Special Power of Attorney to Exercise Declarant's Rights. Each and every
party acquiring an interest in the Condominium or the Land by such acquisition consents to the
rights reserved by Declarant under this Section 17 and elsewhere in this Declaration and:
11
lrran3geDB;222489S.11
1^
17*5.1 acknowledges and agrees that the activities in connection with die
Subdivision may result in noise and nuisances and consents to such activity by Declarant and its
assigns;
17.5.2 consents to the actions contemplated by this Section 17 including to the
granting or reception of easements and rights-o^way provided in this Section 17, and to every
other act taken by or right reserved to Declarant under this Section 17 and elsewhere in this
Declaration;
17.53 agrees to execute, deliver and record such documents and instruments and
to do such other things as may be necessary or convenient in the opinion of Declarant to effect
the same, including any subdivision, consolidation or pemiit applications, any amendments of
this Declaration or the Condominium Map, and any grant of easements or amendments to them;
and appoints Declarant and its assigns as attomey-in-fact widi full power of substitution to
execute, deliver and record such documents and instruments and to do such things on its behalf,
which grant of such power, being coupled with an interest, is irrevocable, and shall not be
affected by the disability of such party or parties, and which grant of such power shall be binding
upon any assignee of, or successor-in-interest to, any such party and shall be deemed to be
automatically granted anew by any such assignee or successor-in-interest upon any transfer of
any Unit or any interest in it or lien over it, whether by deed, mortgage, lease, agreement of sale,
or any other instrument of conveyance;
17.5.4 consents to the recording in the Record Office of any and all documents
that in the opinion of Declarant are necessary or usefiil to effect Declarant's reserved rights,
including any easements and any amendments of this Declaration, Condominium Map or any
Unit De^; and
17.5.5 further waives, releases and discharges any rights, claims or actions that
such party may acquire against Declarant, any of its affiliates, or any of employees and lenders,
and their respective successors and assies as a result of any such activity or activities.
17.6 Assignment of Declarant's Rights. The ri^ts reserved to Declarant in this
Declaration shall be fully assignable by Declarant, and Declarant may assi^ or mortgage or
grant a security interest in whole or in part in any rights reserved to Declarant in this Declaration
by a recorded instrument specifically assigning or mortgaging or granting a security interest in
such rights, but such rights shall be held by only one person or entity at any time unless the
assignment specifically provides otherwise and such assigned rights shall be subject to such
reservations in favor of Declarant as the assignment document provides. Every Owner of a Unit
in the Condominium and all holders of liens affecting any of the Units and each and every other
party acquiring an interest in the Condominium or in the Land or any part of it, by acquiring such
Unit, lien or other interest, consents to any such assignment by Declarant, and. to the extent
designated by Declarant, agrees to recognize any assignee as the "Declarant" under this
Declaration.
Certain Limitations on Remedies. None of the Persons comprising a Unit C^ner
(whether partners, shareholders, officers, directors, members, trustees, employees, beneficiaries
or otherwise) shall ever be personally liable for any judgment obtained by a Unit Owner against
18.
12
lminAgeDB:2224898.l I
another Unit Owner. Each Unit Owner agrees to look solely to the interest of a defaulting Unit
Owner in the Condominiim) for recovery of damages for any breach of this Declaration or any
Unit Deed. However, the preceding sentence shall not in any way impair, limit or prejudice the
right of a Unit Owner; (a) to recover from another Unit Owner all damages and costs on account
of, or in connection wift, casualty insurance or condemnation proceeds which are not applied or
used in accordance with the terms of this Declaration and the Act; (b) to recover from another
Unit Owner all damages and costs arising out of or in connection with, or on account of, a breach
by such Unit Owner of its obligations under the applicable provisions of this Declaration or any
Unit Deed; (c) to recover from a Unit Owner damages and costs arising out of or in
connection with, or on account of, the failure by such Unit Owner to pay when due any tax,
assessment or lien required hereunder; and (d) to pursue equitable relief in coimection with any
term, covenant or condition of this Declaration, including a proceeding for temporary restraining
order, preliminary injunction, permanent mjunction or specific perfonnance, and recover all
costs, including interest on them at the statutory rate, relating to such enforcement action.
Dispute Resolution. The following provisions shall apply in the event that a dispute
arises out of this Declaration or regarding the Condominium;
19.1 Notice. The parties agree to have any dispute arising out of this Declaration or
regarding the Condominium decided under binding arbitration as provided by Hawaii law and in
this Section 19, except as otherwise pro^dded in the Act, and are giving up any rights they might
possess to have the dispute litigated in court. If any party refuses to submit to arbitration after
agreeing to this provision, the refusing party may be compelled to arbitrate under the authority of
the Hawaii statutes.
19.2 Arbitration of Disputes. Controvecsies and Claims. Except as provided in this
Section 19 or elsewhere in this Declaration or in the Act, any dilute, controversy or claim
arising out of or relating to this Declaration, including, but not limited to, any dispute regarding
whether such disputes, controversies, or claims are subject to arbitration, and any action
sounding in tort or breach of any duty or obligation shall be resolved by arbitration conducted
only in the manner set forth in this Section 19.
19.3 Selection of Arbitrator(s>.
19.3.1 At any time that a matter which is to be resolved by arbitration pursuant to
this Section 19 is unresolved, any party may appoint an arbitrator, who need not be a
disinterested person but who shall have at least five (5) years of expenence in the subject matter
of the arbitration, and give written notice to any other party of such appointment. Within twenty
(20) days after receipt of such notice, the othar party shall appoint an arbitrator, who need not be
a disinterested person but who shall have at least five (5) years of experience in the subject
matter of the arbitration, and give written notice of such appointment to the original party. The
two arbitrators shall appoint a third arbitrator and give written notice thereof to both parties. If
there are more than two parties to the arbitration, and the parties fail to agree upon the arbitrators
within twenty (20) days after one party gives notice to the others of its selection of an arbitrator,
then any party shall have the right to request any judge of the First Circuit Court of the State of
Hawaii to make such selection, as provided in Chapter 658A, Hawaii Revised Statutes, as
amended, or any successor statute ("Chapter 658A").
19,
13
(manag«DB:2224898.n
II
19.3.2 The third arbitrator shall be a disinterested person who has at least five (5)
years of experience in matters pertaining to the matter sought to be arbitrated. No peison may be
selected as the third arbitrator if that person represented or was employed by any party to the
arbitration or any other person involved in die dispute within the 5-year period prior to such
selection.
193.3 If a party fails to appoint its arbitrator as provided in this Section 19, the
first arbitrator selected shall proceed alone to determine the dispute in the manner herein
provided. If, within twenty (20) days after appointment of the second arbitrator, the two
arbitrators appointed by the parties shall fail to appoint a third arbitrator, the two arbitrators shall
give the parties written notice of such failure, and if the parties fail to agree upon the selection of
a third arbitrator within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice, then either party shall have the
right to requ^t any judge of the First Circuit Court of the First Circuit of the State of Hawaii to
make such selection as provided in Chapter 65SA.
19.3.4 In the event of the failure, refusal or inability of any arbitrator to act, a
new arbitrator shall be appointed in his or her stead, which appointment shall be made in the
hereinbefore provided for the appointment of the arbitrator so failing, refusingsame manner as
or unable to act.
19.4 Time for Hearinig. The arbitrator or aibitratois so appointed shall promptly fix a
time and place in Honolulu, Hawaii, for hearing the dispute to be arbitrated. Unless the parties
mutually agree otherwise, the time for the hearing shall be no later than sixty (60) days after the
appointment of the final aibitrator, subject to any extensions granted by a majority of the
arbitrators for good cause; provided, however, foat any extension which would set the hearing
more than six (6) months fi’om the date that foe final arbitrator is appointed must be consented to
in writing by both parties. The arbitrators shall give both parties written notice of the time and
place for the hearing at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date so fixed.
19.5 Arbitration Process.
19.5.1 The arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 658A, and
the arbitrator(s) shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by Chapter 658A. Judgment may
be entered upon such decision and award as provided in Chapter 658A.
19.5.2 TTie arbitrators shall conduct the hearing and determine foe matter in
accordance with the Commercial Rules and under fo eauspices of Dispute Prevention &
Resolution, Inc., Honolulu, Hawaii 96813 ("DPR"); provided, however, that if DPR shall not be
in business, arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with foe Commercial Rules and under
the auspices of the Am^can. Arbitration Association, if it then maintains an office in Honolulu,
such other organization that maintains an office in Honolulu, as the parties may agree on; and
provided, further, that if there is any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this
Section 19 and said Commercial Rtiles, this Section 19 shall govern.
19.5.3 The parties shall each be entitled to present evidence and argument to foe
arbitrators and to be represented by counsel. Other than the production of documents, the parties
must agree, in their sole discretion, to further discovery.
or
14
lmanag«DB:2224S98.n
19.5.4 No matter what else this Section 19 says the arbitrators shall have the
right only to interpret and apply the terms, covenants, agreements, provisions, conditions or
limitations of this Declaration, and may not change any such terms, covenants, agreements,
provisions, conditions or limitations or deprive any party to this Declaration of any right or
remedy expressly or impliedly provided in this Declaration.
19.5.5 The arbitration award shall be in writing and shall be acknowledged or
approved by a majority of the arbitrators in like manner as a deed for the conveyance of real
estate and delivered to one of the parties, A copy of the arbitration award shall be delivered to
the other party. The written determination shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law.
The determination of a majority of the arbitrators shall detennine the question arbitrated, or any
other matters to be decided by the arbitrators and such determination ^all be final, binding and
conclusive upon the parties.
19.5.6 Unless the parties mutually agree in writing otherwise, if two of the three
arbitrators shall fail to rea^ an agreement and the determination of the matter in question within
thirty (30) days after the final hearing on the matter, or within then (10) days shall fail to reach
an agreement and the determination of any other matters to be decided by the arbitrators, upon
written demand of either party to the other, the matter shall be decided by three (3) new
arbitrators, who shall be appointed and shall proceed in the manner set forth in this Section 19,
and the process shall be rep^ed until a decision is finally reached by two of the three arbitrators
selected.
19.6 Modification of Time Schedule. The parties may mutually agree in writing to
modify the time schedule set forth above.
19.7 Costs of Aibitration. Each party shall be responsible for the fees of the arbitrator
it appointed, and the costs and fees of its counsel and experts. The parties shall equally share the
fees of the third arbitrator and all other costs and expenses of the arbitration proceedings.
19.8 Provisional Remedies. No provision of this Section 19 limits the rights of any
party to exercise self-help remedies legally available or to obtain provisional or ancillary
remedies from a court of competent jurisdiction before, after or during the pendency of any
arbitration or other proceeding. The exocise of such a remedy does not waive the right of either
parly to resort to arbitration and shall not constitute a default in proceeding with arbitration.
Conflicts: Changes in Law. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the
provisions of the Act and this Declaration, and in the event that the Unit Owners have no power
under the Act to opt out of such provisions, the provisions of the Act shall prevail. In the event
any change in the Act shall result in a conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of the Act
and this Declaration, the provisions of the Act shall prevail only to the extent required by law. If
change in the Act provides that "except as provided in the Declaration" or similar words a
provision of the Act shall apply, then this Declaration shall be deemed to contain such an
exception.
20.
a
Rindiniy FfFect. The terms of this Declaration and all easements granted under this
Declaration shall constitute covenants and equitable servitudes running with the Land and the
21.
15
ImanageDB;222489SJI
Units, shall be binding upon and inure to die benefit of the Declarant, the Owners of any Unit
and their respective successors and assigns.
Mortgage Subordination. Any Mortgage affecting any portion of the Condominium
shall at all times be subject and subor^ate to the terms of this Declaration, regardless of the
order of recording, and any party foreclosing any such Mortgage or acquiring title by deed in lieu
of foreclosure or trustee sale shall acquire title subject to all of the terms and provisions of this
Declaration. This provision shall not however invalidate any provision in a Mortgage requiring
the mortgagor to obtain the consent of the mortgagee to any action that can be taken by the
mortgagor acting alone under this Declaration. For example, as between the mortgagor or the
mortgagee the mortgagor may have an obligation to obtain the mortgagee’s consent before
constructing Improvements on file Unit
Invalidity. The invalidity of any provision of this Declaration shall not be deemed to
impair or affect in any manner the validity, enforceability or effect of the remainder of this
Declaration, and in such event, ail of file other provisions of this Declaration shall continue in
fill! force and effect as if the invalid provision had never been included in this Declaration.
Waiver. No provision contained in this Declaration shall be deemed to have been
abrogated or waived by reason of any failure to enforce the same, irrespective of the number of
violations or breaches which may occur.
Captions. The captions in this Declaration are inserted only as a matter of convenience
and for reference, and in no way define, limit or describe the scope of this Declaration or the
intent of any of its provision.
Comptiqnce with Zoning and Building Ordinances and Codes. The Declarant declares
subject to the penalties set forth in Section 514B-69 of Act that this Condominium conforms to
the existing underlying county zoning for the Condominium, zoning and building ordinances and
codes and all applicable permitting requirements adopted by the county in which the
Condominium is located, all in accordance with Sections 514B-5 and 32(a)(13) of the Act. To
the best of the Declarant's knowledge no variances have been granted to achieve such
compliance. As the result of adoption or amendment of ordinances or codes the Condominium
may contain legal nonconforming conditions, uses or structures,
CnnHemnarinn. No matter what else this Declaration says, if all or any portion of a Unit
is taken or condemned by any authority or conveyed under threat of condemnation, all
compensation and damages payable for or on account of the Unit shall be payable to the Own©:
of the Unit.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
16
Imanage08;2224898.l]
'JJD
The Declarant has signed this Declaration as of the date in the introductory paragraph.
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, LLC,
a Hawaii limited liability company
By:
Name: Chrisibpher
Title: President
famm
By:
Name: Charles wTLoomis
Title: Assistant Secretary
Declarant
17
lmanBgeDB;2224898.)
0^
)STATE OF HAWAn
)  SS:
CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU )
On this 19th day of December, 2012, before me personally appeared
CHRISTOPHER J. BENJAMIN, to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn or
affomed, did say that such peison executed foe foregoing instrument as foe foee act and deed of
such person, and if applicable in the capacity shown, having been duly aufooiized to execute such
instrument in such capacity.
N0.96-2S
"
Notary Public, State of Hawaii
Printed Name: Leimomi Clark
s
/* My commission expires: 01/30/2016
NOTARY CERTIFICATIQN STATEMENT
Document Identification or Description; Declaration of Condominium
Property Regime of Maui Economic Opportunity Condominium
j 2012 or SI Undated at time of notarization.Doc. Date:
Jurisdiction: First Circuit
Qn which notarial act is performed)
ij
i: 53I. o:
December 19.20124 Date of Notarization andHgnature of Notary
Certification Statement
('Leimomi Oark
Printed Name of Notary
18
IiittnageOB:2224898.11
)STATE OF HAWAH
)  SS:
CriY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU )
On this 19th day of December, 2012, before me personally appeared CHARLES W.
LOOMIS, to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn or afhimed, did say that such
person executed the foregoing instrument as the free act and deed of such person, and if ^plicable
in the capacity shown, having been duly authorized to execute such instrument in such edacity.
Notary Public, State of
Printed Name: Laura L.T.Nagasawa
My commission expires: 06/28/2016
(Official Stamp or Seal)
NOTARY CERTIFICATrON STATEMENT
Document Identification or Description: Declaration of Condominium
Proper^ Regime of Maui Economic Opportunity Condominium
or S Undated at time of notarization.Doc. Date:
Jurisdiction: First Circuit
Signature of Notary U
No. of Pages: 53
December 19.2012
Date of Notarization and
Certification Statement
(Official Stamp or Seal)LawftUT.Naswawa
Printed Name of Notary
19
Imana8cOB:2224898.1l
EXHIBIT A
AH of that certain parcel of land, being a portion of Lot 2-C-4-C-1 of the First Assembly of God
Subdivision, being also a portion of Grant 3343 to Claus Spreckels situated at Puunene, Wailuku,
Island and County of Maui, State of Hawaii, being also LOT 2-C-4-C-1-E of the "FIRST
ASSEMBLY OF GOD SUBDIVISION”, approved by the Department of Public Works, County
of Maui, on May 31,2011, corrected and accepted on May 18,2012.
Beginning at a pipe at the northwesterly comer of this lot, of the nordieasterly side of Puunene
Avenue, said pipe being also the southwesterly comer of Lot 2-C-4-C-1-A of the First Assembly
of God Subdivision, the coordinates of said point of beginning referred to Government Survey
Triangulation Station "LUKE" being 2,889.63 feet South and 13,108.21 feet East and running by
azimuths measured clockwise from Tme South:
340.30 feet along Lot 2-C-4-C-1-A of the First Assembly of
God Subdivision to a pipe;
3,628.00 feet along same and along Lot 2-C-4C-1-B of the First
Assembly of God Subdivision to a point;
Thence along Lot 2-C-4-C-1-B of the First Assembly of God Subdivision on a curve to
the right with a radius of 1,000.00 feet, the chord
azimuth and distance being:
255“ 15' 350.16 feet to apoint;
348.01 feet along Lot 2-C-4-C-1-B of the First Assembly of
God Subdivision to a point;
312.58 feet along same to a point;
252° 30'
245° 10'
20'265°
08’203°
20.01 feet along same to apoint;
345.03 feet along the southwesterly side of Pulehu Road to a
point;
1,770.20 feet along same to a point;
432.54 feet along same to a point;
Thence along the westerly intersection of Pulehu Road and Hansen Road on a curve to
the right with a radius of 50.00 feet, the chord
azimuth and distance being:
12® 33* 35" 83.92 feet to a point;
Thence along the northerly side of Hansen Road on  acurve to the left with a radius of
974,93 feet, the chord azimuth and distance being;
68° 18' 05" 44.85 feet to a point;
214° 57'
321° 28’
318° 43
315° 30’
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6,
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
Exhibit A
1 of 10
tmanageDB:222469S.lt
480.00 feet along the northerly side of Hansen Road to a point;
Thence along same on a curve to the right with a radius of 2,844.79 feet, the chord
azimuth and distance being:
69® 59' 297.77 feet to a point;
630.00 feet along the northerly side of Hansen Road to a point;72® 59’
Thence along same on a curve to the right with a radius of 696.20 feet, the chord azimuth
and distance being:
82® 59* 241.79 feet to a point;
187.11 feet along the northerly side of Hansen Road to a point;
Thence along same on a curve to the left with a radius of 736.20 feet, the chord azimuth
and distance being:
83® 26' 244.28 feet to a point;
407.33 feet along the northerly side of Hansen road to a point;
Thence along same on a curve to the left with a radius of 378.10 feet, the chord azimuth
and distance being:
56° 23' 227.39 feel to a point;
268.88 feet along the northerly side of Hansen Road to a point;
Thence along same on a curve to the right with a radius of 389.26 feet, the chord azimuth
and distance being:
62® 24' 310.64 feet to a point;
789.97 feet along the northerly side of Hansen Road to a point;
Thence along same on a curve to the right with a radius of 355.00 feet, the chord azimuth
and distance being:
no® ir 03" 291.81 feet to a point;
Thence along same on a curve to the left with a radius of 530.00 feet, the chord azimuth
and distance being:
96® 29’ 48" 651.95 feet to a point;
58® 32' 30" 531.21 feet along the northerly side of Hansen Road to a point;
92® 59’
73® 53'
38® 53'
85® 55*
148® 32' 30" 8.00 feet along same to a point;
58® 32' 30" 78.30 feet along same to a point;
Thence along same on a curve to the ri^t with a radius of 50.00 feet, the chord azimuth
and distance being:
103® 59' 71.25 feet to a point;
66® 59’12.
13,
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20,
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
Exhibit A
2 of 10
9^lmanagcDB:2224896.It
along the northeasterly side of Punnene Avenue to a
point;
along same to the point of beginning and containing
an Area of237.059 Acres.
29. 149^ 25’ 30’ 1,034.97 feet
418.21 feet30. 149^ 00'
SUBJECT, HOWEVER to the following:
Real Property Taxes, if any, that may be due and owing.
Tax Key; (2) 3-8-006-004 Area Assessed; 237.059 acres
The land may be subject to possible rollback or retroactive property taxes due to possible
loss of exemption status.
Mineral and water rights of any nature in favor of the State of Hawaii.
Triangulation Survey Station "LUKE" located within the land described herein, as shown
on the Tax Map. Attention is invited to the provisions of Section 172-13 of the Hawaii
Revised Statutes, relative to destruction, defacing or removal of survey monuments.
Flumes and ditches, as contained in EXCHANGE DEED dated June 23, 1924, recorded
in Liber 740 at Page 134.
GRANT
1.
2.
3.
4,
5.
MAUI ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED
May 25,1982
Liber 16383 Page 392
a perpetual right and easement over Easement "1" for utility
purposes
TO
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
6. GRANT
COUNTY OF MAUITO
Septembers, 1985
Liber 19066 Page 747
a non-exclusive easement over Easement
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING to construct,
reconstruct, maintain, operate, repair and remove  awater pipeline
or pipelines
1
The teims and provisions contained in the following;7.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (AGRICULTURAL USE)INSTRUMENT
March 10,1987DATED
Exhibit A
3 of 10
lmaRag«OB;2224S98.H
Liber21l28 Page275
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. and the COUNTY OF
MAUI, through its Department of Public Works
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:8.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)
March 10,1987
Liber 21128 Page 284
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation,
and the COUNTY OF MAUI
INSTRUMENT
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:9.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)
January 5,1988
Liber 21534 Page 206
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation,
and the COUNTY OF MAUI
INSTRUMENT
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:10.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (THREE LOTS OR LESS)INSTRUMENT
January 5,1988
Liber 21534 Page 215
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN. INC., a Hawaii corporation,
and the COUNTY OF MAUI
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:11.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (THREE LOTS OR LESS)INSTRUMENT
June 14,1995
Document No. 95-089570
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., and the COUNTY OF
MAUI
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:12.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)INSTRUMENT
June 27,1995
Document No. 95-089571
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., and the COUNTY OF
MAUI
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
Exhibit A
4ofl0
'XIlmanage08:2224g9A.M
The terms and provisions contained in the following:13.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)INSTRUMENT
June 14,1995
Document No. 95-094770
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., and the COUNTY OF
MAUI
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:14.
DEFERRAL OF SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENT
AGREEMENT
INSTRUMENT
July 13.1995
Document No. 95-114079
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation,
and the DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY of the
County of Maui
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:15.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (DEFERRAL OF ROAD
WIDENING LOTS)
November 9,1995
Document No. 95-147052
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation,
and the COUNTY OF MAUI, a political subdivision of the
Stale of Hawaii
INSTRUMENT
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:16.
DEFERRAL OF SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS
AGREEMENT
INSTRUMENT
Augusts!, 1995
Document No. 95-158022
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation,
and the DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY of the
County of Maui
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:17.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (AGRICULTURAL USE)INSTRUMENT
June 14, 2000
Document No. 2000-087672
DATED
RECORDED
Exhibit A
5ofl0
ln«inagcDB:222489S.ll
%
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., and the COUNTY OF
MAUI, through its Department of Public Works and Waste
Management, a body politic and corporate, and a political
subdivision of the State of Hawaii
PARTIES
DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "1118.
electrical transmission line
on tax map
The terms and provisions contained in the following;
PURPOSE
SHOWN
19.
DECLARATION OF CONDITIONS
— (acknowledged April 19,2004)
Document No. 2004-078771
INSTRUMENT
DATED
RECORDED
Joinder by ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC., a Hawaii corporation, dated —
(adknowledged April 19,2004), recorded as Document No. 2004-078772.
The terms and provisions contained in the following:
DECLARATION OF CONDITIONSINSTRUMENT
20.
June 27,2005
Document No. 2005-128814
DATED
RECORDED
DECLARATION OF EASEMENT dated January 17, 2007, recorded as Document No.
2008-010966, le: Easement 1 for underground sewer lines in favor of Parcel 1, running in
various locatioirs as further described therein.
The terms and provisions contained in the following:
21.
22.
UNILATERAL AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION
FOR CONDITIONAL ZONING
INSTRUMENT
November 18,2009
Document No. 2009-187098
MAUI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY, INC., a Hawaii
non-profit corporation, "MEO”, and ALEXANDER &
BALDWIN, INC., a Hawai'i corporation, "Declarant”
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:23.
AGREEMENT FOR ALLOCATION OF FUTURE
SUBDIVISION POTENTIAL
INSTRUMENT
March 23, 2011
Document No. 2011-051296
DATED
RECORDED
Exhibit A
6ofl0
Itnanagc0a:2224g98.|]
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. and A&B
PROPERTIES. INC., ’'Subdivider", and the COUNTY OF
MAUI, through its Department of Public Works, a political
subdivision of the State of Hawaii, "County"
PARTIES
The tenns and provisions contained in the following:24.
FIRST AMENDED AND RESTATED SUBDIVISION
AGREEMENT (LARGE LOTS)
April 18.2011
Document No. 2011-065270
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. and A&B
PROPERTIES, INC., "Owner", and the COUNTY OF
MAUI, through its Department of Public Works, a body
politic and corporate, and a political subdivision of the
State of Hawaii
INSTRUMENT
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The foregoing Restated Agreement supercedes in its entirety fliat certain Agreement
dated September 2,2009, recorded as Document No. 2009-139108.
25. GRANT
MAUI ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED, a Hawaii corporation,
and HAWAIIAN TELCOM, INC., a Hawaii corporation
TO
March 17,2011
Document No. 2011-053742
perpetual ri^t and easement for utility purposes as shown on the
map attached thereto
The terms and provisions contained in the following:
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING a
26.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (AGRICULTURAL USE)INSTRUMENT
March 30,2011
Document No. 2011-057405
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN, INC. and A&B
PROPERTIES, INC., "Owner", and the COUNTY OF
MAUI, through its Department of Planning, a body politic
and corporate, and a political subdivision of the State of
Hawaii
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:27.
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT (SECTION l8.04.030.B-5
EXCEPTION)
INSTRUMENT
Exhibit A
7 of 10
tm8nageDB:222489S.I I
3b
Aprill8,20H
Document No. 2011-065269
A&B properties, INC. and ALEXANDER &
BALDWIN. INC., "Owner*', and the COUNTY OF MAUI,
through its Department of Public Works, a body politic and
corporate, and a political subdivision of the State of
Hawaii, "County"
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "E-l"28.
electricalPURPOSE
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land Surveyor,
dated May 28, 2008, last revised March 10,2011, approved by the
Director of Public Worics, County of Maui, on May 31, 2011, as
Subdivision Number 3.2208 corrected and accepted on May 18,
2012.
SHOWN
29. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "E-2
electrical
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land Surveyor,
dated May 28,2008, last revised March 10,2011, approved by the
Director of Public Works, County of Maui, on May 31, 2011, as
Subdivision Ntanber 3.2208 corrected and accepted on May 18,
2012.
PURPOSE
SHOWN
n30. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "E-3
electrical
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land Surveyor,
dated May 28, 2008, last revised March 10, 2011, approved by the
Director of Public Works, County of Maui, on May 31, 2011, as
Subdivision Number 3,2208 corrected and accepted on May 18,
2012.
PURPOSE
SHOWN
Exhibit A
8 of 10
linanag«DB:2224mi I
DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT ”E-4’31.
electricalPURPOSE
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land Surveyor,
dated May 28, 2008, last revised March 10,2011, approved by the
Director of Public Works, County of Maui, on May 31, 2011, as
Subdivision Number 3.2208 corrected and accept^ on May 18,
2012.
SHOWN
32. DESIGNATION OF EASEMENT "E-5
electricalPURPOSE
on subdivision map prepared by Ken T. Nomura, Land Surveyor,
dated May 28, 2008, last revised March 10, 2011, approved by the
Director of Public Works, County of Maui, on May 31, 2011, as
Subdivision Number 3.2208 corrected and accepted on May 18,
2012.
SHOWN
33. GRANT
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN LLC., a Hawaii limited liability
company
December 2012
Document No.
DMA47440U4
DeceinlMr27.20126:01 AM
a perpetual nonexclusive easement over Easement ”lR-r* for
irrigation purposes
TO
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
34. GRANT
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN LLC., a Hawaii limited liability
company
December ^7,2012
Document No.
OoeA-4744053d
DM«mber27,2012 8:01 AM
a perpetual nonexclusive easement over Easement "S-IA” for
sewer purposes
TO
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
35. GRANT
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN LLC., a Hawaii limited liability
company
December y?, 2012
Document No.
QoeAr4744QS38
D«e8mb«r27.2012 8:01 AM
TO
DATED
RECORDED :
Exhibit A
9 of 10
lmanagcD6;222489S.U
a peipetual nonexclusive easement over Easement "S-IB" for
sewer purposes
GRANTING :
36. GRANT
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN LLC., a Hawaii limited liability
company
December ^7.2012
Document No.
DqcA47440S3$
Oeeefflber27,20126:01 AM
a perpetual nonexclusive easement over Easement "S-3” for sewer
purposes
TO
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
37. GRANT
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN LLC., a Hawaii limited liability
company
December ^"7.2012
Document No.
DocA^7440N7
December 27.20120:01 AM
perpetual nonexclusive easement over Easement "S-6" for sewer
purposes
a
TO
DATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
38. GRANT
ALEXANDER & BALDWIN LLC., a Hawaii limited liability
company
December XI, 2012
Document No.
a  perpetual nonexclusive easement over, among others,
Easement "WM-l" affecting the subject land for a potable water
meter and related equipment and appurtenances
Claims arising out of customary and traditional rights and practices, including without
limitation those exercised for subsistence, cultural, religious, access or gathering
purposes, as provided for in the Hawaii Constitution or the Hawaii Revised Statutes.
Discrepancies, conflicts in boundary lines, shortage in area, encroachments or any other
matters which a correct survey or archaeological study would disclose.
TO
OoeA*4r440S40
December 27.2012 8:01 AMDATED
RECORDED
GRANTING
39.
40.
Exhibit A
lOoflO
(nunageDB:1224898.tl
«
EXHIBIT A-1
Description of the Vertical Perimeter Boundary of Unit 1
DBSCBIPTION
UlSllT 1
MftUiBccxpJOMic oppoimjNi'iv condominium
TAX MAP KEY: (2) >3-8-006:004 (FOKnON)
AH of that certalii parcel of Betr^a portion of Lot 2-c^-Cfl-E of the. eIibI
Assembly of God iSi&dlyi&ion^ h^tag also a portion of Grant S343-to Claus SpreCkeis
Situated at Pu«neaB^Wallulnir.l8tEorKj and County of Maui, Gtate pf Hawaii
beginning at a papfe at: the Ii<^?theaateady .corner of tlus parcel of land^ the cpoidinatea
ofs^d of beginning referred ta Government Survey TWangulation Station
“LUKE** being S.74Sa,7Sfeet South and 16»513.86 feet East and running by azimatitia
measured, fi?crei Twie souths
along the remainder of lx)t 2-C-
4-C-l-E of the First Assembly pf
God Subdivision to a pipe;
along same to a pipe;
along the northeasterly side of
Puunene Avenue to a pipe:
99^.63 feet329® OC*1.
424.71 feet59® 26' 30“2.
667.33 feet149® 25' 30"3.
along same to a pipe:
along Lot 2-C-4-C-1-A of the
First Assembly of God
Subdivision to a pipe;
along same to the point of
beginning and containing an
Area 10.040 Acres.
418.21 feet149“ 00’4.
340.30 feetS. 252® 30’
89.37 feet245® 10'6.
TOGETHER, WITH the foHowing:
Easement A-1 for access purposes over and across Lot 2-C-4-C- 1-E of the First
Assembly of God Subdivision and being more particularly described as follows:
a)
Page 1 of 10
imanageDB;2224898.11
BeglnnliJg at a pipe at the sPuthxwestefiy comer of this easement the coordi^t^^
said point of begtoning refeixed to Government Survey TO anguJatlon S^on
being 5,606.61 feet Stoulii and 14.Q2S.71 feet East and running by azimnths
measured clockwise from TSrue South:
over and across Lot 2-*C-4-’C-l.rE
of the First ASsembty of God
Subdivision to a point;
50^00 feet149** dO*1.
over and across same to a point;21S.2S feet
Ihence over and acrOsS same bn a curve to the right with a radius of 1Q0X)0
feet, the chord azimuth and
distance being;
285« 08* 15 ● 143.l7feet to
point;
269“ 25* SO**
a
2.
3.
over and cross same to a point;334.08 feet
Thence over and across same on a cxixve to the left with a radius of 30^0 feet,the chord azhnuih and distance
being:
289“ 48‘ 29.^
point;
93a“ sr
39w40 feet to a
4.
5.
to the left with aradlus of 5^>09feet,
the chord azimuth mid distance
being:
64® 10’ 59.5’
point;
over and across same to a point;
85.98 feet to a
Theiice oVer and ^3Ldro:sa same on a curve6.
19,38 feet69® 36’7.
to the left with a radius of 30.00 feet,
the chord azimuth and distance
being:
195“ 13* 30'
point;
over and across same to a point;
41.96 feet to a
Thence over and across same on a curve8.
329.22 feet
Thence over and across same on a curve to the left with a radius of 5Q*QQ feet,the chord azimuth and distance
being!
105“ OS' 15"
point;
150“ 51’
71.59 feet to a
9.
10
Page 2 of 10
lmanagcDB:2224898.1
2)T
ov^ and $icn>ss same to the
point
containing an Area of 0.804
Acre,
be^i^inhig andof
214,91 feet11. 59® 25’ 30-
Easement RW-1 for access piliposes over and across tot 2-C-4-C- L-B of ttte
First Assembly of God Subdivision and being moie pardcfularfy described as
follOv>s‘
Beglnnlna at a point at the easterly comer of thia lot, on the noithe^ side of H^sen
Bead, the coordinates of a^d point of beginning referred to Qoven^enA Survey
TttaugldatlonStaUon “LUKE* being 3.7e7'.80 feet SoUth and 14,695,23 feet East and
niiraii^ by azimuths measured clockwise from True ^udir
Along the northerly side of Hansen Road on. a curve ft> the left with a radius of630;0D feet, the chord aztamth
and distance being:
ya'* S6’ 16” .263-54 feet to a
point;
along the nwfiieasterly side of
Hansen Road to a point;
along die cemainder of Lot 2-G-’
4-Ol-E of the First Assembly of
God Subdivision to a point;
^ong same to Sr point;
176-27 feet
114.59 feet
10,87 feet
1.
2, 58"* 32’ 30’
3. 234* 47*
4. 238® 26'
along smne to a point;
Thence along same on a curve to the right with a radius of 538.00 feet, thechord aziniuth arid distance
being:
67® 31’ 29-
point;
61.55 feet
148.35 feet to a
5. 239® 36’
6.
Thence along same on a curve to the right with a radius of 530.67 feet^ thechord azimuth and distance
being:
84® 56’ 10.5"
point
1Q9.68 feet to the
beginning
7.
containing an Area of 0.052
Acre.
andof
Page 3 of 10
ImanageDB:2224898.l1
Easement MW-i for iiiigation purposes over, tpi'der aud across tot 2-C-4-C.1-A
of fee Fiist Assembly of God Subdivision and being more particularly descnbed
as follows:
Beglniiing at a pipe at the soufewesleiiy comer 4
northeasterly side of Puunene Avenue» said pipe being also fee nortlr^sterly comer
of tot S-C-4-C-1-E of the Fl^t Assembly of God Subdivision, fee coofdinates of said
point of beginning referred to Government Survey ‘tRrtangulation .Station “LUKE- beii^
2,869.63 feet South and 13,108.21 feet East and running by azimufes measured
clockwise from True South:
C)
of this easement, on the
along fee northeasterly side of
Aveiiue and Mnkulele
liigtewa^ to a pdf®:
Thaice along the southeasterly side .of HO’ekeic i^reet on a <su^ to the rightwife a radius of 3cy.0O feet, the
Chord asdipoafe and distance
being:
190^ 3D- 39,^76 fetet to a pipe;
along the southeaster^^ side of
HO'-OBSle Street to a pofiit:
over and across ix>t ;i2-C-4-Crl-A
of the Ffrat Assembly of God
Subdivfslpn to » point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
485.72 feet
6.30 feet
29.31 feet
20.16 feet
51.50 feet329® 00‘
15.46 feet339® 31’
409.97 feet
f. 149® 00’
2.
■3. 232^ 00*
4. 322® 00'
5. 10*’ 30’
6.
7.
8. 329® 00’
along Lot 2-C-4-C-1-E of the
First Assembly of God
Subdivision to the point of
beginning and containing an
Area of 0.250 Acre,
20.57 feet9. 72® 30’
SUBJECT, HOWEVER to the following:
Easement IR-I for irrigation purposes and being more particularly described as
follows;
a)
Page 4 of 10
VIImaRflgeDB:2224898.n
Beginning at a point at the .southwestern corfter of thl^ easeinent. on the
northeasterly side of Punnene Avenue, the coorcto^tes of s^d point of hegihning
rtferted to Govemmerit Survey Triangulation Station TLOKE” being 3,825.41 feet
Sou^ and 13,664.69 feet East and running hy azimuths megusured cloctcwise from
True South:
along the northeasteily side Of
Pwunene Avenue to a point;
over an^l across Lot 2-C-4-C-1-E
of the ‘Sfrst Assembly of God
Subdi^slun to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and aeross same to a point;
OVer and siciross same to ^ pofrit;
over €tild acfross same to a point;
over mid across saii»- to a; point;
-20.00. feet149® 25' 30’.1.
442.59 feet239“ 31*2,
:2l5.75-feetS 237® 03*
96.65 feet:265® 29’4.
132. is feet5. 278® 54’
76.29 feet271® 28’6L
462.40 feet7. 258® 25*
20;00fwta. 348® 25*
over arid across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to the
point of beginning and
containing an Area of 0.653
Acre,
464^69 feeta 78® 25*
79.87 feet10. 91® 28’
l3X.10feCtII, 98® 54’
89.23 feet12. 85® 29*
211-11 feet13. 57® 03’
442.99 feet14. 59® 31’
Easement S-IA for sewer line purposes and being more particularly described
as follows:
Beginning at a point at the southwesterly comer of this easement, on the
northeasterly side of Puunene Avenue, the coordinates of said point of begiiming
referred to Government Survey 'TWangulation Station “LUKE" being 3,937.28 feet
South and 13.730.77 feet East and running by azimuths measured clockwise from
True South:
b)
Page 5 of 10
%lmanageDB:2224898.l
along the nertheasterly side of
Paunene Avenue to $ poin t;
along same’ to a point
oVer- land' aoipsis Lot 2-C-4-C* 1~E
of the First Assembly of God
snbd&dsfon to a point'
over and across same to a ;point;
over and across same to a point
over and across same to the
of begiimnig and
containing on Area of 0,401
Afire.
S0P,47 feet1. 149® 25‘ 30"
31^J21 feet2. 149® 00’
15.00 feet239® 00*3.
363.48 feet329® 00*4.
800.31 feet329® 26* 30’5.
iS.OQJfeet59® 25* 30"6.
Easement3-lS for sev^er. Jine purposes, and. being more iparticularly descnbed
as follows:
Beginning at a point at the southwestrat^y comer dt this easement, on the
northeasterly side Of Futineae Avenue, the (Spwiinates Of said pcdnt of beghir^g
referred to Government' Survey Trianguiatioii Station. “LOKE" hefng 2,936.77^feet
South and 13,136.^ feet East and running by aeimuths measured clpckwise from
True South:
c)
along, the northeasteriy side of
iPuimene Avenue and Mokulele
Iflghway to a point;
Thence along the southeasterly side of Hoolmle Street on a curve to the ri^it
widi a radius of 30.00 feet, the
chord azimuth and dlslance
being:
190® 30' 39.76 feet to a point;
along same to a point:
along same to a point;
along same to a point;
over and across Lot 2-C-4-C-1-A
of the First Assembly of God
Subdivision to a point:
over and across same to a point;
540.72 feet149® 00’
158.73 feet232® 00’
100.28 feet
3.11 feet
29.18 feet
15.00 feet
1.
2.
3.
4. 228® 34’ 10"
5. 232® 00’
6. 318® 34’ 10"
7, 48® 34' 10"
Page 6 of 10
lmanageDB:2224898.l I
,C|
over and across same to a point;
overiand across same to a point;
over and aicxoas same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and a,cro^ same and 2-C-4-
e-l“S df the First Assembly ot
opd ^ubdtvtelon to a point:
over .and across I-ot 2-C-4-C-1-JS
of the First Assembly of God
Subdivision tO; the point of
b^innlng and contalnbig anArea of0,807>\cre.
14.37 feetiO"ISa® 34‘8.
88.98 feet48® 34’ lO"9.
138.34 feetIQ. 52® 00*
53.87 feat10® 3D'11.
518.02 feet329® 00’12.
15.00 feet13. 59® 00*
EasementS-3 fi>r sewer Une purposes and belng more particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at a p oint at the: southeasteiiy ctoner of this easem^t, me coordl^s^
said point of be^nnlngiefeited to Goveitiment Survey 'IWangulatloti Station LU^
being 3.606.25 feet :Soutb and 14,622.92 feet E^t nnd running by azimuths
measured clockvdse msm 1*^0 South:
d)
over and across Xot 2-C-4-C-1-E
Of the First Afisembiy of God
Subdivision to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
64.35 feet32*82"1.
451.21 feet73® 14’2,
84.69 feet117® 5T3.
120.03 feet130® 28’4.
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
272.98 feet57" 47*5.
73.69 feet52’36®6.
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
21,66 feet25* 30"149®7.
69.08 feet216® 52’8.
291.38 feet237® 47’9.
132.56 feet10. 310® 28’
74.27 feet11. 297® 57*
444.61 feet12. 253® 14’
Page 7 of 10
ImanagcDB:2224898.11
1
over aiKi across same to a point;65.97 feet262* 32^13.
and across same to the20*00 feet352? 32- over
point of begtoning and
containing an Ansa Of 0.492
Acre.
14.
S-6 for sewer line purposes and being more particuiarty described as
foUowss
e)
of this easejxiont, on theBeginning nt a point at the southwesterly comer
northeasterly of Puunene Avenue, the coordinates of said pdntjA
lefeiTed to Government Survey TWangUlatlOJi Station. "tUBE* heii^ 2.936^
Sontfiand 13,136.54feet East an4 running by azimuths measured, doctottse fopro
TraeSouth:
along the northeastj^r^ side of
Puunene Avenue .said MohXtleie
Blghw^ to a piper
Thence along the southeasterly side of Ho'okele Street on a curve towi^ a rddtvid of 30.® foet, the
chord azimuth and distance
.beingi
190^30' 39.76feettoapipe;
540.72 feet149® 00*I.
2.
along same tba point;
along same to a potptr
along same to a point;
over and across Lot 2-C^4-C"l-A
of the Hrst Assentihfy of God
Subdivi^on to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a .point;
over and across same to a point;
158,73 feet232® <IG’3.
100.26 feet228^ 34* lO**4.
3.11 feet232® 00*5.
30.09 feet-318® 34" 10"6.
251.20 feet52® 00* 4Cr7.
28.51 feet10" 30’8.
51.50 feet9. 329® 00’
15.46 feet339® 31*10.
over and across same and Lot 2-
C-4-C-1-B of the First Assembly
of God Subdivision to a point*.
460.17 feet11. 329® 00’
Page 8 of 10
HIlmanageDB:2224898.M
over and across I^t 2-<?-4rC-l-E
of the First Assembly of God
SubdiyiSion to the point of
begumlng and containing an
Area of 0.424 Acre.
20.00 feet12. 59® 00*
E:asement 'WM^l for water meter,, related equipment and appurtenances and
being nMMrepardculariy described as follows:
Beeinnltic at a pipe at the northwesterly comer of this easement, bn the no^east^
aide of Puimene Avenne. said pipe being also the ^^utltwes^y cornw^of4-C-l-A of ihe First Assembly of God Subdivision, the
beginning r^eixed: to Gdverhmeht Surv^ Trlai^ulation Stadon be^
^S? 62 feet ^uthand 13.J08.2IfeetEast arid turining by asdmuths measured
clockwise fihSih'jSiie Sbiiithi
0
along Lot 2-04-01^ Of the
Assembh'' of GodFtrat
27.25feet252® 30*1;.
^bdtrtsiori to a point;
oyer and across -Lot 2“C-4-C-l''‘E
of the First ASfefenAiiy of apd
Subdivision to a pcdnt;
15.64 feet2. 320° 00’
over and -across same to a point;26.50 feet3. S9® 00*
along the northeasterly side of
Puuriene Avenue to the pofiat of
beginning and containing art
Area of 489 Square Feet;
22.00 feet4. 149® 00’
Page 9 of 10
tinanageDB:2224898.l I
4-7-
I>eicen)l^r 17,2012.Prep^d A&S Properties, Inc.Kahului, Maui. Hawaii
This work was prepared by me oi tinder my supervision.
p>f / CICEi4SeD \ >/PBQFESSIOtWL \
LANS
iri SUCWEfOa i*
^ \Ho,iJ3.763V J Licensed Professional Land Surveyor
Certlflcate No.
Expiration Bate: 4/30/2014
05
M£i
32/28-u
Page 10 of 10
^3ImanagcDB:2224898.U
EXHIBIT A-2
Description of the Vertical Perimeter Boundary of Unit 2
DESCRIPTION
UNIT 2
MAUI ECONOMIC OPPOKTUNUY CONDOMIN3
TAX MAP KEY: (2) 3-S^006*:0(H {POKHON)
All of riiat certatn parcel of land, being Apoitlon of Lot 2-04^0- of tlie
AsaetnblyofGod Subdivision, belhgalao a portion of Grairt.S343 to ClatiaSpreekeis
Situated at Puunene, Walluku, Island and County of Maui. State
Beginning at a. point at the; westerly comer of this parcel of the c<tordli^te^
oad^o^of helping refeixttd to Oovemxnetrt Survey Trfangulation et^nJLUJ^
bein| 3.749.76feet South and I3,S13.8S fe&t Kb^ and running by a?^muths
measured clocicwise liom TVue South:
along Lots 2«t>4-C-»l-A and.2-C*
4-C-l-B of the thaC. Asseiflibly of
Ood Subdivision to a .point;
Thence along Lot 2-C-4-C-1-B of the First Assembly erf God Subdlg^pn on a
^  curve to die rl^t wilh a radius
3,538.63 feet245* lO*
fhof liOOChOO feet. «=s chord
1.
2^
azimurtl and .distance being:
255* 15^ 360a6feetto apoint;
along Lot 2-C-4-C-1-B .of Jhe
Assembly of ""GodFirst
348.01 feet265* 20‘3,
Subdivision to a point;
along same to a point;
along same to a point:
along the southsvesterly side of
Pulehu Road to a point:
along same to a point;
along same to a point;
312.58 feet203* 08*4.
20.01 feet214* ST5.
345.03 feet321* 28’6.
1,770.20 feet318* 43’7.
432.54 feet315* 30’8.
Page 1 of 10
ifuflimnagcDB:2224898.ll
Thence along the westerly intersecttpn of Pulehu Road Hansen Road on acurve to the tight with a radius
of 50 OG feet, the chord azhnutb.
and distance being:
13? 33' 3$" 0^.92 feet to a
point:
Thence along the northerly side: of Hansen Road on a curve to the teft with a
radios of 974.93 feet, the chom
azhr^th and distance belnd'
68“ IS* D5“ 44,35 feet to a
point;
along Ihe northerly side (rf
Hansen Road to a :point:
480.00 feet
9.
10.
n. 66® 59*
Thence along same on a curve' to the: right with,  axadiLUa of 2.844i79 feet, the
chord a^muth and distance
bemgi:
32.
39* :g9* 297.77 feet tp. a point;
along, ^he. northerly side of
Hansen Road to a $rahit;
14. Tlience along same on a curve to the fight wl^, a radijja of SSB.20 feet, thechQtsd azsmiitii and! distance
being:
59* 241,79 feet to a point:
680.00 feet13. 72® 69*
along the northerly side of
Hansen Road ton point:
16.. mence along same on a curve to the left with  aradius of 736.^0 feet, the chordazimuth and distance being:
33* 26' 244.28 feet to a point;
167.11 feet15. 92® 59*
along the: northerbr side of
Hansen road to a point:
l8. Thence along same on a curve to the left with  aradius of 378.10 feet, the chord
azimuth and distance being:
B&'’ 23* 227.39 fCet to a point;
407.33 feet17. 73® 53*
along the northerl^y side of
Hansen Road to a point:
268.88feet19. 38® 53*
Thence along same on a curve to the right with a radius of 389.26 feet, thedbord azimuth and distance
being:
62® 24’ 310.64 feet to a point;
20.
Page 2 of XO
[inanagcDB;2224898.n
●4?
the northerly side of
Hansen Road to a point;
Tlieiice along same on a. ciarve' to the rfght "With a radius of 355-00 thediord azimuth ana distance
being;
110° ir 03
point;
Thence along same on a curve to the left With a radius of 530.00 feet, the chord^  azimuth and distance- being:
789.07 feet
291.81 feet to a
S6° 48” 651.05 feet to a
point?
-along the northerly side of
Hans.en Koad to a point;
21. 85’ 55*
22.
23.
631^1 feet24. 58’ aiz‘ 30"
along same to a point;SOTieet25. 148’ 32* SO*'
along same to a point:
hD the ri^--wlth a radius of 50.00 feet, the chordazimuth and distance b^g;
lcJ3° 69’ 71.25 feet to apolnt:
along the northeasterly side of
Puunene Avenue to a point;
along the remainder of Lot 2-C-
4-C-I-E of the First Assembly of
God Subdivision to a point;
along same to the point of
beginning and contalridng an
Area of 227.019 Acres.
78.3Qfeet26- 58’ 32* 30”
27. Ihence along rsameona
:S67i64 feet28. 149^ 25’ 30*
424.71 feet29. 239’ 26* SO**
999.63 feet30, 149’ 00'
SUBJECT. HOWEVER to the following:
EASEMENT A-1a)
Being an easement for access purposes over and across the above described parcel of
land and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a pipe at the southwesterly comer of this easement, the coordlnate^f
said point of beglrmlng referred to. Government Survey TWangulation Station “Lul®
being 3,606.61 feet South and 14,028.71 feet East and running by azimuths
measured clockwise from True South:
page 3 of 10
]manag«OD:2224898.li
over and across Lot 2-G-4-C-‘l-‘E
Of the First Assembly of God
Subdivision to a point:
50.00 feetI. 149° OQ*
over and across same to a point;2X5.28 feet2. 239° 25’ 3<r
Thence over and across same on a curve to the right with a radius, of 100.00
feet, the chord azimuth and
distance being:
.3.
143.17 feet to a285® 08’ 15"
point;
QV^and cross same to ajpolnt:
Thence Over and across same Wl ^ curve to the left with a radius of 30.00 feet,the chord azimuth and distance
b^ig:
28^'^ 48' 29.5'
poiJnt;
Therr^ over and across sm&e on a curve to the left with a radius of 538.00 feet,,the chord azimuth and .distance;
beihgi
64° 10’ 59.5"
point:
over and across same to a point;
334.08 feet
39.40 feet to a
85.98 feet to a
i'^i.SSfeet
4. 380® S:i*
5.
6.
Thence over and across same on a curve to the left with a radius of 30.00 ieet,&e chord azimuth and distance
beiDg:
195° 13‘ 30'
point:
41.96 feet to a
7. 59® 36"
8.
over and across same to a point;329,22 feet
Thence over and across same on. a curve to the left with a radius of 50.00 feet,
the chord azimuth and distance
being:
105° 08’ 15'
point;
71.59 feet to a
9. 150° 51*
10.
over and across same to the
point of beginning and
containing an Area of 0.804
Acre.
214.91 feet11. 59° 25* 30
Page 4 of 10
47lmanageDB:2224a98.tl
Ei!^EMlKMrK5W-ib)
Being an easement for access pinJioseS ijver aa<l across the above described parcel of
land and being fflpre .partjcularfy desciSbed as follows;
Beginning at a point at the easterljr comer of this lot, on the northerly side of Hm^n
Road, the cooidtoates nf said point of beginning referred to
Tnangniatlon Station “Ulf®” being 3,767,60 feat South and 14.695.23 feet East and
running fconsTnie South:
Along the nor^erly side of S^sen Road^n a curve to Jihe left 'ni V 530.00 feet* the choi?d ezfctmth
and distance being:
72° 56' 16" 263.54- foet to a
point;
along the northeasterly dlde of
Hansen Road to a point;
along the remainder of I/ot 2-C-
4-C-I-E of the ^Irst Asden&ly of
God Subdivision to a iwtot*
176,27 feet53° 32' 30**
U439feet234® 47*
1.
2.
3.
along same to a point:
along same to a point;
to the right with a radius of 538.00 feet» the
chord azimuth and distance
being:
67° 31’ 29"
point;
148.35 feet to a
10,87 feet4. 238° 26*
61,55.feet5. 239° 36-
Thence along same on a curve6.
Thence along same on a curve to the right 53a|7 f^e
being:
84“ 56* 10.5" 109.68 feet to the
point of beginning
containing an Area of 0.052
Acre.
and
7.
Easement IR-1 for irrigation purposes and being more particularly described
as follows:
c)
Page 5 of 10
[man3geDB:2224898.I I
of this easement, on theBeglftnlng at a point at the southiwesterly comer  ^ .  * # i, ^ ^
n^^ieasteriy side of Puunenfe Avenue, the coordinates of^d oolnt of
referred to ^vertmiertt Stovey tfiangUlatlpn Station LUKE bel^^ 3,^5.41 ffeet
south and 13.664,69 feet East and running by azimuths measured dlocirodse flrom
TYUe South:
along the northeaster^ side of
Puunene Avenue to a point;
over and across Lot 3-Q.-4-C-l-^
of the i^lrst ASseriibiy of <3od
Subdivision to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point,
over and across Same, to a point;
over and across smnc to a point;
over and. across same to a poJsit;
over and across same to a point;
and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;:
over and across same to a point;
over
●20.00 feet149® 25' SO"1.
442.69 fe et239® 3V2.
2lS<7Bfeet237® 03*3.
;^6;65 feet
1J32.15 feet
265^ 29’4.
276<^ 94*6.
76;29 feet271® 26’6r
.462.40 feet256® 26’7.
20.0D feet348® 26’8.
feet78^ 25’9.
79.87 feet91® 2g‘10-
131.10 feet98® 64*II.
89.23 fe et12. 85® 29’
211-11 feet57® 03*13.
and across same to the
beginning
Area of 0.653
and442.99 feet over
point of
containing an
Acre.
59® 31’14.
Existing Electrical Easement 11 of the New Central
Subdivision pSr Ciivfl No. 96-0929(3) and recorded in Document No. 96-170196.
d)
Waterline Easement 1 in favor of the County of Maul per Uber 19066,Existing
Page 747 dated November 8, 1995.
e)
Existing Electrical Easement 1 in favor of Maui Electric Company, Limited per
Liber 16383, Page 392 dated June 4, 1982.
Existing Electrical easements E-1 to E-5. inclusive in fevor of Maul Electric
Company Limited per Subdivision File No. 3.2208.
f)
g)
Page 6 of 10
lmanogeDB;2224898.l 1
1
TOQKiHER, Wnli SU^ TO the foUawtog:
Eaaemeiit Si-A for sewer line purposes oveCv under and acrossj^t 2^4-C-l-
E of the to st Assembly pf God Subdivision and being more psrticulariy
described as fioUows;
al
Beffiiminff at a point at the southwesterly comer of this easement, on toe
n^nto^terly side of Puuneiie Averiue. the
referred^ to Government Survey Wangulation Station LtIKE bei^ 3^^.28.
^tith and 13^730*77 feet East and running by azimuths measured clockwise irom
TyueSouth:
^ong the northeasterly Side of
Puunene Avenue to; a point;
along same to a point;
over and 'across IM ^-Cr4r01~^
of the First Asseanbly of Qod
Subdlvieion to a point;
over and across same to: a poinh
and across same to a point;over
830.47 feetIds** 26^ 30’1^
363.21 feetIA9^ 00-2.
1.&.00 feet239“ Q0»3.
863.48 feet329“ QO^4..
800-31 feet30*"329” 96'
and acrCss same' to toe
of be|^nnih8
15^00 feet over
point
containing ari Atoa of 0^401
Acre.
30’39“ 25'6.
EaeementS-Sfor sewer line purposes over, underand across Lot
S^^W^-ABserabty of God Subdivision and being more partlcularfy described
as foltows:
Beginning at a point at the southeasterly comer of
saldp^A of begtohing referred to Government Surv^ Tnangulatlon Station
being 3,606.25 feet South and 14,622.92 feet East and running by azl tos
measured clockwise &om True South;
b)
_  and across Lot 2-C-4-C-1-E
of the First Assembly of God
Subdivision to a point;
and across same to a point;
and across same to a point;
over and across scune to a point;
over
over
over
64.35 feet82® 32'1.
451.21 feet73“ 14*2.
84.69 feet117“ 57*3.
120.03 feet130* 28’4,
Page ! of 10
lnianageDB;2224898.ll
55
over an^ across same to a point;
over an4 across same to a point;
over end acTOssi same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
oyer and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and acrosSiSafitte to a point;
272.98. feet57** 47*6.
73.69 feet52*36®6.
21.66 feet149® 25’ 30'7.
69.08 feet216® 52*8.
291.38 feet237® 47*9.
132.66: feet310® 28'10.
74.27 feet57’297®U.
444.61 feet253® 14*1%
65;97 feet262® 32*13.
and across same to the20;OOfeet over
point of be^nnmg and
CoirtainiiSg sn 4tea <sf 0.492
14. 352® 32’
TOGEOHBRWITH the following:
Easement S1 -B for sewer line purposes over, under and aci^
of the First Assembly of drod Subdlvlsioji and being mcms pailleularly described
as follows;
Beginning at a point at the southwesterly comer
northeasterly side of Puunene Avenue, the cooixfinates of said, point of
referred to Government Survey Triangulatipn Station “LUKE
South and 13.136-54 feet East and running by azimuths measured dockwise trom
true South:
of this easement, on the
along the northeasterly side of
Puunene Avenue and Mofculele
Highway to a point;
along the southeasterly side of Hookele Street on  a to ri^t
540.72 feet
with a radius of 30.00 feet, the
chord azimuth and distance
being:
190® 30' 39.76 feet to a point; ●
along same to a point;
along same to a point;
along same to a point;
149® 00*1.
Thence2.
158.73 feet232® 00*3.
100.28 feet228® 34’ 10’4.
3.11 feet232® 00*5.
Page 8 of 10
lmanageDB:2224898.l I 5-/
aa.iafeet .over and across I;ot 2-G-4-C-1-A
of the Jtet Assembly Of God
SulkuVlslon to a pc^t:
15.00 feet oVer and across same to a point;
14.37 feet over and across same to a point;
88.96 feet over and across same to a point;
136.34 feet over and across -same to a point;
53.67 feet over and across same to a point;
618.02 feet ov©f and .aocoss, same and 2-C-4-
C-i>4P of fee First Assembly of
God aubdlvlBionto appoint;
,15*0Q feet over and across Xpt 2-P-4-C-1-E;
of the: Assenfeiy of God
Snbdtvfalon to the point of
beghmln^ and containing an
Area of0.307Acre.
Easement S-6 for sewer line paipoaes over, under’snd, actbss tot 2.*C-4-C-*l-A
m:d Lot 2-C-4-C-1-E of the i^t Assembly of God Sufedlvlsibn and, being more
particularly described as feUowai
Beginning at a point at fee southwesterly comer of this easement, on the
n^theasteiiy side of Puunene Avenue, fee coordinates of said point of beginning
referred to Government Survey iViangulation. Station "LUKE'*^ being 2,936.77 feet
South and 13,136.54 feet East and running by azimuths measured clockwise from
'Drue South;
1. 149“ 00'
318“ 34* 10”6.
48" 34’ 10"7.
138“ 34* lO"8.
48" 34’ 10”9,
52“ 00*iO.
10" 30’11.
12. 329" 00*
59" 00’13.
b)
along fee northeasterly side of
Puunene Avenue and Mokulele
Highway to a pipe:
Thence along the soufeeasterfy side of Ho'okele Street .on a curve to the rightwith a radius of 30,00 feet, the
chord azimuth and distance
being:
190" 30* 39,76 feet to a pipe;
540.72 feet
2.
along same to a point:
along same to a point;
along same to a point;
158.73 feet3. 232" 00’
100.28 feet4. 228" 34* 10’
3.11 feet5. 232" 00*
Page 9 of 10
5-;.ItnanageDB:2224898.U
K,
ove^* and across Liot^C-4-C-I*A
of the First Assembly of God
Subdh^slon to a point;
over and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point:
ov^ and across same to a point;
over and across same to a point:
30.09 feet6. 318® 34’ 10*
251.20 feet7. 52® 00’ 40’
28,51 feeta  30® 30’
51.50 feet9. 329® 00'
1S,46 feet10. 339® 31’
and across same and Lot 2>4BCL17 feet over .. ..
<>4-C-^1^'B Of fJlEst Assembly
of God^ubdivi^n & apoint;
11. 329* 00’
over snd L0f :2-G-4*C^1“®
of the= “ftrat Assembly of God
Subdivision to the point of
b^^xming and Gonbdning
Area of 0;424
an
20.00 feet12.. 59® 00'
December 17, 2012Pcepared by: AiStB Properties, liic.
Maul. Hawaii
This work was prepared tty me or under my supervision.
/ LICENSED \ >
^professional \LAND
SURVETOR *
\No. l.S-783^ J
4'! ^★
'Kgh T. Nlmura
Licensed Professional Land Surveyor
Certiflcate No. LS-7633
Blcpiration Date:. 4/30/2014
MB
32/28-v
Page 10 of 10
lmanageDB:2224896.ll
52)
October 21,2021
To: Council of the County of Maui
From: Kristen Young
Meeting: October 22, 2021,9:00 AM
Testimony on CR 21-95
Re: CR 21-95 - A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO ‘AINA KUPUNA LANDS
Aloha, Maui County council members
I would like to express my strong support for agenda item CR 21-95, a bill relating to
‘aina kupuna (ancestral lands). The presented amendments are crucial in allowing the
Kukahiko Corporation to continue to rent the property in order to pay off exorbitant back
taxes so they can continue caring for their ‘aina and hale as they’ve done for over a
century.
In Makena, as in many other places around Hawai'i, we are seeing people being priced/
taxed out of their homeland that they have stewarded for generations—land that they’ve
even been paying taxes on. Allowing this to happen contributes to land theft and
erasure of native people. Makena is home to the Kukahiko ‘ohana whose family identity,
history, and genealogy are tied in with this place. While the county/state too often caters
to people with money, typically non-native outsiders, I personally think lowering the
taxes on this property would only be fair, but these people are just seeking a way to be
able to pay those increasing taxes.
I hope you will take this opportunity to preserve these lands with their longtime stewards
for generations to come.
Please vote YES in support of CR 21-95 and protect these ancestral lands.
Mahalo for your time,
r\
73Om
CD
2;oH
CD
mCD
Kristen Young
Resident of Honolulu Or.1
oo <-n 3S
mm 'O33X ro