MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-11-05
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1437,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUI£S
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Novembers, 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5. 2021,
BEGINNING AT 9:01 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
November 5, please come to order.
Members, this morning, our greeting is from Uganda. So, in case you, over the
weekend, fly to Uganda, you can say chi kati, chi kati.
Proceed with roll call, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Yes. Chair. Proceeding with roll call.
In accordance with the Governor's most recent emergency proclamation related to the
COVID-19 response. Members should state who, if anyone, is present with them as
part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chi kati. Chair and fellow Councilmembers. Aloha kakahiaka
kakou my Maul hikina. For the record, I am transmitting from the Hana Cultural Center
with my EA Dawn Lono. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and chi kati to you. Madam Chair, and to my colleagues,
and everyone else joining us for today's Council meeting. For the record, I'm
broadcasting from my residence here in Makawao. And in the next room is my wife.
And I look forward to a very good and productive meeting. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 2
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair. Good morning, Councilmembers.
Chi kati to all. I am in the County Building. And  Iam with me EA staff Kate Griffiths.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Aloha kakahiaka kakou and chi kati. I'm broadcasting live and
direct from the West Maui District Office. And I have my aide Angela in the room more
than six feet away. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chi kati, everyone. I like that, Chair. Good morning,
everyone. I'm at Kula. It's 70 degrees in Kula. It’s a nice brisk morning and looking
forward to this long, maybe, meeting. Good morning, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair. And chi kati to all of my colleagues. I'm
here in my home, in my office, and ! am by myself. And I'm looking forward to a great
meeting today.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair, mai ke one o Kakuhihewa.
I'm here with my two keiki, Kai‘a‘aumaimehemanu and Ka‘ikenaona‘ale Rawlins-
Fernandez, at our hotel room. And chi kati.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Chi kati from Uganda. I am here in
Wailuku in my office home alone. So, looking forward to a great productive day.
So, shall we begin, Mr. Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 3
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN,
YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA, VICE-CHAIR
KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L.
PRESENT:
LEE.
COUNCILMEMBER KELLY T. KING.EXCUSED:
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair, there are eight Members present, one Member
excused. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Opening remarks will be provided by Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. ... I'm breaking up. Can, can we
do the Pledge while I try to fix my connection or something?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, sure.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Everyone, please join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance. Akaku, can we
have the flag up? Okay. Thank you.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair, are you ready?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, the sound better now?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 4
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yea, the signal is much stronger. Vice-Chair, are you there? Oh, over
there?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: This is what happens when you're not in your regular
space. Okay, can you hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. But I'm just dark, yea? Okay.
CHAIR LEE: A little bit.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I’ll start from the beginning.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Vice-Chair. Very well said. At this time, before we proceed with
today's agenda, may I please request that everyone keep their microphones muted
unless it is your time to speak. Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: Members, at this time, we will set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder, the
calendar can be adjusted even after it is set. Are there any request to changes to the
Consent Calendar?
Yes, Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 21-482 and 21-494 to be removed.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members? Okay. Anything, any other items?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 5
CHAIR LEE; No other items. Are there any objections to setting the Consent Calendar? Oh
I'm sorry. I didn’t see your hand up.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just had a question on CC 21-483. And if it's on
the Consent Calendar, then I'm not supposed to discuss it. So, I was just wondering if
we could put that on the regular?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk? Can you repeat the County Communication?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: CC 21-483.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: If, if Councilmember Paltin wishes to discuss that item, then the
appropriate action would be to remove it from the Consent Calendar at this time.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
Member Paltin, is, do you have anything else?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's it. Justthatone.
CHAIR LEE: Just that. Okay. Anybody else? If not, Members, are there any objections to
setting the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION,
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: None.
CHAIR LEE: The, the Consent Calendar is now set.
Mr. Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 6
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today’s agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media or on
mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at
any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first individual we have signed up to testify is Jeff Bagshaw. To be followed
by Howard Wiig.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Bagshaw.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MR. JEFF BAGSHAW (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-113):
Good morning. Aloha Maui County Council.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. BAGSHAW: And I am in full support of the CARE Committee bill CR 21-113, to ban the
sale or use of any sun care product that has active ingredients other than mineral sun
blocks, such as zinc or titanium.
I, you've seen me testify before and I can best speak to how difficult it is to educate
people to not use these products when going to the ocean at ‘Ahihi-KTna'u. But today,
I wanted to hone in on a couple of points I wasn't able to make in other presentations,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 7
because this is about coral, but it's also about much, much more. So, I'm going to
repeat a couple of facts that have been established before, just to connect some dots.
First, consider that the chemicals we're concerned with in this bill pass through the
human system and into urine in 20 minutes. After your application on the skin, your
body excretes these chemicals in just 20 minutes, which is why they say reapply every
20 minutes.
Next, remember that these chemical compounds can exist in the environment for up to
90 days. So, people who use these compounds on the land, when they’re hiking or
gardening, who then shower or relieve themselves, are just transferring these
chemicals to the wastewater treatment system which cannot filter them out. So, they're
going to go to the ocean anyway within 90 days. It's just going to be a little delay.
The next dot I want to connect and remind folks is that these chemical compounds
have been found in sea turtles. Sea turtles eat limu. And of course, we all know who
else eats limu in Hawaii; us. These chemical compounds have also been found in
dolphins, top predators who eat fish. And of course, who else eats fish in Hawaii? Us.
My point for drawing these dots is that this is a matter of also an environmental justice.
When someone makes the choice to use these chemical compounds, they are
subjecting their choice on people who have never used these compounds, who choose
not to use them. It's going into everything and everyone. It's going into our food
system. This is, yes, we are in the tropics, we have to be concerned about sun
exposure. But we're also in Hawaii, where our culture and our resources depend on
the ocean. And people depend on the ocean for food. So, it's our icebox. Everyone
uses that phrase.
People still have choices to use sun protective clothing and other means, such as
mineral sun blocks. So, that's why I'm in support of this bill along with all the others,
reasons we’ve testified about before. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions? If not, thank you very much for your testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Howard
Wiig. To be followed by Mike Moran.
CHAIR LEE; And you are timing these testimonies, right?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 8
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
Repeat the name.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ho\ward Wiig.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Wiig?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: ! see that you're connected to the meeting, but you're muted on
your end and I cannot unmute you.
MR. HOWARD WHO. HAWAII STATE ENERGY OFFICE rtestifyina on Bill No. 106 (2021)1:
How is this? It’s working better now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
MR. WIIG: Yes. Okay. Thank you very much. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
Councilmembers. My name is Howard Wiig with the Hawaii State Energy Office,
testifying in strong support of Bill 106, requiring net zero energy for large homes on
Maui.
Council, this is a first of this type of requirement. Hawaii was the first State to declare
100 percent clean electrical energy by the year 2045. And this, to my knowledge, and
I live in the code's world is the first such legislation to require net zero energy for large
homes. The International Code's Council has declared that by 2030, all new
residences, this is nationwide, shall be net zero energy. And this paves the way for
that aspiration.
As soon as this ordinance becomes law, or as soon as this bill becomes ordinance, I
will be communicating to the other County building code officials and urging them to
emulate Maui or maybe get into a friendly competition and go them one better. And
then, I'm in communication with many of my compatriots on the mainland. And I will
share this with them also and issue the challenge. If Maui can do it, surely you can do
it too.
So, please pat yourselves on the back. Congratulations. This is the start of something
big. Thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 9
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Wiig.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual that have signed up to testify is Mike
Moran. To be followed by Colleen Medeiros.
MR. MIKE MORAN, KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION ftestifvinq on County
Communication Nos. 21-492. 21-509, & 21-511: General Communication No. 21-5:
Committee Report Nos. 21-98. 21-109, 21-113 & 21-115: and Bill No. 106 (2021)1:
Good morning, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Mike Moran for the Kihei Community
Association. First, Vice-Chair, thank you very much for that, those beautiful words.
And it helps us who were not born into the host culture to get more and more
understanding of the, of the, what we think of a simple word, aloha. We're constantly
learning more and more that it, it has way more meaning than we first thought. So,
thank you for that.
Chair, we have a laundry list of items to comment on, but we'll try and get through them
very quickly. The first few are just referrals, and sometimes we're asked why we bother
mentioning it, it's just going to be referred. Just because we think these are good things
that the Council is doing, that they're about to approach a topic that is important. So,
the first one is 492, potential alternatives to the Advisory Committee. We've addressed
this before and you have too, so I think we all know why it's important to try and fill out
these voluntary committees. So, we're in support.
21-509, we see that as unity is needed in this very important topic. And, you know, we
only have one world, so we need everybody working together for this action as our rep
is still over there in, in Scotland participating.
511, again, just a referral, trying to modify what we're doing with these, all these
different types and categories of vacation rentals. We all think it's a very important
topic, so the more we can examine it and possibly refine it, we think is a good thing.
General Communication 21-5, it's somewhat complicated. But all we ask of the Council
is to please go over that document carefully. I think everyone's aware; I know we are
very aware in South Maui, of the challenges that we're facing with the seemingly
obstinance of the Department of Education. So, we have to examine every tiny issue
that they present to government to make sure it's accurate and to see if there's anything
we can do to preserve, or to make it safe for our children. Is there anything that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 10
anybody doesn't think is important is safety for children crossing a four-lane high-speed
highway. So, please examine that as carefully as you can and with all the extensive
things that you have to do.
Moving on to 21-98. Again, much has been addressed by the wetland, on the wetlands
here in South Maui. Let's preserve what little bit we have left. And I did see . . . Robin
Knox is going to talk on it, so we’ll let her give professional information on it. But we
are certainly in support.
21-109, for our friends in West Maui. You're, you're almost at the finish line and we're
encouraging it get to the finish line so we can get our turn here in South Maui. But
again, it's all. it's just one island and one County, so each piece has to fit together. I
lost my place.
Okay. 21-113, climate on the Jeff Bagshaw has just, again, given professional
information. And at the beginning, we said wouldn't it be betterto just say they all have
to be .. . We don't want all of these other chemicals in there. And some, people have
objected that we're only naming these two chemicals and that corporations can just get
their scientists to make a manini change to one and now it gets a different name, now
it's allowed. But we think this is, you know, sometimes we do that. We're looking for
great and we're going to hurt good. This is certainly good. Maybe you don't think it's
great, maybe we don't think it's great, but it's  agood step, so yes, let's get that done.
If we're assigning numbers to these legal but21-115, again with the visitor,
unpermitted rental units, again helping to eliminate the illegal ones. So, we think this
is a good action.
And I think the final one is the Bill 106. Once again, we had a professional just speak
on and we think this is good too. If we can't stop these McMansions from being built,
at least make them environmentally friendly as possible.
So, that sums up our testimony today. Thank you very much for the opportunity. Chair
and Council. And we wish you the best of luck in this extensive meeting. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mike. Are there any questions. Members? If not, have a great
weekend, Mike.
MR. MORAN: Thank you. You guys, too.
Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is ColleenDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
Medeiros. To be followed by Maile Luuwai.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 11
MS. COLLEEN MEDEIROS (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Hi. I, hang on, let's see here. Unmute video. Hi. Okay. Good morning, everyone.
My name is Colleen Medeiros. I am testifying on CC 95. Again, I just felt like 1 should
say, you kno\w, do a oral testimony again. So, I sent you folks an email where I
introduced myself, because I didn't do that last time. And I own a ‘aina kupuna property
in Napili. You know, I can trace back at least six generations. And I, I completely
support the ‘aina kupuna bill.
I would really, really like to see some of the language amended to include visit, transient
accommodations businesses for folks, ‘aina kupuna landowners, who have a STRH
permit. Currently, it's worded so that only those folks who have a conditional use permit
from before May 23, 2012 can continue that business. But the fact of the matter is
there's, there's more ‘aina kupuna landowners who are doing that type of business,
and I just feel like we should all be included. I don't really understand why we would
be excluded since essentially, well, it's the exact same business type and it's the exact
same land designation.
And I really don't know how many other people you've heard from, but my guess is
there's actually probably not that many people doing this type of business. But at any
rate, I would love to see the language amended to include us all in this tax relief,
because of course, the reason we're doing this business is to keep our property. So,
it's, it really all goes hand in hand from my perspective. Let's see here, well, I think, I
think that's all.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you
Ms. Medeiros.
MS. MEDEIROS: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIRLEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -the next individual signed up to testify is Maile Luuwai. To be
followed by Netra Halperin.
MS. MAILE LUUWAI (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 12
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Luuwai?
MS. LUUWAI: Aloha. Can you see me?
CHAIR LEE; Oh, yes, now we can.
MS. LUUWAI; Okay. Aloha. It's so wonderful to see  alot of familiar faces and so, mahalo.
I want to, my name is Maile Luuwai. I am actually part of the Kukahiko ohana, and 1
am testifying in support of CR 21-95. And so, for some of you old timers, oh I shouldn't
use the word, like Alice and Mike, I actually was Corporation Counsel 30 years ago,
can you imagine that?
And so, I've had an opportunity to review the amended version of the bill that I believe
Keani is going to be submitting today. And so, I know there were some issues with
Corporation Counsel, and mahalo Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez for working so
hard to try to adjust, address some of those issues coming from Corporation Counsel.
So, in reading the amended version of the bill, it definitely passes legal muster. I mean,
if you're looking at the rational basis test for this type of bills, it definitely conforms, is
not unreasonable and it bears definitely a reasonable relationship to a conceivable
legislative County purpose. And so, please support this bill. I know no bill is perfect.
There's always going to be ohana that think they are left out. I think this is the first
amazing step forward.
I've, I got to tell you, I aloha all of you, because I live here in Pana'ewa, Hawaii Island.
I'm actually waiting for this to pass and then I'm going to run over and make sure our
Council submits a similar bill because we have a lot of ‘aina kOpuna in Miloli'i, like huge
tracts of land. And it, it is, has been very difficult for our ohana in Miloli'i.
So, mahalo. I appreciate all of your time and energy. And like I said, this bill definitely
passes muster. I know there may be some pukas. I heard the testimony before me,
but you've always got to take a first step. And then, you know, next year is another
year to, to look at, you know, any amendments moving forward. But I think this is an
amazing first step. I am so proud of the Council, because this is setting a statewide
precedent to help ohana that have 'aina kupuna. So, mahalo. Chair Lee. It's so, you're
looking good, girl. And so, and mahalo everybody. Tasha Kama, long time no see.
And thank you for your support. I really appreciate it. Mahalo, Keani. Our ancestors
mahalo you. Thank you so much. Mahalo, everyone. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Maile. Good to see you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 13
MS. LUUWAl: Good to see you too.
CHAIR LEE; Are there any questions? Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Luuwai. Mahalo for your
testimony. I am encouraged by your support of our bill, and your eagerness to share
it with the Hawaii County Council.
MS. LUUWAI; Thank you. Mahalo, Keani.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Absolutely. And just wanted to let you know that
Councilmember Maile Davis [sic] already reached out to me about it, so I'm . . . with
you folks.
MS. LUUWAI; She was the Councilmember I was going to head up on it. 1 would want her
to take the lead, because yea. Thank you so much.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; She's already on it.
MS. LUUWAI; Good. Yay. Mahalo. Thank you everyone.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more questions? If not, take care, Maile.
MS. LUUWAI; Mahalo. Ahuihou.
CHAIR LEE; Thank, thank you. Mahalo.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Netra
Halpehn. To be followed by Suzanne Taylor. Netra Halperin. I see you're connected.
MS. NETRA HALPERIN (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-107);
Okay. Now, I know. Okay, now it should be good. Okay, thank you so much, lam
the owner of Opulent Design and I help people get legally permitted to be a bed and
breakfast. So, I am testifying on CR 107, I did testify two weeks ago, but some more
things have transpired, so I wanted to give an update.
Councilmember King generously forwarded me the email from Corp. Counsel, so I
could understand what the rationale behind not wanting to do the residency
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 14
requirement. So just to recap. There's the five-year ownership requirement for bed
and breakfast in this bill. And I think that that unnecessarily limits the bed and breakfast
and especially for local people. And that's why I think it's important, it would be much
better if you do want some kind of barrier to entry, to have it be residency. So, one of
the things he said is that, Corp. Counsel said is that while durational residency
requirements can be justified in-State tuition, in-State tuition for public universities is a
notable example, doing so may require the development of a factual record that hasn't
yet occurred. 1 have no idea what that means.
The other thing he mentions is that he says that in determining duration for residency
can be difficult, there's no government agency that definitively monitors residency
status. I don't really see how this is very difficult. You ask the applicant for an old utility
bill, an old lease agreement, an old mortgage payment, an old library card, anything.
So, it's not that difficult. And also, I mean, these applicants are paying $400 to the
County for administrative, to handle the administrative. And so, and there's many
documents that the planner must look at. And so, at saying that they must look at a
document that says that that person has been there for five years does not seem like
much of a burden.
And then also, he says that, he also says that that ownership requirements are
available to serve essentially the same purposes. And that's actually not true. They
do not serve the same purpose at all. The five-year ownership requirement shows
who, five years ago, was able to buy a property. So, it's more about who has a lot of
money. This eliminates young families. The five-year residency ensures that it is local
people who apply for permits, people who are committed to Maui and have been here
for five years. Again, there is no administrative burden. And-
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Halperin. Ms. Halperin, can you please conclude your testimony?
MS. HALPERIN: One more thing. Yes. And then, Mike Moran from the KCC mentioned that
he, anything that can stop illegal rentals, and I agree. I'm all for legal rentals, but if you
make the barrier impossible to pass, it will create illegal. I mean, we all know that. With
prohibition, abortion, anything where you make it really, really strict, people are going
to do what they want anyway. So, it's much better in my view to make it possible for
people to get B&B's and then they can be monitored and can fit in with the community.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Are there any questions? Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Just a quick question. Ms. Halperin, you mentioned that folks
go to you to get permitted. How much does that cost?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 15
MS. HALPERIN: it costs 4,000. And so, generally-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That answers my question.
MS. HALPERIN; It's going to be the higher, it's going to be the higher end properties that will
come to me. And then the people with, like, one bedroom, actually, that's not totally
true. People, like 1 have a teacher in Pukalani who pays me hourly because she's not.
So. it depends on--
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Thank you. 1 think you've answered her question. We understand it's
on a case-by-case basis, depending on the situation. Okay. Any more questions?
Thank you, Ms. Halperin.
Members, I need to take a five-minute recess. And I'll explain in five minutes. Recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 9;40 A.M. ,AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 9;48 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KING, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE; Will the County Council meeting of November 5 please reconvene. I'm sorry for
that short break. Members. One of our dogs, Leo, had to go outside, so I had to let
him out. Otherwise, it could have been disastrous.
Alright. Mr. Clerk, shall we proceed?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. Proceeding with testimony. The next person signed
up to testify is Suzanne Taylor. To be followed by Roy Vandoorn.
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Taylor?
MS. SUZANNE TAYLOR;
Yes. Sorry, 1, I've reversed my camera. So, I guess you really don't need to see me
anyway, since I don't see the reverse button on here. My name is, chi kati and aloha.
My name is Suzanne Taylor and I'm from Kula. And  Iwant to let you know I am not a
lobbyist.
I am requesting a moment on public comment, because this item is not on the agenda.
I understand you may not be able to comment from staff, or the Council. But I'm
requesting that the Council or staff provide me with an update on a previously
discussed amendment to the ordinance and regulations related to the size of a second
farm dwelling unit in an agricultural district from what was discussed in the media was
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 16
1,000 square feet to possibly 1,500 square feet. Just requesting contact from a
Councilmember or staff member on this item, so I can do some land use planning on
my own. I cannot hear you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, is the, this item on the agenda?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, I, admittedly !'m not sure what item she's referencing.
Ms. Taylor, do you have--
CHAIRLEE: Okay. It sounds like a Member Paltin item. Is this item on the agenda. Member
Paltin? No? Okay, I'm, I'm sorry, but we can't discuss items that are not posted on the
agenda. So, but feel free to contact our office, and perhaps one of our staff can help
you with your question.
MS. TAYLOR: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: You're welcome.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; She can contact my office, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
MS. TAYLOR: Yes, I will. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair.
MS. TAYLOR; Thank you for your time. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Roy Vandoorn. To be
followed by Stephanie Ohigashi.
MR. ROY VANDOORN (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Good morning. Chair Lee. Good morning, Members. My name is Roy
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 17
MR. VANDOORN: -Vandoorn. My name is Roy Vandoorn.  Ilive in Wailuku. I'm
representing myself. And I'm here to testify in support of SR 21-95 [sic]. This bill
demonstrates that government has a heart. While taxation is necessary, and I kno\A/
none of you like to raise people's taxes, that's not \why you came to serve. Ensuring
that taxation doesn't force local families to sell their long-held properties is important.
I consider this bill like Maile said a wonderful first step. I hope all the Members present
today support the helping of these local families keep their long-held properties. Thank
you very much. And I appreciate the opportunity to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members?
If not, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Stephanie
Ohigashi. To be followed by Raina Chang.
MS. STEPHANIE OHIGASHI. SISTER CITIES INTERNATIONAL (testifying on County
Communication No. 21-509):
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. OHIGASHI: Good morning. Good morning. I don't know, i'll make this very brief. I
know everybody's hungry, want to go lunch on time. Thank you, Chair Lee and
Honorable Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. OHIGASHI: Okay, so I really am not super prepared, because I was asked to testify by
Councilmember King, who's in Scotland at the COP26, which is very, very exciting.
And I am supporting the County Communication 21-519 [sic]. I’m not real sure of what,
you know, number it is. But anyway, I'm representing Sister Cities International. As
you know, I wear a lot of hats in this community, so it gets confusing to see me here.
But for today I am the rep for the State of Hawaii for all four counties.
And Sister Cities has a theme this year in which it involves climate change. And climate
change has become undeniably a harsh reality in our lives, something that none of us
want to accept, but it's happening. And making the importance of raising awareness
and taking action is vital every single . . . You know, as our temperatures rise, and my
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 18
husband said, oh we need one more air conditioning. And ! was growing up in Wailuku,
! never had air condition, I never noticed that it was this hot. But it is getting hotter and
hotter.
So. water patterns are disrupted, ecosystems are disturbed, and energy resources
have proven to be unsustainable for long periods of time. So therefore, these ongoing
changes impact our local and global community, every aspect. And for Sister Cities,
youth is the key to tackle this global problem, cause they're our next generation of
leaders. So, in line with the United Nations, sustainable, you know, the Sister Cities
will adopt climate change as the overarching theme for its young, young people, its
youth in 2022.
And Sister Cities is proud to have worked with Maui County youth. We had a winner
for the youth artist and . . . Seabury Hall Skylar Kuroda. She won a $1,000 . . . poem
for the environment. So, our showcase next year is Generation Rescue: Sustainable
Water for All. So, I want to let you know the Sister Cities will be working on launching
a sustainability and summit in '22, and we ask for your support for this resolution. And
. . . mahalo. Like everything what's been said today, I like seeing old faces and new
faces. Any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Steph. Yes, we have a question from Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Steph, for that very relevant testimony. And
I'm sure that we'll be working with you on that. But I just wanted to make a note that
your hair has grown long. And during COVID, we haven't seen you and you look
younger, so.
MS. OHIGASHl: Oh, that's really good. I, I noticed Maile and Netra and all my old friends
from my, the early Wailuku stomping grounds. It’s really exciting. But yea, I haven't
had my hair cut, and I won't cut it until we launch the summit. Thank you, Yuki. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any more questions? If not, thank you, Stephanie.
MS. OHIGASHl: Okay. Bye.
CHAIR LEE: Have a great weekend. Bye.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Raina Chang. To
be followed by Jeff Gilbreath.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 19
MS. RAINA CHANG (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95):
Hello, everyone. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. CHANG: Okay. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Dr. Raina Leialohalani Chang
and I'm here as a part of the Kukahiko ohana, in strong support for ‘aina kupuna bill
CR 21-95. Passing this bill would be a huge support for our family and many others,
as it would help us preserve the aina in its natural resources that tie us back to our
ancestors. You know, the way the world is changing now, we have a duty to protect
our aina and all these resources, and the goodness, and the healing that it offers us.
My great grandpa is buried on the land in Makena. And because of him and his
sacrifices, I stand here today as a Chinese medicine practitioner trying to help our
people. And we use the aina to heal. And so, I’m asking you to help us preserve our
strong roots that are imbedded in the land, because aina is life, it is our mother, and
we need to protect her. Mahalo. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? if not, thank you, Ms. Chang.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Jeff
Gilbreath. To be followed by Dave Jorgensen.
MR. JEFF GILBREATH, HAWAIIAN COMMUNITY ASSETS rtestifyina on Bill 111 (2021)1:
Aloha, Councilmembers. Good to see you. Jeff Gilbreath with Hawaiian Community
Assets, just providing some comments related to Bill 111 based on some concerns that
we've heard voiced. And so, I just wanted to let you folks know, you know, based on
the Comprehensive Affordable Housing Plan that we put together for you, the plan
recommended to create a list of homebuyers who are pre-qualified to receive an
expanded . . . assistance grant up to 150,000 or 200,000 if they're in Hana, Lanai, or
Molokai, so developers can market their homes to the, to this list for greater certainty
and provider access.
And then the second recommendation was related to the sales period, we
recommended more than 180 days sales period for all homes at the price proposed by
the developer. So, this is to keep from a protracted sales period that could extend as
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 20
far as 360 days and end up ... being sold to offshore buyers. ! think Bill 111, are steps
in the right direction. 1 commend all of you for your work on this.
I did want to address a few concerns that I've heard voiced about the bill. The first
concern about validating residency requirements and the cost of doing this. Local
residency can be verified using tax returns or a simple 4506T form from the IRS. If
these are not available to be provided, the onus should be on the applicant to verify
their residency.
And there's programs administering Federal housing assistance right now who can be
a source for guiding, you know, the, the County on this process, with regards to cost,
how to prove to housing . . . agencies and financial assistance providers, verify
residency is a normal course of their business. And in my experience, this has not
been cost prohibitive. Again, most of the onus is on the applicant.
The second concern is about the cost and the program on developers in the County.
We recently assisted a developer in contacting their list of 900 interested individuals
on their waitlist. And we found that 54 of those individuals were actually, who were on
that list were in fact interested in the specific project. This ... to build a partner from
assuming 900 individuals on their waitlist would automatically qualify for the purchase
opportunity. This tells us having a list of homebuyers prequalify for building partners
would reduce cost significantly in attempting to find qualified buyers.
The concern about liability, which I assume is related primarily to low-income housing
tax credit projects. It's important to note that LIHTC projects will want to ensure
management of this process because of the liability and compliance requirements of
these Federal funds, federally backed funds. We agree with this concern voiced by
the LIHTC developers. And the County should work with them to develop program
rules accordingly.
At the same time, we've heard anecdotally that recent Maui LIHTC projects have had
to go through six applications to find one qualified renter. Having a list of renters and
with tenant selection plan, we could actually help builders reduce their cost so they
wouldn't have to review six applications to find one, one qualified renter.
And the last is about the County purchasing units. We believe the County should
purchase any home that is not bought by a qualified homebuyer within the first 180 day
or 120 days in the bill. You know, they could go through an appraisal process to make
sure the value of the home is what it is. And the County could use the Housing Interim
Financing and Buyback Revolving Fund, which has about $2 million in it right now-
CHAIR LEE; Could you please conclude? Jeff-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 21
MR. GILBREATH: --to make that purchase.
CHAIR LEE; Jeff. Jeff.
MR. GILBREATH; That's it. That's all I got-
CHAIRLEE: That's it?
MR. GILBREATH: -Councilmember.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
MR. GILBREATH; Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions, Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; So, just clarifying. You said you support the bill?
MR. GILBREATH: Yes. Yes, I support the bill, Councilmember. Just wanted to, to address
some of the concerns we've heard voiced from other, other parties.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. And then you sent that-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We have another question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -writing, right?
MR. GILBREATH: I'm so sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; You sent it in, in writing?
MR. GILBREATH: I did. That's why I had to jump on here, so, I don't know. I'm happy to
provide to the Affordable Housing Committee if that's, if, or to whoever is appropriate.
I'd take direction from you folks.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That'd be great. County.Clerk@mauicounty.us.
MR. GILBREATH: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 22
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; That was my question for Jeff.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; If he could submit his testimony in writing.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.
MR. GILBREATH; Very understandable.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Jeff.
MR. GILBREATH; I can do that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
MR. GILBREATH; Have a great day. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; You too. Aloha.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next individual signed up to testify is Dave Jorgensen. To
be followed by Robin Knox.
MR. DAVE JORGENSEN (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85);
Good morning, Chair Lee, Members of the Commission, uh, the commission, the
Council, and staff. My name is Dave Jorgensen. I want to testify today on matter
CR 21-85, which is at the very, very end of a very long agenda. So, I'm not a paid
lobbyist, but I am the attorney for the neighbors of the subject property. My clients are
Winston Cheshire and Vera Sredanovic.
I, this is one of those where I'll apologize ahead of time. My testimony is going to be
short. I've spoken to my clients a couple times. I'm aware of their concerns with the
activities going on, on the neighboring property, which is the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm.
We understood, and I understand that there is an investigation going on by the
Planning Department into the activities on that lot. I also know you all have heard
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 23
testimony, have heard this matter before, and are aware of a lot of those issues
complaints, potential violations.
So, we were just concerned that, that it was on the agenda for first reading, when my
clients were still waiting to hear back some, some status on the investigation. So, I
believe Ms. Sredanovic is going to be testifying in a little bit. I saw her name on the
chat, so I won't belabor this. I don't want to, you know, I don't want to overlap and
waste your time. But I do ask you to look closely at this. Again, you guys actually at
this point may know a little bit more about what's going on than I do. But the issue of
violations of prior permits, activities being conducted way in excess of what's permitted,
other issues like that, youth living in RVs on the property. I understand one RV is gone,
but there's a van there instead, and a bunch of tents. So please look into this closely.
And I, I appreciate your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members.
If not, Mr. Clerk.
MR. JORGENSEN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Robin
Knox. To be followed by Vera Sredanovic.
MS. ROBIN KNOX (testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-487, 21-492, and 21-509:
and Committee Report No. 21-98):
Aloha. I don't know why, but I can't seem to turn my video on. I'm testifying on behalf
of myself, and then I'm going to testify on behalf of the Save the Wetlands Hui on
CR 21-98.
On behalf of myself, Robin, Knox, and I am not a lobbyist, I would like to say I support
21-487 to give liability protection to our lifeguards. 1 think that's a no-brainer.
I support 21-492 to add members to the Planning Advisory Commissions that advise
the Planning Commissions, because I think that we do have very diverse community
in terms of not only like ethnicity or cultures, but also age and economic status. So, I
think the more members, you know, the better representation we'll have.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 24
I also support 21-509 to be one of the CitiesWithNature Partnership members to
commit to protecting biodiversity. You know, I think we all know Hawaii is known as
the capital of extinct, extinction and that we have many species found nowhere else
but here. So, I think we can be on the cutting edge internationally and share what we
know and learn from what others share. So, that concludes my personal testimony.
On behalf of the Save the Wetlands Hui, I want to testify on CR 21-98. People in the
community have approached me, wondering why we need a County bill to protect
wetlands when there is a Federal program to protect wetlands. So, I would like to
reiterate something I've said before, that the Federal wetland determination is for one
purpose only, to determine if the wetland is a water of the U.S. subject to the Clean
Water Act permits jurisdiction.
Because, sorry, because the definition of water of the U.S. changes frequently, the
protection of wetlands changes over time. Currently, waters of the U.S. does not
include ephemeral streams and associated wetlands like those on the leeward side of
our islands or isolate, isolated wetlands such as the elevated wetlands and bogs of our
upper watersheds.
The Association of State Wetland Managers notes that the Army Corp of Engineers
permits do not protect the functions of wetlands and the value to communities. Maui
County's wetlands provide vital natural infrastructure, drainage, and flood storage. It,
they protect the ocean from the land-based pollutants. They trap sentiments. They
recycle nutrients and biogeo-chemicals back to the natural place in their, in the natural
cycles.
The wetlands provide habitat for those threatened and endangered species we were
just talking about and, and provide nurseries for our fisheries. And they can protect
the land and the freshwater from impacts of sea-level rise and sequester greenhouse
gases to mitigate climate change.
So, you can see that wetlands have great value to Maui County's communities and that
they're currently vulnerable and unprotected from destruction. And that is why Maui
County needs this wetlands protection bill. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions. Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Knox.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Vera
Sredanovic. To be followed by Jen Russo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 25
MS. VERA SREDANOVIC (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-85):
Dear County Members, I tried turning on the camera, but it doesn't v\/ork. So, thank
you so much for your public service and please forgive me for sending you emails, but
1 wanted to make sure that you have supporting documentation and have more
accurate information.
I will only focus on new information, since the last County meeting, so 1 will not go into
individual CUP violations. In the last September meeting when this was discussed like
last time--
CHAIR LEE: Can you speak a little louder? Can you?
MS. SREDANOVIC: Oh, sorry. Can you hear me better now?
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
MS. SREDANOVIC: Okay. Sorry. Since September, when we had last meeting, they, just
in September, there were six weddings, which far exceeds two permitted. And out of
those two were conducted at non-permitted TVR. So, people were inside of the cottage
and some of them appeared to have stayed overnight, also.
On a separate note, by, I looked at the CUP presentation given by Crystal Schmidt,
original one, and I noticed that the drawing of the plot presented is about 30 percent
smaller than the actual plot. This made it look like the area planted on the crops is
50 percent of the land, which it is not. If you could please review the original CUP
application and the agricultural plan that they submitted. So, you will see that they
stated it was about 15 acres planted, but they don't have more than five. So, I was just
wondering if this information is, in fact, inaccurate and the permit was given based on
that, wouldn't these permits be invalid at this time?
I also was forced multiple times to call the police in the middle of the night due to the
partying and screams coming from the transient staff living on the farm. We discussed
the RV ... but 1 understand that farm can have farm help live at the property if it's
appropriate accommodations. But that is if they have at least 35,000 per staff coming
from direct produce made at the farm, and assuming that the actual staff works at the
farm, at the farm produce. But this staff works mostly on the ziplines and other
adventures.
Most of the revenue based on the website from the owners comes from weddings,
adventures, ziplines. And some of these, since the last meeting, young adults moved
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 26
to the cottage. But it would be interesting to see a revenue breakdown and labor
allocation to see how many would be allowed to live there in normal accommodations.
Please revoke SUP and CUP due to this misrepresentation of, potential
misrepresentation of percentage farm and to continue violations of, of the permissions.
! want to thank you for the opportunity to speak, and for all of your hard work. I know
your job is not easy. I want you to know that I'm for the farmers and for the environment
and I've always support that, so I was never against any farm tours or anything. Thank
you so much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Vera. I just was wondering
if your, if it took into account that we had a huge fire in 2018?
MS. SREDANOVIC: Yes. Yes. So, if you, I, I looked at all of the, like, Google, you can see
historical information. And there was never planted more than five acres. They did
loss, lose one part of that five acres, which only recently I looked at the, I saw the
green. They started watering it recently. So, no, it's, it was never there. And you will
see that omitted portion of 30 percent to the right-hand side, that was never planted.
And you can see that it's all like rocky area and shrubs. So, it's networked on.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MS. SREDANOVIC: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, you're a neighbor. So, you would know if the
recreational vehicles are still there?
MS. SREDANOVIC; Yes. Mhm. Yes. As of a couple of days ago when I walked my dog up
the street, I saw that one RV is gone, the other RV is there. But I noticed another white
van parked there. So, that, that's a new. I did notice, as I said, that they have some
people living at the cottage and unfortunately in the middle of the night, 1 had to call
police again, which 1 hate doing because such a waste of resources. Because they
were screaming-
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. You answered her question. Thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 27
MS. SREDANOVIC: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any more questions, Members? If not. thank you for your testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Jen
Russo. To be followed by Lucienne de Naie.
MS. JEN RUSSO. MAUI VACATION RENTAL ASSOCIATION (testifying on Committee
Report Nos. 21-95 and 21-107):
Aloha. Can you hear me? Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. RUSSO: Aloha, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. My name is Jen Russo. I'm
testifying in my capacity as Executive Director of Maui Vacation Rental Association.
Thank you for the time today to speak to CR 21-107 and CR 21-95. I know you have
a double agenda today. I will try to be brief.
We support 21-107 with permitted bed and breakfast and short-term rental home
operators. The existing owners and operators and their managers, permit-holders all
work together in partnership with the County. The County has one of the most
managed and regenerative approaches to the hospitality industry with these permitted
operations. And as such, we don't see out of control growth within these permits. They
represent less than half percent of the homes on Maui.
These small businesses must follow a strict set of rules, must be operating to code,
pay their taxes on time. These operators must submit their visitor cultural education to
the County and have that approved. These operators are known to their neighbors.
The intent of the proposed changes were to reduce speculation and encourage a
connection to the neighborhood. However, we heard lots of testimony during the
planning commission meetings that showed the current application process allows for
this connection to the neighborhoods, as the property has to prove that it does not
change the neighborhood in any way, shape, or form. Neighbors do get to weigh-in
during the process.
The Planning Commission did not support this revision to add a five-year ownership
and construction requirement for B&Bs and did not recommend it for Maui. I think that
the bill should reflect that sentiment and recommendation.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 28
I truly appreciate the amendments to the bill that Councilmember Paltin has brought
forth to allo\A/ B&B operators to pass to their heirs. We support these changes, but I
think we need another amendment to remove that five-year ownership requirement for
B&Bs for Maui. Bed and breakfast operations are run by Maui residents, supported in
the Countywide Policy Plan. This plan calls for the County policies to support home-
based businesses, and encourage resident ownership of visitor related businesses and
facilities.
On CR 21-95, the ‘aina kupuna lands, we support this proposal to add a section to the
tax code relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as ‘aina kupuna. The BFED Committee
agreed to amend the proposed bill to allow property dedicated as ‘aina kupuna to be
used for transient vacation rentals.
However, I think the way the ordinance was written to be so specific, the scope was
too narrow. Many of the lineal descendants utilizing their properties have seen tax
increases that have been exorbitant, and those have, that have had to make
commercial uses to pay for property taxes and keep their lands should not be punished.
They should also qualify, or consideration should be made too for those lineal
descendants who may be unable to farm their lands. Mahalo, Councilmembers, for
listening to me. I know you have a long day ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Russo.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Lucienne
de Naie. To be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with
these last four digits, 7414.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-484. 21-485. 21-487
21-492, 21-493. 21-509, 21-512 and 21-518: and Committee Report Nos. 21-95, 21-96
21-98, 21-111,21-113, and 21-116: Bill Nos. 106 (2021) and 111 (2021)1:
Aloha. Greetings, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. My name is Lucienne
de Naie and I am testifying in two parts today, kind of like Mike Moran, or someone
else earlier. At first, as chairperson of the Sierra Club Maui Group, this is going to be
a bit like deja vu, because many of the items were on your last Council agenda. But I
would like to testify on behalf of Sierra Club Maui in strong support of County resolution
21-95 regarding the acquisition of the Waiate land for all the reasons that have been
discussed before. We are in strong support of this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 29
Also, Council resolution 21-98, referring to the program for wetlands restoration and
protection. I think that Ms. Knox really summed it up. We need something that fits
Maui. We have some very, very vital lands in Maui that are providing a vital green
infrastructure purpose, and they need to be recognized as such and managed as such
to help the surrounding properties. And save us a lot of money down, down the road
in the future when we have rising sea levels and uncertain storm events.
Moving on to County resolution 21-113, having to do with the, prohibit the sale of the
non-mineral sunscreens. We also are very strongly in support of this. And, you know,
we're very involved in the first bills to bring this to the attention of our legislators. As
Mr. Bagshaw I think eloquently explained, our, our reefs just, you know, need to have
a voice here. And we, we are their voice on what goes into the water and what affects
the coral and as it is trying to survive under, you know, a lot of different impacts.
Moving on to County Communication 485. This also relates to the Waiale and South
Waiale. And we strongly support this moving forward, the budget amendment being
made, and the funds being moved forward to secure the property.
On item County Communication 493, we strongly support the purchase of the Kula
Community Center grounds. And thank Councilmember Sugimura for putting that
forward. That's a benefit for the whole Kula community. We ourselves have attended
many public meetings there, and the center is a great public resource for all kinds of
community events.
As to the aina aloha, ‘aina ohana tax credit. Council Communication 512, and Council
resolution 95, we are strongly in support of moving this forward. If it does need some
tweaks, we agree with Ms. Luuwai that let's get this on the books. If it needs some
tweaks, certainly they can be made, because one size rarely fits all. But it is really
historic that Maui County would recognize that our, our legacy families, our, our kupuna
that passed things from generations to generation should not be taxed off their land.
Moving onto County Communication 509. This also is a wonderful opportunity. It was
nice to hear Ms. Ohigashi speak to it. We definitely, Maui County is one of the most
probably forward-thinking places in the U.S. And we really belong in this partnership,
as CitiesWithNature Partnership, because it is people who are going to make a
difference in, in the end. As enlightened as you all are as our leaders and as
appreciated as your efforts are, you do need the people also city-by-city to unify and
take charge of our world again.
And then ending my testimony for the Sierra Club Maui Group was support for Bill 106,
relating to the Energy Code compliance for large residential buildings. This is kind of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 30
a no-brainer, you know. We all talk about the McMansions and so forth. It's like at
least we can insist that they're not energy hogs. So, and usually people who build
places like this are usually in a financial position to, to make these changes and try to
do what's most energy efficient, helps them in the long run. And it certainly helps our
environment and our community.
Moving onto the topics I would like to address as an individual. These are topics that,
you know, they come up and we don't have time to ask if the Sierra Club Board supports
or doesn't support. Some of them are very worthwhile topics. But Council
Communication 484, regarding to efforts to protect and advance the practice of hula,
and prevent its economic exploitation and appropriation. This is something that is seen
so often.
Some terrible land use decision will be made, and the mitigation will be to sponsor a
hula contest, or to set up some sort of cultural event. And you know, hula, it connects
to the aina. It connects to our oceans. It connects to the, the places in Hawaii, the
wahi pana, the story places. And it seems like we've just taken the dance and put it in
its own setting and then charge a lot of money for it. So, anything that can happen to
actually return, end this cultural appropriation, and return hula to its place where it
should be under the advice of the culture that created it makes a lot of sense.
Also, would like to support Council Communication 487, limited liability for County
lifeguards. And this would be part of the package that goes to the Legislature next
year. Oh, my gosh, we have discussed this for years and years and years. I can
remember testifying on this, I don't know, 10, 15 years ago. It's really, you know, the
State, as I understand it, the State has the ability to grant this limited liability, and we
really need it to extend to the Counties. I think that's kind of the simple version of it.
Item 492 relating to members and alternates to the Advisory Committee to the Planning
Commission. The, getting the alternates in place and clearly defined is very important.
Most successful committees do have alternates because not everyone's always
available and you do need to make quorum. And it's great having more people
informed rather than less people. So, I support this very strongly as a person who’s
served on a number of boards and commissions over the years.
And then, there's item 518. This is a report that's being transmitted on the feasibility
studies for the Haiku Fire Station. 1 am Chair of the community association in, in Haiku,
and three or four members of our board have worked very diligently on this issue. And
I would just summarize our concerns in, in like one sentence. Right now, there are
portions of our area that are more than five minutes from a fire station. And the current
preferred location will not do anything to change the fact that those areas are more
than five minutes from a, five miles. I'm sorry, five miles from a fire station.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 31
So, we formed a committee, the community association, to look at alternative sites.
Did find a site that would be free, because it's State land, would be appropriately sited.
It's on a major road, Hana Highway, and could be available. And it would put everything
that is developed all the way out to Kailua Town within the five-mile range, as well as
covering all of Haiku going back, you know, to Maliko Gulch and beyond.
However, our Fire Department believes that the highest claims are in the area that is
near the present preferred site. And that the community plan and the, the Maui Island
Plan shows growth only in that area. What I think that we need to look at is the Maui
Island Plan shows areas of growth that actually are areas that are already built. There's
very little open areas for growth in that plan. It's mostly surrounds areas that are built.
So, of course you're getting claims from that. The areas where new growth is going to
be coming from are not in the Maui Island Plan, because they're agricultural lands. And
that is where our growth is happening. And that is for the people who are outside this
five-mile range. So, whatever happens with this study, we would like to go on record
of, from the community association noting that there is this kind of difference of view.
And then, the last two items, number 111, this would provide $3.5 million forthe Wai'ale
Road Extension project. I had the opportunity in the last week to tour the 200 acres
the County purchased for a Central Maui Park. And you know, one of the things that
we noted is that the County owns 100 acres and 200 acres that kind of, you know, are
between Honoapiilani Highway and Kuihelani Highway. And what they really need is
Wai'ale Road access to go between the two and allow decent access. So, I'm glad
that this is moving forward.
Then there's a local matter, and that is County resolution 116. This, this relates to the
Door of Faith Church, which is an institution in our Huelo community. This little church
has been there since the 1950's. It was established on agricultural land that was
donated by a local family. And they do lease some State land. They take good care
of the land. They are very supportive to our community. They provide meeting space
for community meetings. They provide food giveaways to families in need. And ail, I
think they're trying to do is get so that they have a legal status. Since they're a church,
they need to have Pubiic/Quasi-Public District for their zoning.
And then ending then, ending on Bill 111, and that will be the residential workforce
housing list, a master list. I think, I think Jeff really summed it up. Our present system
does not give accountability when you double-check on how many people are really
qualified out of these large numbers that are often put out, like 400 people are waiting.
Well, you find out it's not 400 people, it's maybe 80 people who would qualify. We
really need to get the facts so we can tailor our policies and our housing products to
the real, the real facts that, that are out there.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 32
So, maybe this was another thing needs to be tweaked a little bit. Maybe it should be
the purview of a nonprofit organization to administer if the County just feels they, would
just be too difficult for them. But we do need a master list. It was one of the main
things that MEO convened an affordable housing panel for a year, oh, 10, 15 years
ago. And this was one of the ten points. Keep a master list, rather than have all these
little individual lists. So, thank you for your support of Bill 111. Mahaio.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Lucienne. Well done. I was going to ask you
about the Door of Faith Church based upon what you said about the fire station
location.
MS. DE NAIE: Yes. Of course, they're outside of the five-mile range, yea. Both churches.
We have two churches in our community. Both of them would be outside this range,
and a thousand residences. There's a thousand people that live between Kakipi Gulch
and Kailua Town that, that are just, you know, outside of this five-mile range as well.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, but your community association as, is
supporting of the five-mile range?
MS. DE NAIE: We, we, we want the, we want the location that would actually take in
everything all the way to Kailua Town, so it would provide that five-mile range east and
the five-mile range to the west.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you. And I appreciate your support of the
Wai'ale Road extension. Yea, I agree with you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any, any other? .... Have a nice weekend.
Oh. Mr. Clerk, can you hear me?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Shall 1 call the next testifier?
CHAIR LEE: How many do we have left?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are currently five individuals signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Want to take a break or finish public testimony?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 33
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Finish.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Finish.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Finish.
CHAIR LEE; Finish? Okay.
Please proceed. Mr. Clerk,
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. The next individual signed up to testify is the
individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits. 7414. To
be followed by Cody Pueo Pata.
MS. KEIKI KAWALAE'A (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-95);
Spoke in Hawaiian.
My name is Keiki Kawai'ae'a and I'm a member of the Kukahiko ohana. I‘d like to just
put a little shout-out for Maile Luuwai's testimony earlier. And reminding us that 1 think
for this bill it's on a very short timeline. If families can begin to apply and I'm sure
hoping that we'll be able to move the bill forward, because it’s our responsibility and
later, as, as issues come up around that. And also, the reminder from the . . . about
the importance as a position of land connected to well-being, healing, and wellness. I
think that's been a huge experience for our family in Makena.
So, I'm standing today, along with my family, in strong support for the ‘aina kOpuna bill
21-95. As many of you already know, our ohana has had a long history in Makena,
with the branches of our genealogical tree residing from across multiple ahupua'a; from
Kanahena to Keauhou or more . . , names would be the big far side of Big Beach all
the way to Chang's Beach. Those are the places where our families have, our
Kukahiko families have resided over the years.
Unfortunately, land speculation and high-end homes for wealthy and unaffordable
property taxes have severely impacted the ability of our families to stay in Makena.
Consequently, one by one, our Makena families have had to sell their aina because
they no longer could afford to pay the property tax.
Makena is where our kupuna John and Kamaka Kukahiko chose to raise their family,
their ten children, and set deep roots nearly 140 years ago. It has become an
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 34
overpriced community for the very wealthy, mostly non-residents who can afford to buy
high-end speculation homes now with a price tag of 20 million plus dollars. So, this bill
is really, really important that we move this bill ahead. And we're hoping that we'll be
able to do that today.
But in light of all of the work that has come to today, we would really like to mention
Councilwoman Keani Rawlins-Fernandez and our deep appreciation for this long
overdue bill and acknowledge Council Chair Alice Lee and all of the Honorable
Members of the Council who really listened to our stories and our struggles through
oral testimony and the many letters that have been submitted by family and
organizations from Maui.... Strongly believes in  ..., in the bill and strongly supports
‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95. And we believe it's a long overdue solution and it will allow
us to dedicate and continue to live and care for our ancestral land. We humbly ask
that you support and pass the bill. Mahalo nui loa.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, thank you so much.
And may we have the next testifier, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Cody Pueo Pata. To
be followed by John Carty.
KUMU CODY PUEO PATA (testifying on County Communication No. 21-484):
Aloha. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
KUMU PUEO PATA: Mahalo nui e Chair Lee and esteemed Councilmembers. My name is
Cody Pueo Pata. I'm a kumu hula. I’m not a lobbyist. I would like to testify just briefly
that I do support, of course, CC 21-484, supporting the Huamakahikina Declaration.
For reference, please see my written testimony earlier. I would also like to say that I
will be available for questions, or a, as a reference, when this item actually comes up.
I would like to extend my mahalo to Lucienne de Naie, who gave a beautiful support to
that, and also to Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez for raising our declaration forth.
As one of the authors, once again, of this declaration, I thank you for hearing this. And
I will be, be available later when it comes up for your review. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 35
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is John Carty. To be
followed by Faith Chase.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Carty?
MR. JOHN CARTY (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-97):
Can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: . . .
MR. CARTY: Okay. The Save Honolua Coalition supports CR 21-97 and the Ho'omahua
Initiative . . . unprecedented usage, and abuse of Honolua Bay and the ... . To best
address the problem, we have partnered with Na Mea ‘Ike ‘la with the goal to implement
an education information monitoring table down at the bay. And we recognize their
technology as an, as essential to accomplish our mission there. We have reviewed
the LiDAR technology and intend to use it for both educational and data collection. And
that's, that's my testimony. I've lost contact. I can't hear you guys. I'm terribly sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? Questions for his testimony?
Mr. Clerk, please call everyone who's on the list.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Yes. Chair. The, there's actually two people remaining
on the list. The next testifier is Faith Chase. To be followed by the last individual
currently signed up, Dick Mayer. If there is anybody else in the meeting who has not
yet testified and wishes to do so, please inform us in the meeting chat. Thank you.
Faith Chase.
MS. FAITH CHASE (testifying on General Communication No. 21-6):
Good morning. Chair Lee. Good morning. Council. I'm call. I'm just speak, I want to
speak quickly on General Communication 21-6, the report coming from Alexander &
Baldwin. I'm just taking advantage of this opportunity to, perhaps this will get back to
the Vice-President who put forward this report. I have made inquiries to A&B and
Mahi Pono through their community public relations, through their initial PR firm and 1
have gotten no reply about many inquiries. And so, while I appreciate the general
communication process at the Council, I would just, it would, it would be nice if A&B
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 36
and Mahi Pono would actually reply to inquiries from their community. And I want that
on the public record. That's all I have to say today. Thank you for all these testimonies
supporting Makena and those families. A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Thank you, Faith.
Mr. Clerk. . . . our next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next testifier we have signed up is Dick Mayer. To be
followed by Tom Croly.
MR. DICK MAYER [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-485 and 21-493; Committee
Reports 21-96. 21-104. 21-111,21-115; and Bill No. 111 (2021)1:
Thank you very much. And good morning, Council Members. I have six items and I'll
be very brief on all of them. The first regards Waiale which I strongly support the
County purchasing this property. But 1 just want to remind the Council, if the value of
$10 million or so was given to A&B already when they up zoned that land and gave the
entitlements for that property less than a decade ago. So, it's, I would hope that when
you make your decisions to title properties in the future, you consider the fact that at
some point the County may want to purchase that land back, and what was given
should not be paid for twice. And so, I think that you need to consider what can be
done, so that if an entitlement is given, that if ever the need comes to repurchase the
land again that it be done at the original value, not at the upscale, up, very much inflated
value of $10 million. And that relates to several items on your agenda today.
The second item I'd like to talk about is the Kula Community Center. So, appreciative
that Councilmember Sugimura has put this on your agenda. It's been a high priority of
the KCA, the Kula Community Association, now for at least ten years. It's, it's a leased
property that the State has, excuse me, that the County has put large amounts of
money into to build a community center, the tennis courts, the parking lot, etc., you all
know that site. It's been used many times by you at, in political forums and other
events. Please, go ahead and purchase the land under that, so that that will not revert
back to the present owner who bought that land for only $260,000 a few years ago.
Third item. There's a item to rename the ballfield at a Kula Park to the Glenn Otani
Baseball Field. I strongly endorse that. I was the one who got the money from the
State Legislature to buy that land. 1 worked at, with the County, the County
appropriated the money to build that whole park. And 1 worked with the landscaper-
designer to design that whole field. And when we, we were in the process of designing
the park, Glenn Otani played a very pivotal role in making sure that we had adequate
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 37
baseball fields there for the children Upcountry. And I think it's very appropriate that
the field be named after him. He played a pivotal role in not only baseball, but actually
in the design of that field.
The next item is the item about the Transient Vacation Rentals and the use, this is item
21-115, the use of registration numbers when people advertise. I would urge that the
TMK number that's now being assigned to those properties have, at the beginning of
that TMK number, a letter that indicates the community plan district where that item is
in. So, for example, if it were in East Maui, would be the letter "E"; in North Maui, "N";
South Maui, "S"; Moloka'i, "M"; etc. That will, that way, when we count up how many,
how many licenses or permits you've given out for vacation rentals and transient
accommodations, it'll be very easy to see all the TMK's in that area. It'll make it much
easier to keep trackof where these transient vacation rentals are located. I would urge
you to recommend that. I don't think it takes an ordinance, even, I think just rather than
using just the TMK, that you assign a letter at the beginning.
And finally, the item I'm most interested in talking about is the bill regarding the list that
is going to be prepared for people seeking affordable housing. I want to thank
Councilmember Gabe Johnson, particularly, and all of the Councilmembers for putting
this forth. I think it's been a, it will be a valuable addition. It's something long called
for, and I think it could be a very useful way.
I have one concern with that bill, and that right now it says that the Housing Department
or its designee shall administer this whole thing. I just want to make sure that the
designee is not a developer. I think it could be  anonprofit, like MEO, or Liliuokalani
Trust, or some other group that has no particular interest in benefiting financially from
that. And I would hope that a neutral party, either the County Housing Department or
designee. And so, if you could put in the words "nonprofit" before the word "designee",
I think that would be appropriate. I realize this is second reading, but I would hope that
we make sure that this does not fall in the hands of developers who can manipulate
lists and do all kinds of things that are not necessarily in the best interest of the
residents who will be trying to get their affordable house. And with that I would like to
conclude. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Dick. Members, questions? If not, thank you again.
And may we have the last testifier, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The last person signed up to testify is Thomas Croly.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 38
MR. THOMAS CROLY (testifying on County Communication No. 21-511 and Committee
Report No. 2MQ7):
Aloha, Council. Thomas Croly, testifying on my own behalf. First, 1 would like to
comment on County Communication CC 21-511 and urge the Council to adopt this
amendment proposed by Councilmember Paitin to correct one of the errors that was
made in the changes to the amendments to the B&B ordinance in response to a testifier
last week, one of the testifiers, who explained that the changes being proposed would
make it impossible for her to leave her B&B in a legacy to her son. I, I support this.
This oversight was made because the Planning and Land Use Committee chose to
ignore the recommendations of the Planning Department, the Planning Commission,
and the majority of the public testifiers when at its, when it made a change at the end
of its meeting. It hastily made the change that created a five-year ownership
requirement for bed and breakfast permit applicants. This proposed change was
rejected by the Planning Commission, and also affects all current permit-holders like
the one that we're making this change for, because no one will be able ever to sell their
home to someone who might intend to continue the long-standing bed and breakfast
use on that home, because it would, they would not be able to get a permit for five
years. So, anyone with a permit, their use and, and legacy would have to end upon
their sale of their home.
It also removes the opportunity for any Maui resident who might want to create an
opportunity for their own affordable housing by creating bed and breakfast use in their
newly purchased home or use that bed and breakfast income to qualify for the
mortgage. This error that was made in Committee was amplified when the amended
bills left Committee without the five-year ownership requirement noted and were
approved by Corporation Counsel without that change and then later corrected. This
caused a lot of confusion in the public. It's most unfortunate that the Council took so
little time and effort in Committee to vet the consequences of its actions to an ordinance
that has been working so well for 12 years to regulate this use. The previous Council
took 13 meetings to vet every requirement and condition in the B&B ordinance, and
very carefully crafted an ordinance with . . .
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Croly. Mr. Croly, can you conclude in one minute please?
MR. CROLY: 1,1 can, on this item. And very carefully crafted an ordinance with consideration
given to all of the concerns expressed by the public. The Administration, the industry,
and the previous Council would be disappointed by this Council's actions to undo that
work.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 39
Chair, I'd like to move on to Committee Report 21-107. It is with great sadness that I
watch the actions of this bill, that in my opinion, would effectively kill the bed and
breakfast and short-term rental ordinances and bring Maui County back to where it was
in 2006 when we had 800 short-term rentals and bed and breakfasts that existed with
only 22 of them properly permitted. These actions would fuel a new underground that
operates outside of public advertising, and you would not have served, solved any of
the problems. But you will have lost the tax revenue and the oversight that applies to
permitted properties. Today, there are 193 short-term rental permits and 151 bed and
breakfast permits, and these are regulated through these ordinances. And some,
including this Council, have said, that's enough. And you've set new caps for there to
be no more.
But I do want you to understand that we do need to have the opportunity open just to
maintain those. Because every year, a certain number of permits go away. And I
analyzed the, the number of permits that, that go away every year and it's about half
the number that apply for new ones. And since the five-year requirement was put on
short-term rentals three years ago, there have only been four new short-term rentals
approved that were subject to that, that requirement. Yet, 42 short-term rentals have
gone away. The permits are gone because those owners sold their homes, or they
didn't renew, or their renewal was denied, what, whatever the case may be. So, the
bottom line is if you apply that same five years to the bed and breakfast, the same
thing’s going to happen down the road.
So, I urge this Council to reject the five-year ownership requirement for Maui resident
bed and breakfast. To allow this ordinance to continue to provide opportunities to Maui
residents to provide their own affordable housing. To provide opportunities for the
existing permits to continue if they are not affecting their neighborhoods, and to trust
that the conditions that are put into these ordinances have the foresight to protect our
neighborhoods and communities as they have been working.
And I would invite any of the Councilmembers at any time to view some of these
permitted bed and breakfasts and just see just how well they do fit into their
neighborhoods. Thank you for that consideration and please don't kill the bed and
breakfast ordinance by tacking on this five-year ownership requirement, because that
will, that will be the death and we’ll be back to where we were. Thank you, Chair, for
the opportunity to comment on these two items.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? If not, thank you, Tom.
Mr. Clerk.
MR. CROLY: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 40
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we currently have no other testifiers signed up. If an
individual is connected to the meeting and has not testified, but wishes to do so, please
identify yourself now. This is our last call.
MS. CLARE APANA (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-96):
Hello?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Hi. Are you wishing to testify?
MS. APANA: Yes. I don't seem to have a chat button. I'm on my telephone.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. I believe this is Clare Apana, correct?
MS. APANA: Correct.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Please proceed.
MS. APANA: Thank you. I just wanted to, 1 don't know, do I have my video camera open?
CHAIR LEE: No.
MS. APANA: Is it on now?
CHAIR LEE: No. But we can hear you.
MS. APANA: Okay. Well, I just wanted to show you, I'm at Keopuolani Park right now. We
are completing a vigil and a; we assisted the County in taking care of some burials that
have not been taken care of for about ten years. And so, we assisted the SHPD and
the County to get the kupuna buried. And it was a very beautiful, beautiful... ceremony
for us. Our, our spiritual people have been working for days to build an ahu and I just
wanted to let you know that we are doing, doing the work to preserve and to perpetuate
our culture and, and honor our iwi kupuna and really, it's really good work. And I wanted
to thank you for the opportunity to, to have the Waiale be purchased as a preservation.
So, this is Clare Apana.
And I have one more person here, Victoria Palafox. This is the County Council for
Waiale. So, this is Victoria Palafox.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 41
MS. VICTORIA PALAFOX (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-96):
Aloha. Aloha. 1 thank you for your time at this moment. Aunty Clare just catching me
\when I just pau leo over here. But my heart is to support Waiale in all the efforts that
we as kanaka. I'm a Kahuna Pule, so the preservation of our iwi kupuna is very
important. In fact, today, we just finished reinterning some of our kupunas that was
held in SHPD, we laid to rest in Keopuolani.
And I know in Waiale. there's many, many more. I'd like to save that area and help
and partake of, how I can say it, a new, a new beginning, a new understanding in this
space of malama our kupunas of time past. And from that, to bring the stories that they
have carried for us that has been forgotten. And  Iknow it education in every way. It
takes so much effort from all of us. And to me, it's not a hard work to educate others,
yea? You just need to know when to approach, and how to approach. So, 1 support
the Waiale project with all my heart. And I also support in fullness of the kupuna. Yeah,
and I thank you all for trying to make that happen.
Our families have lived here for generations and generations and try to upkeep with
the new advancement of our people today. But as we all can see, they having hardship
and have had hardship from time past until today. So, this kuleana . . . will help the
kupunas of today and the families to enrich their life. And I tell you something, when
we start malama-ing all our birth families of this place, I can see enrichment in
everything else in our community. To bring life and happiness to an individual, a
kupuna, and to see the children grow in happiness. I feel this going help everyone,
even the foreign people that come and live with us. We can work together, hand in
hand.
And I thank you at this time for your, for bringing all these, these kuleanas up to the
surface, and this opportunity for me to share some of my thoughts. Next time I going
be more aware of what's going on. But ! thank you so much for your time. And I
appreciate all that you do. Mahalo, Chair Lee. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you so much. Thank you. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you,
ladies.
MS. PALAFOX: Mahalo.
MS. APANA: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 42
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we'll do one last call. If there's anybody else in the
meeting who has not testified and wishes to do so, please identify yourself now. Last
call. Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have received
written testimony.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any objections to receiving the written testimony and to closing public
testimony at this time?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING;
1. Jeff Bagshaw;
Colleen Medeiros;
Vera Sredanovic;
Jen Russo, Maui Vacation Rental Association;
Keiki Chang Kawai'ae'a;
Jeff Anderson;
Hannah Bernard, Hawaii Wildlife Fund;
Syl Cabral;
Frank T.S. Chang;
Miriam Chang;
Monica Leihua Nani Crabbe;
Mary Drayer;
Paulo Faleafine Jr., Na Mea ‘Ike ‘la;
Michael D. Benitez Flores;
Scott J. Glenn, Hawaii State Energy Office;
Mikahala Helm;
Andrea Kealoha;
Carmen Hulu Lindsey, Office of Hawaiian Affairs;
Peter K. Martin;
Lynn Miyahira, Public Access to SunScreens Coalition;
Jonny Orlando;
Joylynn Paman;
Karin Ross, Personal Care Products Council;
Shelby Serra, Pacific Whale Foundation;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Tina Yamaki, Retail Merchants of Hawaii; and
Lauren Zirbei, Hawaii Food Industry Association.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 43
CHAIR LEE; No objections. Alright. So, Members, shall we proceed, or you, oh no, I think
we should take a break, right? Fifteen-minute break, come back at 11:15, okay. Very
good. Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:58 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 11:18 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KING,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of November 5, 2021 please reconvene. Okay.
Everybody ready to get to work. Members, as soon as we are able, on the calendar,
after the minutes, and some of the other things, would you mind if we brought the ‘aina
kupuna bill up forward?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I don’t have any objections.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I’m sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're asking if we can take it up first, after the-
CHAIR LEE: Yea, after the minutes and, and those, and maybe after the Consent Calendar.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Urn, okay.
CHAIR LEE: I mean, so many people are waiting for it. So, I thought if you don’t mind, we
could take it up. And then, all the people who have been waiting for several weeks
now, you know, can breathe a sigh of relief.
Alright, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meetings of July 23, 2021,
August 6, 2021, and August 24, 2021; and public hearings of August 10, 2021 were presented
at this time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 44
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES. ALL OF THE MINUTES
AS READ BY THE CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to approve the minutes as read, as
listed by the Clerk, and seconded by Member Sugimura.
Any discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIR LEE: And one "excused". I'm sorry. One "excused". Member King.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 45
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICENO. 21-495
(dated October 16, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Traffic Services grant in the amount of $258,044.
- DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICENO. 21-496
(dated October 16, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Child Restraint grant in the amount of $55,328.21.
- DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICE.NO. 21-497
(dated October 16, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Seat Belt Enforcement grant in the amount of $83,954.51.
- DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICENO. 21-498
(dated October 16, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Speed Enforcement grant in the amount of $154,184.25.
- DEAN M. RICKARD. ACTING CHIEF OF POLICENO. 21-499
(dated October 16, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Traffic Records grant in the amount of $256,875.50.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 46
NO. 21-500 - ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
(dated October 15, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the Maui Prosecutor’s Office Traffic Records grant in the amount of
$5,675.
- ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEYNO. 21-501
(dated October 15, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant award from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of
Justice Programs for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG)
Program in the amount of $77,149.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated October 20, 2021)
NO. 21-502
Informing of a vacancy on the Maui County Commission on Persons with Disabilities
due to the resignation of Joseph DAlessandro, effective October 14, 2021.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR,
(dated October 20, 2021)
NO. 21-503
Informing of a vacancy on the Commission on Children and Youth due to the
resignation of William Kinaka, effective October 15, 2021.
- SANANDA K. BAZ, ACTING MAYOR
(dated October 27, 2021)
NO. 21-504
Informing of a vacancy on the Commission on Healing Solutions for Homelessness
due to the resignation of Henry Costales, effective October 25, 2021.
- SANANDA K. BAZ. ACTING MAYOR
(dated October 27, 2021)
NO. 21-505
Informing of a vacancy on the Maui County Cultural Resources Commission due to the
resignation of Tanya Lee-Greig, effective October 7, 2021.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 47
NO. 21-506 - SANANDA K. BAZ, ACTING MAYOR,
(dated October 27, 2021)
Informing of the appointments of Thomas Cook and Frank Pikrone to the South Maui
Advisory Committee.
- SANANDA K. BAZ. ACTING MAYOR
(dated October 27, 2021)
NO. 21-507
Informing of the appointments of Rod Antone and Francine Aarona to the Paia-Haiku
Advisory Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you want to make any changes at this time?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. No changes.
I  MOVE TO FILE ALL THE ITEMS ON THE CONSENT
CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci
to file all the items on the Consent Calendar.
if not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", and raiseAny discussion?
your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 48
CHAIR LEE: Looks like eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused"; motion carries. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, should I call up Committee Report 21-95 at this time?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-95NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
118 (2021). entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCERecommending that Bill
RELATING TO AINA KOPUNA LANDS," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMEND, THE
RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE REPORT 21-95.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to pass
21-95 on first reading.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee met on July 21, September 15, and September 29,
2021 to discuss County property tax reform. The proposed bill attached to the
Committee Report is to amend Chapter 3.48, Real Property Tax, Maui County Code,
to add a section relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as 'aina kupuna.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 49
Your Committee noted the impact on families in Maui County who have owned their
real property for multiple generations, but the property does not qualify for a tax
exemption as Kuleana Land or a land purchase under the Kuleana Act.
Your Committee confirmed the, your Committee confirmed the Department of
Finance's current practice for long-term dedications is to send a reminder to property
owners when the dedication is going to expire so that they have sufficient time to
reapply.
Your Committee also noted that some families have been forced to sell portions or, in
some cases, ail of their property because of the rising property taxes, rising property
tax cost as a result of speculation and ostentatious housing developments in the area.
And that providing this exemption would allow them to remain on their family land.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill. And I have
amendments that I would like to make at this time. I believe the Clerks should have
sent the Members the amendments.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Could you read your amendment? Make the motion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I just wanted to confirm that everyone received the
ASF. Okay. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yes. Got it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, great. Mahalo.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE TITLE OF THE BILL TO READ "A BILL
FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE REAL PROPERTY
DEDICATED AS ‘AINA KOPUNA".
I MOVE TO FURTHER AMEND PROPOSED CODE SECTION
3.48.361 TO STRIKE "PARCELS" AND INSERT "REAL
PROPERTY".
1 MOVE TO AMEND VARIOUS OTHER PROVISIONS OF
PROPOSED SECTION 3.48.361 AS FOLLOWS:
IN SUBSECTION (A)(2): STRIKE "THE PORTIONS OF'
AND "THAT ARE" FROM THE FIRST SENTENCE;
1.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 50
STRIKE "A LINEAL DESCENDENT" AND INSERT "ONE OR
MORE DESCENDANTS":
STRIKE "HELD TITLE TO" AND INSERT THE WORD "OWNED tu
STRIKE "ON JUNE 30, 1940" AND INSERT "AT LEAST EIGHTY
YEARS PRIOR TO THE APPLICATION"; AND
STRIKE THE SECOND PARAGRAPH AND INSERT;
DESCENDANT HAS THE SAME MEANING AS DEFINED IN
SECTION 560:1.201, HAWAII REVISED STATUTES. A
DESCENDANT MAY OWN THE PROPERTY AS AN
INDIVIDUAL OR WITH OTHER INDIVIDUALS, OR AS A
DESCENDANTS BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INTEREST MAY
BE REPRESENTED BY ONE OR MORE TRUSTEES.
OWNERSHIP OF THE PROPERTY MAY ALSO BE HELD BY A
CORPORATION, LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, OR SIMILAR
ENTITY, AS LONG AS THE DESCENDANTS OWNERSHIP
INTEREST IS IN THE ENTITY IS, OWNERSHIP INTEREST IN
THE ENTITY IS GREATER THAN 50 PERCENT AND THE
ENTITY IS NOT A CORPORATION WHERE THE STOCK IS
SOLD, IS SOLD TO OR OWNED BY THE GENERAL PUBLIC."
iir
IN SECTION /S/C; (A)(3): ADD "VACANT LANDS IN THE
BUSINESS, INDUSTRIAL, OR HOTEL ZONED [SIC] DISTRICT.
IT ALSO INCLUDES" AFTER "MEANS";
2.
THE PROVISION OF THE SERVICES FORSTRIKE
CONSIDERATION AND PROFIT, INCLUDING";
SHORT TERM RENTAL HOMES," BETWEEN
RENTALS" "AND BED AND
INSERT
"TRANSIENT VACATION
BREAKFAST HOMES";
BUT EXCLUDES" AND INSERT "COMMERCIALSTRIKE
PURPOSES DO NOT INCLUDE:"; AND
BREAK OUT THE LIST OF EXCEPTIONS INTO SEPARATE
SUBSECTIONS.
DELETE SUBSECTION (A)(4) IN ITS ENTIRETY.3.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 51
4. IN SUBSECTION (B):
STRIKE THE WORDS "WITHIN ANY TAX CLASS":
STRIKE ALL INSTANCES OF "PARCEL" AND INSERT THE
WORD "REAL PROPERTY," EXCEPT IN SUBSECTION (B){3);
INSERT "FOR A PERIOD OF TEN YEARS" AFTER "'AINA
KUPUNA"; AND
INSERT "ALL OF THE FOLLOWING CRITERIA ARE MET
PRIOR TO THE SEMICOLON.
5. IN SUBSECTION (B)(2):
STRIKE "NON-LINEAL DESCENDENT" AND INSERT "NON
DESCENDANT": AND
STRIKE "A PERIOD OF NO LESS THAN TEN YEARS" AND
INSERT "THE DURATION OF THE DEDICATION."
6. IN SUBSECTION (B)(3);
STRIKE "BE LIMITED TO A PARCEL NOT USED" AND INSERT
"NOT TO BE USED": AND
B. INSERT "FOR THE DURATION OF THE DEDICATION" AND
AT THE END OF THE SENTENCE.
IN SUBSECTION (B)(4) TO READ: "THE REAL
PROPERTY MUST BE LOCATED IN THE SPECIAL
MANAGEMENT AREA AS DEFINED IN SECTION 205A-22,
HAWAII REVISED STATUTES".
7.
8. ADD SUBSECTION (B)(5) TO READ: "THE
AGGREGATE REAL PROPERTY TAXES ASSESSED ON THE
PROPERTY FOR THE PERIOD, FOR THE PRIOR TEN YEARS
EXCEEDED 50,000."
ADD SUBSECTION (B)(6) TO READ; "THE MAJORITY
OF OWNERS, TRUSTEES, BOARD OF DIRECTORS. OR
SHAREHOLDERS ARE RESIDENTS OF THE COUNTY".
9.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 52
IN SUBSECTION (C):10.
STRIKE "PARCEL" AND REPLACE WITH DEDICATION
"DEDICATED REAL PROPERTY" IN THE FIRST SENTENCE;
STRIKE "NON-LINEAL DESCENDENT" AND REPLACE WITH
"NON-DESCENDANT";
BREAK OUT THE LIST OF SUPPORTING EVIDENCE INTO
SEPARATE SUBSECTION;
OTHER RELIABLE EVIDENCE" TO THE LIST OFINSERT
WHAT CAN BE PROVIDED TO VERIFY OWNERSHIP OF THE
PROPERTY;
STRIKE "IN SECTION 3.48.361(B)"; AND
INSERT A NUMBER "3" TO READ: "EVIDENCE INCLUDES
CONVEYANCE DEEDS, WILLS, TRUSTS, BIRTH
CERTIFICATES, DEATH CERTIFICATES, AND OTHER
LEGALLY VALID DOCUMENTATION DEMONSTRATING THE
LEGAL OWNERSHIP AND LINEAL DESCENDANCY."
IN SUBSECTION (D):11.
INSERT THE FIRST SENTENCE OF SUBSECTION (G) AS THE
FIRST SENTENCE OF SUBSECTION (D);
B. DESIGNATE THE PREVIOUS SUBSECTION (D) AS
SUBSECTION (D)(1), STRIKE THE FIRST USE OF THE
"PARCEL" AND REPLACE WITH "APPLICANT," STRIKE THE
SECOND USE OF "PARCEL" AND REPLACE WITH "REAL
PROPERTY," AND INSERT: "IF APPROVED, THE MINIMUM
TAX TAKES EFFECT THE SUCCEEDING YEAR,
SUCCEEDING TAX YEAR, AND PENALTIES AND INTEREST
FROM THE 20, 2021 AND 2022 TAX YEARS MUST BE
REMOVED FROM THESE PORTIONS OF THE REAL
PROPERTY DESIGNED, DESIGNATED AS ‘AINA KOPUNA.
NO NEW PENALTIES AND INTEREST WILL BE ASSESSED
DURING THE DEDICATION PERIOD AND THE DIRECTOR
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 53
WILL HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO WAIVE SECTION 3.48.250.11.
AND
INSERT SECOND SENTENCE OF SUBSECTION D, (G) AS
SUBSECTION (D)(2).
AND THESE ARE THE LAST THREE. IN SUBSECTION
(E), STRIKE "A PARCEL" AND REPLACE IT WITH "REAL
PROPERTY".
12.
13. SUBSECTION (F):
MOVE "BEYOND A PERIOD OF TWO WEEKS AFTER A
NOTICE AND WARNING TO THE OWNER OF THE DIRECT,
BY THE DIRECTOR" TO AFTER "RESTRICTIONS ON REAL
PROPERTY USE": AND
STRIKE THE WORD "CANCELS" AND REPLACE WITH
"TERMINATES".
AND LASTLY, DELETE SUBSECTION (G) IN ITS ENTIRETY,
AND ADJUST THE FOLLOWING SUBSECTION NUMBERS
ACCORDINGLY. THAT'S MY MOTION.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, perhaps you could just highlight
the more substantive changes rather than a lot of it was clerical, and housekeeping.
Like, the year, and the timeframe. The 80, at least 80 years prior to the application.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; That was substantive.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, before you take the second, you want me
to highlight what the substantive changes were and not-
CHAIR LEE; Oh, I'm sorry. I thought we had a second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, second by Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 54
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. And at the request, mahalo, Member Paltin.
At the request of the Chair, highlighting the substantive changes. Change the
qualification duration from a start date of June 30, 1940 to a period of 80 years. Clarify
the definition of "commercial purposes". Clarify what constitutes evidence of
ownership. Remove penalties and interest from 2021 to 2022 tax years and dedication
period. Yea, those are the more substantive.
CHAIR LEE: You want to discuss it further or I'm going to ask for questions from others?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, I would like to discuss it further.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But I have been speaking a lot. And I would be happy
to yield the floor and take a sip of water and, and then come back to my discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I support these amendments. You know,
we had been getting a lot of calls in our office about, like, you know, how would people
qualify for this? And they had talked with Finance and they said to, you know, call your
Councilmember. So, I support the clarification. And it's kind of just, you know, holding
it down to what we're talking about. So, it-
CHAIRLEE: You’re muted.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Me?
CHAIR LEE: The last sentence anyway. Your last sentence.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. Oh, just that we support it. We feel that it provides more
clarification. And you know, to me, the main thing is we have something that Corp.
Counsel can get behind, so.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 55
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. And thank you, Keani, for doing all this hard
work. And I wonder if you could, based upon what you said was a substantive
changes, if you could tell us what it is on your ASF? Your item number?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member Sugimura, for the question. So, at
the top where it says "description", right after "proposer," it kind of highlights the
substantive changes. You see it?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh yes, I see it. So, I just thought you wanted to go based
upon the details of what you read off, but this is fine. So, I wonder if I could ask Corp.
Counsel, the posting for October 22, 2021 and the Committee Report which was
presented, this, this is not signed by Corp. Counsel. So, I want to know what Corp.
Counsel, have they signed this off with these amendments, and are we fine now with
this form and legality?
CHAIR LEE: Corporation Counsel, are you on the call?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Yes. Hi, Chair. Thank
you. Thanks for the question, Councilmember Sugimura. Yes, we've been working
with Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez and her office staff with her amendments and
think that they are in line. And in terms of notice, I think notice has been properly given
so I don't see a problem with that. And as far as the bill, I believe we’re very close to
having, you know, a version that we would feel comfortable signing as to form and
legality.
I did have one question for Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez, under the commercial
purposes. And it's just that first portion, it says "commercial purposes means vacant
lands in the business, industrial, or hotel zoning districts". I just wanted to make sure
that I understood the purpose of that, that addition And 1 apologize for not bringing it
up yesterday, or this morning.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha. Ms. Thomson. Mahalo forthe
question. So, that section is, was something that  Iworked with the Finance
Department on, RPT Division. And that was to help to clarify the intent of the bill to,
which is to help legacy lands, particularly the, you know, residential properties. So, it
helps to make that clear in the amendment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 56
And I was going to speak more to all the amendments. I don't know if you want me to
do it now or if you, if you want to wait until after Ms. Thomson? But basically, to talk
about the whole scheme, tax scheme, our property tax scheme, and the different
programs that we have for tax relief. And so, we have different options for encouraging
long-term residency and continuity of community. And that is with those that are
remaining on, in Maui County for longer periods of time. And so, that's why it, that
section was included. That was the recommendation for it to be included to achieve
the intent of this bill.
CHAIR LEE; Corporation Counsel?
Vice-Chair, your signal looks really weak. The last time you changed, well, I don't know
what you did, but it got really strong, stronger.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Am I breaking up?
CHAIR LEE: Sort of like on the verge of. But we heard you. But so, so, right now, I just want
to ask for a response from corporation, Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle
Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. So in terms of just that small
section that I brought up, that first part of commercial purposes. I think my suggestion
would be to move that down to a new number 7, (B)(7). That the real property may not
be used for business, industrial, or that may not be located, that the ‘aina kupuna
property may not be in a business, industrial, or hotel zoning districts. Was that the
intention, Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That was my understanding of the recommendation.
So, Chair, if my seconder would be open to it, if it could be a friendly amendment to
just relocate that language to that different subsection.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It’s fine with everyone. Any other questions? I'm thinking that we should,
if we can, ask all the questions now and then, then we'll break for lunch. Hopefully we
can take a vote before but, you know.
Yes, Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 57
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you, Madam Chair. I had my hand up and my line
of question was along the lines of Member Sugimura, just to ensure that the
amendments proposed today are not substantive enough where, you know, we could
get a challenge from a member of the public that it could potentially, because of our
actions, if it's too substantive it could get sent back to Committee and further delay.
And you know, like, like you and the other Members, I'm in total full support of the, the
bill. So, upon hearing Corp. Counsel’s comments, then I believe it sounds we're okay,
we're okay to move forward with acting on the amendments to the bill. So, I just wanted
to make those comments, Madam Chair. So, I feel okay.
Because as you know, and the Members know, we've recently had some challenges
to procedures, our procedures here on the Council. So, I want to make sure all the i's
are dotted, the t's are crossed and all of that too. And to comply with Sunshine Law
and so forth. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Kama.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair? Chair, really-
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just, I just wanted to call a point of
order for clarification on our requirements under Sunshine Law, cause I, I don't want it
to be misstated on our official record. If we could just please have that clarified before
we move forward, regarding Sunshine Law. It, it's, it's, our, our Council Rules that
require us to take it to Committee for further discussion. It's not Sunshine Law that
requires us to do so. And so, my understanding on Sunshine Law is we can make
substantive changes at Council. So, if we could just have that clarified by either our
OCS attorney or Corporation Counsel. Not saying that these are substantive changes.
I'm just saying that if we wanted, or we could under Sunshine Law. It's not a Sunshine
Law thing, it's a Council Rules thing.
CHAIR LEE: Well, and in addition to that, it's first reading. Deputy Thomson. Richelle
Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. Chair and Vice-Chair. Yes. So,
the understanding is correct on both. That the, there are the Council Rules regarding
changes. And what I usually am trying to harp on is Sunshine Law notice. And I think
that everything is, is proper and in line. I don't see . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 58
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, the Members just want to be sure, that's all.
And then, I saw another hand. Member Kama, did you have your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Chair, I did. Thankyou.  Ijust wanted to say for the record,
cause I'm not sure where this is going to go. But my understanding, at least for me,
what this does is, you know, for a long, long time, you know, Native Hawaiians, we
always heard the term that we're land rich and money poor. This bill actually allows
the opportunity for them to equalize that playing field of being land rich and money rich,
too, if they go into producing their legacy lands as they would like to. So, I am in
support of this.
I trust our Corp. Counsel. I trust the Vice-Chair. You know, after her comments this
morning during the opening remarks, you got to know that things that we do are
because we love our people. We love this place. This is our, the land of our birth. And
for us, it's meaningful. So, we wouldn't do things just out of pure, just because, but it's
with deep reverence. Because that's what aloha is. It's the deep reverence we have
for everything around us that we consider all these things. So, I’m in total support of
this and all the amendments. So, thank you very much, Vice-Chair. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I, I guess  Iheard also that Richelle-
CHAIR LEE: And then, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, do you want Member Sinenci to go first? I already
spoke once. Is that what you just said?
CHAIR LEE: No. Why don't you finish your question?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, I guess Richelle, from what she said is that
Corp. Counsel still has not signed the ordinance, proposed ordinance for form and
legality yet, but is working on it. So, does that mean that it will be? Based upon-
CHAIR LEE: Is that a question to her?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's a question to Corp. Counsel.
CHAIR LEE: To her?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Form and legality . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 59
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel? Corp. Counsel.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Thank you, Chair. Yes, it's been primarily a
timing issue that we weren't able to sign off on it. But I believe that the bill as presented
would be, we would sign off on it as to form and legality.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; While I have the floor, just very briefly-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. May I, may I also inquire in, I'm
sorry about bringing this up again, but vacant lands in the business, industrial, or hotel
zoning districts. There are several business-related districts. So, maybe when we're
taking, I don't know if you were planning on taking a short break, but we could clarify
whether it applies in all of the business districts. There are also different types of, you
know, like, community business, central business, resort commercial, you know? So,
there's a bunch of different zoning districts that may be intended to be included in that
kind of encompassing business term. Just wanted to make sure that I understood the
intent.
CHAIR LEE: Maybe the Vice-Chair can think about that as we go through some of the
questions.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Yea, I just wanted to speak in support of
the amendments that are proposed today. I understand and I appreciate Member
Rawlins-Fernandez taking the extra time. I know she's been working really hard on
this. And, and just, I don't see it as substantive. I do see as some, some wording, just
rewording and, and changing out some things, so it can be a more substantial bill. And,
and ! appreciate Corporation Counsel working alongside of her in support. So, speak
in support. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else have anything to say?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, have you thought of something? I'm looking at what I
consider tweaking the bill at this point.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm sorry?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 60
CHAIR LEE; To include all businesses or, you know, some more clarification on the
businesses part.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Ms. Thomson is asking about, right?
Oh, the business zoned districts is what
CHAIR LEE; Right.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yea, I would, I would-
CHAIR LEE; Do you want to think about that more?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I would need to talk to her offline.
CHAIR LEE; Offline.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, I was trying to get to this part of, and I keep on getting
sidetracked with trying to get form and legality and Sunshine with Corp. Counsel, which
I appreciate. But I just want to say that when this bill came up, I got a phone call. And
I'm thrilled because what this does, the way it was written, and the way we passed out
of Committee, I thought this is only for the Hawaiian people, right? Cause it was OHA,
and the way that you would qualify would be court documents. But the way it was
written, and you can get, I asked Corp. Counsel, it applies to everybody. So, it doesn't
only apply to Hawaiians, or, you know, to be narrow in that way. But I think it applies
to all people.
As I got a call from a friend who basically said, oh okay, my family has had our property
at that time from, you know, whatever the date was 1940, and that it's still in our family,
so I then get to qualify. And I was like bewildered. And he said I'm Japanese. And I
thought, oh how interesting. But the way it was written, when I checked with Corp.
Counsel, it does apply to the broader community. Although, the intent, when it was
presented with OHA and court documents, I thought okay this is for only the Hawaiian
community, which I totally respect.
But when I got that phone call, I checked with Corp. Counsel and they clarified that no,
it's for everybody, the way it’s written. So, I just want to say thank you. And I, I believe
that going through Committee, when this came up,  Ididn't think that it was only for, I
didn't think it was for anybody else. I thought it was only for our, you know, for lineal
descendants of Hawaiian ancestry. So, thank you, Keani, for that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 61
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, I, I'm assuming, Vice-Chair, that you need more time during the
lunch break? Is that what you're saying?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, if, if it could be done in, in, may I ask Ms. Thomson
if she thinks that we can resolve this in five minutes? And then we can take a quick
recess and then come back and finish this?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes, I don't think it should take long.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: You're requesting a five-minute recess?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, please.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, I'm hoping that you afford us a little bit of leeway here, because
this is a very historic piece of legislation and we do want to get it right. And if it's only
going to cost us five minutes, I think we should take it. Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Five-minute recess means, my clocks are all off, so 12:02, okay?
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 11:54 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 12:02 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KING,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE; Will the Council meeting of November 5, 2021 please reconvene.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I spoke with Ms. Thomson.
AND WE AGREE THAT ON YOUR ASF, NUMBER 2(A), SO
THAT'S THE AMENDMENT ON YOUR ASF, WHICH READS,
"ADD VACANT LANDS IN THE BUSINESS, INDUSTRIAL, OR
HOTEL ZONING DISTRICTS". SO, LET'S REMOVE THAT
FROM THE MOTION, IF THE, MY SECONDER DOESN'T HAVE
ANY OBJECTIONS.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 62
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other objections? Okay. Proceed.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Is that the only, the only change?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: Ooh, okay.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just a question on that change. If we're removing it, would we
not put vacant lands in all districts or is that not a concern anymore?
CHAIR LEE: Can't, can't hear you, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: You're asking the question to the Vice-Chair, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: OrCorp. Counsel.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel, are you on the line?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes, hi.
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear the question?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: I did. Whether we need to clarify that this
applies to all vacant lands in all districts? I don't believe that we need to spell that out.
I think that the, when you look at Section B, it describes what, what types of land. So,
it's in the SMA, and then there are other qualifications on them. And to answer the
question, I don't think we need to spell it out.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions or comments? Members are you ready to vote on the
amendments?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 63
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. I will provide my comments now.
Mahalo to all of the Members for their questions, comments, and their support.
So, in Hawaii, in 1848, the Great Mahele happened. And that was the first time in
Hawaii’s history that land became privatized. In 1850, the Kuleana Land Act was
passed. And that was an attempt to ensure that maka'ainana were able to continue to
live on the land, their ancestral land and to have land now that this foreign concept of
private landownership was introduced and adopted.
With the decline of sugar and pineapple industries, improvements in all modes of
transportation. So, after, you know, industries, industries were created in Hawaii,
plantations rose, and housing was provided to residents of all ethnicities by the
plantation owners. With the decline of the sugar and pineapple industries,
improvements and all modes of transportation technology, bourgeoning Oahu and
mainland U.S. economy, and Statehood, Maui lost 24 percent of its population from
1940 to 1960. Families, the land that families held on before the population exodus
are even more so legacy lands that we are trying to protect. And this is from the 2030
Maui island history report.
In 1920, we experienced the Great Depression. Hawaii experienced the Great
Depression later than America. In 1937 and 1939, were when Hawaii experienced the
highest unemployment. In 1940, 1941 World War II broke out and impacted Hawaii.
1 will share my screen really quickly. I can't share my screen. Staff will be able to help
me with that. And if I can't share my screen, what my screen will show, oh, there we
go. Mahalo, staff. Okay. And you'll see a graph. Okay. There it is. And you'll see it,
this is the number of residential housing construction. And you'll see that it peaks in,
peaks once again in 19 . . . See the graph you'll see that the residential buildings
spiked up in those years and then it leveled off in 1940. And 1935 was the biggest
year of building on record.
Okay. So, with all these major events happening, it, it, a lot of land was being used to,
for survival, for not just kanaka, but descendants of plantation workers. And for the
lands that stayed in families' hands, it's become more and more complicated to hold
onto, particularly in the SMA area where, as we all know development, hotel-resort,
and transient accommodations, and then just mansions of all kind, increasing property
taxes. And with legacy lands, ‘aina kupuna ancestral lands being passed down and
held onto family, it creates a difficult situation for families as well because there are so
many heirs and descendants.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 64
With our County property tax scheme, as I mentioned earlier, we have homeowner
exemption. We just created the long-term rental exemption and classification. We
have circuit breaker. We have agricultural land dedication. And so, we've encouraged
these types of activities, as I mentioned, long-term residents, and promotes, you know,
continuity in our communities. And it's something that we, as a government, strive for,
we as a community strive for, to hold onto our history, as I talked about in my opening
remarks.
These properties that we’re helping, that will qualify for ‘aina kOpuna dedication have
not been able to take advantage of the current programs and tax relief options that our
County offers. And with the extreme amount of differences in property taxes, the relief
to that would be offered, would not be substantive enough to help these families,
particularly those as Pro Tern Kama mentioned, you know, that are land rich, but cash,
cash poor. So, this is one way to close the gap, to help those that have fallen through
the cracks and we haven't been able to help.
And we also have another circuit breaker legislation that I introduced. A circuit breaker
for aina ohana. And that will be another way to have a comprehensive tax relief
program for our County. So, mahalo again to all the Councilmembers for your support
of these amendments and the bill.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else? If not. I'll say a couple words. It seems like my
purpose on earth is to come back every 30 years to take part in landmark legislation.
The first time in the 1990s, I introduced a bill that allowed taro farmers to consolidate
their parcels, so that they would pay the minimum tax once instead of multiple times.
And then, the same Council passed legislation to not charge homeowners on DHHL
lands. We wouldn’t val, value there, we wouldn't assess their land, only their house,
only their improvements they were taxed on, not their land. That was huge. We got
calls from all the counties discouraging us from doing that, but we did it anyway.
And now, again, we have the opportunity to take part in landmark legislation, which
was badly needed for our people. And I'm so happy to be a part of it again. And I
thank Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, her staff. You know, Corp. Counsel worked
many hours on this too, and, and everyone who contributed to, to formulating this
ordinance. So, if there's no other questions, everybody ready to vote for the
amendments?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 65
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the amendments, please raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I see three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight "ayes", one "excused".
Member Sugimura, what was that? Was that an "aye"? That was a no? Seven "ayes'
one "no"-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I voted with everybody.
CHAIR LEE: -one "excused".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I voted "aye".
CHAIR LEE; Oh okay. I'm sorry, then I, eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
Now, the motion, the main motion as amended. Any more discussion, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, I have a Amendment Summary Form only if Corp. Counsel
says it's legal. The Clerk can distribute it.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel? Were they aware of the ASF?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I was working with Deputy Corp. Counsel Toshikiyo on it.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: We have seen the-
CHAIRLEE: On this bill?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: We've seen the proposed amendment. So, I
think that it would be fine for the body to consider.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 66
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paitin.
COUNCiLMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO AMEND, IT WAS SUBSECTION 3.48.361(A)(3),
BUT IT MAY BE (B)(7) AFTER THE LAST AMENDMENT. THE
SECTION WOULD READ "COMMERCIAL PURPOSES"
MEANS, SORRY. I'LL JUST READ THE PART THAT GETS
AMENDED. IT'S AT THE BOTTOM OF THAT. IT SAYS, REAL
PROPERTY BUT EXCLUDES AGRICULTURE AND, "BUT
EXCLUDES AGRICULTURE, REAL PROPERTY THAT DOES
NOT SERVE AS THE OWNER'S PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE AND
WAS GRANTED, PRIOR TO MAY 23, 2012, A CONDITIONAL
PERMIT FOR TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL USE IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE AND WAS CLASSIFIED AS 'COMMERCIALIZED
RESIDENTIAL' PRIOR TO MAY 23, 2012, AND PROPERTY
GRANTED A TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL SHORT TERM
RENTAL HOME, OR B&B PERMIT PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE
DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE".
And if I get a second. I'll explain the reasoning.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, it'sjust-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, \wait. No, no, wait. No, we didn't get a second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Did somebody, is somebody going to make a second? Somebody want to
second the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND, FOR DISCUSSION.
CHAIR LEE: Apparently, there, pardon me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5. 2021
Page 67
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; For discussion.
CHAIR LEE: There is no second.
Member Sinenci, are you seconding the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; For discussion, yea.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, this amendment is in relation to the testimony that we heard
earlier due to the high tax rates of the past, some property owners found it necessary
to purchase portions of their family lands from relatives who wanted to sell due to the
high tax burden. In some cases, this required them to obtain a mortgage on the
property, which will remain even if the tax burden is addressed.
This amendment would allow properties that are currently permitted to operate as
Transient Vacation Rentals, Short Term Rentals, or B&Bs continue to do so.
Properties permitted after the effective date of the ordinance would no longer qualify
for the ‘aina kupuna tax relief. That's my discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I have a question. What, what will be the impacts to people who have
vacation rentals or B&Bs on their property, due to your amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Those, those that are currently doing that would be allowed to
continue and still qualify. And it just sets a cut-off date as the passage of this bill to, to
do it moving forward.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I wonder if Member Paltin, or one of the departments might
know what is the financial impact of this amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Well, it's still pretty narrow because they would have to meet
all of the other qualifications in Member Rawlins-Fernandez' amendment, such as
being in the SMA, being over 50 percent of ownership of all those, those clarifications.
So, it, it would be fairly narrow. I think that it won't add on much more to what it already
IS.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, we don't really know. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 68
CHAIR LEE: So, what would be the negative impact, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Like you mean, not passing this amendment?
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, I mean, I guess my concern was that as one of the
testifiers had sent in her written testimony, she also in addition to the Makena, uses for
short-term rental. And that she also has iwi kupuna on her property and it would just
allow her to also be a part of this ‘aina kupuna. Just putting it out there. I mean, if
people don't want to support it, your choice. Just putting it out there.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair, do you have any comments?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I don’t know if I want to make any
comments in, in open session. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, my understanding in the ‘aina kupuna, the one of, the one
way to be eligible for all of these, looks like benefits to me, is that you would have had
to have your property in your lineal descendant's name or somebody's name at least
80 years prior to your date of application. So, if you apply this year, so you go back
80 years. You apply next year, you still go back 80 years.
But I think when you look at the 80 years, to me, it seems like it would cover our lineal
descendants, as well as our, what I consider my lineal descendants, because you
know, the Japanese, the Chinese, the Filipinos, the Russians, everybody who came
here in the early 1900s, if they owned land and they’re into this and they passed their
legacy lands onto their family, they would all be able to qualify for ‘aina kupuna.
So, my sense is that if it passes muster with Corp. Counsel, then we just have to decide
whether or not we want to allow short term rentals on ‘aina kupuna lands. And that's
the question before us. Is that correct. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea. It’s a policy decision that Corp. Counsel said is legal, and
it is up to us to make that policy decision.
CHAIR LEE: But you being the PSLU Chair, the way  alot of the transient accommodations
are set up, they are going to be phased out, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 69
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We, we set new caps. The Apartment District, we have some
work on that bill. But I don't, I don't think that this applies to Apartment District. You
know, it, it’s basically, I, I remember Mr. Lo said, you know, not to pigeonhole.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, so I'm saying because, because of the caps. No, no, because of the caps
the idea is that they will be ... by attrition. Wasn't that the original idea?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yes. We're at 62, and 50 would phase out. It would be the
first 12 that stop doing the usage for West Maui.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Anybody else have a question or comment? 1 can't help but
wonder how many people are we talking about in this category, what you're talking,
you know, would affect, would be affected by your, your amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I know one of one, and possibly two more. The other two are
not paying STR taxes anyway.
CHAIR LEE: Well, Members, if there are no other questions, I'm going to take the vote. All
those in favor of the amendment, and we'll take roll call, because sometimes it's hard
to see on the screen.
Mr. Clerk, roll call. All those in favor of the motion? You can call everybody's name.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Chair? Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, can you restate the, or have Member Paltin restate the
motion for the record, if we're going to be doing roll call?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. So, this would,  Imove to amend, I believe now it's
in Subsection {B){7). I'm going to add onto the bottom of prior to May 23, 2012
property granted a TVR Short Term Rental Home, or Bed and Breakfast permit prior
to the effective date of this ordinance." Just adding on after the May 23, 2012.
and
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions?
If, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 70
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahafo, Chair. I want to thank Member Paltin for her
amendment, fully understand. But I, I cannot support the proposed amendment at this
time. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Just wanted to ask a question of Member Paltin. That it says
that, that as long as it's in ‘aina kupuna property, they could use it as a TVR or Bed
and Breakfast, but they would have had to have received their permits prior to the
effective date of the ordinance. Does that mean that if families that have now ‘aina
kupuna that allows them the opportunity, that they could not apply?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Not going forward. And the reason would be because we have
dropped their taxes to this low rate--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -at this point.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions?
If not, Mr. Clerk, roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, I believe-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, I think Member Sinenci’s hand up.
Oh, go ahead, Deputy Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Whose hand?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Shane.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Member Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Who? Mr. Sinenci. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't see it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 71
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Yea, thank you, Chair. Yea, under, and I know I seconded
for discussion. But yea. I'm not going to support the amendment at this time. It seems
like the transient vacation rental was to create monies to pay for some, 1, I get that.
But this bill would be actually exempting or decreasing their real property tax. So. I
think it's kind of, or for a lot of families in East Maui, their ‘aina kupuna has always been
a place for family members that was struggling, who didn't have a place to stay. So,
‘aina kOpuna, despite our kupuna being gone, this was a respite or a pu'uhonua for
family members that could go and spend time there until they can get back on their
feet again. So, I think by, it kind of muddies up the, if we had vacation rentals on. I
won't be supporting the amendment at this time. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson, do you have anything to say? No?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Well, Chair, since you asked. I also won't be supporting
this. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Well, now, it appears we don't need a roll call. All those in favor of the motion,
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN
CHAIR LEE: All those opposed, say "no", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
one "aye", one "excused"; motion fails.CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, seven "noes'
Back to the main motion as amended. Everybody ready? All those in favor of the main
motion as amended, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 72
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", one "excused", no "noes"; motion carries. Congratulations
everybody. Everybody.
Alright, Members, no\w it's time for lunch. So, one hour? Hour and a half? What would
you like?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: One hour, Chair, is fine.
CHAIR LEE: Did you say one hour?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yea, one hour is fine.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, 1:35. Meeting is in recess un . . .
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:31 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:34 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBERS
JOHNSON AND KING, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of November 5, 2021, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, proceed with communications.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Oh, for the record, the bill that was attached to
Committee Report 21-95, that is Bill 118 (2021). Proceeding with county
communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY.NO. 21-482
(dated Octobers, 2021)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Reports for the month ending September 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this is what I wanted to get referred to my Committee
from the-
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 73
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
THERE BEING NO
INFRASTRUCTURE
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-482
OBJECTION, WAS REFERRED TO THE
AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE.)
CHAIR LEE; Next.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated October 8. 2021)
NO. 21-483
Transmitting Contract Modification No. 11 from the State of Hawaii, Executive Office
on Aging, for the Title III Program in the amount of $3,317.
CHAIR LEE; Who wanted this?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just wanted to ask a question and make sure that the
modification was in the positive and not in the negative, cause I couldn't find that in
reading the, the item. It just said modification. So, I didn't know if it was adding or
taking away.
CHAIR LEE; I don't know. Is there anybody on the call that can answer that question? This
is, these are Federal funds. Federal and State funds, so it's not really anything that
generally affects our, our regular budget. But, but if we, you want this referred?
(Councilmember Johnson returned to the meeting at 1:36 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, so you're saying it's not minus, it's plus?
CHAIR LEE: I'm not saying either. I'm saying that this, whatever it is, it's not going to be
major. It's not going to involve General Funds. This is a, a Federal. . . just put this at
the end of the calendar. And in the ... from maybe the. Madam Clerk can call Housing
and Human Concerns. . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 74
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Sounds good. I called them this morning, and nobody
answered.
CHAIR LEE: ... your answer, okay? Nobody answered?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Maybe they were out to lunch. So, Kathy, if you don't mind calling Lori
back. She would know the answer to this. Okay.
So, proceed, Mr. Clerk. We'll skip that for now.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I. I was able to get a hold of Budget Director
Yoshimura, if Member Paltin would like to repeat her question? And then, we can get
the answer now, if, if you'd like?
CHAIR LEE: Well, her question is . . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: If it's plus or minus.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And, and the item, Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: We're adding the-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Was CC 21-483.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's the one for 3,317 for Office of Aging, Title 111
Program.
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA: So the question is whether it's an additional
amount?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, instead of a taking away.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I would need to look at the transmittal. Give me a second and I'll pull
it up.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 75
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I see it. It's on page 3. It says it's an increase of
3,317, modification.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: ! accept.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Is that, is that correct?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: It's on the Contract Modification form, on the first page. Amount of
the change, it says "plus 3317". It's an increase.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, I, I accept.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so no objections to filing this matter?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, ordered.
And then, Mr. Clerk, the next one.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
MOVE TO FILE COUNTYI  MOVE TO, CHAIR.
COMMUNICATION 21-483.
I think that's why Deputy Clerk may have been raising his hand.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, moved by Vice-Chair, moved by Rawlins, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
seconded by Member Sugimura, to file County Communication 21-483.
Discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say
"aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 76
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Got eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 21-494
(dated October 21, 2021)
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for August 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Please refer to IT Committee please.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-494, THERE BEING NO
OBJECTION, WAS REFERRED TO THE INFRASTRUCTURE
AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE.)
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-484
(dated October 15, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "SUPPORTING THE HUAMAKAHIKINA
DECLARATION AND THE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND ADVANCE THE
PRACTICE OF HULA, AND TO PREVENT ITS CONTINUED ECONOMIC
EXPLOITATION AND APPROPRIATION".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 77
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION, FILE
COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-484, AND REFER THE
SUBJECT MATTER TO YOUR BUDGET, FINANCE, AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura.
Any discussion? Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. May  Irequest the Deputy Clerk read
the resolution in its entirety? We went over the Hawaiian words and his pronunciation
was on point, so I trust him to do a great job.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I think our Deputy Clerk deserves a
round of applause. I don't know . . .
Over the past several decades, acknowledging, acknowledgement of how hula is
exploited has grown even beyond the walls of individual halau. Hula is widely
recognized as being a significantly important and iconic aspect of past and present day
Hawaiian culture and society. It is in our best interest to protect and preserve the
sanctity of hula.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 78
The Huamakahikina Kumu Hula Coalition is an open advocacy-based group of kumu
hula that started through an effort to discuss a culturally proactive approach to the
COVID-19 pandemic in Hawaii. As a result, the Lahui Kanaka system was created,
which offered support systems to connect and share information with tens of thousands
of people from around the world.
Employing process and participation as its drivers, Huamakahikina engages in
conversation around the state of hula here in Hawaii and abroad. These conversations
have led to the revelation that basically all kumu hula share the same concerns about
how hula has been and still is perceived, portrayed, and exploited. Through this effort,
the Huamakahikina Declaration was created, establishing goals as read by the Clerk.
This resolution will urge the Mayor to support the Huamakahikina Declaration in an
effort to support actions that protect and encourage the advancement of hula, which I
anticipate he being happy to, to do, to support this resolution and the Declaration.
And I also look forward to scheduling this in Committee, in the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee in the future.
As we heard from our testifier this morning, an author of, one of the authors of the
Huamakahikina Declaration, Kumu Hula Pueo Pata is available if Members have
questions. I respectfully ask for Members support of this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you very much, Keani, for bringing this forward.
And I did see that Pueo Pata had come back to the meeting and I was hoping that we
would give him some voice. Because I heard the day that you introduced this at the
last Council meeting, Keani, there was an interview with Pueo Pata on Hawaii Public
Radio. And they asked him a question, it just stuck with me. And they asked him,
have you seen abuse of hula? And you can ask him, but the thing that got me was the
silence. He stopped and he said, "I will not say anything". And it was such a loud
voice to me.
And then, you know, I had known about your resolution. And I think Daryl Fujiwara
takes hula from Pueo and he was trying to get Pueo to testify, but I think you were
traveling. So, I appreciate you being here today and submitting your testimony for the
last, the last Council meeting, also. But, Pueo, thank you. And I know, I just want to
also thank you because not this time, but last time when we had our swearing-in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 79
ceremony, I think your halau was perform, halau performed for us. So, thank you very
much for that and appreciate you for that. Please say a few words, if you would allow.
KUMU PUEO PATA; Oh, goodness. Thank you, Chair Lee, and Vice-Chair Rawiins-
Fernandez, and Councilmember Sugimura, and everybody convened here today. We
worked really hard to put this together over a period of about nine months. And it is
the collective voice of the 200 ratifiers that were able to be reached for this Declaration.
It's historic in scope. It’s never happened before where kumu hula who are staunchly
individualistic come together over something like this. But that was how we were able
to view the pandemic as an opportunity. We took those, those moments as
opportunities, as opposed to challenges, and came together in ways that produced
such, such a gem that is, that resulted in this Declaration.
Maui County provided for the support team on the  .. . committee. Five of the nine
members were from Maui County. We're so proud of that. The County resources were
awarded to us for our convention that brought together all this hula from around the
world, places that were mentioned in the resolution. And we also were able to be
hosted at UHMC. And so, we already know, feel that Maui supports us.
The abuses that we've been able to see are not limited to my generation, or the
generations that are, of kumu hula now. But we are witnessed from, from I would say
the mid-1800s from the outlawing of hula, the jailing of kumu hula, the fining of kumu
hula, and then it existing throughout the period when the Hawaiian language was more
or less banned. And the language and culture was able to survive through hula. And
so, the abuses that we’ve tolerated up to this point don't necessarily come from kumu
hula, but have affected all of us.
Another thing that this does is, we all know kumu hula. How many of them have died
poot and underinsured? And so, some of our goals moving forward is to be able to
provide shelter for these types of kumu hula through perhaps a gilding system or other
means. But as the bastions of Hawaiian culture throughout the past several decades,
we feel it’s time that our highly specialized knowledge and practice be, be considered
commensurate with other forms of training. And that we, our practice as a tangible and
intangible cultural heritage of the Hawaiian people be afforded the same protections
that that is commensurate with other ones around the world. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Members, any questions or comments? Okay. All those
in favor of the motion to adopt this resolution, please raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 80
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: So, eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused"; motion carries. Very good.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Kumu Pueo Pata.
KUMU PUEO PATA: Mahalo nui. A hui hou kakou. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: So. in addition to adopting this resolution, you are requesting that the matter be
referred to the BFED Committee, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, please.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-161.
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTORNO. 21-485
(dated October 14, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION OF
443.393 ACRES IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEYS (2) 3-8-005:037, (2) 3-8-005:040,
(2) 3-8-007:101, (2) 3-8-007:172, (2) 3-8-007:173, (2) 3-8-007:178, AND
(2) 3-8-007:179, SITUATED AT WAIKAPU, WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII. BEING MORE
PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS WAIALE SOUTH AND WAIALE NORTH, FOR AN
AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $10,500,000, AND ACCEPTING DONATION OF
APPROXIMATELY 23.38 ACRES IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEYS
(2) 3-8-006:004-0002 AND (2) 3-8-102:009, SITUATED AT PUUNENE, WAILUKU,
MAUI, HAWAII".
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, I would
like to ask that the County Communication 21-485 be held until later in the calendar,
to be taken up with CR 21-96.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 81
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
(See pages 108 through 116 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
NO. 21-486 - ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR,
(dated October 13, 2021)
Transmitting the following proposed resolutions entitled:
"APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF PAIGE GRECO AS LEGISLATIVE
ANALYST IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES": and
1.
"APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF GERARDO 'JERRY' PAREDES, JR.
AS LEGISLATIVE ANALYST IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES".
2.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. In the effort of, oh sorry. Okay.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION FOR PAIGE GRECO,
GERARDO "JERRY" PAREDES, JR., BRITTNEY
SUNDERLAND, AND GEOFFREY HENDERSON,
TRANSMITTED WITH THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION
21-508; AND FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-486 AND
21-508.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, sorry.
CHAIR LEE: I saw your, the question on your face.Mr. Clerk.
may I request the Clerk also call upVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry,
resolution 21-508 before I make my motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 82
CHAIR LEE: Yea, that's what he was thinking. Mr. Clerk.
- ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR
{dated October 28, 2021)
NO. 21-508
Transmitting the following proposed resolutions entitled;
"APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF PAIGE GRECO AS LEGISLATIVE
ANALYST IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES";
1.
"APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF GERARDO 'JERRY’ PAREDES, JR.
AS LEGISLATIVE ANALYST IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES";
2.
"APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF BRITTNEY SUNDERLAND AS
LEGISLATIVE ANALYST IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES"; and
3.
"APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF GEOFFREY HENDERSON AS
COMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL
SERVICES".
4.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
NOW, I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION
FOR PAIGE GRECO, GERARDO "JERRY" PAREDES JR.,
BRITTNEY SUNDERLAND, AND GEOFFREY HENDERSON,
TRANSMITTED WITH THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION
21-508; AND FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-486 AND
21-508.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE; Second? Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member Sinenci.
Any discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 83
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. Ms. Greco received her Bachelors of
Arts Degree in Sociology from University of San Diego. She was employed as a
community youth empowerment volunteer with the Peace Corps in Fiji. She has also
served as a Social Fabric Initiative intern, Thread liaison, volunteer coordinator and
event lead with the Kroc Institute for Peace and Justice. Ms. Greco's strong
communication, collaboration, and community outreach skills will make her a great
asset in the Office of Council Services.
Mr. Paredes received his Bachelors degree, Bachelors of Arts Degree in International
Relations, Economics, Political Science from St. Mary’s University: Masters Degree in
Human Resource Management and Development from University of Denver; and Law
Degree from Valparaiso University. He is currently employed as a Tax Analyst II with
the Texas comptroller of public accounts, where he has been employed since 2016.
Mr. Paredes' complex research and analysis experience will make him a great asset
in the Office of Council Services.
Ms. Sunderland received her Bachelors of Arts Degree in Philosophy from Metropolitan
State University. She is currently employed as legislative analyst to Speaker of the
House, Minnesota House of Representatives. Prior to her current position, she was
employed as committee legislative analyst assistant, education finance division,
Minnesota House of Representatives. Ms. Sunderland's legislative experience will
make her a great asset in the Office of Council Services.
And Mr. Henderson received his Bachelors of Science Degree in Environmental
Science at University of Oregon. He is currently employed as student activities
coordinator, digital media yearbook, and STEM teacher at Maui Waena and Lokelani
Intermediate Schools. Prior to his current position, he was employed as Technology
Support Specialist 111 for the Eugene School District 4J. Mr. Henderson's educational
and environmental technology expertise will make him a great asset in the Office of
Council Services.
I ask the Members for their full support in adopting the resolution for Ms. Greco
Mr. Paredes, and Ms. Sunderland, and Mr. Henderson. Mahaio, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Yes, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much. Madam Chair. In the interest of
transparency, and with regards to the appointment, and the fact that I'd like to see the
individuals that I would possibly see, be seeking some help with OCS matters in the
future, can they please turn their cameras on and give us a wave? And if they want to
say a few words, that'd be great.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 84
CHAIR LEE: Are you there? I see one.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: There you go.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Jerry. Okay. Hi. Jerry.
MR. JERRY PAREDES: Hello. How are you. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: You want to say hello to the Members?
MR. PAREDES: Yea. Hello, everybody. How are you all?
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. A real talker. Okay. Thank you very much.
Brittney, I see you. You're on the call.
MS. BRITTNEY SUNDERLAND: Aloha, everyone. I am Brittney Sunderland and I'm really
looking forward to working with you all.
CHAIR LEE: Great. And who else do we have?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ms. Greco.
MS. PAIGE GRECO: Hi, everyone.
CHAIR LEE: Jeff? Oh. not-
MR. GEOFFREY HENDERSON: Aloha. Council, Council Chair. It's nice to meet all of you.
Mahalo very much for giving me this opportunity. I'm very excited to serve all of you
and all of Maui County. It’s going to be an exciting, exciting time for all of us.
Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ms. Greco, Chair. I think Ms. Greco tried to speak
but I'm not sure if it came through. You want to try again, Ms. Greco?
MS. GRECO: Can you all hear me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 85
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MS. GRECO: Great. I was lucky enough to speak to the majority of the Councilmembers.
I'm very excited as well to join the team and be  apart of supporting the Office of Council
Services.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Member Molina, for that idea.
Alright, any questions or other comments?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. I was able to meet with three out of the four,
and I'm, I'm very happy. The only concern I have is we seem to be robbing the DOE.
We've got Member Molina, Member Sinenci, and now Mr. Henderson. So, I hope the
schools don't get too mad at us. And then there was Mr. Abe as well, so, you know,
we got to support our children. So, just that would be my only comment. So, everybody
else has to stay at the school.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. Member Paltin. Anyone else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Along with Member Paltin, I was able
to meet with three of the four. I wasn't able to meet with Ms. Sunderland. So, I was
hoping you'd be able to provide a little more comments before we take the vote?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I guess my question will be pretty open. Just if you
could share with us, Ms. Sunderland, you know, the reason that you applied for this
position and anything else that you'd like to share.
MS. SUNDERLAND: Yea, absolutely. I applied for this position with the hope of combining
my love for legislation. I come from a history in the Legislature here at the Minnesota
House of Representatives. Been looking to combine that passion with my love for
Maui, in the hopes that the service I'll be able to provide the Office of Council Services
will serve the community there through the work of the Councilmembers there.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 86
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And just a follow-up. What brings you to, to Maui
from Minnesota?
MS. SUNDERLAND: Yea, so. I’m actually originally from the West Coast, born in California,
grew up in Oregon, although I've been in Minnesota for the last ten years or so, where
my family is originally from. I've been traveling back and forth to Maui for the last over
ten years, I suppose now, and since my early 20's. And it is a place that has really
stuck with me over the years. A place I kept returning to over and over again.
And I was actually scheduled to move there last year in April of 2020, and then of
course the pandemic happened. And so. I’ve been anxiously awaiting my chance to
do so again, and was fortunate enough to hopefully, with this position here with the
Council.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Sunderland. Mahalo, Chair.
MS. SUNDERLAND: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair. Just a quick question for
Ms. Sunderland. You know, you mentioned you've spent time in Minnesota. That's a
wonderful State. I sent my youngest daughter to school out at Carleton College in
Northfield.
MS. SUNDERLAND: Oh, wow.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, you have a wonderful State. I guess you folks call it the,
they call it Minnesota nice. That's the equivalent to aloha here in Hawaii. And my one
question to you is, do you believe the Vikings will ever win a Super Bowl? I'm a big
Vikings fan. I hope you say yes, but you can say no. That's alright, too.
MS. SUNDERLAND: That is a tough question. You know, I suppose that if we've learned
anything in this last year, it's really that anything is possible. So, I would say hold on
to that hopes and as much aloha as you got, and we'll hope for the best.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Boy, great answer. Alright, thank you, Ms. Sunderland. Thank
you. Madam Chair. Welcome aboard to everyone.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 87
MS. SUNDERLAND; Thank you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Anyone else have a question or comment? If not, thank you
Ms. Sunderland.
Members, ready for the vote?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, I just had a question.  Ijust-
CHAIRLEE; Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I just wanted to clarify. Ms. Sunderland, you're already in Maui
right?
MS. SUNDERLAND; Correct. Yes, I did secure a long-term, yea, yes, a lease there. Yes
for long-term residency.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. Alright. Just checking.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anybody else? Alright. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye" and
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
excused": motion carries. Congratulations andCHAIR LEE; All "ayes", zero "noes'
welcome aboard.
one
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, those are RESOLUTIONS 21-162 through
21-165.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 88
NO. 21-487 - KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated October 14, 2021)
'APPROVING FORTransmitting the following proposed resolution entitled
INCLUSION IN THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES
LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO PROVIDE LIMITED LIABILITY FOR
COUNTY LIFEGUARDS AND COUNTIES PROVIDING LIFEGUARD SERVICES ON
BEACHES."
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. Consideration for item 21-487.
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry, what was your request?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
OH, MOVE.
CHAIR LEE: Move?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
MOVE TO FILE, YEA. MOVE TO FILE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 21-487.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Paltin, to file County
Communication 21-487.
Any discussion, Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Just for the record, this is no longer
needed, as the HSAC meeting has already occurred. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anymore comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion,
raise your hand, say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 89
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Would you like to take County Communications 21-509 through
21-511 out of order, prior to proceeding \A/ith County Communication 21-488?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
Go ahead. Mr. Clerk.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated October 29, 2021)
NO. 21-509
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "ACCEPTING ICLEI USA'S INVITATION
TO MAUI COUNTY TO JOIN THE CITIESWITHNATURE PARTNERSHIP INITIATIVE
AND JOINING THE EDINBURGH DECLARATION ON THE POST-2020 GLOBAL
BIODIVERSITY FRAMEWORK".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 90
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-509,
INCORPORATING ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS, AND
FILING OF THE COMMUNICATION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sugimura.
Any discussion on the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: May I please request the Clerk read the resolution in its
entirety? He did such a great job with that other one, so, you know, he's on a roll today.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Apologies, one second. I'm going to bring up the
resolution. Apologies with the delay, Chair. Shall I proceed with reading the
resolution?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci, do you have any discussion? Or, Member Paltin, I'm sorry.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. As we just heard, Maui County has the
opportunity to be a signatory to the Edinburgh Declaration. And this resolution would
authorize Councilmember King, who's currently in Scotland to attend the United
Nations Climate Change Conference, to sign this Declaration on behalf of the Council.
Maui County has been at the forefront of many environmental issues and signing onto
this Declaration would indicate our intention to continue to take strong and bold action
to bring about transformative change to halt biodiversity loss. And if there are further
questions. Axel Beers from Councilmember King's Office is available as a resource, as
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 91
well as Managing Director Baz from the Mayor's Administration, if there are any
questions for them.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members? If not, ail those in favor of the motion, please say
"aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's unanimous; eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Motion carries.
Very good.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-166.
- TAMARA PALTIN. CHAIR. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND
USE COMMITTEE, (dated October 29, 2021)
NO. 21-510
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
TITLE 19, MAUI COUNTY CODE. TO ESTABLISH A NEW CHAPTER 19.39, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE WAILUKU REDEVELOPMENT AREA, AND TO
AMEND CHAPTER 19.520, MAUI COUNTY CODE. RELATING TO VARIANCES IN
THE WAILUKU REDEVELOPMENT AREA".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. May I ask the Clerk to call up this
communication later in the agenda for discussion on Committee Report 21-108?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
(See pages 143 through 146 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Proceed. Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 92
- TAMARA PALTIN. CHAIR. PU\NNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND
USE COMMITTEE, (dated October 29, 2021)
NO. 21-511
Transmitting proposed amendments to the proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTERS 19.64 AND 19.65, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO BED AND BREAKFAST HOME PERMITS AND SHORT-TERM
RENTAL HOME PERMITS".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. This one also, may I ask the Clerk to call
up this communication later in the agenda for a discussion on Committee Report
21-107?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
(See pages 135 through 143 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications and general
communications for referral. The following general communications and, the following
county communications and general communications are recommended for referral to
the following Committees as noted:
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated September 27, 2021)
NO. 21-488
Transmitting the Director of Finance's Quarterly Report for Fiscal Year July 1, 2020 to
June 30, 2021 as of June 30, 2021 and the Capital Improvement Project report as of
June 30, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-488 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 93
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated October 15, 2021)
NO. 21-489
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the General Obligation Bonds Series 2022 Fund as of
September 30, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-489 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-512
(dated October 28, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO
THE ‘AINA 'OHANA TAX CREDIT".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-512 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated October 28, 2021)
NO. 21-513
Transmitting a list of approved unbudgeted equipment requests for Fiscal Year 2021
for the period from July 1 to September 30, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-513 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated October 28, 2021)
NO. 21-514
Transmitting the Budget Implementation Report as of September 30, 2021 (Fiscal
Year 2022 First Quarter).
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-514 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 94
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated October 18, 2021)
NO. 21-515
Transmitting two reports on the settlement of claims as of September 30, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-515 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated October 14, 2021)
NO. 21-516
Transmitting the Short-Term Investment Reports as of September 30, 2021 (Fiscal
Year 2022 First Quarter).
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-516 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- SANDY BAZ. MANAGING DIRECTOR
(dated October 25, 2021)
NO. 21-517
Transmitting the Fiscal Year 2022 1®' Quarter CIP Reports.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-517 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- BRADFORD K. VENTURA. FIRE CHIEF
(dated October 19, 2021)
NO. 21-518
Transmitting the Haiku Fire Station feasibility study conducted by Munekiyo Hiraga.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-518 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 95
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated September 22, 2021)
NO. 21-490
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "REMOVAL OF LEINAALA PERRY FROM
THE BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-490 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
NO. 21-491 - BRADFORD K. VENTURA, FIRE CHIEF
(dated October 1, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE
DONATION OF TWO WINDOWS SURFACE GO AND TWO WINDOWS SURFACE
PRO X TABLETS FROM SSFM INTERNATIONAL, INC. TO THE DEPARTMENT OF
FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY, PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.56, MAUI COUNTY
CODE".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-491 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-491 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING AND ASSIGNED RESOLUTION NO. 21-167 . COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-491 WAS THEN FILED. See pages 97
through 101 for discussion and action.)
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER,
(dated October 12, 2021)
NO. 21-492
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 2.28.050, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO MEMBERS AND
ALTERNATES TO THE ADVISORY COMMITTEES TO THE MAUI PLANNING
COMMISSION".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-492 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 96
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-492 WAS LATER
REFERRED TO THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS, ETHICS, AND
TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE. See pages 101 and 102 for
discussion.)
NO. 21-519 - MICHELE MCLEAN. PLANNING DIRECTOR
(dated October 21, 2021)
Transmitting the Department of Planning's quarterly report on the status of all active
conditional permits as of September 30, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-519 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
GENERAL COMMUNICATIONS
- KEITH T. HAYASHI. INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT. HAWAII STATE
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, (dated October 20, 2021)
NO. 21-5
Submitting the 2021 Annual Report in accordance with Condition No. 3 of Ordinance
No. 4135, Kihei High School change in zoning.
The recommended action is that General Communication No. 21-5 be referred to the Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
- DANIEL Y. YASUI. VICE-PRESIDENT. A&B PROPERTIES HAWAII
LLC, SERIES T. (dated October 22, 2021)
NO. 21-6
Submitting the 2021 Annual Report in accordance with Condition No. 3 of Ordinance
No. 4146, Kihei Residential Project change in zoning.
The recommended action is that General Communication No. 21-6 be referred to the Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 97
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 21-493 - YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated October 11, 2021)
Relating to County of Maui purchase of the Kula Community Center.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-493 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee; and the subject matter relating to the purchase of the Kula
Community Center be referred to the Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Members. Are there are any objections to the referrals as read by the
Clerk?
Member Molina.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-491
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a consideration for
County Communication 21-491.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. 491.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSED
RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION
NO. 21-491.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 98
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to discharge the
Committee of CC 21-491.
Discussion, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you, Madam Chair. Discharge is needed to enable
the Council to consider action today on the proposed resolution. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to waive
the Rules of the Council 7.G.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Approval of this motion by a
two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council will allow the Council to
consider the proposed resolution today. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 99
CHAIR LEE: Any more
"aye".
discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand, say
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused": motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-491.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adapt, adapt
adopt the resolution contained in County Communication 21-491.
Discussion, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. The Department of Fire and Public
Safety wishes to accept a donation from SSFM International, Inc. for two Windows
Surface Go and two Windows Surface Pro X tablets valued at $3,935.06. The tablets
were used in a program to test wireless "Air Gain" and "Cradle Point" equipment to
determine its value to first responders. The test data showed improved communication
capabilities to remote areas.
And according to Chapter 3.56 of the Maui County Code, it authorizes the Council to
accept gifts and donations on behalf of the County. I ask for the Members full support.
Thank you. Madam Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 100
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused": motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We were just wondering what the body's disposition will be of,
of the County Communication itself, 21-491? The body just adopted the resolution,
but something still needs to be done with the communication.
CHAIR LEE; Molina, are you requesting that the item be, communication be filed?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yea. Yea. That would include filing as part of the motion.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So. ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Agreed.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, what is your hesitation, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: If the body accepts that, that the filing's included in that motion
then that's fine.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I accept. I accept.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 101
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to accepting the filing in the motion?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; No objections. So, ordered. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, are there any other objections to the referrals as read by
the Clerk?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin?
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-492
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. If it is okay v\/ith Member Molina, Member
King, before she went to Scotland, asked that 21-492 go to GREAT.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, um-
CHAIRLEE: Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Sorry, I was under the understanding it might go to
PSLU. But okay, that be the case, yea, I guess its technically comes under the
jurisdiction of GREAT. But I thought it was going to go to PSLU. But I'm not sure. It's
unfortunate Member King is not here to kind of explain to the body why that
consideration was made to PSLU. But yea, I guess it definitely belongs, generally
belong in a Committee like GREAT, which deals with boards and commissions
nominations. And I guess the proposal to expand the South Maui Advisory Committee
to nine members instead of seven. So, okay, we'll take it. No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Refer that item to the GREAT Committee. Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 102
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yea, you know what, Madam Chair, can I just ask Member
Paltin a quick question? So, in that conversation with Member King, so she. 1 guess,
can 1 ask why maybe she approached you about it and?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: She asked me that she wanted it to go to your Committee and
if 1 would be okay with that? And I said I would be okay with that.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That was pretty much the extent of the conversation.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Okay. Yea. That's fine.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: She kind of just asked me if it was okay if it went to GREAT
cause she really wanted it to go to GREAT. And I'm like, cool by me.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Yea, I'm not sure when exactly I can schedule that
proposal cause I've got some other considerations. But it'll get heard eventually.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk, did you take note that County Communication 21-492 will be
referred to the GREAT Committee?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Arethere-
CHAIR LEE: Any others?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -any other preference?
CHAIR LEE: Any others? Any others? Otherwise, the rest will stand as read by the Clerk.
Okay. Alright.
Proceed, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, the resolution that was attached to County
Communication 21-491, that is RESOLUTION 21-167.
Chair, proceeding with committee reports.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 103
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-94NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following;
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING1. That Bill
SECTION 2.08.060, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO COUNCIL
SERVICES STAFF SALARIES," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT: and
119
That County Communication 21-436, from Council Vice-Chair Keani N.W.
Rawlins-Fernandez, be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there aren't any objections, I was
hoping to take up CR, Committee Report 21-111 and 112 to expedite our meeting as
much as possible, since this is a long meeting. But if there are any objections, I, I can
take them up separately.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, noted.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May  Irequest the Clerk call up
Committee Report 21-111 and 21-112, please?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 104
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-111NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 120 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
WORKS, WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, ROAD
IMPROVEMENTS, BOND FUND, WAIALE ROAD EXTENSION; TOTAL
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL
APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROJECTS)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT;
1.
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING2. That Bill
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, WAIALE ROAD EXTENSION
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
121
be
That Bill 122 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
ORDINANCE NO. 5219, BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE,
SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
- WAIALE ROAD EXTENSION)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
3.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-112NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 123 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
WORKS, COUNTYWIDE, ROAD IMPROVEMENTS, BOND FUND,
COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM; TOTAL CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 105
APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROJECTS)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT;
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING2. That Bill
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I, GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE
REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES
BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, FEDERAL-AID AND OTHER
TRANSPORTATION GRANTS," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
124
ORDERED TO PRINT;
That Bill 125 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, COUNTYWIDE, COUNTYWIDE
FEDERAL AID PROGRAM," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT; and
3.
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING1264. That Bill
ORDINANCE NO. 5219, BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE,
SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
- COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM)," be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORTS 21-94, 21-111, AND 21-112.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Reports 21-111, 112, and 21-94.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 106
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee met on September 29, 2021 to discuss a proposed
bill to amend Section 2.08.060(D), Maui County Code, to allow for annual step
increases for the Office of Council Services staff, except for legislative attorneys, if a
satisfactory annual performance review has been issued by the Director of Council
Services.
Your Committee noted the intent of the bill is to provide a level of fairness to the Office
of Council Services staff. Currently, the non-attorney OCS staff are the only appointed
staff in the County who also require appointments for salary adjustments.
Your Committee agreed to amend the bill to require consultation with Councilmembers
prior to the issuance of the annual performance review. Your Committee, Committee
voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill and filing of the communication.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion or questions?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry, I had to scroll down a little bit. Your Budget,
Finance, and Economic Development Committee also met on October 20, 2021 to
discuss the proposed bills in Committee Report 21-111, to amend the Budget bill.
Appendix C bill, and the Bond Authorization bill to add bond funding and a public,
project description for the Wai‘ale Road Extension project in the amount of $3.5 million
under the Department of Public Works.
Your Committee was informed the total estimated project cost will be $39 million and
that the County Archaeologist would review the archaeological report and cultural
impact assessment upon receipt. Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend passage
of the proposed bill and filing of the communication.
And lastly, for Committee Report 21-112, the Committee met on October 20, 2021 to
discuss proposed bills to amend the Budget bill; the Appendix A, Part I bill; and
Appendix C bill; and the bond authorization bill to add funding and a project description
under the Department of Public Works, Countywide Federal Aid Program for Makawao
Avenue Pavement Reconstruction (Apana Road to Piiholo Road).
This project will be funded using $9,531,400 in grant funding from the Federal Highway
Administration; and $3,871,000 in bond funding for a total cost of $13,402,500. Your
Committee was informed that the paving projects are already, are ready for
construction, but that project costs have increased due to the implementation of
Complete Streets improvements, but that no additional permits will be needed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 107
Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bill and filing of the
communication. I respectfully ask for the Members continued support of these items.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion or questions? Ifnot, ali-
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I just wanted to fully support 21-111, as well as 112.
They are both Public Works projects. I’m glad to see this moving forward.
And I just want to make a statement about the Committee Report 21-94. In Committee,
when it was being discussed, a question was asked, are the OCS staff going to get
these automatic raises, I guess, because of cost of living? And the question came
back to me after, it's not cost of living allowance because I know when I worked for
Federal government, we had COLA, but County government does not have COLA.
So, I just wanted to make that clarification.
And also, that people around us who work for unions do not necessarily get raises
every year. And so. I'm glad to see that before increases are made, that there has to
be performance evaluations, and there will be scrutiny. So, it's not an automatic raise.
Because that also came to me as around us the other employees who work for, you
know, the various unions don't automatically get raises every year, as you all know.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments or questions? Ifnot, all those infavor of the motion, please
say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
zero "noes", one "excused"; motionCHAIR LEE: I see all "ayes", zero "noes". Eight "ayes'
carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 108
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, the bill that was attached to Committee
Report 21-94, that is BILL 119 (2021).
The bills that were attached to Committee Report 21-111, those are BILLS 120 (2021)
through 122 (2021).
And the bills that were attached to Committee Report 21-112, those are
BILLS 123 (2021) through 126 (2021). respectively.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-96NO. BUDGET, FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING1. That Bill
ORDINANCE NO. 5101, BILL NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE,
SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE -
WAIALE LAND ACQUISITION)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT;
127
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING2. That Bill
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, OTHER PROJECTS, BOND
FUND, WAIALE LAND ACQUISITION; TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING
AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)," be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
128
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING3. That Bill
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN
AREA, WAIALE LAND ACQUISITION," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and
129
be ORDERED TO PRINT;
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDINGThat Bill
ORDINANCE NO. 5219, BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE,
1304.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 109
SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE -
WAIALE LAND ACQUISITION)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT;
That Resolution 21-168 . entitled "AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION OF
443.393 ACRES IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEYS (2) 3-8-005:037.
(2) 3-8-005:040, (2) 3-8-007:101, (2) 3-8-007:172, (2) 3-8-007:173,
(2) 3-8-007:178, AND (2) 3-8-007:179, SITUATED AT WAIKAPU, WAILUKU,
MAUI, HAWAII, BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS WAIALE
SOUTH AND WAIALE NORTH, FOR AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED
$10,500,000," be ADOPTED:
5.
That Resolution 21-169 . entitled "ACCEPTING THE DONATION OF THREE
PARCELS TOTALING APPROXIMATELY 55.318 ACRES, INCLUDING
APPROXIMATELY 42.454 ACRES IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY
NO. (2) 3-8-007:176, APPROXIMATELY 5.554 ACRES IDENTIFIED AS TAX
MAP KEY NO. (2) 3-8-007:177 AND APPROXIMATELY 7.310 ACRES
IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY NO. (2) 3-8-007:180, PURSUANT TO
CONDITION SEVEN OF ORDINANCE 3559 (2008)," be ADOPTED; and
6.
That County Communication 21-248, from the Budget Director, be FILED.7.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And, Chair, County Communication 21-485 is also before the
body at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-96.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson, to
approve the recommendations in the attached Committee Report.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 110
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee met on September 15, 2021 and Octobers, 2021
to discuss four proposed bills and two proposed resolutions relating to the Waiale Land
Acquisition.
The first bill amends the Fiscal Year 2021 General Obligation Bond authorization
ordinance by adding an appropriation for the Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area,
Other Projects, for a project entitled "Waiale Land Acquisition", in the amount of
$10 million under the Department of Finance.
The second bill amends the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget by increasing Bond/Lapsed Bond
revenue by $500,000; amending Section 4.B., Department of Finance, by adding
Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area, Other Projects, Bond Fund, a project entitled
"Waiale Acquisition" in the amount of $500,000; and adjusting the total, totals
accordingly.
The third bill amends the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix C, Capital Improvement
Projects, by adding Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area, a project entitled "Waiale
Land Acquisition" and project description, under Department of Finance, in the amount
of $500,000.
The fourth bill amends the Fiscal Year 2022 General Obligation Bond authorization
ordinance by adding an appropriation for Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area,
Other Projects, for a project entitled "Waiale Land Acquisition in the amount of
$500,000, under the Department of Finance.
The first resolution authorizes the acquisition of 443,000; 443.393 acres located at
Waikapu, Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii, referred to as Waiale South and Waiale North.
And the second resolution authorizes the acceptance of a donation of 55.318 acres
located at Waikapu, Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii, in accordance with conditions. Condition
Seven of Ordinance 3559.
The State Land Use Commission required that 10 acres of the property be allocated
for affordable housing, but a study conduct by A&B showed a need for an additional
13 acres, for a total of 23 acres. The County Council further required an additional
17 acres for affordable housing, bringing the amount of land reserved for affordable
housing up to 40 acres. The Council also required approximately 7 acres for a Kahului
community multi-purpose center, and approximately  3acres for park purposes.
Your Committee noted the need for cultural preservation in the area and agreed to
forego the requirements of the affordable housing, a community center, a park in wai,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 111
and a park in Waiale in order to preserve the area and promote healing. Your
Committee voted 7-0 to recommend passage of the proposed bills, adoption of the
proposed donation resolution, adoption of the revised proposed acquisition resolution,
and filing of the communication.
AT THIS TIME, I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO SUBSTITUTE THE
RESOLUTION ENTITLED "AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION
OF 443.393 ACRES IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY
{2) 3-8-005:037, (2) 3-8-005:040, (2) 3-8-007:101,
(2) 3-8-007:172, (2) 3-8-007:173, (2) 3-8-007:178, AND
(2) 3-8-007:179, SITUATED AT WAIKAPU, WAILUKU, MAUI,
HAWAII, BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS
WAIALE SOUTH AND WAIALE NORTH, FOR AN AMOUNT
NOT TO EXCEED $10,500,000", WITH THE REVISED
RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION
21-485; AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-485.
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: If I could get a second.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson, seconded.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, as discussed at the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee meeting, Alexander &
Baldwin, LLC, agreed to donate an additional 23 acres in Kahului, off of Hansen Road,
that would satisfy the State Land Use Commission's condition for affordable housing.
This revised resolution adds the acceptance of this donation to the resolution
approving the acquisition. I ask for the Councilmembers support of the motion to
substitute. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions or comments?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 112
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. You know,  Iacknowledge Mr. Mayer's
comments in the testimony. But I really would like to thank the Mayor, and the Budget
Committee, and the Budget Director for working on this. I think Hansen Road is a
much more appropriate place for affordable housing. And I think that, you know, this
is really historic in that we, we finally have an opportunity to respect the final resting
place of our iwi kupuna in the same way that we respect, you know, the Veterans
Cemetery, or other places with marked headstones, you know? So, I think it's another
historically significant landmark, legislation, or not legislation, but purchase acquisition.
But I want to thank everyone involved and step in the right direction. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci, and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Chair. I too wanted to mahalo all the parties involved
in doing this. And just wanted to recognize our, the last two testifiers, Chair, this
morning; Ms. Apana and Ms. Palafox. You know, they, a lot of people don't know the
work that they've been involved in. And a lot of people don't know the amount of,
including our Hana staff here, of iwi kupuna that are still in cardboard boxes from, from
all these past years. So, I think what people don't realize is these are final resting
places. And, and we can finally find the final resting places for, for the iwi kupuna that
are still in cardboard boxes. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yea, thank you very much everybody who worked hard on
this, the Mayor, Michele Yoshimura, and those that, you know, met. I, I know it went
on for a long time before we came to this. And when I heard Clare Apana and
testimony this morning, it made me think of something. So, if we find any iwi in the
Central valley then, this will be the resting place for it with the purchase of this, I don't
know if it's . . . parcel, but $10.5 million, is that, is that part of the plan? I know that
much more has to happen besides buying the land. But does anybody know? If it'll.
CHAIR LEE; I think that's phase 2. But, Mr. Sinenci or Vice-Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Real, just to my knowledge, it's a, it's a process. It's a long
process that has been going on for years and finding those areas. So, it is an option
if, if people, if there were iwi that was from the area.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yea, I know this is step 1. So, thank you very much for
answering that. That's, that's nice when, when I heard Tamara say. And 1 know that
there's been a lot of work going on. I think even Stacy Criveilo was working on this in
many meetings. And I too like the idea of the 23 acres. It's actually by the Sugar
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 113
Museum which, you know, we just extended their lease. So, it'll be a nice growing
family area I think over the years to come. So, thank you everybody. I fully support
this.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. I just want to rise in full support of this
purchase. And I want to quote a lot of those folks who made this happen, is, let sand
stay where the people lay. So, full support. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Ready for the vote? All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", raise
your hand.
COUNCiLMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE; All "ayes", eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Vice-Chair, did you have anything else to go with this?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yea,  Ijust, for my final remarks, I,
just, 1 too, want to thank Mayor Victorino, Budget Director Yoshimura, Finance Director
Teruya, all the Malama Kakanilua members, Ms. Apana, Ms. Palafox, Ahia, for all their
work. This has been a long time coming to, to protect this aina. And I also want to
thank Ms. Pajimola for, and Ms. de Naie for helping us with the research that resulted,
that helped result in the Hansen Road donation. And my thanks to A&B for, you know,
their willingness to collaborate, and to add this as part of this whole transaction. It was
a very collaborative effort, and everyone involved, it took everyone. Corporation
Counsel, mahalo to them as well.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Members. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 114
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair, thank you. You know, this, what we did today and what
we're going to continue to do is something that I kind of feel like I'm at the tail-end of.
Because I remember one of the first things that I remember doing in the early 1990's
was bringing home the missionary Henry Opukahaia, who was buried at Cornwall for
175 years. And it took years and years and years of other people, before I even came
onto the scene, to bring his bones back home, to be reinterred on the Big Island.
And so, when 1 think about what we're doing today, it's like finally, things are really, it's
like, I feel like the stars are all lined up and things are actually coming. You know,
cause way back in the early 80's and 90's it was like it almost seemed so impossible
to do these things. And so, here we are today, year 2021, being able to see so much
fruit come to bear with this Council.
So, I just wanted to say that, Chair, because 1 think it just hits home. It hits your heart,
especially those who are kupuna, who have been doing this work for years and years
and years and never ever lived to see the fruition of all of their attempted work. And
this Council, too, is doing so much work. And when the time comes, 50 years from
now, people will look back on this Council and say, wow, what a great bunch of people
they were to bring our people forward. So, thank you to everyone, past, present, and
future. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Kama. Fifty years from now I may still be on the Council.
So, I'll let you know.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. For second and final. My apologies.
I'll make it quick. I wanted to mention three other people, who worked really hard to
help make this happen: Ms. Crivello, Mr. Hironaka, and Mr. Hopper. 1, I wanted to
make sure that I recognized them by name. This is historic and we're all so proud. So,
mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. I think you, did you mention Mr. Teruya, earlier.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We can say him again.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: He's definitely deserving.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 115
CHAIR LEE; We don't want to leave anybody out. But believe me, this took years to come
to this point. Members, are you ready to vote on the main motion as amended? Not
yet.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry. I just wanted to mahalo also Mr. Kaniloa Kamaunu.
And, and I mean, I know he's included with the Malama Kakanilua, but he's been there
for a very long time leading the fight as well. So, I, I thought we shouldn't not mention
him by name. Sorry. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. How about Noelani Ohia/s/c/?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ahia.
CHAIR LEE: Ahia. Ahia. Because, you know, some of these people were actually not in
agreement and I saw them come together and that was beautiful.
Yes, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, since we're at it, I also wanted to mention, I think I
mentioned it when we are going through the Committee that Elle Cochran, she spent
one whole term doing sand studies. And, you know, she really brought this to the
Council in full force. I think that was her main focus during her, I think that was her last
term and Sarah was her EA. And they, they did everything they could to educate us
and the community and about the battles. And they did so much. I'm surprised that
she didn't come and testify, but she's been appearing every now and then. But this
would have been one that, you know, she had, had her touch in it from a point when it
wasn't a reality like it is today. So, I just want to give her a thanks. And Carol Reimann,
thank you very much from, from A&B also. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; I don't think any of us on the Council will take full credit for what's happening.
Many people before us worked on this. So, it's a tribute to a lot of people, before, now,
and in the future.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair. I'm going to get my two cents
in as well. And you know, on top of what, 1 echo on top, you know, what everyone else
has said and all of the accolades. But, you know, as you know 1 substitute teach. And
I substitute for the Hawaiian immersion classes at Kalama School. Andon occasion
this is such a special moment. And if there's some way we can get this information out
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 116
to al! the kumu, or our Hawaiian immersion classes to. to educate them or make them
aware of this very significant moment? Because for any culture to determine its future,
you must have a full understanding of your past. So, this is something really, really
special, and should be definitely shared with our keiki and Hawaiian immersion
classes, and anything else that's related to it. So, thanks. Thanks to all. And mahalo
to Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez for shepherding this matter in the Committee. Thank
you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Alright. Anymore comments? if not, all those in favor of the motion, the
main motion as amended, please say "aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Very historic "aye". Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused": motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, those are BILLS 127 (2021) through
130 (2021), respectively. And RESOLUTIONS 21-168 and 21-169, respectively.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-97NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
entitled "URGING THE MAYOR TO21-170Recommending that Resolution
SUPPORT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE HO'OMAHUA INITIATIVE be
ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Urn, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-97.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 117
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt the
resolution in Committee Report 21-97.
Do you want the Clerk to read the resolution in its entirety?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Sure thing. Go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. Hui.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Apologies, just one second. I'll pull up the
committee report. Apologies for the delay, Chair. Shall I begin reading the resolution?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, could you read the resolution?
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And mahalo, Deputy Clerk Krueger. 1
won't repeat all of the, that. So, again. Members, your CARE Committee met on
September 29, 2021 to discuss a proposed resolution urging the Mayor to support
Ho'omahua Initiative. So. your Committee recommended adoption of the revised
proposed resolution by a 7-0 vote. And we ask for the Members support of your
Committee's recommendations.
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion. Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. I, I support this motion and 1 just wanted to
disclose again, as I disclosed in Committee, as the volunteer president of the Save
Honolua Coalition that we are working with them on, at Honolua Bay. But it's, it's not
a conflict of interest because there's not, it's just a resolution. There's not money
involved. And I also wanted to mention, like we clarified in Committee that the app
doesn't take 5G. It can work without 5G. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 118
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. You're becoming our resident encyclopedia.
Anybody else? If not, all those in favor of adopting the resolution, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
one "excused"; motion carries. Thank you.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-170.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-98NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-171 . entitled "REFERRING TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSIONS A PROPOSED BILL REU\TING TO WETLANDS RESTORATION
AND PROTECTION", be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-98.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 119
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Kama, to adopt the
recommendation in Committee Report 21-98,
Discussion? Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Your CARE Committee met on
September 1,2021 and September 29, 2021 to discuss a proposed resolution referring
to the Planning Commissions, proposed bill to establish a program for wetlands
restoration protection.
Thank you, Chair.
Revised proposed resolution includes additional references. The revised proposed bill
establishes the program for wetlands restoration and protection in Titles 2, 18, 19, and
20 of the Maui County Code. The revised proposed bill protects all wetlands in Maui
County, including those that are not adjacent to navigable waters.
Maui County Code does not currently include the establishment of a program for
wetlands restoration and protection. And the State doesn't have a statute to restore
and protect the wetlands. The justification for such a program is evidenced in the
Countywide Policy Plan, the Maui Island Plan, the Lana'i Community Plan, and the
Moloka'i Island Community Plan.
Over the course of those two meetings, our, our Committee learned wetlands play a
critical, a critically important role in our ecosystem. And protecting them provides many
environmental benefits.
Your Committee further revised the proposed legislation to clarify the Federal Clean
Water Act does not regulate certain isolated wetlands, that the ordinance's effective
date will commence after the Department of Planning adopts Administrative Rules
relating to its implementation.
But we do have, Chair, there is Amendment Summary Form for you to consider today.
So, if staff could share the ASF at this time, I can make the motion to amend when
everybody receives it.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Are they sending it now, or did they send it earlier. Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I just got it.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yea, they, get now.
CHAIR LEE: It's quite lengthy.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 120
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: It's a real simple amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Simple amendment? Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yea. I can-
CHAIR LEE: Why don't you just say it?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay.
MOVE TO AMEND THE RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-98 BY AMENDING EXHIBIT "1",
PROPOSED BILL RELATING TO WETLANDS RESTORATION,
PROTECTION. BY DELETING PROPOSED SECTION
19.47.050 OF THE MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO DELETE
"PROHIBITED USES".
I can explain if 1 get a second.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Okay. Member, moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez.
Discussion, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Chapters establishing zoning districts in
the County Code, such as proposed Chapter 19.47, "Wetlands Overlay Districts," do
not need to list prohibited uses. Uses that are not listed as permitted, accessory, or
special uses are considered prohibited uses.
So, Members, we have, we also have Mr., or Ms. Thomson on the call, should you
have any questions with the amendment. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions for Corp. Counsel?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 121
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just wanted to clarify. We're sending this to the Planning
Commission, right? We’re not, okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, referring it to the Planning Commission.
Okay. No questions for Corp. Counsel. So, we're ready to vote on the amendment.
All those in favor of the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes
So, the main motion is to recommend that the proposed resolution is referred, as
amended, referred to the Planning Commissions, all of them. All those in favor of that
motion, as amended, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCl, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes". Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I’m voting "no".
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Seven "ayes".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And I would like to explain.
CHAIR LEE: That was for discussion. But you know what, let's finish the vote.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 122
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", one "no'
Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So. I just wanted to explain. When this went through
Committee, I voted against it. And 1 believe that EPA and Clean Water Act, all of the
Federal laws preempt this from happening.
Also on the morning that the committee report, I mean the Committee meeting
happened, the Planning Department sent a detailed letter, I think they said with their
apologies that it came the day of the Committee meeting. But I don't think that was,
oh, 1 know that wasn't incorporated into this final bill, or the final action that's going to,
final bill that's going to be sent to the Planning Commissions. So, maybe it can be
taken up there. But I'm going to maintain my vote for those reasons. So, I just wanted
to explain. Thank you. Not that I don't support--
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -this action. But it's-
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Remember, it's coming back.
Okay. Anything, let's see, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-171.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-99NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THE21-172Recommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF SCOTT CRAWFORD TO THE HANA ADVISORY COMMITTEE
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI", be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-99.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 123
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Mr. Johnson, to adopt the resolution
contained in Committee Report 21-99.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your Committee
met September 28, 2021 to discuss a proposed resolution relating to the Mayor's
nomination of Scott Crawford to the Hana Advisory Committee for a term expiring on
March 31,2022 due to the resignation of David Kaina.
And during the discussion, your Committee discovered that Ordinance 5210, in effect
at the time of Mr. Kaina's resignation, states in part that each vacancy for the Hana
Advisory Committee will be filled with the Council making the appointment until there
are five members who have been appointed by the Council. And in reviewing the board
listing for the Hana Advisory Committee, out of six members only one was appointed
by the Council. So. therefore, your Committee confirmed that the Council has the
authority to fill Mr. Kaina's vacancy under this ordinance.
And with regard to Mr. Crawford, he's certainly well-known in the community, extensive
involvement in community activities and nonprofit organizations. And your Committee
voted 9-0 to recommend Mr. Crawford's appointment, or nomination. Thank you.
Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-172.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 124
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-100NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THE21-173Recommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF ELAINE SLAVINSKY TO THE COUNCIL ON AGING be
ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-100.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Mr. Johnson, to pass, to approve the
recommendation in Committee Report 21-100.
Mr. Molina, discussion?
Your Committee met onCOUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair.
September 28, 2021 to discuss Ms. Slavinsky's nomination to the Council on Aging for
a term expiring on March 31, 2023, due to the resignation of Katherine Smith.
Ms. Slavinsky has extensive experience in the healthcare industry. And she has also
had experience in, experience \A/orking with kupuna through the County's Office on
Aging. So, she would definitely make a wonderful asset to the Council on Aging. And
your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend her nomination be approved. Thank you.
Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye’
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 125
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused": motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-173.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-101NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
21-174 entitled "REU\TING TO THERecommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF JASON HEW TO THE BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI", be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-101.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Second? Member Johnson. Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Member
Johnson, to adopt the Committee Report recommendations in 210, 21-101.
Discussion? Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your Committee met
on September 28, 2021 to discuss Mr. He\A/'s nomination to the Board of Water Supply,
for a expiring on March 31, 2024, due to the resignation of Johanna Amorin.
And Mr. Hew's understanding of water issues stems from his prior work experience
with the Maui County Soil & Water Conservation Districts. And with his prior work
experience and knowledge, and everything else, he would certainly make a fine asset
to the Board of Water Supply. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend approval of
his nomination. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 126
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: For the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-174.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-102NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "REU\TING TO THE21-175Recommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF DANIEL O'BRIEN TO THE COST OF GOVERNMENT
COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI", be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-102.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Kama to approve the
recommendation in Committee Report 21-102.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 127
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. The last of the nominees discussed
at your September 28, 2021 meeting of the GREAT Committee. Mr. O'Brien, his
nomination to the Cost of Government Commission will be for a term expiring on
March 31, 2024, due to the resignation of Patrick O'Neil.
Mr. O'Brien has business and nonprofit background experience that could be very
beneficial to the Cost of Government Commission. And I certainly think he will also,
as the other nominees, make a wonderful asset to this particular board and
commission: the Cost of Government Commission. And he was approved 9-0 by the
Committee. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-175.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-103 HUMAN CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 21-176 . entitled "AUTHORIZING THE EMPLOYMENT OF
LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF HAWAI I AS SPECIAL COUNSEL TO PROVIDE
LEGAL SERVICES TO QUALIFIED RESIDENTS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI",
be ADOPTED; and
1.
That County Communication 21-387, from the Director of Housing and Human
Concerns, be FILED.
2.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 128
CHAIR LEE: Member, Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-103.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Pro Tern Kama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-103.
Discussion, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Your Human Concerns and Parks Committee met
September 30, 2021. The proposed resolution authorizes the employment of Legal
Aid Society of Hawaii as a special counsel using Federal Title III funds, to provide legal
services to qualified individuals, including grandparents raising grandchildren, to the
elderly, and for public educational purposes.
Your Committee noted the services will cover the two-year contract period of
October 1, 2021 through September 30, 2023, with costs not to exceed $85,557 per
year.
Your Committee recognized the long-standing relationship the Department of Housing
and Human Concerns has with Legal Aid and the legal ,and the vital assistance Legal
Aid provides to the senior community. Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend
adoption of the proposed resolution and filing the communication. And I ask for my
Members full support.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye’
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 129
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excusedzero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Members.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-176.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-104 INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCERecommending that Bill
AMENDING CHAPTER 12.40, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO NAME THE GLENN H.
OTANI BASEBALL FIELD (KULA) AND THE GLENN H. OTANI SCOREBOOTH
(WAILUKU)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
131
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-104.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Pro Tern Kama, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-104.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Chair. Your Infrastructure,
Transportation Committee met on September 27, to discuss the proposed bill to amend
Chapter 12.40, Maui County Code, to name the baseball diamond located on the upper
New Kula base, Ballfield at the Kula Park as the "Glenn H. Otani Baseball Field", and
the scorebooth located at the Iron, Ichiro "Iron" Maehara Baseball Stadium as the
"Glenn H. Otani Scorebooth".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 130
You heard Dick Mayer also give his support to this. The proposed bill was reviewed
and recommended for approval by the Public Works Commission and the Cultural
Resources Commission.
Glenn H. Otani, who passed away on July 30, 2020, was a well-respected coach and
leader of Maui's baseball community who contributed significantly to the progression
and continuation of youth baseball and development throughout Maui County.
Your Committee agreed that naming the baseball diamond and scorebooth after
Mr. Otani would be a way to pay tribute to his contributions. And I also believe that the
Parks Department agreed that they would be paying for the cost, as some of the
testifiers in Committee were wondering that if they would have to pay for it, or they
would fundraise to pay it. But the County will do that.
And Mr. Otani was also a coach for my son. So, 1 appreciate your support in this. Your
Committee voted 6-0 to recommend passage of the revised proposed bill. And I
respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor. . . , raise your hand. Aye.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Opposed, say "no".
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 131
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Mr.-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yea, point of personal privilege. We’ve been at it for a couple
hours. Would it be okay for us to take a late afternoon break? Also, allow staff to
provide relief for them as well as some of our Members; mainly me. Short break, if
possible.
CHAIR LEE: Of course ... to taking a, a break until 3:45. Okay. So, ordered. Meeting in
recess--
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: --till 3. Yes, hit the gavel yet.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, apologies, just real quick.
CHAIR LEE; You raise your hand.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: On that last vote, I don't see Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez. I'm not sure she was present for that vote.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry, did you not see my video, sorry. Yes, I voted
”aye". Oh.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Okay, apologies for that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so the meeting is in recess until 3:45, okay. Recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 3:30 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 3:46 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KING AND VICE
CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of November 5, 2021 please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, the bill that was attached to Committee
Report 21-104, that is BILL 131 (2021).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 132
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-105NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending that County Communication 19-145, from the Planning Director,
relating to a request for a Community Plan Amendment from Agriculture to
Public/Quasi-Public, State Land Use District Boundary Amendment from Agricultural
to Rural, and Change in Zoning from Agricultural to P-1 Public/Quasi-Public for
1.9 acres located at Nahiku Road, Hana, Maui, Hawaii, tax map key (2) 1-2-002:023,
to facilitate the development of the proposed Nahiku Community Center, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-105.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Pro Tern Kama, to approve the
committee report in, the recommendation in Committee Report 21-105.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on September 30, 2021 and discussed the proposed bills to grant a
request for a Community Plan Amendment from Agriculture to Public/Quasi-Public,
State Land Use District Boundary Amendment from Agricultural to Rural, and Change
in Zoning from Agricultural to P-1 Public/Quasi-Public for 1.9 acres located at Nahiku,
Road, Hana, Maui, Hawaii.
Your Committee acknowledged the community is deeply divided on whether to
continue with the Nahiku Community Center project, cancel, or postpone it, or proceed
with the project but at a different location.
Currently, there is no funding for the project. And your Committee determined that the
Nahiku Community Center project should be postponed to a future date to allow the
County and community to discuss the project further and seek ways to resolve any
outstanding issues. I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank
you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 133
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion? And that's kind of important that v/e, that
Member Sinenci continues to bring the community together for contin, ongoing
meetings.
Ms. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yea, thank you, Chair, for that. And just as an update, my
office has contacted the Department of Land and Natural Resources, identified some
alternate State lands near there. So, we're hoping that we can present that to the
community. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, great. Great news. Any other comments or questions? If not, all those in
favor of the motion, please say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KING AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we got seven "ayes", two "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-106NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE lAHD USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 132 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A
DIGITAL ZONING MAP AS THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FOR THE ISLAND
OF MOLOKA‘1", be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT; and
1.
That County Communication 21-369, from the Planning Director, be FILED.2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 134
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-106.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve the
recommendation in Committee Report 21-106.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on September 30, 2021. The purpose of the proposed bill is to adopt
the digital zoning map for the island of Moloka'i.
Your Committee notes the Moloka'i Planning Commission supported the proposed
legislation with the exception of correcting the alignment for ili, lli'ili'dpae Heiau. The
Moloka'i Planning Commission recommended that future phases of the Moloka'i digital
map include creating a new community plan designation and zoning district for
lli'ili'opae Heiau to protect sensitive cultural and historical sites.
The digital zoning maps are able to replace the County's old worn-out paper maps with
comprehesive digital zoning maps; make digital zonnig maps accessible online for
public use; confirm existing zoning accurately and efficiently for all parcels in the
County; and create a single digital zoning map that encompasses each island. I
respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", raise
your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", two "excused", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 135
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 132 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-107 PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING1. That Bill
CHAPTERS 19.64 AND 19.65, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO BED
AND BREAKFAST HOME PERMITS AND SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOME
PERMITS,” be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
133
and
That County Communication 21-140, from the Planning Director, be FILED.2.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And, Chair, County Communication 21-511 is also before the
body at this time.
- TAMARA PALTIN, CHAIR, PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND
USE COMMITTEE, (dated October 29, 2021)
NO. 21-511
Transmitting proposed amendments to the proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTERS 19.64 AND 19.65, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO BED AND BREAKFAST HOME PERMITS AND SHORT-TERM
RENTAL HOME PERMITS".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. If we can, did we call up 21-107, already?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, just now.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I move to amend the proposed bill in CR 21-107, as
shown in my Amendment Summary Form attached to county communication-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait, wait. First, the main motion. The main motion. Move to
approve the proposed bill.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 136
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE PROPOSED BILL.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: In Committee Report 21-107. Seconded by Pro Tern Kama.
Discussion, Member Paltin. Now you can make your amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE PROPOSED BILL IN CR 21-107 AS
SHOWN IN MY, SORRY, MY MOM’S CALLING ME, SHOWN IN
MY AMENDMENT SUMMARY FORM ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 21-511; AND TO FILE THE
COMMUNICATION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, discussion? Well, second? Seconded by-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: -Member Sugimura.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
THE AMENDMENT SUMMARY FORM AMENDS SUBSECTION
19.64.030(E)(2) TO DELETE "THE PERMIT IS NOT
TRANSFERABLE."; AND ADDS THE FOLLOWING AS
SUBSECTION 19.64.030(E)(3).
THE PERMIT IS NOT TRANSFERABLE; EXCEPT THAT A
PERMIT MAY BE TRANSFERRED;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 137
A. TO AN IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER, INCLUDING A
PERSON'S PARENTS, SPOUSE, CHILDREN, AND THEIR
SPOUSES, SIBLINGS, STEPPARENTS, STEPCHILDREN,
ADOPTED CHILDREN AND THEIR SPOUSES AND HANAI
CHILDREN; AND
B. TO A SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE OR BENEFICIARY OF THE
TRUST, IF THE PERMIT IS HELD BY A FAMILY TRUST IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSECTION 19.64.030(E).
These amendments provide flexibility in the transferability of Bed and Breakfast Home
Permits, as requested in testimony at the Council meeting of the October 22, 2021.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Discussion? Further discussion? All those in favor of the amendments
say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I see the Deputy County Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Deputy County Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. I just, we just wanted clarification on a couple
of things. For the main motion on this item, is that to adopt the recommendations of
the committee report?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, both first reading? Okay. And then, for the ASF, was the
filing CC 21-511 included?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Along with those amendments.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, and to file the communication, yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Okay. Thank you. Apologies.
CHAIR LEE: Well, okay, so we're on the vote for the amendments. All those in favor of the
amendments, say "aye", raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 138
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", zero "noes", two "excused"; motion carries.
Now, the main motion as amended. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of
the main motion, as amended-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. ..
CHAIR LEE: You had one more?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I did have discussion.
CHAIR LEE: One more amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No. Discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, the purposes of the proposed bill are to allow Accessory
Dwelling Units to be eligible for Bed and Breakfast and Short-Term Rental Home; limit
STRH permits to one per person and one per property; improve notification
requirements for B&B and STRH permit application; establish that family trusts may
hold B&B and STRH permits; and amend Chapters 19.64 and 19.65, Maui County
Code, for clarity and consistency.
Your Committee determined ADUs should continue to be limited to residential use to
help maximize the availability of housing units for County residents. Your Committee
revised the proposed bill to delete the title's reference to Chapter 19.35, Maui County
Code; delete SECTION 1, which would have amended Chapter 19.35; and made other
corresponding revisions.
Your Committee also revised the proposed bill to establish that STRH permits may
only be issued for single-family dwelling constructed at least 15 years prior to the
application and owned by the applicant for at least 15 years. In addition, your
Committee revised and proposed bill, the proposed bill to establish that B&B permits
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 139
may only be issued for single-family dwellings constructed at least five years prior to
the application and owned by the applicant for at least five years. Your Committee
determined these requirements should be countywide, rather than island-specific,
standards.
Your Committee concluded that the revised proposed bill would achieve an appropriate
balance by providing some additional benefits to B&B and STRH applicants and
permittees while also prioritizing the use of dwellings for long-term residential use.
Your Committee also noted the need to further revise the proposed bill to incorporate
recent and anticipated ordinances amending Chapters 19.64 and 19.65. I respectfully
ask for the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the-
Member Sugimura, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Yes.
SO, I WANTED TO AMEND AND TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION
THE TESTIMONY THAT WAS PRESENTED ABOUT THE FIVE-
YEAR, AT LEAST FIVE, OWNED BY APPLICANT FOR AT
LEAST FIVE YEARS PRIOR TO THE DATE OF THE
APPLICATION.
And 1 think it was the Planning Commission said that. And 1 think even we give
preference to bed and breakfast homes, versus short-term vacation rentals in that they
did not, the Planning Commission did not, was not opposed to having a ownership
requirement, so-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, . . . information. We don't have a second yet.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh. To the main motion?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, to your amendment.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: To make the amendment and then you-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 140
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; -have the discussion.
CHAIR LEE; So, Member Sugimura-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Well, could you state, restate the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I'm amending this bill in Section N, by deleting after
home, "home permit", the sentence "and the dwelling must be owned by the applicant
for at least five years prior to the date of application. That's the amendment.
CHAIR LEE: That's the amendment? Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You want me to read the-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama. Now you
can give your discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Sorry. So, and the reason I’m making this motion
is based upon the testimony that we heard, the Bed and Breakfast, which would then
be, according to the proposed legislation, subject to at least five years prior to the date
of application, ownership. That they were saying that it was, Bed and Breakfast fit
nicely in communities, and there wasn't as much opposition, and that they didn't think
this was necessary. From the Planning Commission, and also from the testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Further discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I speak in strong opposition of this
amendment. I just watched a B&B permit application where the neighbors were
scrapping, and it eventually got permitted. So, I don't agree. You know, we've heard
from those in the industry, those that make money by going, taking people through this
permitting process in the thousands of dollars.
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez returned to the meeting at 4:00 p.m.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 141
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Before, when we put the five-year requirement on the short
term rental homes that that nobody is going to sit on a house for five years and make
that kind of investment. And then when we put the caps on, all of these people came
out of the woodwork saying I'm, I've been sitting on this house for five years to do a
short-term rental home. So, their credibility with me is not that good, because they're
trying to make money by creating more B&B homes. We, we just passed a moratorium
saying that we have enough visitor accommodations right now.
And I, I think that the stringent process that we have is appropriate. I think people want
to know their names. In handing it down to the family, at least you have the assurance
that you know the family, you know. This is some random person that can buy in, and
then continue the use. And you don't know anything if, if you like them as a neighbor,
that they'll run it the same way or anything. So,  Ithink, I stand by the bill as it was, and
1 will not support this amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion from anybody else? Alright, all those in favor of
Ms. Sugimura's motion-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: -please raise your hand and say-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -raised her hand for discussion.
CHAIR LEE: What's that? Who had their hands up?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Member Rawlins-Fernandez had her hand up.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. 1 didn't even see, I don't see her.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Hi, Chair. Sorry, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can you, can you see me?
CHAIR LEE: Proceed.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay, mahalo. Chair. I, I wanted to echo
Member Paitin's comments. I speak in opposition of the proposed amendment, as
well, for the same reasons. And like Member Paltin said, you know, we, we already,
we should be consistent in the message that we're sending in preserving the type of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 142
activity in the residential neighborhood. In, in promoting long-term residents continuity
of community, and not eroding the inventory; our very scarce inventory, i guess.
And so, these are the type of protections that it's going to take for us to achieve those
goals. It's going to take these kinds of bold actions. And, you know, I love that this
Council are such trailblazers in that way and other Councils are looking to us and, and
will be following a lot of our lead. So, that we can establish this kind of protections for
our communities in sending that message that our residents are our priorities and that
they come first. And that, and that we hear their voices and we want to protect their
interests. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Discussion? Alright, ready for the vote? All those in favor of
the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND SUGIMURA.AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see two "ayes".
Those against, raise your hand and say "no".
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
MOLINA.
RAWLINS-
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
two "ayes": motion fails.CHAIR LEE: Okay. Six "noes'
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Back to the other motion. I think we're at the main motion as amended. Alright.
Ready? All those in favor of the main motion as amended, raise your hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 143
CHAIR LEE: It looks like eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused": motion carries.
Okay. So, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 133 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-108NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following
That Bill 134 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
TITLE 19, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ESTABLISH A NEW CHAPTER 19.39,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE WAILUKU REDEVELOPMENT
AREA, AND TO AMEND CHAPTER 19.520, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO VARIANCES IN THE WAILUKU REDEVELOPMENT AREA,"
be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1.
That County Communication 21-156, from the Planning Director, be FILED.2.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Chair, County Communication 21-510 is also before the
body at this time.
- TAMARA PALTIN. CHAIR. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND
USE COMMITTEE, (dated October 29, 2021)
NO. 21-510
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
TITLE 19, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ESTABLISH A NEW CHAPTER 19.39, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE WAILUKU REDEVELOPMENT AREA, AND TO
AMEND CHAPTER 19.520, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO VARIANCES IN
THE WAILUKU REDEVELOPMENT AREA".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-108.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 144
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Member, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve
the recommendations in Committee Report 21-108.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
I MOVE TO AMEND 21-108 BY SUBSTITUTING THE REVISED
BILL ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-510; AND
TO FILE THE COMMUNICATION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, move to, you want to make a substitution. Okay. Substitution, which is
like an amendment. So, second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Member Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sinenci seconds that motion to amend, with the substitution.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. The revised bill contains non-substantive
edits, and corrects various typographical errors such as numbering of the items and
footnotes in the tables.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in, any more discussion on the amendment? All those in favor
of the amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 145
CHAIR LEE: It looks like, did I hear "aye" from Member Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea. "aye".
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused"; motion carries.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I now move or, we're on the main motion. So, your
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee discussed this proposed bill in
response to ongoing litigation to affirm the Council's authority over zoning regulations
with the appropriate Planning Commission review.
Your Committee agreed the Wailuku Redevelopment Area, or WRA's zoning
provisions should be fully incorporated into Title 19. This will allow the Council to treat,
develop, and amend zoning standards consistently across all County districts.
Your Committee also agreed to various amendments to the bill relating to permitting
uses, development standards, variance review, and permit authority and procedures.
Uses have been designated under the purview of the Maui Redevelopment Agency,
the Planning Department, or requiring a conditional permit. Other amendments made
by your Committee were for consistency and clarity.
The proposed bill should address the central complaint of the litigation and should also
improve the framework for the WRA and its goal of economic, social, and cultural
revitalization on Wailuku. And, you know, just regarding the litigation, win or lose, we
would have had to fix the situation anyway. So, we tried to fix it before. I respectfully
ask for the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I just have a question. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: You called up CC 510 as well. So-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That was the-
CHAIR LEE: -how are you going to handle this one?
510 was the Amendments Summary Form that I wasCOUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
substituting.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 146
CHAIR LEE; Oh, okay. In a county communication.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: When I said revised-
CHAIR LEE: So, in a county communication.
Yea, when 1 said revised bill attached to County
Communication 21-510 and to file the communication. That was the last vote we took.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
CHAIR LEE: I see. I see. Alright, all those in favor of the main motion as amended, raise
your hand and say "aye".
Uh, so we have, okay. Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, are you still there?
No. Okay, so we two, three, four, five-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: She’s here.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry. I'm here.
CHAIR LEE: Are you an "aye".
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: "Aye".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven "ayes".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Those against, say "no".
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: One "no". Seven "ayes", one "no", one "excused"; motion carries.
Alright. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, that is BILL 134 (2021).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 147
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-109NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That a PUBLIC HEARING be HELD on the proposed bill, entitled "A BILL FOR
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.80B.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLANII.
1.
That the proposed bill, entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 2.SOB.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ADOPT THE UPDATED
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN," be SCHEDULED FOR FIRST READING,
following the public hearing: and
2.
That County Communication 21-70, from Councilmember Paltin, be FILED.3.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-109.
COUNCILMEMBER SiNENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Hello, second? Oh, alright. Member Paltin, moved by Member Paltin,
seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the recommendations in Committee Report
21-109.
And now, we have discussion. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. After a research phase that began in
March 27, approximately two years of community workshops, a year of Community
Plan Advisory Committee or CPAC meetings, six months of Maui Planning
Commission review, and nearly nine months on the Planning and Sustainable Land
Use agenda, your Committee is pleased to present the Council's West Maui
Community Plan update on behalf of the Council; the Planning Commission; the CPAC;
the Planning Department, in particular the Long-Range Division; the Office of Council
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 148
Services: and everyone who had a hand and played  apart in building this foundation
for the future of West Maui.
This plan was clearly a labor of love, emphasis on labor and love. It's evident that a
wide array of people are committed to making West Maui the best possible place to
live, work, and enjoy in community with others, and in community with the natural
environment. This plan rightly focuses on the environmental, cultural, and historic
significance of West Maui as a way to ground our vision for its development by seeking
to honor our living history, protect our heritage and invaluable resources, and provide
a high quality of life for our residents.
In addition to introducing new community plan designations and mapping out West
Maui's growth, the plan provides a policy framework and an implementation program
organized around five core goals that were identified through the community
engagement process. Added to these goals are specific measurable achievable
actions to support their implementation including actions for: 1) Ready and resilient
systems; 2) A complete, balanced, and connected transportation network;
3) Responsible stewardship of resources, culture, and character; 4) Economic
opportunity through innovation and collaboration; and 5) Safe, healthy, livable
communities for all.
Your Committee looks forward to the next phrase of the West Maui Community Plan
process, which is giving it back to the community for further input and improvements
through a public hearing process. I respectfully request the Members support of my
motion.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes?
CHAIR LEE: Clarification.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Is part of this recommendation saying that the Council will adopt this, this plan
immediately following the public hearing?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Following the . . .
CHAIR LEE: Or at the next Council meeting? Or at the next Council meeting?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 149
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, at the next Council meeting it will go to first reading.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. I think that's a better, you know, course to take, because otherwise it's
like saying we're having a public hearing, but we're not going to follow anything you
say, you know what I mean? Yea. Okay good.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; That was the plan.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Good plan. Good plan.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: They're both good plans.
CHAIR LEE: All in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: I heard that one. Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion
carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-110NO. AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 21-177 . entitled "APPROVING WITH MODIFICATIONS THE
INDEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT OF THE HALE PILINA RENTAL HOUSING
PROJECT UNDER CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE," be ADOPTED;
1.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 150
2. That the proposed resolution, entitled "APPROVING THE INDEPENDENT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE 100 PERCENT AFFORDABLE HALE PILINA
FAMILY AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSING PROJECT PURSUANT TO
CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE," be FILED; and
That the proposed resolution, entitled "DISAPPROVING THE INDEPENDENT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE 100 PERCENT AFFORDABLE HALE PILINA
FAMILY AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSING PROJECT PURSUANT TO
CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE," be FILED.
3.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
1  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-110.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Molina, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-110.
Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Your Committee discussed the Hale
Pilina Rental Housing Project to be developed in Kahului by Catholic Charities Housing
Development Corporation, under Chapter 2.97, Maui County Code.
Under 2.97, the Council has 60 days from the project's submittal to take action, or the
project will be deemed approved. The 60-day deadline is upon us, November 12,
2021.
The project will provide 100 percent of its 178 rental units for households earning
60 percent and below area median income. It will also include a park, PV carports,
bike storage, and other amenities. The project's location off of South Puune'e [sic] is
a urban center, close to public transportation, services, and existing infrastructure.
Your Committee discussed various exemptions and modifications for the project as
listed in Exhibits "A" and "B". Your Committee agreed that Hale Pilina Rental Housing
Project would provide much needed, well-located, attainable housing for very low and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 151
low-income Maui County residents, which we all know are experiencing a very how
high housing demand. ! respectfully request the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, signify by saying
"aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Good job, Mr. Johnson.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-177.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-113NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCEThat BILL
ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 20.42, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO PROHIBIT THE
SALE. USE. OR DISTRIBUTION OF NON-MINERAL SUNSCREENS," be
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1351.
That County Communication 21-305, from Councilmember Paltin, be FILED2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 152
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-113.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member, moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member
Johnson, to approve the recommendation in Committee Report 21-113.
Discussion? Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Your CARE Committee met on July 21,
August 4, and October 20, 2021, to discuss a proposed bill to add a new Chapter 20.42,
Maui County Code, to regulate the sale, use, and distribution of sunscreen containing
oxybenzone and octinoxate, which have significant negative impacts on the
environment, specifically the marine environment.
Your Committee received information and analysis from various County and State
agencies, as well as the Haereticus Environmental Laboratory.
Your Committee noted that there are other chemicals that are harmful to the coral, to
a juvenile stages of fish, and humans, that with small change, chemicals markedly
similar to oxybenzone and octinoxate could be renamed. This would make listing
prohibited chemicals an insufficient remedy to preserve the health, safety, welfare,
scenic underwater and natural beauty of Maui County.
After discussion, your Committee agreed to consider the revised proposed bill
prohibiting the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens, including those
containing oxybenzone, octinoxate, or both.
Members, your Committee also noted that sunscreens and considered to be
nonprescription, over-the-counter drugs by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and
requires specific testing to demonstrate that they are generally recognized as safe and
effective. And of the 16 active ingredients currently used as UV filters in sunscreen
products, only zinc oxide and titanium dioxide fall within this category.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 153
The revised proposed bill does not prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of a non
mineral sunscreen if a person has a prescription issued by a licensed healthcare
provider. Chair, your Committee recommended first reading of the revised proposed
bill by a 7-0 vote. And I ask for the Members support for your Committee's
recommendation.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: i just needed to say that I’m in strong support. I think this is a
measure that majority of our resident's support. And we know the other thing is, by
making it mineral-based, mineral only sunscreen, it can combat the greenwashing that
we see going on with all the other sunscreens that aren't really reef-safe being labeled
reef-safe. Now, it'll be very clear going forward for everyone. Because, you know, on
the tourist boards on social media, a lot of tourists do want to comply with the reef-
safe, but they just need help to clearly distinguish what is reef-safe. And that's
something this bill will do. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? if not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 135 (2021).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 154
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-114NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-178 . entitled "AMENDING THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL." be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-114.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-114.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion. Discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I thought I would say the mahalo before you recognize me.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. okay.
Madam Chair, your Committee met onCOUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: So, anyway.
January 19, 2021, March 9, 2021, August 3, 2021, August 31, 2021, and October 19
of this year to discuss a proposed resolution related to proposed amendments to the
Rules of the Council.
And the proposed resolution includes amendments to the following Rule 6, which is to
establish a process to time stamp and assign a unique identification number to each
bill and resolution on presentment to the County Clerk by the introducing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 155
Councilmember, and to maintain and regularly update a page for bills and a page for
resolutions organized by identifying number, similarto what is done at the Hawaii State
Legislature and the City and County of Honolulu.
Next, Rule 7.G, to allow the Council's referral of bills and resolutions to standing
committees and receipt of the committee's report prior to first reading or adoption,
except for resolutions for receiving grants or proposed land use ordinances, with a
reference to Exhibit "B".
And Rule 17 to allow Councilmembers no more than two clarifying questions per
testifier. And if there are more than two clarifying questions, allow the individual to be
designated a resource person under Rule 18, if necessary.
And also a repeal of Rule 22, which relates to Council Travel.
And Rule 23 to allow Councilmembers the discretion to refer pending committee items
to the Council Chair at the end of a Council term.
And finally, Rule 27 to require that expenses for modifications to the Council Chamber
receive final approval at a Council meeting before funds can be expended.
Your Committee discussed the benefits of keeping Council Rules broad to allow
presiding officers some flexibility in conducting meetings; and the applicability of
Robert's Rules of Orders for small boards or 12 or fewer members. Your Committee
voted 6-1 to recommend the revised proposed resolution be approved. Thank you
very much. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. The first item, which is the numbering of
legislation, I guess, and to keep that calendar,  Ijust, I think the discussion was that,
that the Clerk's Office would try to have this done by the start of the next calendar year,
with the flexibility to move the implementation to the start of the next Council term, if
necessary. And I just wanted to say that with election coming up and other things that
are going on in the Clerk's Office, I would like to just say, although it's in the committee
report already, that they should really begin this for the next Council term, instead of
next year, which is right around the corner. So,  Ijust wanted to say that in support of
all the work that the Clerk's Office does. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 156
CHAIR LEE; Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
CHAIR LEE; Okay. I see all "aye". Member Paltin, is that an "aye"? Okay. So, we have
three, four, five, six, seven "ayes".
Those opposed say "no".
NOES; COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
and one "excused": motion carries. Okay.CHAIR LEE; Okay. Seven "ayes", one "no'
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-178.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-115NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE;
Recommending the following;
That Bill 136 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTERS 19.04 AND 19.12, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS IN THE APARTMENT DISTRICT," be
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1.
That County Communication 21-481, from the Planning Director, be FILED.2.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair.
1  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-115.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 157
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sugimura, to, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-115.
Discussion, Ms., Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the proposed bill is to
provide clarification on terms and requirements for transient vacation rental use in the
Apartment District, and to add a registration number requirement for advertisements.
Your Committee discussed the following revisions to the proposed bill attached to
Resolution 21-51, which were recommended by the Department: 1) The property
owner or operator must old valid general excise and transient accommodations tax
licenses for the subject property, and these taxes must be paid in full and be kept
current: 2) Advertisements for TVR use must include the tax map number and, if
applicable, the unit number; and 3) Add "building envelope" to Section 19.04.040,
Definitions, to define the area enclosed by the three-dimensional exterior surfaces of
a building or structure, including any open air areas between the posts or the posts
and walls that hold up a roof, such as carports and covered decks. This term was
added to 19.12.020(G)(3) in Ordinance 5126 but not to 19.04.040, and is necessary to
define the spatial limitation of transient vacation rental use in a dwelling unit.
Your Committee agreed to amend the bill to leave "or payment of general excise tax
and transient accommodations tax" at the end of Subsection 19.19.020(G)(2). And
your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the revised proposed bill on first
reading and filing of the communication. I respectfully request the Members support
of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye", raise your hand. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: "Aye".
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 158
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused": motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 136 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-116NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE U\ND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following;
That Bill 137 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
THE STATE LAND USE DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION FROM
AGRICULTURAL TO RURAL FOR 0.933 ACRE IN HAIKU, MAUI, HAWAII,
TAX MAP KEY (2)-2-9-007;032," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT;
1.
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMENDThat Bill
THE PAIA-HAIKU COMMUNITY PLAN AND LAND USE MAP FROM
AGRICULTURE TO PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC FOR 0.933 ACRE IN HAIKU,
MAUI, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 2-9-007:032," be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
1382.
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE1393. That Bill
ZONING FROM AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT TO P-1 PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC
DISTRICT FOR 0.933 ACRE IN HAIKU, MAUI, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY
(2) 2-9-007:032," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT; and
That County Communication 19-345, from Councilmember Sinenci, be FILED.4.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-116, INCLUDING ANY
NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS, AND FILING OF THE
COMMUNICATION,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 159
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-116.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on October 21, 2021, to discuss three proposed bills relating to the
Door of Faith Church.
The first proposed bill is to grant a District Boundary Amendment from Agricultural to
Rural for a 0.933-acre parcel, tax map key (2) 2-9-007:032, located in Haiku, Maui,
Hawaii.
The second proposed bill is to grant a Community Plan Amendment from Agricultural
to Pubiic/Quasi-Public for the same parcel.
And the third bill proposed is to grant a Change in Zoning from the Agricultural District
to the P-1 Public/Quasi-Public zoning for the same parcel.
Your Committee notes that the Council’s Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee 2019-2021 Council term previously met on this matter on September 18,
2019. Your Committee notes it previously reported on this matter through Committee
Report 19-119, which recommended adoption of the resolution related to land use
entitlement changes for the Door of Faith and referral of the proposed bill to the Maui
Planning Commission, Resolution 19-172.
Your Committee notes the Planning Commission reviewed the proposed bill on
August 11, 2020, and recommended approval with no conditions. The Planning
Commission also recommended the Council consider fire-flow requirements for the
area. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommended passage of the revised proposed
bills on first reading and filing of the communication. I respectfully request the
Members support of my motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 160
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not-
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I am \A/orking, as I said, on that fire-flow
situation for the Door of Faith Church. So, I have a PAF working to try to help the
Church figure out that situation for their water needs, with an amendment to the Fire
Code. So, thank you, everybody. It's a, it's a great congregation.
CHAIR LEE: God bless you. Anyway, anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor, please
say "aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, those are BILLS 137 (2021) through
139 (2021), respectively.
Proceeding with ordinances for second and final reading
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 106 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 16.16B.R401.2, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELYVTING TO ENERGY CODE COMPLIANCE FOR LARGE
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 161
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl; Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 106 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Johnson, to pass Bill 106 on
second and final reading.
Any discussion, Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. The purpose of the revised proposed bill to
require new one- or two-family residential buildings with 5,000 square feet or more of
conditioned floor area to be verified zero net energy homes.
Your Committee has discussed at length how this bill will be a great step towards
testing out stricter requirements before Maui County amends and adopts the
2018 International Energy Code no later than December 15, 2022.
Boulder County, Colorado, requires homes over 5,000 square feet to be zero net
energy. And this has resulted in their residents building smaller homes.
Your Committee learned many homes in Maui County over 5,000 square feet are
vacation homes that are often left vacant and can more easily achieve the zero net
energy requirement. The Director of Public Works agreed, and Department can
implement the revised proposed bill as written. The Deputy Corporation Counsel
agreed, noting it is not necessarily to move, necessary to move the provisions to
another section of the Energy Code.
Chair, your Committee agreed that the revised proposed bill will apply to duplex homes,
but also noted very few areas of Maui County are zoned for duplexes.
Members, I wanted to recognize Member King and the CARE Committee staff for their
work and due diligence with these bills. And I ask for the Members full support of the
Committee's recommendations.
CHAIR LEE: I hope somebody is able to contact Member King and let her know that
everything she proposed passed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 162
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I think Ellen and Axel.
CHAIR LEE: In, in absentia. Okay. All those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand
and say "aye". Member, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Congratulations, Member King. And thank you, Mr. Sinenci.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 107 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TAX,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM, COUNTYWIDE COSTS;
TOTAL OPERATING APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May  Irequest the Clerk to also call
up Bill 108 through Bill 110, and Bill 112 through Bill 116, if there are no objections?
CHAIR LEE: Wow. Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 163
CHAIR LEE: Go for it. No objections.
Mr. Clerk, did you get all of those numbers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 108 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 109 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
OPEN SPACE, NATURAL RESOURCES, CULTURAL RESOURCES,
AND SCENIC VIEWS PRESERVATION FUND,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 110 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022
BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX B, REVENUES - FEES. RATES, ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 164
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 112 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS,
(DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD),
EMERGENCY HOUSING VOUCHERS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 113 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A. PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS, (AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN
ACT OF 2021 - EMERGENCY RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM #2)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 114 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS,
(AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT OF 2021 -
EMERGENCY RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM #2)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 165
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 115 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT (STATE OF HAWAII,
ACT 88, SLH 2021, CENTRAL MAUI REGIONAL WWRF (WAIKAPU) PROJECT)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 116 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,
CENTRAL MAUI REGIONAL WWRF (WAIKAPU) PROJECT
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 107 THROUGH 110 AND BILLS 112
THROUGH 116 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember
Sugimura, to pass those bills as listed by the Clerk, on second and final reading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bill 107 amends Fiscal Year 2022
Budget to recommend Estimated Revenues from the County Transient
Accommodation Tax and appropriate the funds to the Department of Finance for
Administrative Cost, Fringe Benefits, the Open Space Fund, the Affordable Housing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 166
Fund, Economic Development and Cultural Programs Revolving Fund, and a new
appropriation for appropriation for "Tourism management, enforcement, and related
costs."
Bill 108 amends Appendix D, Department of Finance, Administration Program, by
increasing the equivalent personnel by 4.0.
Bill 109 amends Appendix A, Part II. by increasing the anticipated revenue for the Open
Space, Natural Resource, Cultural Resource, and Scenic View Preservation by
$2 million; Affordable Housing Fund by $4 million; and the Economic Development and
Cultural Revolving Fund by $2,625,884.
Bill 110 amends Appendix B, Revenues - Fees, Rates. Assessments and Taxes for
the Department of Finance by adding the tax rate for the Transient Accommodation
Tax.
Bill 112 amends Appendix A, Part I, Grants and Restricted Use Revenues - Schedule
of Grants and Restricted Use Revenues by Department and Program, and Programs,
Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, by increasing the grant entitled "Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD), Emergency Housing Vouchers", under Department of
Housing and Human Concerns, in the amount of $420,336.
Bill 113 and Bill 114 amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Department of Housing and
Human Concerns, Appendix A, Part I and Appendix D, to add a new grant entitled
"American Rescue Plan Act 2021 - Emergency Rental Assistance Program #2", in the
amount of $10,710,000; and adding limited term appointment equivalent personnel.
And Bill 115 and oh, 116, okay. Did Deputy Clerk read Bill 116?
CHAIR LEE: Deputy Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Yes, I did.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay. Mahalo for, for that confirmation
Bill 115 and 116 amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Department of Environmental
Management, Appendix A, Part 1 and Appendix C, to  anew grant entitled "State of
Hawaii, Act 88. SLH 2021, Central Maui Regional WWRF (Waikapu) Project". These
bills would add an additional $3.5 million to the State, to the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget,
as noted in Appendix A, Part I and Appendix C, respectively, and bring the total project
funding to $7 million. I ask for the Members continued support of these items. Mahalo,
Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 167
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion on any one of those items? If not, ail those in favor of motion
signify by saying "aye" and raising your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Looks like eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Mr. Clerk. We're back to Bill 111.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 111 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.96,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE
HOUSING POLICY APPLICANT SELECTION PRIORITY
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. 1 move to-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, what happened to you? Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
OH. I MOVE TO PASS BILL 111 (2021), AS AMENDED, ON
SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Who was the seconder?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 168
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Councilmember Molina.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Molina? Okay. Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Molina
to pass Bill 111 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. The purpose of this bill is to establish a
Countywide Interest List and project wait list for residential workforce housing. We
have discussed at length how a centralized and departmented, the department-
managed pool of applicants will help ensure fairness and transparency in the
application and selection process. The bill also gives priority for workforce housing to
applicants based on length of residency in the County since lifetime and long-term
residents are the backbone of our workforce.
Council agreed to amend the bill from first reading to provide that selection priority for
rental housing projects would be based on length of residency to the extent provided
by law. This was addressed, this was to address requirements and conditions that
may be imposed by Federal or State funding.
For ownership housing units the bill also extends the marketing period from 90 days to
120 days for each AMI group. After the final marketing period, any unsold units must
be purchased by the County at the original AMI sales price. This bill is a key
component of a comprehensive plan and collective goal to expand availability and
accessible housing options for our residents. I respectfully request the Members
support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? If not, all those in-
Member Paltin, then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. I wanted to thank Member Johnson for his hard
work on this and say, you know, of the real people that I know when we talk about
affordable housing, almost every single person wants there to be like a length of time
requirement that you live here, like everybody. That, I mean it's kind of a reason why
a  lot of people are against affordable housing, because they just assume that
somebody from the mainland will be a beneficiary of it. So, you know, to the extent
provided by law, I'm happy that weTe allowed, we're able to do this thanks to the
creativity of Mr. Johnson, the resources.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 169
CHAIR LEE: You just made his weekend.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Yea. good job. Mr. Johnson.
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE AN AMENDMENT. AND UNDER 3.
PAGE 4 OF THE BILL. 3(C), WHICH IS A NEW C,
UNDERSCORE IS "ANY UNITS THAT REMAIN UNSOLD",
DELETE THE WORD "MUST" AND SUBSTITUTE IT WITH
"MAY BE PURCHASED BY THE COUNTY AT THE ORIGINAL
SALES PRICE". AND THAT'S MY AMENDMENT.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, 1 think the word "must" means that every single
development project that has extra houses at the end, that the County will be
purchasing all the homes. So, I think it would be good as an option, but not mandatory,
which the word "must" then requires. So, I just want to make this amendment so, it's
"may" versus "must." Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: So. that's the amendment--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: --offered by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama.
Further discussion? Member Paltin,
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I guess opinion from Corp. Counsel, cause this is second
and final reading. Is this substantive?
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 170
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON; Thanks for the
question. In terms of your own Council Rules, you would need to, you know, obviously
comply with the Council Rules. But in terms of Sunshine Law notice purposes, I would
not consider this to be a substantive change that would require another reading.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, it's-
CHAIR LEE; David Raatz, are you on the call? David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ; Thank you, Chair. Yes, I'm
here.
CHAIR LEE; Did you hear the question? Whether this amendment would be considered a
substantive change, this on second and final reading?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Thank you, Chair. Yea, we would reach
the same outcome as Corporation Counsel. We suggest the question of whether it's
substantive isn't the operative question. The Rules do say any amendment that's voted
on at second reading would necessitate the bill being postponed for final action unless
the Council waives the Rules by a two-thirds vote.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Um-
CHAIRLEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you.
UM, MAY I PROPOSE A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT TO SAY
THE COUNTY HAS THE FIRST RIGHT OF REFUSAL?
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I guess that's the same, same outcome. So, it's not "must".
It is first right of, "has first right of refusal". That's fine. I'm fine with that.
Corp. Counsel, does it change the, is it better with the word change or first right of
refusal? I mean. I'm fine with it.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; It, I think you get to the same, the same point.
So, I think that that units or letter C would say any "Any units that remain unsold must
first be offered to the County for purchase at the original sales price".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 171
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay. That's fine. Doesn't say \A/e have to buy it. So
that's the part I was concerned about. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. How about comments from Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. So, my understanding in what Mr. Raatz
said, we have to first do a two-thirds vote to vote on this. But 1 mean, okay. So, if, if
the fear is, is we get stuck with some bad houses, I mean that's, what would we be
doing? I mean, we have a filter to protect us from that. We're going to not pass bad,
bad projects, you know. That's what the, our Committee work is about. All the projects
that come through our, our Committee is going to be vetted. So, I would, I don't, I don't,
those fears are not founded in reality in my opinion. So, thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else, Members?
Mr., Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, so I, I'm not questioning the quality of projects. But
I'm just talking about maybe the cost for us to have to absorb every single house. The
word "must" means that every house that's unsold then would come to us. So, I'm just
trying to prevent that from us being the, the next real estate company for all homes that
are not sold after it goes through this process. So, that's all. I'm not questioning the
quality of the projects. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you, Madam Chair. For the sake of procedure
now, if Member Sugimura is amenable to the proposal from Member Paltin-
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
-so, should Member Sugimura withdraw her proposedCOUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
amendment then to-
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, did you withdraw your initial proposal?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: lean. lean. If it's going to get us the same place. I'm for
it, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I thought it was a friendly amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 172
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: You, you said you agreed with her, so, so you do withdraw your, your initial--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's fine. Whatever will get us there.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Yea, Madam Chair. I,  Ijust want to speak to Member
Paltin's amendment, i can support it. I think it’s a, it's a good compromise cause I can
understand where Member Sugimura is coming from. Cause I guess with the word
"must", it could imply a couple of things. Now, "must" can be interpreted as the County
must negotiate. It doesn't, I don't think ... has the County, makes the County beholding
to purchasing the project cause what if we don't like the price that's being offered by,
by the developer, you know? Or they don't like the price that we're offering?
So, I think the amendment from Member Paltin, I think is good, right of first refusal. So,
I think that's, that's a healthy compromise. And it doesn't totally commit the County to
buying something that may be overpriced in our eyes or if we can't reach a, you know,
an agreed upon price with the seller. So, I'll support Member Paltin's amendment.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. I think that Member Paltin's friendly, very friendly
amendment is a good thing, because it helps us when we think about what we like,
what we don't like, what we think is good, what we think is not good. But when we can
come to a place and compromise, that's a win-win for everybody. It's a homerun. So,
1, I support that, because that was my sense in that 1 didn't want our County to get
stuck having to buy these homes, what if we didn't have the money to do it or what? I
don't know. But if the County has first rights, then I think that's a better compromise.
So, thank you. Chair. Thank you. Member Paltin. Thank you. Member Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 1, 1 just wanted to clarify, this is still Member Sugimura's
amendment. Don't, don't be giving me credit. Give her credit.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 173
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; And 1 think we should go with the wording suggested by-
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -maybe Corp. Counsel Richelle Thomson because, you know
she's a lawyer.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: All of that.
CHAIR LEE: Are you saying she knows more than us?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, I guess when it comes to the law.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Member Sugimura, real quick now. This is like your third or fourth time.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, no, real quick. Just to answer what was said earlier.
It is, that we're going to purchase the, the thing is that the County will purchase at the
original sales price. So, that's part of the motion. I'm changing the word, but the
sentence in total is "any units that remain unsold", whatever Richelle said, "may" or
"first right of refusal be purchased by the County at the original sales price".
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, that's . . . clarify.
CHAIR LEE: Good. Now, let's go back to Richelle. Richelle, can you give us the complete
sentence, so everybody's real clear on what we're voting on?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: So, letter, letter C would say "Any units that
remain unsold must first be offered to the County for purchase at the original sales
price".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay? Alright now-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 174
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; And I just have to tell you, today is, today is
National Love Your Lawyers Day.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: We love you, Richelle.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Moana. We gotta love Moana.
CHAIR LEE; That all depends. No, yes, we love all of our attorneys.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Let's see. So, Mr. Clerk? I can't see you for some reason. Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair. I'm here. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Or did you turn off your video?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: 1, I had it off, but it’s on now.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, we need to pass this by six votes, is it?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, my understanding of the Council Rules is that the
amendment itself does not need to be passed by a majority of six. What happens is,
if the body moves forward with this amendment, then the Council Rules state. Council
Rule 19.C states that no final action should be taken if, if an amendment was made
before final reading. But the body can waive that Rule with a, by a majority of six. So,
a vote of six Members can waive that Rule.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So. the steps would be we take a vote on this amendment. We take a
vote on the main motion as amended. And then we take a vote on whether or not we
can pass this on second and final reading?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; No, Chair. The, after this vote on this amendment, the body
should vote on the Rule waiver first. Otherwise, it would be improper to vote on the
main motion as amended because that would be final action.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody clear on this?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair?
CHAIR LEE: So, let's take the vote on the amendment. All those in favor of the amendment
as read by our beloved Corp. Counsel-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 175
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair. Chair, we have, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez has a
question before we vote.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member Molina.
CHAIR LEE: I can't see her on my screen.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Chair, can
you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, I can hear you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay. Can I speak to the motion to amend?
CHAIR LEE: Of course.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chair. Okay. So, I would not support
this amendment without including additional language. Cause in Committee, we
discussed this, and one of the, one of the issues is we have right of first refusal, and
then, we don't exercise that right. And so, we pass up all these opportunities to even
purchase housing that is a good deal, you know. So, I, and that's, that's the reason
this, this language was put in there. I understand what everyone is saying about not
forcing the County to also take on bad deals. And all of that is, you know, subjective.
So, the amendment that I would propose is that if the department, if DHHC, if the
Housing Department Division declines, or exercises, or doesn't exercise its right, that
it, it be approved by Council. There needs to be some kind of check and balance,
because I think this language would just preserve status quo of what is already
happening. And so, that, that would be my suggestion. I don't have the exact
language. But-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let, let's check on the validity of that idea because I don't know that we
can force the Administration to buy. Normally, they would send down an amendment,
you know, a budget amendment. We can't generate a budget amendment. So, can
we have Corp. Counsel weigh in on this, please?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. And, Chair, I, I agree with your
reading in terms of basically forcing the Administration to purchase by way of a budget
amendment. That would conflict with, I can pull up the section of the Charter. But it
does conflict with Charter provisions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 176
I think a way to accomplish that might be to set aside, somehow, you know, when
approving these projects, sufficient money in the Affordable Housing Fund or
elsewhere that could cover the possible purchase price, if that ended up being
unnecessary.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, boy. This is difficult, because it's hard to estimate how much to set aside
when there could be three or four projects, you know?
Do you have any other ideas, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: These, so these would be affordable housing. And
we have funds in the Affordable Housing Fund. And we already did that for Na Hale
O Maui, this past budget session, in allocating a pot of funds. I think it would have
been enough for five to ten houses, or something around there, depending on the cost
of the houses. So, you know, we, we've, we have already practiced that in set aside,
setting aside and approving that allocation within the Affordable Housing Fund.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, the downside of that is that that money is going to sit there and
may not be used. The, to me, the concern is that if anything is not going to be sold it's
going to be the high end, not the low end. It's going to be the 140 percent of median
income. That's the one that's not going to sell, if any, you know, if anything doesn't
sell. Don't you think, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Absolutely, which is why we should stop having
140 percent AMI in the-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but that's another discussion. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Exactly. But, but. Chair, I, I hear your concern. And
if we set aside funds, because in the Affordable Housing Fund, the time that I've been
on Council, we've never allocated all of the Affordable Housing Fund money. And so,
if at any time the Administration needs to amend that budget, they can do so. And
then we can approve it if they need that funds that we set aside for this purpose.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, for today's purposes, so we can move this forward, what we need to
do is, because we can't establish a fund right now. That's a totally different ordinance.
We need to make a decision. And then, the next step is either Member Johnson or
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 177
you, Vice-Chair, can make a proposal to set aside  Xnumber of dollars in the Affordable
Housing Fund, so that the County would be able to purchase unsold units, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody following us? Okay. So, the next step is to take a vote. And
we would need six votes to pass the, according to the Deputy-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Council Rule 19, 19.C.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, according to the Deputy, we have to pass, we have to waive that Rule with
six votes. Okay?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I know this is Member Sugimura's motion to amend.
And so, my, my proposal was to add language to her amendment. So-
CHAIRLEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I haven't heard, heard any feedback from the movant
if she would consider it a friendly amendment, or if, you know.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, are you open to what the Vice-Chair is proposing?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Because it would still allow for the refusal.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. So, i hear this. But is it because we're talking about
a future action in a budget amendment that would have to come from next budget year,
right? No? You're, you're going to make an amendment? You're going to do
something for this permit?
CHAIR LEE: No. It's too late. It's too late.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Too late, right?
CHAIR LEE: It's-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, gotta be for next year.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 178
CHAIR LEE: Yea, but she can put in the language when, subject to the, the fund being
created, yea. So, we would go with your language, and then-
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Right.
CHAIR LEE: -say that, the Vice-Chair can add additional language, would say that using the
funds, the County would be able to use the funds as allocated by the Council.
Something like that.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's fine. Cause we would-
CHAIR LEE: Even when it's not allocated now, but it's going to be, yea? 1 mean, well
provided everybody agrees to it.
Vice-Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I'm just curious how this affects in the current budget.
1 just looked it up. So, Na Hale got $2 million from the Affordable Housing to purchase
six affordable homes. So, they, they get that already. I mean, if it can be done, that's
fine. If it can be done, that's fine. . . .
CHAIR LEE: No. We’re talking about a future event. We're talking about a future event.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right. Right, right. That's fine.
CHAIR LEE: So, it's not like there is a, it’s not like there are units for sale right now, as far as
that goes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Correct. Correct.
CHAIR LEE: So, if the idea is that with your proposal, the Council, I mean, excuse me, the
County has the option to purchase.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: And then, the Vice-Chair is taking it further and saying using the allocated funds
by the Council from the Affordable Housing Fund.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. That's fine.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Vice-Chair, you have actual language?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 179
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, cause I, I wasn't planning to amend the bill.
CHAIR LEE: Well, why don’t, we don't have to amend the bill right now. I mean, we, we could
just go with, that the County has the option.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: I just lost connection. Oh, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The County has the option. Okay. Any unit that
remain unsold must be purchased by the County at the original sale price. And then,
there's the language that Member Sugimura, so, instead of "must", it'll be that "the
County has the first right of refusal", and that was suggested by Member Paltin. And I
know Ms. Thomson added a little bit. And what I was saying is, if, if the refusal is going
to happen, that the refusal would need to be approved by the Council.
CHAIR LEE: I, I don't see how that is legal in that we cannot, we can't force them to buy
something unless we provide it, it's provided for in, in the budget.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right. And then, we're going to, so, and we're going
to provide funding. And there's also Chapter 3.32, the Housing Financing Buy-Back
Revolving Fund that already has $1.95 million in it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Why don't we just go with the, the simple language for now, since there
is a fund available, yea? And then, we can add more money in that fund during the
budget time.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm open. Trying to figure out the wordsmith, the
language for the amendment.
Oh, I, 1 thought what Deputy Corp. Counsel Thomson said was prettyCHAIR LEE:
straightforward.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, we'd be adding the language for Council
approval if it's, in order to refuse.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's hear it from Deputy Corp. Counsel, please.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. Chair. I'm sorry, did you want me
to repeat the . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 180
CHAIR LEE: No. Could you comment on \what the Vice-Chair is trying to propose? That the
County Council decides whether or not the County purchases units, affordable units,
unsold affordable units.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Chair, I think that you've identified the
problem. So, you can, you could do that through the annual budget process. But it's
more than likely the timing wouldn't really line up. So, I, if it required a budget
amendment, then that, you know, that would be against the Charter. In terms of using
the Affordable Housing Fund for the actual purchase, I don't see that being a . . . But
just I don't know about the, the current language right now does seem to crossover
and dictate to the Administration how it's being done.
CHAIR LEE; Yea, I think the, the matter of the Council approving something like that is highly
irregular, because it's almost a leg, an administrative function. See, once we pass the
budget, we don't get to use, continue to, to have, you know, jurisdiction over it. Once
we pass it, it's for the Mayor to implement. So, I'm not sure how this, this, her idea is
going to work. See, I think, I believe what we could do is to identify funding that the
Department could use to buy back houses. Well, it's not realty buying back. It's, it's to
buy brand new houses.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, I, I'm not sure if Ms. Thomson weighed in on the
Chapter 3.32 Revolving Fund for the purchase of housing and your proposed language
of like subject to availability of funds.
CHAIR LEE: You're talking to Deputy Corp. Counsel?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, please.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: So, I, I think that the use of the fund, you know,
is perfectly fine. But it's the, it's the funding mechanism. So, to be able to tap into that
fund for the purpose of purchasing certain units would likely require a budget
amendment because you would, 1 mean, you'd be using the fund for a certain purpose.
I think that’s where I'm having the disconnect.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. And then the second part of the subject to
availability of funds. Because, Chair Lee, you know, aptly pointed out like if we do
allocate funding from Affordable Housing Fund or whichever fund during budget
session, and even if that amount of funds are insufficient, you know, maybe it's a year
that there's lots of housing and we didn't allocate enough. So, even at that time, that,
it, it would provide, you know, wiggle room or, you know, in, in like a abnormal kind of
year where there's more houses than there are funding and the Administration isn't
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 181
interested in amending the budget further to provide for additional funds to purchase
those houses.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: I completely understand the issue. I think the
hard part is basically either, you're kind of mandating that the Administration would buy
them in the future, and that's the part that 1 think gets problematic in terms of just the
separation of powers in the Charter.
CHAIR LEE: That's right. I mean, Vice-Chair, as you know, we, in the past have put, let's
say, a million dollars for the homeless program. We can't force the Administration to
spend that money. So, the same principle applies here. We can put funding aside for
the purchase of housing, but we can't force them to spend the money.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're, you're, you're correct. Chair. And I don't
disagree with you and Ms. Thomson as far as forcing the Administration to spend the
money. But they must make good-faith efforts to spend the money, otherwise that
would be not a check and balance on the two branches as intended as well.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but we need to move forward today. So, how about we go with what we
have. And it’s not like this is going to happen tomorrow. So, we can continue to work
on this and get it right. So, how about we just move forward with the right of, first right
of a refusal?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, Chair? Richelle's, her clarification is any units that
remains unsold must first be offered to the County at the original sales price. That's
the whole sentence. But she added, "must first be offered to the County", was, was
the way that she phrased it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, are we, everybody onboard on this?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I'm just going to try one time and if it doesn't go, it
doesn't go. What about, before, where before it goes to market the County via Council
approve, approves, votes to either buy back or pass on it. Does that work?
CHAIR LEE: Well, again. Member Paltin, you realize even if we enacted something like that,
the Mayor doesn't have to implement it. When it comes to money, we cannot force
him to spend it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Unless we put "must" in there?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 182
CHAIR LEE: I don’t think so. I don't think so.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. That was my one shot. I'm done. I'm ready to vote.
CHAIR LEE: No, but I'm glad you folks are thinking, you know? I encourage that. Anymore
ideas? Any more ideas? Just to move this forward today, we need to come up with a,
you know, a decision.
Now, most of us were willing to consider the proposal of Member Sugimura. Then, the
discussion started to go different ways. But the different ways, unfortunately, is not
something that we have authority over is my concern. So, we can still bring this up. I,
i hate to see this go back to Committee. So, we can still bring this up in another way
during the budget time. Then, then we really can set aside money. But my fear is
when we set aside money, the Mayor doesn't have to spend it. That's, that's the
problem. Okay. Are, are you folks ready to vote on the amendment as revised by,
with the help of Corp. Counsel?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Johnson had his hand up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I'm sorry, I can't see either of you.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: How about if we add "must buy if the appropriate funds are
in the Affordable Housing Fund"? So, if we got the money, you must buy it, in the
Affordable Housing Fund. How is that for you, Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you for the question. I think that it
actually kind of gets you to the same, same thing that we're talking about with
Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Members are you ready to vote on the amendment? Ready to vote on
the amendment? All those in favor of the amendment as initiated by Member Sugimura
and finalized by Corp. Counsel, raise your hand and say "aye". First right of a refusal.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, PALTIN
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 183
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five, six, I see. I cannot see Johnson and I cannot see
Rawlins-Fernandez.
All those against, raise your hand and say "no".
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, it's six "ayes", two "noes"; motion carries. Now, that's on the
amendment.
Now, to the waiver, the Rule waiver.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Chair, if! could ask one, one more that I hope
will be a small amendment?
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: And this is from Mimi who worked on this bill
much more extensively than I did. This is-
CHAIR LEE: Can you speak a little louder, please?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Oh, sure. Sorry. Thank you. I was sitting too
far away. This is on page 4, at the top. And this is number D. Sorry, D.2, selection
priority. And it's adding just to that sentence that's underlined "To the extent permitted
by law," and then, you go on with the rest of the sentence, "the applicants selected by
lottery". That's to mirror the same language on, related to ownership units that is in
2.96.100 D.2. It's simply to add "To the extent permitted by law". And the reason that
Mimi suggests adding that is, is just as a safeguard for not jeopardizing any Federal
funding that could be limited by those types of requirements.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, Member Sugimura, you want to make that amendment? To the
extent allowed by law?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 184
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sure.
SO, UNDER SECTION, WAS 2, TO THE EXTENT PROVIDED
BY, PERMITTED BY LAW, THE APPLICANTS SELECTED BY
LOTTERY MUST THEN BE RANKED BY THE TOTAL LENGTH
OF TIME EACH HAS BEEN A RESIDENT OF THE COUNTY.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Chair?
CHAIR LEE; The only thing you’re adding, though, is--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Is the-
CHAIR LEE; -to the extent permitted by law.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; -to the extent permitted by law, yea.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Chair, I'm sorry. You can't see so I'm just speaking.
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Beg your pardon. So, the reason, that was purposely left
out of this particular page, because this is on the for sale units. For the rentals units,
we put it in there because rentals get LIHTC funding. And LIHTC funding is Federal
funding. So, we didn't want to do that when they, for that particular, for the rentals.
So, that's why we said, you know, permitted by law. So, for the, the selling, it's
unnecessary. And that's, I mean, the Corporation Counsel signed off on this. I had
meetings and meetings and meetings with this, so that we, we only put it in one and
not the other. So, 1 don't know why we're switching, because I, I thought this
discussion, we're on second and final, so 1 figured, I mean, that's, that's where 1 stand.
so.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 185
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Corporation Counsel, and you're saying that this is really not necessary
but it's good to have? Is that what you're saying?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: 1 checked with Mimi and she said that she did
request that this be added to this particular section on the ownership, in addition to the
rental units, to add that phrase "To the extent permitted by law". And it was really trying
to hedge against challenges. And she thought that it would be a worthwhile addition
to that language.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion on this? So, just for the formality of it. So, Member
Sugimura, you're making this propo, amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Amendment.
CHAIR LEE: And seconded by Member Kama. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Now, let's have discussion so we can move on. Any more discussion? You've
heard both sides. You've heard from Member Johnson. You've heard from Corp.
Counsel. Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I, I support it.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think, I support it. Corp. Counsel is making sure that we
walk down the path of being cautious. So, I, I support what they're suggesting.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments on the proposal? Okay. I'm going to take the vote. Ail
those in favor of this additional amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, PALTIN
SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
CHAIR LEE: So, you have two, four "ayes".
And then noes, say "no" or raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, SINENCI, AND
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES:
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 186
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we have three "noes"; Member Sinenci, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, and Member Johnson. Did I say four, four "ayes"? One. two, so motion
fails.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: What did Tamara vote? Tamara voted.
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five. Oh, I’m sorry, I didn't count yours. Motion, motion
carries. Motion carries. Five, three, one.
Now, before we can vote onOkay, so, now we have these two amendments,
according to the Deputy, before we can vote on the main motion as amended, we have
to vote on, on the Rule.
Now, Deputy Clerk. Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Please, please state the Rule that we're voting on.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, Chair, to the Rule that would need to be waived in order for
the Council to take final action on this item at today's meeting, that would be Rule 19.C.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Can you read Rule 19.C?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Rule 19.C. Amendment at final reading. A bill or
resolution being considered for final reading that is amended at a Council meeting shall
not be acted upon at the same meeting as the amendment. Final action on such an
amended bill or resolution shall not be taken until the next feasible meeting. This
requirement of a delay shall not apply to: (1) any bill or resolution that requires final
action at the meeting to ensure compliance with the deadline established pursuant to
Federal law. State law or the Charter; (2) the correction of manifest clerical or
typographical errors in numbering, spelling, capitalization, punctuation, or grammar, or
the correction of other nonsubstantive errors, which may be made at the meeting, or
by the County Clerk after consultation with the Department of the Corporation Counsel,
provided that the correction does not alter the meaning or effect of the bill or resolution;
(3) amendments that have been posted on the meeting agenda; and (4) resolutions
relating to the election, establishment, or appointment of the Council's officers,
committees, or staff, or relating to amendments of these Rules.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I need a motion to waive Rule 19.C.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 187
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SO, MOVED.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to waive Rule 19.C.
Further discussion. Members? If not, all those in favor of waiving Rule 19.C, raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA.
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five, six. Thank you.
Those opposed, say "no".
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: I haven't, I didn't hear the vote from Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Member
Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I voted to waive Rules, yes.
CHAIR LEE: Yes? Okay.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, are you still there?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. It was a reluctant "aye".
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's not the end. I know it's not the end, so we can-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 188
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused" to waive the Rule 19.C.
Now, Mr. Clerk, we're ready to vote on the main motion as amended, correct?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ready to vote on the main motion as amended.
All those in favor, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDE2: "Aye".
CHAIR LEE; --six. You have to vote. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I'm voting "no".
NOES; COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: You're voting "no"?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yea. I will explain.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Johnson, how are you voting?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Beg your pardon. I vote "aye".
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we have seven "ayes", one "no", and one "excused".
You don't have to explain. You don't have to explain. It's up to you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Well, I, I think I should, because-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 189
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Point of order. Point of order. We can't do this again,
a second time. That's not part of the Rules. You're supposed to explain yourself before
we take the final vote.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Well, then somebody should have asked me before.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No. You know that the Rules are though.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yea. I could've, I could've interrupted the Chair and said
oh I want to speak or whatever. But fine, let's just move forward. It's fine.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Mr. Clerk, where are we now? One more? Two more?
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 117 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 13.04A.270, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, REPEALING THE MINIMUM FINE FOR CERTAIN VI0U\T10NS
RELATING TO PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 117 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Kama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass Bill 117 on
second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. The purpose of this bill is to repeal the
mandatory minimum fine of $150 for being in parks between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. or
when it is closed to the public. Your Committee discussed that removing the
mandatory minimum fine requirement may help to stop the criminalization of being
homeless or being able to maintain operations in County parks.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 190
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If--
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Yes. Chair, I have discussion.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Johnson.
I just want to give a shout-out toCOUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
Councilmember Tasha Kama for supporting this bill. This is a very important bill and I
rise in strong support of this. Our homeless folks, we. we can talk about it till time and
time again, but we, those are the folks who need it the most. And we don't, we want
to end this poverty to prison pipeline that we have going on here. So, I rise in strong
support. So, thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more discussion?
Yea. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 1 just want to congratulate. This, this was Gabe Johnson's
first bill, and it was pretty exciting when it passed out of Committee. Tasha Kama also
had the community clinic, community court. I'm sorry, tied to this. So, i think the two
put together, it made for a very productive meeting and 1 look forward to seeing that
also come to fruition. So, thank you very much. Mr. Johnson. Congratulations.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Gabe.
CHAIR LEE: Good memory. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Did we take the vote? 1 can't
even remember now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: We need to.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCiLMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
We’re down to the last item. Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 191
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with unfinished business.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-85NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
ORDINANCE 4295, GRANTING MAUI DRAGON FRUIT FARM LLC A
CONDITIONAL PERMIT TO CONDUCT AGRICULTURAL RELATED
ACTIVITIES, SELL NON-AGRICULTURAL REU\TED ITEMS AND
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS NOT GROWN ON THE PROPERTY, AND TO
CONDUCT CERTAIN SPECIAL EVENTS WITHIN THE COUNTY
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT, FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT 833 PUNAKEA
LOOP, LAHAINA, MAUI, HAWAII", be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT; and
That Bill1.
That County Communication 18-34, from the Planning Director, be FILED.2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
RELUCTANTLY, I'M GOING TO HAVE TO MOVE TO
RECOMMIT THIS MATTER TO YOUR PLANNING AND
SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered. This item will be recommitted. And that brings us
to the end of the cal-
Yes, Vice, I mean. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I had discussion and then maybe we got to vote on it?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 192
CHAIR LEE: You want to vote on? Okay, we have to vote on it. So, you make, you're making
a motion. And we need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: It's moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Kama, to recommit this
item, Committee Report 21-85.
Discussion? Any more discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, at its meeting of September 17, 2021, the Council
discussed Committee Report 21-85, relating to a bill granting a Conditional Permit for
the Maui Dragon Fruit Farm LLC to conduct agricultural related activities, sell non-
agricultural related items and agricultural products not grown on property, conduct
certain special events, and allow for a time extension.
The Council postponed consideration of CR 21-85, pending an investigation into the
use of recreational vehicles on the property for, as housing for workers. By
correspondence your PSLU Committee requested of the Planning Department the
status of its investigation relating to the Dragon Fruit Farm LLC and to identify what
actions have been taken and if any actions are still outstanding.
Your Committee also requested the Planning Department's opinion that if the
Department conducted an investigation, has the Department's recommendation to
approve the Conditional Permit changed? Recommitting the matter to the PSLU
Committee will allow for further discussion on the matter and for a recommendation in
light of the investigation. That's it.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? All those in favor of the action, raise your hand,
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 193
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
And that brings us to the end of the calendar. And 1 want to wish all of you a wonderful
safe, safe happy weekend. Any announcements? Anybody getting married, you know
anniversary?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Yea, my daughter from New York just walked in the door. So
as soon as we're done, I'm leaving.
CHAIR LEE: Aw, that's wonderful. That's wonderful. Welcome back to Maui.
Anybody else? Yes, Ms.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: We're doing Pulehu, Pulehu Posse cleanup tomorrow 7:30
toll Everybody welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Oh shucks, I can't make it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You must be golfing.
CHAIR LEE; Yes. I am.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Keani's having a good family weekend. I'm sure she
doesn't want to do that either.
Mr. Molina, you can join us. He's, he's-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, I have a cleanup of another kind tomorrow. It's called my
yard.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, everybody.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, everybody. Good meeting.
CHAIR LEE: It is now approximately, Mr. Clerk, what time is it? 5:37?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, I currently have 5:36 as the time.
CHAIR LEE: 5:36. No further business before the Council. This meeting is adjourned at
5:36.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 5, 2021
Page 194
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of November 5, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 5:36 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
211105/lks:jm
Aloha County Council members of the Climate Action, Resilience and Environment Committee:
I am in full support of your efforts to ban the sale, distribution and use of sun-protection products with
ANY active ingredients other than naturally-occurring minerals such as zinc or titanium.
1 have testified on this issue several times before and other more learned speakers can discuss the data
that emphasizes how dangerous the chemical sunscreen compounds today being marketed as "reef
safe" really are to both our environment and our bodies. Today I can offer my 34 years of experience in
Hawai'i directly working with the public, to both visitors and residents in our island's outdoor resources.
First with the National Park Service, and now with the State of Hawai'i for the past seven years, I have
met and talked with tens of thousands of people, and for these past seven years I have been sharing
information about sunscreen issues with an average of 200-300 people per week.
Those against any regulations may argue that "the government" should simply do more education.
Myself, Peter Landon, volunteers and other state staff directly approach residents and visitors to 'Ahihi-
KTna'u Natural Area Reserve, the third most-visited outdoor site on Maui. We have signs and posters
displayed encouraging people to use sun protection that does not include chemical compounds, we
hand-out deep information flyers and thousands of "shopper's cards" that list active ingredients to
avoid. Collectively, we have racked-up tens of thousands of hours doing this work over the years. Direct
education works better than signs and posters, but with all our efforts, we only reach about 10% of all
who enter the reserve's waters. Its hot, repetitive and challenging work: even with an army of
minimum-wage staff it would be nearly impossible to reach 100% of all those going into the ocean
during all daylight hours.
What about ail the ocean-front lands outside the reserve where we can't educate? Thanks to currents,
chemical pollutants going into the ocean at one site means they go island-wide, and when these
compounds bind to micro-plastics, or sands and sediments, they enter the ocean food-chain via limu,
crabs, opihi etc, they then get taken by fish, honu and marine mammals far and wide.
Some may argue this ban should only apply to those about to go into the ocean or streams such as the
Pipiwai in Kipahulu. This argument ignores the fact that the benzene compounds (and co-active
ingredients) appear in human urine 20 minutes after application, last up to 90 days in the environment
and cannot be removed in waste-water treatment. Showering or flushing the toilet on land still delivers
these deadly compounds into our near-shore habitats. Even if you never personally use these
chemicals, eating from our waters means you're still getting exposed.
This is one reason the age-old trumpet of "consumer choice, let the consumer decide" is not adequate.
"Consumer choice" really means we're relying on one person to choose for another, as in the above
example. Advertising, labeling, brand-loyalty, and de-emphasizing how these chemicals react within skin
cells are all tactics used by manufacturers. For personal care products, only the FDA has any authority
to regulate labeling-claims, and then only if claims are medical. For personal care products, no agency
has authority to test environmental claims such as "reef safe." This loop-hole allows manufactures to
boldly tout this new green-washing term on the front of containers, in print much larger than the font
sizes required for the ingredients on the back of product containers. Each day we see parents apply
these products to small children, even toddlers, despite labeling that warns they are not safe for kids.
Clearly, not all consumers read the labels or are making conscious "consumer choices."
When I ask: "Did you read the ingredients on the label?" Very few are label-literate and know to look on
the back let along for the "actives" list. I have to show them where to look. People daily tell us they saw
the "reef safe" claim and bought the product thinking they had made the responsible choice. Local
surfers, fishermen and tourists alike, say: "I always use this brand, 1 bought it here in Hawai'i, it says
'reef safe,' so I thought I was doing the right thing." They express anger and multiple times each day I
hear "There should be a law, 1 just wish these things were totally banned."
People have always had sun-protection choices: credible dermatologists agree that mineral sun-blocks
and clothing are more than sufficient to protect against both UBA and UVB rays. Chemical sunscreens
only help with UVB rays, and skin cancer rates have climbed higher since chemical sunscreens became
popular in the 1970s. If these products really worked to prevent skin cancer, the trend would be going
down, not up.
This proposed ban is the best: outlawing one or two specific compounds {such as Oxybenzone and
Octinoxate) simply incentivizes the chemical industry to create new molecules that have the same
properties with new patent-names. When the evidence against Oxybenzone mounted (and the patent
was about to expire), low and behold, Avobenzone (with a near-identical chemical structure and
behavior) became the lead ingredient. It becomes  achemical-arms race of new laws needed for every
new lab creation.
We have tried education. We have tried consumer choice. Those tactics didn't work for bad hair sprays
or bad coolants in refrigerators in the 1970's- laws had to be created to force manufactures to use
other materials, to protect our planet's ozone. Education and "choice" didn't work in other arenas: its
why there are no longer smoking sections on airplanes or restaurants, because the "choice" of one
consumer impinged on another. Banning benzene-based chemicals from one island in Hawai'i won't
solve all our problems with climate change, etc, but with all the other issues we've created, this is one
problem we can solve, today. Maui has led the way before with bans on plastic shopping bags and food
packaging. Let's lead the way again.
Mahalo,
Jeff Bagshaw
Volunteer Coordinator, Information and Education Associate
'Ahihi-Kina'u Natural Area Reserve (DLNR/DOFAW) OC
c(808)264-7891 work-cell cn mCD
oieff.w.bagshaw(5)Hawai'i .eov I●Hm v/l-<
OO <~n
mm
t: ni
03
aN3
fs5
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Colleen Medeiros <colleenpmedeiros@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 4, 2021 5:15 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Aina Kupuna Bill CC21-95
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from colleenpmedeiros@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Please add this to the record for me as well, I've tried to reach out to Council member Keani Rawlins and her
EA but have not heard back from them yet.
Mahalo
Colleen P. Medeiros R(S)
90O T)
C “n
2;oH
c=> m
oIm Ln n*i1 c <
OO ?S>»"n
m --I
XIX m
oni V./1
Island Sotheby's International Realty
3628 Baldwin Ave.
Makawao, HI 96768
Mobile: 808.283.3131
Office: 808.572.8600
View Our Collection of Listings
Website: www.lslandSothebvsRealtv.com
Facebook | Twitter | Island Sotheby's International Realty | Sotheby's International Realty
1
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING WIRE FRAUD: Never trust wirinti instructions sent via email. Cyber criminals
otien target real estate transaction email and can send email messages with fake/lVauduleni wiring instructions. These email
messages appear to be legitimate and can easily fool an unw-ary recipient.
Do not be a victim. Be aware ofthe danger posed by wire fraud schemes. AKvays confirm wiring instructions in person or via
a telephone call to a trusted and verified phone number. Do not wire money without double-checking that the wiring
instructions are correct.
 Forwarded message
From: Colleen Medeiros <colleenpmedeiros(5)gmail.com>
Date: Thu, Oct 28, 2021 at 3:09 PM
Subject: Re: Aina Kupuna Bill CC21-95
To: <Keani.Rawlins@mauicountv.us>
Aloha Council member Rawlins
I’m just following up to get confirmation that you received my emailed testimony regarding Aina Kupuna Bill
CC21-95.
I would also like to discuss this bill further with you as I w^ould like to understand why the specific verbiage was
included regarding transient accommodations under conditional use permits granted prior to May 23, 2012
being exempt from the " Commercial purposes" was used?
Please feel free to contact me, 808-283-3131.
Mahalo,
Colleen P. Medeiros R(S)
On Tue, Oct 26, 2021 at 9:30 PM Colleen Medeiros <colleenpmedeiros@gmail.com> wrote:
Aloha Honorable Chair Lee and members ofthe Maui County Council,
2
I understand the Oct 22 meeting was cut short due to technician difficulties and the subject bill was not read
on that day. This email is intended to add to my oral testimony.
I realized after my testimony that I didn't introduce myself, I apologize for that. My name is Colleen Medeiros
and I own a property in Napili that is a generational landholding for at least 6 generations. These are the
lands of my Great, Great Grandmother Lahela (Nahina) Reimann, that passed to her daughter Whilamena
Reimann, then to my grandparents Albert and Daisy Medeiros, then to my father Marian Mederios, then to
me. It is our family's understanding that our Great-Great Grandmother Lahela owned the lands encompassing
Napili Bay and Honokeana Bay, as well as the lands mauka of this area. Our family and additional
landholdings also stretched north beyond Honolua Bay as we have some remaining interest in parcels up that
way. We have a family gravesite in our subdivision where some of my relatives mentioned above are buried,
along with many other family members.
I strongly support the Aina Kupuna Bill as this will help the few remaining families who have generational
landholdings, retain their lands.
It hasn’t been easy keeping my family property. In my situation, and this is the same story for many Hawaiian
families, it was very complicated. I won't get into the details, but after my dad died in 2000, myself and my 6
siblings inherited my dad's share of this property and became owners who split the interest in this property
with my Uncle. My Uncle and siblings wanted to sell it, so I decided to purchase their interests by taking out a
mortgage loan.
For approximately 8 years, I have had this property permitted as a STRH, since 2013.1 lived on this property
for about 9 years before that. Due to changing life circumstances, I decided to move. I chose the STRH use
because this area of Napili is a popular vacation destination and permits this type of use. As a matter of fact,
my property is surrounded by the Napili Bay Civic Improvement District that allows for hotel and resort use.
For some unknown reason only my road was left out of the Civic Improvement District, but we are otherwise
surrounded by hotels and condominiums used as vacation rentals. Using this house as a STRH has allowed
me; 1. to keep it, not sell it, 2. continued use for my family and special occasions. Without using it as a STRH, I
could not afford to keep this property. Through the years property taxes have increased a great deal, in my
case they have gone up 76% from 2016.
I believe families with generational owned properties should be allowed to use them for "commercial
purposes". Whether it's a home-based business, like a daycare or a commercial kitchen, or a business where
the owner does not live on property and rents it, like a legal long or short term rental property, all aina kupuna
lands should qualify for this tax break, regardless of use. Currently the verbiage in the bill excludes aina
kupuna lands that are conducting businesses or "commercial purposes" that are not agriculture. With regards
to my property, it doesn’t make sense to have an agricultural business there, the lot is too small. I'm not a
farmer, and farming simply would not pay the bills associated with the property. The aina kupuna bill in its
current form makes one exception for the Lu'uwai 'ohana. They run a vacation rental, STRH, like me, but
under a conditional use permit obtained sometime prior to May 2012 and the bill exempts them from the
"commercial purposes" definition. While I'm unclear on why or how this one exception exists for one family, I
would like to see the verbiage in the bill amended to include "all properties that are family owned from 1940,
regardless of their use or whether or not they are owner-occupied, qualify for this tax exemption".
If the spirit of this bill is meant to keep traditional lands in the hands of those families that are culturally tied
to them, then further supporting those same families in making a viable living for themselves is directly
connected to their ability to keep their lands, and if they need to use their lands in a business/commercial way
in order to pay for those lands, in order to keep them, then allowing business uses on these lands seems to be
in perfect alignment with the spirit of this bill.
We all know that living here is expensive, getting more expensive each year. Everyone needs multiple streams
of income these days. I left my 9-5 job and became self-employed because I realized self-employment was the
only way for me to make enough money to live here. And I think more and more people are realizing this and
trying to create businesses for themselves. Allowing local folks to run legal businesses from their
3
generationally owed properties, coupled with, this tax exemption, could be life-changing for many local
families. If this bill is passed and allows owners to conduct businesses from their lands, these same local
families who might be otherwise struggling to get by, and struggling to hold on to family lands would have
new options and more avenues to increase their income, this is what we need. This bill offers me and others an
opportunity to insure that we can hold this land for our children and grandchild by providing tax relief for
generation! landholders.
Thank you very much for your time.
Mahalo,
Colleen P. Medeiros R(S)
4
Count^^CleH<
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, November 4, 2021 4;57 PM
County Clerk; Michele McLean; Kimberley Willenbrink; Jordan Hart
Fwd: Maui Dragon Fruit Farm CUP extension-Please deny-CR 21-85 and RFS
21-0001375
Dragon Fruit Farm Plot -as per county website.pdf; Drawing presented by &ners in
their CUP appliccation-omits 30% of their land which is not farm^-.pdf
CZ “f *
2;o
73
mC3
o!
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
m rn-< V/1
OoGet Outlook for iOS <*n
ffh-f
X X
t; mFrom: vera sreda <verasreda@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, November 4, 2021 4:29:03 PM
To: Alice L. Lee <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>; Keani N. Rawlins <Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>; Tasha A. Kama
<Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>; Gabe Johnson <GabeJohnson(S)mauicounty.us>; Kelly King
<Kelly.King@mauicounty.us>; Mike J. Molina <Mike.Molina(®mauicounty.us>; Tamara A. Paltin
<Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>; Shane M. Sinenci <Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us>; Yukilei Sugimura
<Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>; Michele McLean <Michele.McLean(5)co.maui.hi.us>
Subject: Maui Dragon Fruit Farm CUP extension-Please deny-CR 21-85 and RFS 21-0001375
a
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from verasreda@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Chair and council members. I apologize for the late e-mail, but I just found out that extension of the permit for
this CUP is on the agenda tomorrow. As you have heard from my testimony and 4 other written neighbour's
testimonies- owners of Dragon Fruit Farm have repeatedly violated the vast majority of CUP conditions for years.
By reviewing the records from their CUP original application I also realised that they misstated the land planted as
agricultural crops (they stated that they have close to 15 acres planted-their farm plan also states that), but in
practice they only have 5 acres (they never had more than 5, on over 20 acres parcel). That is substantially less than
50% required for any permits. County was presented inaccurate information and based on that information issued a
SUP and CUP. Regardless of all CUP violations would this CUP be invalid and void as it should have not been issued in
the first place due to misrepresentation of agricultural activity? Please deny extension of the SUP and CUP due to
application irregularities and repeated violations of all CUP conditions.
Dragon Farm Owners in their original CUP's application presentation misrepresented the area being
planted. They did it by reducing the plot shape/size depicted, they made it look like they had 50%
planted, but they have less than 25 % planted. They also stated on their farm plan that they have
almost 15 acres planted but they have less than 5. ! have attached for your review, owners’ provided
drawing from their CUP application (1st picture-1 marked in dashed purple lines the portion they
omitted, but is their land as per county records). On The 2nd picture you can also see the actual
county plot map and you can see that 30% of their land is omitted-the right portion of their land
was omitted to misrepresent the area planted to make it look like they have 50% under crops.
On a separate note their total parcel size (master parcel) is over 20 acres-if they wanted to get a CUP
would they not need to go to the state of HI for approval, since the parcel is larger than 15 acres?
I apologize for my ignorance: I am trying to understand the process and enforcement. This neighbor
has been violating the vast majority of the conditions of the CUP for a very long time. All the
1
neighbors have been negatively impacted by all of these business activities creating excessive noise
and they are not in any way related to agriculture.
They have many young adults, anywhere from 8 to15 or more living at the property in Vans, Tents
and RVs. I had to call the police multiple times at midnight because they were screaming and parting
(they also invite their friends to the property and have loud marihuana induced parties). They also
trespassed on our property and closed water lines which resulted in us losing many young coconut
trees (my guess is that owners told them to do that, as those trees would block their wedding areas'
ocean views). My understanding is that ag property owners can have farm workers live at the
property (but not in Vans/tents/RVs) as long as they have $35,000 in direct sale agricultural products
made on the farm per farm worker. This farm doesn't produce that many dragon fruits and I am
positive they don't make over $350,000 in produce sale to warrant staff living here (they do make
much more on the weddings/ziplines etc-so it is important that they don't commingle those revenues
with crop revenues and try to represent them as farm/crop revenue in order to justify having this many
staff living at the property. Please note that these kids don't work the farm-they work adventure tours
(zip line, aqua balls, tours, help with weddings...) Also I would assume that farm workers have to be
paid for their services (majority of these kids are transient not paid-they work in exchange for lodging
and food). This doesn't contribute to the county tax system, employment taxes or community. Only
contribution is to the property owners who are working the system by using the farm as a decoy to
actually conduct business that should be done in  aproperly zoned area, use free labor, pay minimal
taxes on this ag land while conducting non ag activities. They should find properly zoned land and
conduct weddings, zip lines, rolling balls, pay taxes like every other business and pay their workers.
Not only that they obtained the pendeminc farmers funds from the county and did nothing on the farm
to improve crops (they only built a large outside cafe), It looks like they also got free farm equipment
from the pandemic funds and it has been sitting on the lot for weeks without being moved. Other real
farmers would have benefited from these funds and equipment.lt is wasted by these owners trying to
portray an image of farmers while conducting other much more lucrative business on this farm land.
We would be more than happy to have normal farm neighbours with actual farm operations and
normal farm tours which are not bundled with weddings,Zip lines and Aqua balls.
Thank you so much for your understanding, hard work, and service to the community.
Mahalo, Sincerely Vera Sredanovic
2
COUNTY OF
imIuiC^(U>yMv
Overview
Legend
I  I Parcels
Parcel 470010440001 Situs/Physical
Address
Mailing Address MAUI DRAGON FRUIT
FARM LLC
lOOWAIPUHIAPL
HAIKU HI 96708
833PUNAKEA LOOP
UNITA
Assd Land $335,500 Last 2 Sales
Value
Assd Building $477,700 4/15/2011 0
Value
Total Assd $813,200
Value
Exempt
Value
Taxable
Value
Date P
n/a 0
$0
$813,200
ID rice Reason Qual
Acreage 20.854
Class NON-OWNER-
OCCUPIED/RESIDENTIAL
n/a U
n/a n/a
BriefTax Description n/a
{Note: Not to be used on legal documents)
Date created: 10/15/2021
Last Data Uploaded: 10/15/20214:31:28 AM
Developed by^ Schneider^ OeOSPATIXl.
This drawing was provided by Schmitt's as part of CUP presentation. Added striped area shows omitted land owned by these
same owners, they omitted this portion in order to misrepresent that 50% is farmed, while they are farming less than 30% of
the land. If you cross check this with county records you will see that owners deliberately misled the county in order to obtain
SUP and CUP and conduct non-ag commercial activities (weddings. Zip Line, Aqua Rolling Balls). Also they are housing 10-15
transient non-paid workers on this land to conduct these non- ag activities. These young adults and teenagers are constantly
partying into the early morning hours, while during the day and deep into night we hear screams from Zip lines, AquaBalls, and
weddings.
Pov«d Parkng ( A sloUi)
Poved Parkr>9 ( 3 ttoltt)
Form 0<M«ng
/ \
— pQved Parkng (25 regular sloUs. 2 bus stalls)
s^^Cxovol Porkrig (4 stolls)
ftoodaiQy
Dr>v*way   ^
For* Sl«id C750 *qM>
Lc
Roodkpoy.
Grass Parkng (40 sloUs)
Total Parkng
76 regular stalls
2 bus stalls
DR^ON FRUIT
CULTIVATION
A?EA
/t
/
/
/
LOT SIZE 20 253 ACS
/
Fm SIT^PL
MAUI DB^NF^T FARII. LL(
833 mMAKEA^flOP96761
iflK iX ^-7-001-0^"1-0001
Count^^leH<
Maui Vacation Rental Association <jenrusso@mauivacationrentalassociation.org >
Thursday, November 4, 2021 4:23 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Please consider this amendment for B&Bs CR 21-107
Alice Lee Please consider an amendment to CR-102 .pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha,
O nPlease accept this testimony for the County Council meeting of 11/5/21 C CD m
OImMahalo, ●< -Cr
OO -T3n <Jen Russo 2S
m mX:
a Forwarded message
From: Maui Vacation Rental Association <ienrusso@mauivacationrentalassociation.org>
Date: Tue, Oct 26, 2021 at 9:36 AM
Subject: Please consider this amendment to CR 21-107 for B&Bs
To: <A|ice.Lee(5)mauicountv.us>
m wX:
October 26, 2021
Honorable Alice Lee. Council Chair
200 South High Street
Wailuku HI 96793
Thank you for the opportunity to speak on agenda items CR 21 -107 on Friday. Thank you so
much for all your hard work and consideration in these matters.
I would like to ask that we clarify the point in the proposed bill regarding bed and breakfast
operations and either remove the 5 year requirement or allow those operators who have
existed for more than 5 years to transfer their permits to their heirs.
The language in the bill below is not clear:
1
The bed and breakfast home permit must be in the
name of the owner-proprietor, who must be a natural person and
the owner of the real property where the [short-term rental] bed and
breakfast home use is permittedf.l. except that a permit may be
issued for a lot owned by a family trust if the following criteria are
E.
met:
The applicant is a natural person or persons who
is a trustee or who are trustees of the family trust.
All of the trustees are natural persons.
“Family trust” is defined as a self-settled revocable or
irrevocable trust where the trusteefs) is also the trustor(s) or
grantorfsi or is related by blood, adoption, marriage, or civil union
to the beneficiarvfies). The bed and breakfast home permit must not
be held by a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
similar entity. The permit is not transferable. No more than one
permit may be approved for any lot.
1.
2.
This only states that a person with a property in  atrust can have an application in their name.
We need to add something that states that that application could pass to their heirs.
Earlier this month this council body passed Bill 104 unanimously, allowing a legal Bed and
Breakfast operation, the Banyan Tree Bed and Breakfast, to transfer their permit to an heir
that purchased the property, from Marty Herling to Helaina DiMartino. It is then equitable,
rational and it makes sense to create a similar legal path for these other legal Bed and
Breakfast operations that have been running for 5 years or more to do the same.
We support 21-107 : This proposed bill that amends both the STRH the B&B ordinances
makes many changes that are positive. But this 5 year requirement for Maui B&Bs could
negatively affect our residents and we would ask to amend that.
An amendment that would allow for an existing B&B that has existed more than 5 years to be
transferred to heirs, or to not have to wait 5 years to make a new application would be
reasonable and suitable.
The intent of the proposed changes were to reduce speculation and encourage a connection
to the neighborhood. However, lots of testimony during the planning commission meetings
revealed that the current application process allows for this connection to neighborhoods, as
the property has to prove that it does not change the neighborhood in any way shape or form.
Neighbors do get to weigh in during the process. The Planning Commission did not support
this revision of adding 5 years to the application process and did not recommend it for Maui. I
think that the bill should reflect that sentiment and recommendation.
One of the unintended consequences of this is that some of the existing B&B properties, that
have already proven that they fit into their neighborhoods, will not be able to sell their property
to someone that may want to get a permit to operate, given this extended time period. There
2
are many properties that have no neighbors, that operate in neighborhoods where this use is
appropriate.
We are not finding our neighborhoods overrun by bed and breakfast operations, the
application process is arduous and detailed as it exists without the 5 year requirement.
Bed and Breakfast operations are run by Maui residents, and supported in the Countywide
Policy Plan. This plan calls for the county policies to “Support home-based businesses that
are appropriate for and in character with the community,” (page 60) as well as “Encourage
resident ownership of visitor-related businesses and facilities.” (page 62)
It was brought up in testimony that using a trust could be an answer, but what is not clear is if
a property with an existing permit In a person’s name can just switch that permit to being in
the name of a trust. Or once the land is in the trust that you can pass that permit from one
family member to the next generation. If that is the intent, that is not clear. It wouldn't be fair to
make them start the application process over. Also If you were to change your property title to
put your property into a trust does that start the clock on 5 years because you have made a
title change? These are the things that should be more clear in this proposed bill.
Thank you so much for considering an amendment and working so hard to create balance
and diversity in our economy.
Best,
Jen Russo
Executive Director
Maui Vacation Rental Association
mauivacationrentalassociation.org
140 Hoohana St Suite 210
Kahului, HI 96732
Best,
Jen Russo
Executive Director
Maui Vacation Rental Association
mauivacationrentalassociation.org
140 Hoohana St Suite 210
Kahului, HI 96732
3
MAUI
VACATION RENTALASSOCIATION
WWW.MVRA.NET
October 26, 2021
Honorable Alice Lee, Council Chair
200 South High Street
Wailuku HI 96793
Thank you for the opportunity to speak on agenda items CR 21 -107 on Friday. Thank
you so much for all your hard work and consideration in these matters.
I would like to ask that we clarify the point in the proposed bill regarding bed and
breakfast operations and either remove the 5 year requirement or allow those operators
who have existed for more than 5 years to transfer their permits to their heirs.
The language in the bill below is not clear:
The bed and breakfast home permit must be in the
name of the owner-proprietor, who must be a natural person and
the owner of the real property where the [short-term rental) bed and
breakfast home use is permittedld. except that a permit may be
issued for a lot owned by a family trust if the following criteria are
met:
E.
The applicant is a natural person or persons who
is a trustee or who are trustees of the family trust.
All of the trustees are natural persons.
“Family trust” is defined as a self-settled revocable or
irrevocable trust where the tmsteelsl is also the trustorfsl or
grantorfs) or is related by blood, adoption, marriage, or civil union
to the beneficiarvfies). The bed and breakfast home permit must not
be held by a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
similar entity. The permit is not transferable. No more than one
permit may be approved for any lot.
1.
2.
This only states that a person with a property in  atrust can have an application in their
name. We need to add something that states that that application could pass to their
heirs.
1 of 3
M A U
VACATIfiN RENTALASSOCIATION
WWW.MVRA.NET
Earlier this month this council body passed Bill 104 unanimously, allowing a legal Bed
and Breakfast operation, the Banyan Tree Bed and Breakfast, to transfer their permit to
an heir that purchased the property, from Marty Herling to Helaina DiMartino. It is then
equitable, rational and it makes sense to create  asimilar legal path for these other legal
Bed and Breakfast operations that have been running for 5 years or more to do the
same.
We support 21-107 : This proposed bill that amends both the STRH the B&B
ordinances makes many changes that are positive. But this 5 year requirement for Maui
B&Bs could negatively affect our residents and we would ask to amend that.
An amendment that would allow for an existing B&B that has existed more than 5 years
to be transferred to heirs, or to not have to wait 5 years to make a new application
would be reasonable and suitable.
The intent of the proposed changes were to reduce speculation and encourage a
connection to the neighborhood. However, lots of testimony during the planning
commission meetings revealed that the current application process allows for this
connection to neighborhoods, as the property has to prove that it does not change the
neighborhood in any way shape or form. Neighbors do get to weigh in during the
process. The Planning Commission did not support this revision of adding 5 years to
the application process and did not recommend it for Maui. I think that the bill should
reflect that sentiment and recommendation.
One of the unintended consequences of this is that some of the existing B&B
properties, that have already proven that they fit into their neighborhoods, will not be
able to sell their property to someone that may want to get a permit to operate, given
this extended time period. There are many properties that have no neighbors, that
operate in neighborhoods where this use is appropriate.
2 of 3
MAUI
VACATION RENTALASSOCIATION
WWW.MVRA.NET
We are not finding our neighborhoods overrun by bed and breakfast operations, the
application process is arduous and detailed as it exists \without the 5 year requirement.
Bed and Breakfast operations are run by Maui residents, and supported in the
Countywide Policy Plan. This plan calls for the county policies to “Support home-based
businesses that are appropriate for and in character with the community,” (page 60) as
well as “Encourage resident ownership of visitor-related businesses and facilities."
(page 62)
It was brought up in testimony that using a trust could be an answer, but what is not
clear is if a property with an existing permit in  aperson’s name can just switch that
permit to being in the name of a trust. Or once the land is in the trust that you can pass
that permit from one family member to the next generation. If that is the intent, that is
not clear. It wouldn't be fair to make them start the application process over. Also If you
were to change your property title to put your property into a trust does that start the
clock on 5 years because you have made a title change? These are the things that
should be more clear in this proposed bill.
Thank you so much for considering an amendment and working so hard to create
balance and diversity in our economy.
Best
Jen Russo
Maui Vacation Rental Association
3 of 3
Count^Cleijc
From:
Sent;
Maui Vacation Rental Association <jenrusso@mauivacationrentalassociation.org >
Thursday, November 4, 2021 4:24 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Please consider an amendment to CR-21 -95 - Aina Kupuna Lands
To:
Subject:
C=3
OO
73o t 1
se:Aloha c-n
"jm
mCD-C
oI
inPlease accept this testimony for the 11/5/21 council meeting 4=-<oo <-z>
best. mm -J- OwX rnJen Russo w
-  -— Forwarded message
From: Maui Vacation Rental Association <ienrusso@mauivacationrentalassociation.org>
Date: Tue, Oct 26, 2021 at 1:32 PM
Subject: Please consider an amendment to CR-21-95  -Aina Kupuna Lands
To: Maui Vacation Rental Association <ienrusso@mauivacationrentalassociation.org>
October 26, 2021
Honorable Chair Lee and Members of the County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku HI 96793
RE: CR 21-95 Aina Kupuna Lands
Thank you for the opportunity last Friday to speak to the Aina Kupuna Lands proposed
bill. I support this proposal to add a section to the tax code relating to taxes on parcels
dedicated as ‘aina kOpuna.
BFED Committee agreed to amend the proposed bill to allow real property dedicated
as ‘aina kupuna to be used for transient vacation rentals.
However 1 think the way the ordinance is written to be so specific to qualifying with
having a conditional permit done by a certain year, along with specific tax classification
and such is too narrow. The law should just indicate that if you have owned your land
since 1940, and have a legal permit to do legal use and you are a lineal descendant
owner, then you could qualify for this exemption. Many of the lineal descendents
utilizing their properties have seen tax increases that have been exorbitant, and those
that have had to make commercial uses to pay property taxes and keep their land
should not be punished. They should also qualify.
1
Considerations too should be made for those lineal descendants who may be unable to
farm their land.
Even when a lineal descendant can qualify for a break on the property tax. there are
other expenses like steep insurances like flood and hurricane coverages and
mortgages that could still force them off the land, so allowing and considering those
that have had to do commercial use in order to make these expenses would be fair in
the intent of this proposed bill. Making the scope bigger, when there may be other
lineal descendant ohanas out there or others that decide they would like to make a
legal permit to do b&b and other visitor related home businesses with their land seems
fair.
This step to change tax laws is needed to assist lineal descendants in keeping land in
their ohana. But I feel more assistance may be needed given other expenses
associated with upkeep of property in these modern times. How powerful it would be to
have more lineal descendants have their lands also support their own small
businesses, or home based businesses, with more lineal descendants that could be
entrepreneurs. 1 think the law should open up to more commercial home uses to think
of opportunities in the future for these ohanas to sustain themselves on their land using
practices other than agriculture.
In my initial research it was hard to determine which properties may be able to show
this lineal descendancy, and certain owners may have to request documents from the
state to provide the proper information to Real Property Tax in order to qualify. These
documents may take time to get fulfilled by State agencies. Will lineal descendants be
able to qualify for this for the next tax year FY 2022 if they put in an application by the
deadline but are waiting for supporting documents?
Thank you so much for considering an amendment and working so hard to create
balance and diversity in our economy.
Best,
Jen Russo
Executive Director
Maui Vacation Rental Association
mauivacationrentalassociation.orQ
140 Hoohana St Suite 210
Kahului, HI 96732
Best,
RECEIVED
The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair Maui County Council
County Council, 11/05/2021, 9am
Strongly Support, ‘Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
To;
m\ NOV -5 AH 7: 54Meeting:
Subject;
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKE na lala hanohano o ka ‘Aha Kalana o Maui,
Aloha ‘oukou;
My name is Keiki Chang Kawai‘ae‘a and I am a member of the Kukahiko ‘ohana from
Makena. I stand with my family in strong support for the ‘Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95.
Our ‘ohana has a long history in Makena with the branches of our genealogical tree
residing across multiple ahupua‘a from Kanahena to Keauhou or in more current times
from Big Beach to Chang’s Beach.
Our families lived simple but productive lives where aloha, ‘ohana and ‘aina guide our
identity as Makena families. Unfortunately, land speculation, high-end homes for the
wealthy and unaffordable property tax has severly impacted the ability of our families
to stay in Makena. Consequently, one by one Makena families have had to sell their
‘aina because they no longer could afford to pay the property tax.
We love Makena, it is part of who we are and where we come from. It is the place our
kupuna John and Kamaka Kukahiko chose to raise their famiiy and set deep roots
nearly 140 years ago. Makena has become an overpriced community for the very
wealthy, mostly non-residents who can afford to buy high-end speculation homes now
at the price tag of $20 million plus.
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, we are deeply appreciative for this long
overdue bill and acknowledge Council Chair Alice Lee and the honorable members of
the Council who have listened to our stories and struggles. Our family believes in and
strongly supports the ‘aina kupuna bill CR 21-95 as presented through many written
and oral testimonies at the October 22 Council meeting - unfortunately cut short.
From the young adults to the most senior member of our family at 99 years old and
across the branches of our family tree, we believe the the ‘Aina Kupuna bill is a iong
overdue solution as it will allow us to dedicate and continue to live and care for our
ancestral lands. We humbly ask that you support and pass the bill.
Count^^Clerk PPr "I'./crp
ZOZI NOV -5 AH 7: 5i|From:
Sent:
Jeff and Sue Anderson <smander@pacbell.net>
Thursday, November 4, 2021 9:21 PM
County Clerk
Tamara A. Paltin
Testimony Regarding County Council Item CR 21-85
To:
'jf- FICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Cc:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from smander@pacbell.net. Learn why this is important
Council Members,
I'm writing regarding agenda item CR 21-85 pertaining to the conditional use permit extention for Maui Dragon Fruit
Farm.
1 own and reside on a small farm adjacent to the Dragon Fruit Farm on the makai side. Given the geographical
relationship between our properties, I'm mostly affected by noise rather than lighting or traffic issues.
The noise level from the Dragon Fruit Farm improved substantially from the unregulated high decibel blowouts prior to
2016 when they received their first restricted conditional use permit. Still, there were many conditional use permit
violations through 2019, including numerous violations of the restriction on amplified music. The noise level improved
substantially in 2020 during Covid lockdowns when there appeared to be very few events happening.
There are two sources of noise. The first is from events. The farm hosts frequent weddings and other gatherings
attended by large crowds, which are often accompanied with moderately high volume amplified music. The second
source of noise is the zipline where participants tend to scream like banshees as operators cheer them on. Both of these
noise sources dropped off in 2020, probably due to Covid, increased in 2021 but are relatively subdued lately.
My concern is that noise will ramp up again after approval of the conditional permit. I'm actually comfortable with the
restrictions in the conditional use permit, especially no amplified sound and limits on guest numbers, hours and event
frequency. I doesn't address the zipline screaming but really, the loud disco music is a bigger problem for me. But,
these restrictions are meaningless if not adhered to. Please enact a compliance program to ensure adherence or if
that's not possible, I suggest you cancel the permit.
Jeff Anderson
1
RECEiVED
im NOV -5 m 7: 54
OFFiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
November 5, 2021
TO: Maui County Council Chair Alice Lee
Vice Chair Keani Rawlins Fernandez
Council Members
Re: Support for: Resolution CC 21-509
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of the Council,
My name is Hannah Bernard and I am Executive Director and Co-Founder of
Hawaii Wildlife Fund. I am writing in support of the proposed resolution introduced
by Council Member Kelly King:
"ACCEPTING ICLEl USA'S INVITATION TO MAUI COUNTY TO JOIN THE
CITIESWITHNATURE PARTNERSHIP INITIATIVE AND JOINING THE
EDINBURGH DECLARATION ON THE POST-2020 GLOBAL BIODIVERSITY
FRAMEWORK".
This resolution will allow Maui County to:
● Join the CitiesWithNature Partnership Initiative
● Support the Edinburgh Declaration and authorize Councilmember King to
sign the Edinburgh Declaration on behalf of the Council while attending
COP26
● Collaborate with the County's Office of Climate Action, Sustainability and
Resilience and other executive branch agencies to support the
CitiesWithNature Partnership Initiative, the Edinburgh Declaration, and
efforts to preserve Maui County’s biodiversity.
And it will also allow Maui County to continue to exhibit a progressive, forward
thinking attitude and perpetuate policies that protect our natural environment. We
applaud this effort to formally join this movement to help perpetuate biodiversity.
P.O. Box 790637 ● Paia ● HI ● 96779* (808)280-8124 * wiid@aloha.net ●
www.wildhavvaii.org
Hawai'i Willdife Fund is a 501 (c)3 nonprofit organization dedicated to the protection
of HawaiTs native wildlife, focused on the nearshore environment. Founded in
1996 by two former National Marine Fisheries Service scientists to assist in
addressing the gaps in protected species recovery, HWF has succeeded in
protecting more than 10,500 sea turtle hatchlings of Maui and removed invasive
species from anchialine pools and >360 tons of marine debris from Hawaii's
coastlines.
We need all the help we can get from our politcal leadership. Please pass this
resolution.
Mahalo for your kind consideration
Hannah Bernard
Executive Director
Hawai'i Wildlife Fund
P.O. Box 790637 ● Paia ● HI ● 96779 * (808)280-8124 * wild@aloha.net ●
www.wildhavvaii.org
Syl Cabral <sylviacabralmaui@gmail.com>
Saturday, October 30, 2021 9:07 AM
gov.homelessness@hawaii.gov; County Clerk; MauLCounty Council_mailbox;
mayors.office@mauicounty.gov
YOU Need to find a place for the homeless elders and young with children to stay
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Oahu just completed approx 5 acres with facilities for these poor sad people sitting and
walking on the roads.
I'm talking HAWAIIANS. Anyone ever take anything from Hawaiians?
These are the saddest, most denigrated groups living in paradise.
Yesterday I saw a Hawaiian man sitting lost next to the public toilets on Market St.
It looked like he had just been released from somewhere. There was a packet of fresh
washcloths wrapped in a ribbon on a cooler. I gave him money, water and any foods I could
find in my car. What can YOU do to help this person? Yesterday I saw two young Hawiian
women walking down the street with a man, two strollers with babies, carrying all their
personal belongings. What can YOU do for them?
I have repeatedly asked that YOU get Mahi Polo or the State to set aside 5-100 acres and
provide facilities such as
Oahu started this week per the news. Please do it this life, or live to regret it next life. Jesus
said he would return.
He's talking about YOU also.
Syl Cabral's Real Estate Store
Call Me @ 808 879 9007
For Daily Properties News03
:r ortTk
Q
U.J H UJ
X—iSET
p K d T Teu.«*r ooU.J e:>●LUIo Office- 35 Walaka St #L-306 Kihei HI 96753
LU CZ) 3! t
q: t-i-O
Oo
1
Syl Cabral <sylviacabralmaui@gmail,com>
Sunday, October 31, 2021 7:30 PM
Maui_County Council_mailbox; County Clerk; Council - Maui County;
corpcoun@mauicounty.gov
mayors.office@mauicounty.gov; Brian.Perry@co.maui.hi.us; Alan Fukuyama; Shane
M. Sinenci; Gary Hooser
Truly affordable will require making affordable housing LEASEHOLD
halllowed.jpg; kalu 1st birthday.jpg; Pierced Heart.jpg; Have you Experienced a
Pierced Heart 05.jpg; birthday on a park bench.jpg
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Queen knew how it worked. 150 years later and only 50 years taking away the leaseholds,
the govt has made Hawaii a gamblers paradise
outlaws without any laws, a lawless town where the rich pay to play and the locals remain
houseless, homeless,
my own daughter has lived houseless for 8 years and working full time, we have our
celebrations at the beach,
at the picnic tables, houseless. Brutally honest, not for the naive to see.
Find land for the Hawaiian elders, the young with children, mahi pono could donate a hundred
acres and the county
has millions to add faciiities just like oahu just did this month, don't reinvent the wheel, u do
not need more studies,
just do it.
Syl Cabral's Real Estate Store
Call Me @ 808 879 9007
For Daily Properties NewsCO
UJ ^
xcrh> LU
Q aUJ e X p E d rr> u.O e;oLU Office- 35 Walaka St #L-306 Kihei HI 96753>UJIO K
Ll3
Oo
LU CD
cr
1
RECEIVED
To: The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair Maui County Council
ZOZI NOV 8: 35Subject: Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I am Frank T.S. Chang, son of Hattie Kukahiko, grandson of Ha'eha'e Kukahiko, great-grandson of John
and Kamaka Kukahiko, original owners of land in what is now a vacationer's paradise: Makena, Maui.
My family has lived, farmed, and fished from these lands for 5 generations now. We do not wish to sell
these lands or make millions from these lands. We wish to maintain the land that our kupuna left for us,
that our kupuna rest in.
We are not wealthy but we are productive people. We pay taxes, we contribute to our community. We
simply ask that we pay taxes on our property based on the fact that we are a family living on our aina,
not a multi-million dollar, speculative, enterprise.
I strongly support the Aina Kupuna bill CR 21-95 and amendment 3.48.361. 1 am now 99 years old, the
last of my generation in my family. I pray that you will also support this bill in order to help my family
and families like ours remain on our aina!
RtCEiVED
?0?l NOV -N AM 8: 35
OFFJCE of ti-ie
COUNTY CLERK
To: The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair Maui County Council
Subject: Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95
I am Miriam Chang, daughter of Frank T.S. Chang, grand daughter of Hattie Kukahiko, great
granddaughter of Ha'eha'e Kukahiko, great-great-granddaughter of John and Kamaka Kukahiko, original
owners of land in what is now a vacationer's paradise: Makena, Maui.
My father always taught us to own our land, to take care of it. His brothers and their families remained
in Makena, Maui. They lived, farmed, fished and maintained these lands. We are in our 6th generation
maintaining this land. We do not wish to sell these lands or make millions from these lands. We wish to
maintain the land that our kupuna left for us, that our kupuna rest in, that has sustained our family for 5
generations; land that defines us.
1 strongly support the Aina Kupuna biil CR 21-95 and amendment 3.48.361. Passage of this bill will help
families retain their ancestral homes and help to preserve the beauty and culture of our islands.
RECEf
?OZI OCT 22 P/1 2: i|8
Or THr-
COUNTY CLERK
/c D
Office of the County Clerk
Maui County
To: The Honorable Alice Lee
Chair of Maui County Council
RE: 'Aina Kupuna CR 21-95
AKA; BFED-78 CC 21-29 County Property Tax Reform
A BILL FOR AN ORDINNCE RELATING YO 'AINA KUPUNA LANDS
To Amend Chapter 3.48, Maui County Code, to add a section relating to taxes on parcels
dedicated as: 'Aina Kupuna .
From: Monica L.N. Crabbe
Cell: 808.281.7152
October 20, 2021
To: Council of the County of Maui
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair of Maui County Council
RE: ‘Aina Kupuna, CR 21-95
AKA: BFED-78 CC 21 -29 COUNTY PROPERTY TAX
REFORM
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO ‘AINA
KUPUNALANDS
To amend Chapter 3.48, Maui County Code, to add a
section relating to taxes
on parcels dedicated as " ‘Aina Kupuna
From: Monica Leihua Crabbe
Descendant of Kupuna Lands dating back before the time of
Kamehameha III and before the Great Mahele.
Thank you for allowing me to send in this letter on behalf of hoping to pass
this proposal for
‘Aina Kupuna, CR 21-95.
I am a Maui descendant of Pikonui,
kupuna kahiko mai ka ‘aina o Kipahulu o ka makani ka'ili aloha.
I live on the island of Maui, and like my mother before me. have a fondness
for our 'aina,
Wailamoa and Kakalahale, Kipahulu.
1 can relate very well the Chang ‘ohana (Kukahiko family & descendants), as
my family continues to pay for land taxes since I can remember, eventually
hoping one day they/we will return to Kipahulu.
However, due to skyrocketing property values associated with property
taxes, real estate, foreign investment and global demand for land in
Hawai'i we are being taxed on our family land (aka; Kupuna ‘Aina),
which has not had a hale (house) on it for over 100 years, no plumbing no
electricity, no road(s), no new improvements in other words, just land,
just ‘aina, 'Aina Kupuna. The ‘aina is in the same state as when it was given
to my kupuna great-great-great grand father, great-great-grand mother,
great-grand mother, grand mother, uncles and cousins.
Annually, we go to chop down the trees, clear the weeds, burn the rubbish,
gather ‘a‘ama (crab), he'e (squid) ‘opihi, and leho (cowrie shells). We do this
to honor those who have walked these paths and those who have lived the
lives of a time gone by after all, we are stewards and care takers to our
‘Aina Kupuna: they are not a commodity as real estate agents or investors
would otherwise have you believe.
The rape of our ‘Aina Kupuna must stop, and you our Maui Council has
the opportunity to turn the direction of this Westernized thinking;
and therefore, to amend Chapter 3.48, Maui County Code, to add a
section relating to taxes on parcels dedicated as ‘Aina Kupuna. Or,
have the stain of generational genocide on your conscience.
Please let your conscience and heart be your guide today, to hear our ‘Aina
Kupuna, to hear their voices in the wind
to right a wrong that will stand for generations in years to come.
The county government has benefited greatly from skyrocketing
property values and associated property taxes, driven by real estate
speculation, foreign investment, and the global demand for land in
Ha\A/ai'i. Sadly, this surge in property values is now pushing Maui's
long-time 'ohana to the brink of losing their ancestral lands, going
into poverty to pay their property taxes or monetizing their ‘aina in
ways that erode their character, and the overall character of Maui's
unique communities. As its coffers continue to fill from the
foreign desire for Maui's lands, the county must take steps to
provide targeted tax relief for its long-time 'ohana, and the last
living vestiges of Maui's social and cultural heritage that they
embody.
The dispossession of land has deep, profound, and unique impacts on
Native Hawaiians, whose health and well-being are based on their feelings
for and deep attachment to the ‘aina. Other kama'aina who have maintained
their family lands since the Great Depression are likely to have also
developed a deep, familial attachment to their lands that would be
devastating to lose. This bill will provide critical protections for Native
Hawaiian and other ‘ohana who may be forced to choose between the
devastation of selling their ancestral lands, or paying tax assessments
that they are increasingly unable to afford.
Land grabs and speculation by off-island investors should never lead to
long-time kama'aina families being taxed into poverty, or off of their
ancestral lands. This bill will protect Maui's families and the legacy they
represent, from property tax increases due to forces well beyond their
control.
Therefore. I strongly support this 'aina kupuna bill: ‘Aina Kupuna, CR
21-95
(AKA: BFED-78 CC 21-29 County Property Tax Reform, to amend Chapter
3.48, Maui County Code, to add a section relating to taxes on parcels
dedicated as ‘Aina Kupuna. This proposal will provide tax relief for lineal
descents who continue to live and care for their ancestral lands, as my
‘ohana and I have also been doing for many years in Kipahulu.
Please support this bill.
Me ka ha'aha'a, 'o wau iho no.
Qj/'i14
■ [im
Monica Leihua Nani Crabbe
Cell; 808.281.7152
Count^£Iei^ RCOnVIZD
From:
Sent:
mary drayer <mdrayerhome@msn.com>
Friday, November 5, 2021 7:59 AM
County Clerk
Fwd: support for Bill 111
2QZI NOV “S AH 8: 00
To:
Subject: OrnCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from mdrayerhome@msn.com. Learn why this is important
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:
From: mary drayer <mdrayerhome@msn.com>
Date: November 5, 2021 at 7:58:48 AM HST
To: county.council@mauicounty.us
Subject: support for Bill 111
aloha,
i realize this is a late submission,! only became aware of this bill this morning.
I am in full support of bill 111 - and any other legislation that may be proposed in the future that will
help local people stay home, too many young kanaka maoli and others have moved away.
and, also, i am a Victim' of transplants in my neighborhood, they care nothing for the 'aina or the
culture, just want to live in 'paradise', and also want to have their house be a TVR when they aren't
here.
mahalo for your consideration
mary drayer
557 imi dr
wailuku, hi
808-244-5646
Sent from my iPad
1
NAMEA ‘IKE‘IA
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
153 E. Kamehameha Ave, STE104 #223
Kahului, HI 96732
REC" '' rru D
2QZ! OCT 29 AH 9' 27
RliPLY TO THE A'n'ENTION OF:
OFFiCS O^beri-SCGl
COUNTY CLF-RK
NMII-ED
MEMORANDUM FOR
Attn: Maui County Council
The Ho'omahua Initiative (CR 21-97) - Identification of Hotspots & requirements for
installation
SUBJECT:
Aloha,
As we work toward progressing The Ho'omahua Initiative and await the County Council's vote on CR 21-
97, we humbly and respectfully request your support of our Smart Tourism^"^ solution technology for the
benefit of our community.
Your "yes" vote will enable us to complete and submit our federal grant application to the U.S. Economic
Development Administration before the December 31, 2021 deadline. Our objective is to apply for 3-5
million dollars in federal assistance, to launch our Ho'omahua Initiative. The funding will provide the
financial resources needed, to deploy our smart tourism solution to our Maui County communities.
Deployment of our technology will conduct real-time data collection and provide immediate meaningful
data analysis needed, to engage effective intelligent decision making and action by visitors and members
of our Maui County Communities. We look forward to working closely with Maui County officials and State
officials in the various departments for assistance to ensure compliance with permitting and installation
requirements required to implement our solution.
For your reference, here is a short list of hotspots identified by Maui Destination Management Plan:
Kaihalulu Bay (Access) ● Helele'ike'oha (Access)  ●Haleakala (Access, Safety, Cultural) ● Bamboo forest,
Kailua (Access, Safety, Cultural) ● Puahokamoa Falls (Access, Safety, Cultural) ● Honomanu Waterfall
(Access, Safety, Cultural) ● Waikani Waterfall (Access, Safety, Cultural) ● Pu'u Keka'a (Safety) ● Honolua
Bay to Kahakuloa Bay (Safety, Cultural)
Signed:
Paulo Faleafine Jr
Co-founder, Executive Director
Na Mea 'Ike 'la
Daulo@hi-nmii.orQ
C: 808-264-9887
Count^£leH<
D rr\ ;  , p-
)Michael Benitez Flores <hawaiiboimike@me.com>
Wednesday, October 27, 2021 7:16 AM
County Clerk
5 year rule on AirBNB
From;
Sent:
OCT 27 AH 7: 45To:
Subject:
OFrICE OF THE
[You don't often get email from hawaiiboimike@me.com. Learn why this is important'cft^^^'^'^ ^ CLERK
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
I am in full support of homeownership after 5 years before actually Airbnb. Too many mainlanders buy homes here
for the sole purpose of a flip on a Airbnb. Maui county doesn't have enough homes currently to allow a
infrastructure problem. I am in full support of this as a resident in Maui County. Mahalo.
With the warmest aloha.
Mahalo,
Michael D. Benitez Flores
808-855-5111 Cell
305-768-0101 Fax
1
DAVID Y. IGE
GOVERNORHAWAII STATE ENERGY OFFICE
STATE OF HAWAII scon J. GLENNCHIEF ENERGY OFFICER
235 South Beretania Street, 5th Floor, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, Hawaii 96804
(808) 587-3807
energy.howaii.gov
Telephone:
Web:
Testimony of
SCOTT J. GLENN, Chief Energy Officer
Go0*n
cm
2;oH
before the
MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL ZJCO
oImNovember 5, 2021
9:00 AM
-< moo
m niComments in support of
BILL 106
RELATING TO ENERGY CODE COMPLIANCE
Oo
\-n
FOR LARGE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council, the
Hawaii State Energy Office (HSEO) supports Bill 106, which would require new one-
and two-family residential buildings over 5,000 square feet to be zero net energy
homes, and looks forward to further refinements of the measure.
We are all aware of reports from the United Nations, from scientific organizations
and other distinguished bodies indicating that climate change is accelerating and which
point to worsening droughts, forest fires, floods and rising sea levels. Scientists agree
that rising temperatures caused by man-made CO2 emissions are the prime cause of
these catastrophes.
Bill 106 is part of a national shift that recognizes the importance of building codes
to steer our buildings, and the energy systems that support them, to more sustainable
and efficient designs. Both our buildings and our energy infrastructure generally last
more than 50 years.
Measures such as this are intended to move the builders of high-end residences
toward highly efficient windows, roofs, air conditioning and water heating technologies
which in turn would help to bring these products to Hawaii.
Page 1 of 2
Hawai'i State Energy Office Testimony
Bill 106 Relating to Energy Code Compliance for Large Residential Buildings -
Support
November 5, 2021
Perhaps just as importantly, these measures spark conversation and creative
thought, as we recognize the importance and lasting impact of the facilities and systems
that are built today, and hear about the potential interactions between home design,
energy resources, and our natural environment.
Greater building efficiency, and the ability of homes to produce their own energy,
reduce pressure on using our limited land, especially agricultural land, for renewable
energy development.
The Hawaii State Energy Office looks forward to participating in discussions as
Maui and the state of Hawai'i move toward energy self-sufficiency. In joining forces with
similar initiatives across the country, advanced building codes and standards have the
potential to move the CO2 needle downward and contribute to HawaiTs net carbon
negative goal.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
Counti/£leH«
From:
Sent:
Mikahala Helm <mikahala@hawaii.edu>
Wednesday, October 20, 2021 5:54 PM
County Clerk
Support for 'Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95 & additional amendment
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from mikahala(g)hawaii.edu. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha kakou,
I am writing to urge your support for the 'Aina Kupuna Bill CR 21-95 and the additional amendment that
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez will introduce at the Friday meeting. Your kokua will make all the
difference and 1 truly appreciate it and all that you are doing to keep Maui no ka 'oi.
Mahalo Nui.
Sincerely,
Mikahala Helm
Sent from my iPad
S5c -r- XIcz>C-> mH K5m V-n 1
Co:;:nr~ <
m --t rnGO
ao
1
Aloha,
My name is Andrea Kealoha. I am the Director of UH Maui College’s Water Quality Lab,
Puko‘a hina‘ole. I hold a PhD in Oceanography, and my expertise is in global and local stressor
impacts to coral reef ecosystem health. I am writing in support of CR 21-113.
Coral reefs are one of the most biologically productive and diverse ecosystems on the planet, and
provide a range of goods and services including food, economic revenue and coastal protection.
However, coral reef health and persistence is severely threatened by global stressors (e.g., ocean
acidification and warming) and local stressors (e.g., overfishing and decreased water quality).
These stressors lead to decreased coral diversity, cover and abundance, and will directly
jeopardize those who depend on coral reefs for survival.
We are losing coral reefs at an alarming rate, and studies estimate that coral reefs will transition
to a state of net dissolution (i.e., net dissolving) before the end of the century. Carbon dioxide
emissions, which are responsible for the global stressors, ocean acidification and ocean warming,
must be regulated at the national and international levels. However, local stressors can be
managed and mitigated at the local level. In fact, a number of studies have shown that reducing
local drivers of reef decline not only improves ecosystem health but also increases coral
resilience to climate change.
Sunscreen components have been detected in marine biota, including fish and corals. The study
of the effects of organic (chemical) UV filters on coral health is a fairly new area of research.
However, the data are clear. Organic UV filters cause coral bleaching (especially when
combined with warming, which is already occuring in Hawai‘i), damage and deform coral
larvae, and damage reproductive processes. If we hope to reap the many benefits that coral reefs
provide to our health, economy and culture, we must take every opportunity to mitigate local
stressors, such as the introduction of chemical UV filters, in our coral reef ecosystems.
I thus offer my strong support in favor of CR 21-113. OO
O “Tl 73
c "n mSincerely,
Andrea Kealoha
CD
2^0 OIm mUJ-<
Oo -"O-nr" mm -H
m aOJ
'O
REr' r~
iVED
Zll?l NOV -2 PH «1: 21
(g)HAOFFICE OF HAWAIIAN AFFAIRS
OF^-iCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTestimony of Carmen Hulu Lindsey
Chair, Board of Trustees
Maui County Council
Committee Report No. 21-95
COUNTY PROPERTY TAX REFORM
November 5, 2021 Online Meeting9:00 a.m.
The Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA) SUPPORTS the Budget, Finance, and Economic
Development Committee's recommendation, per CR 21-95, to pass on first reading "A Bill for an
Ordinance Relating to 'Aina Kupuna Lands." This proposed bill would protect Native Hawaiian
and other Maui county families from unprecedented tax burdens that may lead to the
dispossession of their 'aina kupuna, or ancestral lands. Allowing such families to pay the
minimum tax on lands that have sustained them for at least three generations will help to
ensure that the speculation-driven increase in Maui property values does not further dispossess
Native Hawaiians from their ancestral lands, and erode away the living vestiges of Maui's
cultural heritage.
As a preliminary matter, OHA emphasizes that the Westernization of land tenure in
Hawai'i, and the distribution of land and power that occurred subsequent to the illegal
overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom, have had profound and unique impacts on the Native
Hawaiian people. Such impacts include the physical, spiritual, and socioeconomic harms arising
from the dispossession of Native Hawaiians' ancestral lands, and from the myriad other
circumstances that have strained or eroded away Native Hawaiians' connection to the 'aina
that have sustained their 'ohana since time immemorial.^ Sadly, much of the lands that Native
Hawaiians were able to acquire during Hawai'i's transition to a Western property system have
already been lost, abandoned, sold, seized, or stolen, and various factors today continue to
place great strain on the ability of Native Hawaiian families to continue maintaining a
connection to, and ownership of, their ancestral 'aina.
In addition, OHA notes that Native Hawaiian and kama'aina families who have been able
to maintain their ancestral lands for generations represent a foundation of Maui's historical and
cultural legacy. Their continued stewardship and presence on their lands helps to maintain
important connections to the past and to the 'aina that can uphold the unique values and
character of Maui's communities - a role that may be increasingly critical in light of a rapidly
transforming socioeconomic landscape resulting, in part, from the real estate trends the county
has been experiencing.
^ See, e.g.. The Apology Resolution, Pub. L. No. 103-150 (“[T]he health and well-being of the Native Hawaiian
people is intrinsically tied to their deep feelings and attachment to the land").
Maui County Council
Committee Report No. 21-95 - County Property Tax Reform
Novembers, 2021
Page 2
OHA therefore strongly supports the recommendation of CR 21-95 to pass on first
reading the proposed bill to provide tax relief to parcels dedicated as ^aina kupuna. This
proposed bill will provide critical and much-needed protection for the few remaining Native
Hawaiian and other kama'aina families who have maintained their family lands for at least
three generations. Over the past several decades, the Western commodification of land has
manifested in a continuous and almost exponential surge in property taxes, particularly in areas
where real estate speculation and resort or luxury development have driven property values to
an all-time high.^ While taxes on lands that have become subject to the lucrative activities of
real estate speculators and developers may be an appropriate and needed mechanism can
provide the county with much-needed revenues, the increase In property values and associated
property taxes has also had devastating impacts to a small number of Native Hawaiian and
long-time Maui families; such families, facing an unprecedented tax burden, have been forced
to sell portions of their ancestral lands, or monetize them in inappropriate and sometimes
painful ways. The proposed bill would provide these families with narrow and targeted relief,
by allowing them to pay the minimum tax on their ancestral lands in exchange for a
commitment to not convey the lands to non-lineal descendants, and to not use these lands for
commercial purposes, with limited exceptions. This measure would therefore allow Maui's
families to maintain their ownership of and deep connection to their ancestral lands. In the
face of economic and real property trends well beyond their control - preventing the further
dispossession of Native Hawaiians' ancestral lands, and protecting a historical foundation of
Maui's unique values and cultural character from further erosion.
OHA does appreciate potential concerns regarding  apossible reduction in county
revenues, but notes that the narrow requirements of the proposed bill would significantly limit
those who would qualify, and who would desire to apply for, the proposed tax relief. OHA
further understands that property values of non-'aina kupuna lands have also continued and
will likely further continue to increase,^ providing increased county revenues that will offset any
fiscal impacts of the measure.
The proposed bill in BFED Committee Report No. 21-95 will provide a critical means to
protect Native Hawaiian and long-time kama'aina families from the impacts of Maul's
speculation-driven real estate boom; prevent the further dispossession of Native Hawaiians'
ancestral lands, which has had and will continue to have devastating impacts on Native
^ See Puanani Fernandez Akamine, Taxed Out: Increasing land taxes force Hawaiians off their ancestral lands, KA
WAl OLA, Feb. 28, 2020, available at https://kawaiola.news/cover/taxed-out.
^See, e.g., Redfin.Com, Maui County Housing Market; Trends, https://www.redfin.com/countv/667/HI/Maui-
Countv/housing-market {last accessed Oct. 19, 2021) ("in September 2021, Maui County home prices were up
19.8% compared to last year, selling for a median price of $863K. On average, homes in Maui County sell after 69
days on the market compared to 86 days last year. There were 288 homes sold in September this year, up from
187 last year.").
Maui County Council
Committee Report No. 21-95 - County Property Tax Reform
November 5, 2021
Page 3
Hawaiian famiiies and the Native Hawaiian community as a whole; and help to avoid the
further erosion of the sociai and cultural heritage of Maui county, embodied by those who have
been able to maintain their 'aina kupuna for multiple generations.
Accordingly, OHA respectfully urges the Maui County Council to adopt the
recommendation of BFED Committee Report No. 21-95 and PASS the proposed bill on first
reading. Mahalo nui for the opportunity to testify.
PETER K Martin
11501 Lower Honoapiilani Hwy - Lahaina HI 9 p (\/  £Q
2021 NOV -5 AH 8: 01November 4, 2021
■H-FiCE OF THE
^'.OUNTY CLERKMaui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai‘i 96793
Re: Legal Issues with the West Maui Community Plan (CR 21-109)
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
I write to express my concerns on agenda item CR 21-109. The Council proposes
to set the public hearing on a bill to adopt to the West Maui Community Plan
(‘AVMCP”). There are practical and legal issues with the latest version of the plan
that must be addressed prior to adoption. I identify these issues below.
As a practical matter, the quality of the maps in the Council draft is so poor it is
nearly impossible to read and understand the Council’s changed designations:
This image has not been altered; this is how it appears in the version of the plan
released to the public. For comparison, below is an image of the same area taken
from the Maui Planning Commission draft plan. It is clear and easy to read:
November 4, 2021
Page 2
C!DLai>3-\ar« OmM
OcMn
auunefoo^Mi
■ RMerVHoM
■ P0UeMM»PiiMc
’ PMtiOpan toaei
AgnciJli^
The maps in the latest version must be made clear well in advance of the public
hearing. The final, adopted draft of the WMCP will guide land use and development
decisions. Throughout the plan, the Council made significant changes and down
designations. Given these differences, it is imperative that the maps are sufficiently
legible to allow public review and input. Accordingly, the quality of the maps must
be impioved before the public hearing to allow for fair and productive public
engagement.
In addition to practical issues, there are at least eight legal with the Council’s
draft of the WMCP.
First, the WMCP is inconsistent with other documents that comprise the general
plan. For example, the elimination of Project Districts renders the WMCP
inconsistent with the Maui Island Plan. As another example, the WMCP designates
the entire area South of Puamana largely, if not entirely, Open Space and
Agriculture, while the Maui Island Plan expressly provides for Urban and Rural
growth in this area. These inconsistencies are contrary to the law and will make
compliance with the general plan, which is comprised of the Countywide Policy
Plan, Maui Island Plan and applicable community plan, impracticable
impossible. The WMCP should be amended to provide consistency across the
general plan.
or
November 4, 2021
Page 3
Second, Policy 3.4.2 may violate the Fair Housing Act. The policy “discourages”
the development of 201H affordable housing projects in the area North of
Makaluapuna Point and South of Puamana. This is a large portion of West Maui.
The exclusion of affordable housing in this area will have a negative,
disproportionate impact on diverse communities. The Fair Housing Act prohibits
policies that have such an impact. The Council should remove this provision from
the plan.
Third, the deletion of Lahaina Town South as a proposed area of change makes
no sense. The prior Maui Planning Commission draft of the plan set forth a policy
for Lahaina Town South as an area for identified residential and affordable housing
development. Now, the only mention of Lahaina Town South in the WMCP is in the
Appendix F as a sensitive cultural area. This unilateral revision by the Council is
inconsistent with the community’s vision for the area.
Fourth, the down designations in the plan of vast portions of land give rise to
constitutional claims, including for violations of vested rights, regulatory takings
and equal protection.
Fifth, Policy 2.1.2 presents takings issues, exceeds the Council’s authority and
conflicts with the current Shoreline Rules for Maui. Policy 2.1.2 incorporates the
Sea Level Rise Exposure Area (“SLR-XA”) model for coastal erosion at 3.2 feet of
sea level rise and provides that no new permanent structures may be makai of that
line. The Council does not have the authority to implement shoreline policy in a
community plan. Authority to regulate the shoreline has been delegated to the Maui
Planning Commission. Nor does the County have the power to establish a shoreline
at any point other than the high wash of the waves. Finally, the provision is
inconsistent with the current Shoreline Rules, which provide a fundamentally
different shoreline setback tied to the actual location of the shoreline. The provision
should be removed in its entirety.
Sixth, the related Policy 2.1.3 is illegal. The policy calls for “efforts” to restrict a
landowner’s ability to seek protection of their property or seek compensation.
Requiring an agreement not to seek shoreline hardening for structures within a lot’s
minimum buildable depth, repairs, new structures and variances illegally imposes a
prospective waiver in return for the exercise of present rights.
Seventh, the proposed cultural overlay imposes requirements not found under
state law. Hawai'i Revised Statutes (“HRS”) chapter 6E already provides a process
for protecting cultural resources and imposes strict requirements on proposed
development. The item should be removed prior to adoption.
November 4, 2021
Page 4
Eighth, the restrictions on “lifestyle estates” conflicts with state law. The plan
[p]roperty designated Agricultural that is used for
occurs.”
defines “lifestyle estate” as
luxury dwellings, such as second homes, where very little, if any, farming
WMCP at 166. The plan outright “prohibits” “lifestyle-estate style subdivisions” in
the Agricultural community plan designation and Policy 3.4.2 discourages “lifestyle
estates” in Areas of Stability. Id. at 81. The imposition of this policy is made
without regard to HRS chapter 205, which expressly authorizes “farm dwellings
agricultural land. The de facto ban of otherwise lawful uses is illegal and
inconsistent with the County zoning code.
on
Finally, in many respects, the WMCP fails to advance a legitimate state interest
and is arbitrary and capricious in contravention of substantive due process.
I will bring these issues to the attention of the County through the public
hearing and in other communications. It is my sincere hope that we can work
together to make the WMCP legal and equitable for all those who call West Maui
home.
Very truly yours.
Peter K. Martin
RECEIVED
ZO?! NOV -tj am 9: 10
_ C OO LIT I O n
► PUBLIC ACCESS TO SUNSCREENS OFFICE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
TO:
Maui County Council, Climate Action, Resilience and Environment Committee
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King, Chair
Councilmember Shane Sinenci, Vice Chair
FROM:
Lynn Miyahira representing Public Access to SunScreens (PASS) Coalition
DATE: Friday, November 5, 2021
TIME: 9:00 AM
PLACE: Via Videoconference
Re: CR 21-113 Bill to prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens
Position: OPPOSED
The Public Access to SunScreens (PASS) Coalition is a multi-stakeholder coalition composed of
public health groups, dermatologists, sunscreen manufacturers, and leading advocates for skin
cancer patients. The PASS Coalition opposes this measure as it will create additional barriers for
consumers to access their choice of safe, effective and FDA-approved sunscreens as a skin
cancer prevention tool.
We ask that the Maui County Council hold off on passing CR 21-113 or any other
legislation on sunscreen ingredients, until more data on environmental and public health
impacts are available.
The use of sunscreen is an important evidence-based sun-safe practice. It is well known that
utilizing comprehensive sun-safe practices is one of the most effective ways to reduce the risk of
skin cancer, including the regular use of sunscreen, wearing sun protective clothing, hats and
sunglasses, and seeking shade. Skin cancer prevention tools, such as broad-spectrum sunscreens
that protect against both UVA and UVB rays, must be combined with comprehensive
educational tools to ensure consumer awareness of the risks of skin cancer due to excessive
exposure.
Hawaii Residents Are at Higher Risk for Skin Cancer
Some notable skin cancer and sun safety behavioral statistics include:
● Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders suffer from double the melanoma mortality
rate than the State average'
sun
● In 2018, more than one in three Hawaii residents surveyed reported having a sunburn in
the last 12 months, nearly double from the previous year'' - and having just five or more
sunburns in your lifetime is known to double your risk for melanoma'"
● Researchers have found that just one blistering sunburn in childhood or adolescence
than doubles a person’s chance of developing melanoma later in life'''
● Hawaii has one of the highest daily UV index averages in the nation'' making protecting
residents from sun exposure a crucial public health issue
Science Touted by Sunscreen Ban Advocates Is Flawed
Despite the known risk of skin cancer, Hawaii and  ahandful of other jurisdictions have placed
restrictions on the sale of sunscreens based on limited laboratory testing that led policymakers to believe
banning sunscreen would improve coral reef health. The early studies, however, did not fully consider
the complexity of a coral reef system and had scientific limitations. Importantly, findings from a 2019
study by Dr. Carys Mitchelmore of the University of Maryland contradicts an earlier study by Dr. Craig
Downs that has been widely promoted by advocates of the sunscreen ban. Dr. Mitchelmore’s study uses
rigorous methodology and shows actual levels of oxybenzone sampled from sea water in Hawaii to be
141 times lower than previously stated by Dr. Downs, and 1,020 times below levels considered toxic
coral.'''
The limited studies that purported to show a link between sunscreen exposure and coral toxicity are
methodologically flawed and should not be used for evidence-based policy making based on EPA data
reliability standards. Subsequent follow-up studies with more rigorous analyses have not replicated the
work by Dr. Downs, and do not support the conclusions.
Congress Has Directed the National Academy of Sciences to Conduct a Comprehensive Study
For that reason, banning sunscreen will have little impact on protecting coral reef The
overwhelming consensus amongst the scientific community is that coral decline is primarily
caused by rising ocean temperature, ocean acidification, invasive species, land-based source
pollution, water quality issues due to poor wastewater management and other causes. As a result,
the United States Congress directed the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to evaluate the
latest science available on the correlation between coral reefs and sunscreens and the potential
public health impact of limiting access to sunscreen.
This NAS study, titled “Environmental Impact of Currently Marketed Sunscreens and Potential
Human Impact ol Changes in Sunscreen Usage,” will conduct an objective review of these issues
by leading scientific experts. The project description is as follows:
“Concerns have been raised about the potential toxicity of sunscreens to a variety of
marine and freshwater aquatic organisms, particularly corals. At the same time, there
are concerns that people will use less sunscreen rather than substituting
with UV filters that are considered environmentally safe. This study will review the
state of science on use of currently marketed sunscreen ingredients, their fate and
effects in aquatic environments, and the potential public health implications associated
with changes in sunscreen usage.
more
to
sunscreens
”VII
2
This study, sponsored by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, will examine research
concerning both the environmental and human health impacts of access to sunscreen. This
independent study will evaluate the scientific merit of current science and identify gaps i :
current understanding of coral reef environmental health and human health risks of skin
All NAS studies involve multiple strategies to reduce bias and to synthesize the best available
science.
in our
cancer.
NAS Study Should be Completed Before the Council Makes Further Decisions
Consumer Sunscreen Choice
on
The conclusion of this NAS study — expected in Spring 2022 — will inform future decisions of
policymakers to ensure access to sunscreens while also protecting the coral reefs. Until this study
is completed, legislation like CR 21-113 should be suspended as there are currently insufficient
data to inform a risk/benefit analysis between protecting the marine environment and protecting
the public s health. It is important that the Council wait for unbiased scientific analysis andconsensus.
FDA Advises Continued Use of Currently Marketed Sunscreens
In addition to the lack of peer-reviewed evidence on the environmental impact of sunscreens, the
impact on human health is also still being researched. On September 24, 2021, the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA), which regulates sunscreens as over-the-counter (OTC) drugs for the
prevention of sunburn and skin cancer, issued a final order^‘‘‘ that concluded that, “In the short
term, these new authorities essentially preserve status quo marketing conditions for these
sunscreens” and that “most sunscreens on the market are in compliance with the deemed final
order.” To be clear, this final order did not recommend any changes to currently marketed
sunscreens.
Earlier this year, the FDA also posted an article titled, “Shedding More Light on Sunscreen
Absorption'^” that explained that while the FDA was seeking more information on the absorption
levels of sunscreen ingredients, including avobenzone, oxybenzone, octocrylene, homosalate,
octisalate, and octinoxate, it still advises their continued use. The FDA clearly stated,
"Absorption does NOT equal risk - the FDA advises continued use of sunscreens” and noted
that:
“The findings in these studies do not mean that the FDA has concluded that any of the
ingredients tested are unsafe for use in sunscreens, nor does the FDA seeking further
information indicate such. The agency’s proposed rule requested additional safety
studies to fill in the current data gaps for these ingredients. The rule also proposed that
two active ingredients (zinc oxide and titanium dioxide) are generally recognized as safe
and effective for use in sunscreens, and additional data was not requested for them.
Given the recognized public health benefits of sunscreen use, the FDA strongly advises
all Americans to continue to use sunscreens in conjunction with other sun protective
measures (such as protective clothing) as this important rulemaking effort
forward
moves
3
The Hawaii state law signed in July 2018 already eliminated the OTC sale of the ingredients
oxybenzone and octinoxate. CR 21-113 would expand this ban to include the most utilized
alternative sunscreen ingredients and could potentially remove approximately 64% of the
sunscreens currently available in the United States from being sold in Hawaii.
On average, currently marketed mineral sunscreens can cost up to 30% more than other
sunscreens and this proposed bill could significantly reduce consumer choice of and access to
sunscreen in Hawaii. It is important to remember that sunscreen is not only used in the ocean, but
whenever people are outdoors doing activities such as hiking, golfing, walking, running, cycling
or working outside. This puts Hawaii residents at greater risk for skin cancer with only limited
peer-reviewed scientific evidence on sunscreen ingredients and its impact on environmental and
human health.
Again, we ask that the Council hold off on passing CR 21-113, or any other bill on
sunscreen ingredients, until more data on environmental and public health impacts areavailable.
If you have any questions about the PASS Coalition or the content of this testimony, please feel
free to contact me at Imivahira@iq360inc.com.
Mahalo you for the opportunity to testify.
Sincerely,
Lynn Miyahira
Public Access to SunScreens (PASS) Coalition
' http://vAvw.ha\vaiilioii]llim;ittcrs.ort’/indicalors/indcx/vic\v?iiulici)lorld=2389&[ocalcld~l‘l&loc:ilcC'liartl(Jxs=l%7C2%7C'4
'' hllp://ww\v.ha\vaiihcalthmaltor.s.org/indicators/indcx/vicw?indicalorld=3029&]ocaield^l4
https://w\v\v.skincnnccr.ora/skin-canccr-infonnatioii/skin-canccr-facls/
https://w\v\v.skincanccr.orti/skin-canccr-information/skin-canccr-racls/
Kttps://w\v\v.cpa,gov/siinsarclv7sun-safetv-monthlv-avcrat’c-uv-index
^ httPs://w\sAv.scicnccdiroct.com/scitfnce/articlc/nii/S00489697]93IOI25'>via%3Diluih
bttps://w\v\v.nationalacadcmics.org/our-work/environmcnlal-imnact-or-currenl]v-markctod-si]iiscrccns-and-notentia]-luiman-
impacts-of-changes-in-sunscreen-usage
hilDS:/Avw\vaccessdaia.fda.eov/scriDl!>/cdcr/omut7indcx crm'.>evcni--^Nc\vMonnL>ranh&!D=mi)67Vn7l-()MU48('(M55A816'’942l- SI^)CC'>7?
4A[-65E4585CB6C013RDn5n01F3&OMUFlI>OTC00()n()fi
hnps://\vww.fda.gov/nevvs-cvctH.s/fda-voices/shcdding-morc-liglH-suiiscrccn-absorntion
^ https://w\v\v.fda.gov/ncw.s-cvcnt.‘;/rda-voices/shcdding-morc-lighl-sunscrccn-ahsornlion
vm
4
CountyClet^ R I
HelpThanks <HelpThanks@protonmail.ch>
Thursday, November 4, 2021 10:00 AM
County Clerk
Council Meeting 11/5/21 Item CR21-113
From:
Sent: m\ NOV -q AH 10- 01
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from helpthanks@protonmail.ch. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council!
My name is Jonny Orlando. I am a clinical pharmacist and would like to testify in support of item CR 21-113 for meeting
schedules for 11/5/21
As I had stated in previous oral testimony. I would recommend the verbiage be changed to allowing ONLY the sale and
distribution of mineral sunscreens containing zinc oxide or titanium dioxide. Instead of prohibiting only oxybenzone and
octinoxate. This will help eliminate confusion over all the other chemicals that come in typical sunscreens. The other
chemicals often get marketed as "reef safe" and this may not be true in reality.
Mahalo!
Jonny Orlando, Pharm.D.
1
RECEIVEDNovember 3, 2021
im NOV -3 PH 12: 39Council Member Tamara Paltin
200 S. High St.
Kalana O Maui Building
Eight Floor
Wailuku, HI 96793
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
RE: Letter of Support for Aina Kupuna Bill. CR 21-95 and to include family corporations and
exempt "permitted activities" as a commercial purpose enabling Kukahiko Hale to pay
off its $177,495 property tax
Aloha Council Member Paltin,
As a sixth generation descendant of John and Kamaka Kukahiko and on behalf of my
three children who are their seventh generation,  Istrongly voice our support for ‘Aina Kupuna
Bill, CR 21-95.
We have been inherently gifted with something more valuable than money
gifted with land from our kupuna, who intended it to benefit our family for generations. We are
very fortunate to be one of the few Hawaiian families in Makena who have the luxury of still
calling this ‘aina our home and we are able to still directly connect with our kupuna because of
their physical presence at their gravesites at Keawala‘i Church and next to our ‘ohana’s home at
5034 Makena Road. In fact, when one speaks about Makena and its history, family names such
as Kukahiko and Lu‘uwai are mentioned as well because of our long-standing generational
history and perseverance.
we've been
It is critical that we be able to uphold the wishes of our kupuna and connect our
upcoming generation with those who came before them. I, personally, make it a point to take my
children to our kupuna gravesites, have them mahalo their kupuna with oli and remind my
children of who our kupuna were and how their gift of land has enabled us to still enjoy and have
a special place in Makena, despite all the changes that surround our family’s home.
It saddens my family greatly to see the development quickly grow around us. This affects
us not just physically but spiritually. We know that for these newcomers, they value the ocean
views and their expensive homes, yet they do not have a spiritual connection that lasts for
generations like ours. For us, having ‘aina, our kupuna near and knowing that we have a
significant place in the history of Makena to the point where even our ‘ohana names are
recognized as street names, this is our form of wealth.
As difficult of a decision that it must’ve been to have sold small family parcels in the
past, the foresight of those kupuna involved, combined these funds to build our ‘ohana’s dream
home. This is a home that brings our family together and makes our children feel special,
because they are. However, other homes that are valued in insurmountable amounts of millions
of dollars are located immediately on either side of our home and their home’s values and those
of the homes of others in Makena have caused our property taxes to skyrocket!
A huge downfall is that our family needs to be charged to stay in our own family’s home
to primarily help support the costs of these taxes. However, we’d gladly pay to have our funds go
more towards the maintenance of the home, which it direly needs. In addition, we have to use our
home for commercial purposes to try to keep up with the annual property taxes.
We know that we will always have to pay property taxes, but the impact of
overwhelmingly expensive homes that surround our family’s home, has caused the taxes to
become a huge burden that we struggle to pay. The pandemic has already caused a huge financial
burden for our family’s corporation and what will happen if we are unable to pay the taxes that
currently exceed $170,000? Will my children be denied the right to be on their land that they
have an inherent right to? Will we have to lose our family’s home where our kupuna rest
peacefully next to? Will money be the root of our seven generations’ demise???
I’m still supportive of using our home as a means to earn income to pay our taxes.
However, if the taxes were considerably lower, as  acredit/respect for our generational presence
and status within Makena, this would allow us to depend less on commercial use. We’d be able
to have the home available more frequently for our ‘ohana. Our ‘ohana could still financially
contribute toward the use of the home, but the family’s funds would be more of an investment in
our family’s future rather than the taxes caused by rich homeowners in the area. Above all else,
our next generation will be able to celebrate their land from their kupuna and alongside their
kupuna, John and Kamaka Kukahiko.
I strongly urge you to support ‘Aina Kupuna Bill, CR 21-95, include family corporations
and exempt "permitted activities" as a commercial purpose so our Kukahiko Hale can pay off its
$177,495 property tax.
Please look at this from a Hawaiian perspective, where the waiwai of our ‘ohana, is our
‘aina, our kupuna, our ‘aina kupuna.
Mahalo nui,
6^^ Generation Kukahiko Descendant
of John and Kamaka Kukahiko
8 RECEIVEDProducts CounciPersonal Care
m Committed to Sofety/jn,, itrtt, ^
Quality & Innovarf^* AH 7: 5i|
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKNovember 5, 2021
Via Electronic Mail
The Honorable Alice Lee
Chair, Maui County Council
200 South High Street, 8th Floor
Wailuku, HI 96793
Email: Alice.Lee@mauicountv.us
RE: Opposition to Proposed Legislation Banning Non-Mineral Sunscreens
Dear Chair Lee:
On behalf of the members of the Personal Care Products Council (PCPC),^ 1 am \A/riting to express our
opposition to CR 21-113, legislation to prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens.
This bill will lead to a serious public health issue by banning essential, safe and effective sunscreen
products that Hawaiians currently trust and rely on, particularly since the U.S. has a limited number of
approved ingredients to make these products.
The U.S. has Limited Number of Sunscreen Ingredients to Fight Skin Cancer
Sunscreens are a key factor in preventing and reducing the risk of skin cancer and damage from the
sun's ultraviolet (UV) rays. Public health organizations, including the American Cancer Society, American
Academy of Dermatology, the Mayo Clinic and the Skin Cancer Foundation, recommend using sunscreen
as part of a safe sun regimen. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Sun Safety
recommendations note the importance of daily sunscreen use, including on cloudy and overcast days, to
help prevent most skin cancers.
Sunscreen ingredients must be approved for use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and
are a crucial and well-recognized step in the fight against skin cancer and premature skin aging. The U.S.
has a limited number of approved organic sunscreen ingredients to make products that protect
consumers from the harmful effects of solar radiation. By banning all non-mineral sunscreens, the
County will be left with products containing only two of the available active ingredients. This will leave
no ability for consumer choice and could lead to  ashortage of available products.
Hawal'i Residents at Higher Risk for Skin Cancer
^ Based in Washington, D.C., the Personal Care Products Council (PCPC) is the leading national trade association representing global cosmetics
and personal care products companies. Founded in 1894, PCPC's 600 member companies manufacture, distribute and supply the vast majority
of finished personal care products marketed in the U.S. As the makers of a diverse range of products millions of consumers rely on and trust
every day - from sunscreens, toothpaste, and shampoo to moisturizer, makeup and fragrance - personal care products companies are global
leaders committed to product safety, quality and innovation.
1620 L Street NW, Ste. 1200 | Washington, DC 20036 | (202) 331-1770 | \vww.personalcarecouncil.or<i
Page 2 of 3
With Hawai'i's previous ban on some sunscreen active ingredients, the Maui County legislation would
further limit access to products that can help prevent skin cancer. Skin cancer is one of the most
common yet preventable cancers. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), four out of five
cases can be prevented by following safe sun practices, including using sunscreen regularly. Hawai'i
residents are at high risk for developing skin cancer. The American Cancer Society estimates that
melanoma, the most serious form of skin cancer, will be one of the leading causes of new cancer cases
in Hawai'i in 2021. Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders suffer from double the melanoma
mortality rate than the State average, according to Hawai'i Health Matters, an innovative web-based
community information tool developed by the Hawai'i Health Data Warehouse and the Hawai'i
Department of Health. Hawai'i has one of the highest daily UV index averages in the nation, making
protecting residents from sun exposure a health priority.
Legality of Proposed Ordinance in Question
Prior to adoption, we believe it is important to assess the legality of the proposed ordinance,
especially regarding jurisdictional authority, federal preemption, and commerce clause implications. As a
threshold matter, there is the question of whether the county has the authority to regulate consumer
behavior allegedly impacting offshore environmental resources. Such authority would seem to be
exclusively within the purview of Hawai'i's Department of Land and Natural Resources/Division of
Aquatic Resources, as set forth under the state's comprehensive and uniform scheme of statutory
regulation for this area of law. Likewise, there is the question of whether the ordinances are preempted
by the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which prohibit states and localities from establishing any
provision for nonprescription drugs that is different from or in addition to federal requirements. The
purpose of such preemption is to provide "national uniformity" with respect to product manufacturing
and composition, labeling, and advertising for nonprescription drugs. Similarly, since most sunscreens
are imported into Hawai'i from out of state, there are potential commerce clause ramifications with
Maui County's proposed ordinances that need to be investigated. Coupled with the logistical difficulty of
enforcing the bans proposed by these ordinances, we believe these legal concerns merit a detailed
examination before this committee can proceed with adoption.
Science on Coral Reefs and Sunscreens to be Evaluated by NAS
This ordinance also lacks the necessary scientific evidence to demonstrate that sunscreen ingredients
are responsible for Hawai'i's coral bleaching. There are well-recognized causes of coral reef decline in
Hawai'i and the rest of the world, including climate change, land-based pollution and other human
activities, such as physical damage to corals from recreational activities.
Policy decisions that will adversely impact public health should not be made ahead of a scientific
consensus on this issue. To reduce bias and to synthesize the best available science, the United States
Congress has directed the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to evaluate the correlation between coral
reefs and sunscreens and the potential public health impact of limiting access to sunscreens. This study,
sponsored by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, will examine research concerning both the
environmental and human health impacts of access to sunscreens. Making environmental management
decisions on sunscreens based on the current insufficient scientific data may lead to unintended health
consequences, such as fewer available sunscreens and an increase in the prevalence of skin cancer.
1620 L Street, NW, Suite 1200 * Washington, DC 20036 * 202.331.1770 * www.personalcarecouncil.org
Page 3 of 3
By passing this local ordinance, the Maui County Council will create confusion and potentially discourage
the use of sunscreens - an important part of a daily safe-sun regimen - putting consumers' health at
greater risk. We respectfully ask that you oppose CR 21-113.
Thank you for your consideration and the opportunity to comment.
Sincerely,
Karin Ross
Executive Vice President, Government Affairs
Cc:
Keani.Rawlins(g)mauicountv.us, Council Vice-Chair
Tasha.Kama@mauicountv.us. Presiding Officer Pro Tempore
Gabe.Johnson@mauicountv.us. Councilmember
Kellv.King@mauicountv.us. Councilmember
Mike.Molina@mauicountv.us. Councilmember
Tamara.Paltin(5)mauicountv.us, Councilmember
Shane.Sinenci@mauicountv.us, Councilmember
Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicountv.us. Councilmember
countv.clerk@mauicountv.us. Office of the County Clerk
1620 L Street, NW, Suite 1200 * Washington, DC 20036 * 202.331.1770 * www.personalcarecouncil.org
to PACIFIC WHALE FOUNDATIONProtecting the ocean through science and advocacy and inspiring environmental ste^rdship »
CTj g mCounty Council of Maui
November 5^^ 2021
CR21-113
o1m-< on
o
7^Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of counci^ j-
<
m'O
O✓N m o
My name is Shelby Serra and I am testifying today on behalf of Pacific Whale
Foundation, whose mission is to protect the ocean through science and advocacy,
and to inspire environmental stewardship.
I am testifying in support of CR 21-113.
Coral reefs are among the most biologically diverse ecosystems in the world,
supporting nearly one million species of algae, invertebrates, and fish. In Hawaii,
coral reefs house more than 7,000 known species of marine plants and animals,
almost 20% of which are endemic to Hawaii, they provide protection to our
coastlines from storm surge and hurricanes, and have over $33 billion in economic
value. The science is clear that many of the elements in chemical sunscreens are
harmful to coral and other marine life. Research has shown that some chemicals
commonly found in sunscreen can damage coral reefs by disrupting coral
reproduction, inhibiting growth, deforming coral DNA, and increasing the rate of
zooxanthellae viruses and coral bleaching.
In Dr. Downs' presentation to your committee last month, it was revealed that
adjustments to single polymers in a chemical compound used in a sunscreen can
yield a new compound but still have similar detriments to the ecosystem. However,
the change in name of that compound can exempt it from prohibiting law. By this
logic, implementing a law that allows only mineral-based sunscreens, such as those
based in zinc oxide and titanium dioxide, strengthens the intent of the legislation,
and disallows manufactures from finding loopholes by adjusting their chemical
compounds slightly.
According to the 2020 Hawai’i Ocean Resources Management Plan as well as the
Hawai'i Tourism Authority, around 10 million people visit Hawai'i every year. Of
this, it is reported that 80% of visitors take part in marine activities.
We must take swift action and take a different approach to sunscreen prohibitions
to ensure that we do not continue to add reef damaging chemicals into our waters,
harming our reefs and marine life, day after day.
Mahalo for your time
Shelby Serra
Pacific Whale Foundation
1
MAUI QC■ T'l
C3I
“i m
C 73CHAMBER OF COMMERCE mCD
oVOICE OF BUSINESS I
V/l
Oo ZK
mm 'PCR 21-107
Limit Short Term Rental Home Permits
Friday, November 5, 2021
OXI Xm o
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We think there are many good elements in this bill and we understand some of the
thinking on B&Bs that new owners need time to get to know their neighborhoods. We
can also see the industry’s point that neighborhoods are already accepting of the B&Bs
that currently have permits as they have already gone through the process and are
established. We recognize the potential hardship that would come from the possibility of
devaluing someone’s home and business at a time when they really need to sell, if the
permit will not transfer over.
Therefore, we ask that you hear the industry’s concerns and work with them toward a
winning solution.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui's unique
community characteristics.
I808-2444)081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChambencoi62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 k
received
mi m -i) AH 9:10
office of the
COUNTY CLERK
RETAIL
MERCHANTS
OF HAWAII
TESTIMONY OF TINA YAMAKI, PRESIDENT
RETAIL MERCHANTS OF HAWAII
November 5, 2021
Re: 21-113- CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
TO PROHIBIT THE SALE, USE, OR DISTRIBUTION OF NON-MINERAL SUNSCREENS INCLUDING THOSE CONTAINING
OXYBENZONE, OaiNOXATE,OR BOTH.
Good morning Chairperson Lee and members of Maui County Council. I am Tina Yamaki, President of the Retail
Merchants of Hawaii and I appreciate this opportunity to testify.
The Retail Merchants of Hawaii was founded in 1901, RMH is a statewide, not for profit trade organization committed to
the growth and development of the retail industry in Hawaii. Our membership includes small mom & pop stores, large
box stores, resellers, luxury retail, department stores, shopping malls, local, national, and international retailers, chains,
and everyone in between.
We are opposed to 21-113 -Climate Action. Resilience. And Environment Committee recommendation to prohibit the
sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens including those containing oxybenzone, octinoxate, or both; that
would prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of non-mineral sunscreens including those containing oxyben
octinoxate, or both.
This measure would go beyond the already current state law banning sunscreens with oxybenzone, octinoxate.
Hawaii is known for its many sunny days and many residents and visitors who uses sunscreen include little leaguers,
hikers, golfers, soccer and baseball players, and joggers to name a few. With the pandemic we are seeking more
people and families enjoying outdoor sports biking, playing outside, and going to the park. Sunscreen is not just used for
beach and other water activity purposes. Sunscreen also comes in many forms that include not only lotions and
sprays, but also in foundation makeup, lipsticks, lip balm and more.
Many of us do not go to the beach but wear sunscreen daily to protect ourselves from the effects of the sun like skin
cancer - the most common form of cancer. Every year there are more cases of skin cancer in the United States than
incidences of breast cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer, and colon cancer combined. One out of five Americans will
develop skin cancer in their lifetime, and one person dies of melanoma (the deadliest form of skin cancer) every hour.
Most melanomas are caused by the sun, and a person's risk of melanoma doubles if he or she has had more than five
sunburns.
zone,
We may also run the risk of people no longer wearing sunscreen and thus increasing their chances of skin cancer. This
ban would also penalize those who do not go to the beach but use sunscreen on a regular basis like hikers, golfers,
tennis players and joggers to name a few. Sunscreen products should be affordable and accessible first line of defense
for individuals seeking protection from the sun's cancer-causing UV rays. Banning the sale of these products will
drastically reduce the selection of sunscreen products available in Hawaii as well as compel local residents to purchase
products online or not use sunscreen at all and our visitors to bring their own in their suitcases. How many will actually
take time off from work, pay a co-payment to see  adoctor and then wait in the pharmacy to a get a prescription for
suntan lotion? Not to mention having to pay for the sunscreen because insurance may not cover it.
For these reasons, we respectfully urge you to hold this bill.
Mahalo again for this opportunity to testify.
^ 3610 Waialae Ave ● Honolulu, HI 96816 (808) 592-4200 ^ tyamaki@rmhawaii.org
Executive Officers
Charlie Gustafson, Tamura Super Market, Chair
Eddie Asato, Pint Size Hawaii. Vice Chair
Gary Okimoto, Safeway, Secreiary/Treas.
Lauren Zirbel, HFIA, Executive Director
John Schliff, Rainbow Sales and Marketing, Advisor
Stan Brown. Acosta Sales & Marketing, Advisor
Paul Kosasa, ABC Stores. Advisor
Derek Kurisu, KTA Superstores, Advisor
Toby Taniguchi, KTA Superstores, Advisor
Joe Carter, Coca-Cola Bottling of Hawaii, Immediate Past Chair
HFIAHAWAII FOOD INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION
1050 Bishop St. PMB 235 | Honolulu, HI 96813
P: 808-533-1292 | e: info@hawaiifood.com
ocOTO;  "n
c "n mC3
FROM: HAWAII FOOD INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION
Lauren Zirbel. Executive Director OIm-< moo “T3
DATE:
TIME:
PLACE:
Friday, November 5, 2021
9am
Online
m
7J X
m
mNO
a
RE: No 21-113 FIRST READING of bill to prohibit the sale, use, or distribution of non
sunscreens including those containing oxybenzone, octinoxate, or both
mineral
Position: Oppose
The Hawaii Food Industry Association is comprised of two hundred member companies
representing retailers, suppliers, producers, and distributors of food and beverage related
products in the State of Hawaii.
The HFIA proposes that since this bill would ban many products that are used to prevent skin
cancer, that a higher standards of review should be conducted to ensure that taking this action
would indeed improve outcomes for reefs. The State of Hawaii recently conducted an
information review from top Hawaii scientist studying our reefs. The presenters discussed,
increased water temperatures, run-off, sewage and overfishing.
A study released on March 1,2018 on the human and natural impacts on coral reefs'* used 10
years worth of data to learn about what is negatively affecting our reefs. This study concluded
that overfishing, sedimentation, coastal development, and runoff are the biggest threats to
Hawaii’s corals. The study did not cite any sunscreen ingredients as posing dangers to our
reefs.
This measure will hurt local retailers by encouraging consumers to buy their favorite
sunscreens online, where it is unlikely this law will be enforceable. The promotion of this bill
1 hltp://www.hawaiinewsnow.com/story/37628769/researchers-map-out-the-impact-of-humans-
environment-on-hawaiis-coral-reefs
Advancing the integration of spatial data to map human and natural drivers on coral reefs
http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/joumial.pone.0189792#sec012
will adversely impact human heath, serving only to deaminize wearing sunscreen, and
increase peoples risk of skin cancer.
We care about offering products individuals feel comfortable with and which are affordable for
use on a daily basis to prevent skin cancer. Many products that have sun protection factor,
such as lotions, tinted moisturizers, and anti-aging products are intended for daily use in small
amounts. These products are not used in large quantities anywhere near the ocean. However,
all of these products would be unnecessarily banned under this bill, as would other federally
approved and regulated healthcare products. Having access to these products is especially
important here in Hawaii where the rate of skin cancers, including deadly melanoma, is
significantly higher than on the mainland.^
Given that this ban would not alleviate the known primary causes of coral bleaching, and that it
would deprive people of products they use to prevent possibly life threatening skin cancers, we
do not think the potential benefit is worth the risk and we ask that this measure be held.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
^ http://www.staradvertiser.conV2018/02/28/editorial/island-voices/heathy-people-healthy-places
include-sunscreen/