MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-08-06
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1350,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MiMUIiS
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
August 6, 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY. AUGUST 6. 2021.
BEGINNING AT 9:00 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
August 6, please come to order.
Morning, Members. I have the greeting in the chat. So, just feel free to go there. And
so, bonjour for now.
Kathy, roll call.
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Good morning. Chair.
ROLL CALL
COUNCILMEMBERS GABRIEL JOHNSON. KELLY T. KING.
MICHAEL J. MOLINA, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, SHANE M.
SINENCI, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER NATALIE A. KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, everyone.
And Madam Clerk, we, can you mention how many people we have here today, and
who's here, and who's absent, who's excused?
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. There are eight Members present; one, one excused;
and no Members are absent. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the
Council.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 2
For the record, I am Kathy Kaohu, County Clerk; and also present from the Office of
the County Clerk is Deputy County, Deputy County Clerk James Krueger; and from our
Legislative Division staff Joyce Murashige and Lauren Saldana.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anything else for new rules?
COUNTY CLERK: Not at this point. Just proceeding with opening remarks.
CHAIR LEE: And this morning, opening remarks will be provided by Councilmember Kelly
King.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Kelly King
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member King, for those thought-provoking remarks.
Now, at this time, I invite all of you to join me with the Pledge to Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: I'd like to ask, before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request
that everyone keep their microphones muted unless it is your turn or time to speak.
Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
So, now, we're about to set the calendar. Members, at this time, we will set the Consent
Calendar. Are there any requests to change the Consent Calendar? None? Okay,
well, as a reminder. Members, you can add or remove items to the Consent Calendar.
And then, so at this time, are there any objections to setting the Consent Calendar,
even though at a later time during the, let's say after testimony, you can still make
changes. But at this point, are there any objections to setting the Consent Calendar
as is?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 3
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Ms. Kaohu, please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda items.
Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting by
phone or video conference through the information posted on today’s agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for
three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
Following your testimony, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the testimony
period is closed, only Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource persons will be
connected to the meeting through BlueJeans. All other individuals will be
disconnected. The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Channel 53 or
on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting
at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person listed to testify is Darlene Lesiak. To be followed by Keisa Liu.
PRESENTATION OF WRITTEN TESTIMONY
MS. DARLENE LESIAK (testifying on County Communication No. 21-392)
Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MS. LESIAK: Hi. My name is Darlene Lesiak and I’m going to be testifying on CC 21-392.
Aloha and good morning, everyone. First off, thank you to Councilmember Molina and
his office for meeting with us over the past several months, listening to us and for
making this meeting happen. We are beyond grateful.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 4
I'm sure you've heard about the problems of the activities of the baseyard from the
community report we've submitted, plus other people testifying today. So, I’m going to
use my couple of minutes talking about a solution. We were told that the increase of
activity behind our house was due to losing another staging area, which we have come
to find out was the old Makawao Landfill. The increase of activities include the use of
heavy machinery, so much so that it shakes our house and fills our homes with
exhaust.
Now, back to the old Makawao Landfill, known as the Makani Landfill. We were told
that due to the post-closure plan that the County could no longer use that site as a
staging area for this heavy machinery and piles of gravel, asphalt, storm debris, etc.
As a resident, my research is limited to the internet. But I was able to find copies of
the post-closure plan for the Makani Landfill, as well as the post-closure plan for the
Central Maui Landfill.
The Central Maui Landfill's post-closure plan, last amended in 2019, prepared by
A-Mehr, Incorporated reads as this, "portions of the closed landfill areas may be
developed for permissible activities associated with the County's Solid Waste
Management Program, including equipment storage or uses, maintenance for
vehicles, storage yard, or refuse collection vehicles."
The Makani Landfill post-closure plan prepared by Parametrix, Inc. in August of '91
has no amendments, reads as this, "Final land use will be natural open space, with the
inclusion of passive recreational facilities possible in the future". My request is simple.
For the County Council to vote and amend the Makani Landfill post-closure plan to
Include verbiage the Central Maui Landfill's post-closure plan, "equipment storage or
use of maintenance and vehicle storage yard for refuse collection vehicles". That way
the heavy equipment and staging can move back to the Makani Landfill as soon as the
amendment is made. Storage of garbage trucks can move there too, and it would be
a win-win for everyone. Perhaps the existing baseyard remains, remains a place for
some County activity. The current offices can stay, but perhaps other County activity
could be there as well, which is much more appropriate for a residential neighborhood.
Or best yet, it could provide a much-needed place for children, like a playground.
Again, I'm begging you to vote to amend the Makani Landfill's post-closure plan and
move the heavy machinery back there. If the space is used, been used for that before,
it seems like an easy solution for everyone. We've tried a lot of other avenues; we've
prepared reports and letters. And although some amazing changes have happened,
big ones still need to take place. Please work your County Council magic to make this
happen. Thank you for your time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 5
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions for the testifier? I don't see
any. So, thank you--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE; --very much.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: May we have the next one?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair Lee?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I would like to ask her a question. This is Yuki.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I don't see you anymore. Okay. So, thank you very much
for testifying. I hope this item gets referred to my Committee, as i have Environmental
Management Department as a, as a, in my Committee. But your testimony, you have
it prepared and submitted? And if not, could you?
MS. LESIAK: Oh, submit it. You mean, written submission?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Send it to us? Yea, uh huh.
MS. LESIAK; Oh, yes. Absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
MS. LESIAK: Sure. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk, next.
MS. LESIAK: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 6
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Keisa Liu. And Keisa will be followed by Jerry Gibson.
MS. KEISA LIU (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Aloha, Chair Lee, Councilmembers. My name is Keisa Liu, and I am here to testify on
CC 21-377, a notification of veto of the moratorium .... I normally come with prepared
statements, but I, I didn't this time, mostly because I was hoping that this would just
get pushed through, you know? That we wouldn't have to be here again, you know?
I, I kind of feel like the public is this child in between two parents arguing about what is
best for the child, when you talk about the Mayor, Mayor's Office, and the Council. And
you know, from the Mayor, I saw the, the reason why he vetoed it. And it basically
sounded like, well, you're not doing enough, so we shouldn't do anything. And from
the Council, it felt like, well, you're not doing anything, we should probably do
something.
You know, and I, it kind of appeared like it was steeped in logic, his reasonings to veto,
which he brought forward. But you know. I'm just going to be honest, kind of feels like
a stalling tactic. That's what it feels like. It feels like he's trying to put you all in your
place. That's what it feels like, you know? That's the reality. And I think, well, if you
guys didn't do the moratorium and you guys worked together and talked, how long is
that going to take? I've seen the way you all work together, it takes a while. Do you,
even if you doing everything right, it takes a while. You got to go through a whole
bunch of steps in order to get one thing passed. We don't have that kind of time. And
I don't understand why you all can’t do a moratorium and talk. Like can't you all just
stop something? And then you ail work together for a little bit during that moratorium
and figure things out? Like, why can’t you do both? I don't, I don't understand.
And it's really frustrating and disheartening to have to come back over and over again
to say the same thing over and over again. But we're tired. We are dealing with enough
right now. And we don't have the staff or the systems in place to support us to
continually come here and .... We're dealing with  apandemic, y'all, the uncertainty
that comes with that, on top of overtourism. So, we need you to help us out. We voted
you in to be our voices. And I really, really appreciate Councilmember King's
statements today. I look to you to do those things that are right for us, because we are
too busy dealing with all of this right now to be able to continually say, what you already
heard us say, which is we need the moratorium. So, I'm asking you all to please, vote
it to go through. And for the Mayor, man, I see you. I see what you doing and that
ain't for us. Please, Councilmembers, do right for us. Mahalo for your time and
consideration.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 7
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Keisa. Are there any questions for the testifier? If not, thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Did you have your hand up? I didn't see it. Do you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, never mind. I just was, one guy was unmuted and there
was like weird noise. But it looks like he got muted, so never mind. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: That's okay.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yea, just a reminder to our testifiers
signed on, to just, if, if you are muted, please stay muted. So, I, I saw that staff muted
the person who was unmuted. And then, that person got unmuted again. So, if the
person can stay muted, when staff mutes you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for that reminder.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jerry Gibson. Followed by Aja Eyre.
MR. JERRY GIBSON. HAWAI‘1 HOTEL ALLIANCE ftestifvina on Countv Communication
No. 21-337):
Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Honorable Members of the Maui
County Council. My name is Jerry Gibson, Hawaii Hotel Alliance President, testifying
on CC 21-377. I am speaking on behalf of Hawaii Hotel Alliance's member
organizations on Maui and across the State in opposition to Bill 60 which imposes a
two-year moratorium on building permits to visitor accommodations in South and West
Maui.
HHA understands and shares the concerns voiced by those who want to manage the
negative impacts of tourism. We, too, have seen the changing trends in visitor
behavior: primarily tourists shifting from hotels in resort areas to vacation rentals in
residential neighborhoods, and how it is impacting Maui residents. However, similar
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 8
to comments voiced by Mayor Victorino, HHA shares concerns that Bill 60 \n\W not
regulate vacation rentals. Accordingly, Bill 60 will have severe economic impacts on
Maui’s recovering hotel industry without properly addressing the fastest growing
segment within the visitor accommodations industry.
In our previous comments on Bill 60, arid in response to the numerous other recent
moratoria proposals, HHA has offered our clear commitment to work with the Council
to understand and address root causes of some residents’ concerns about tourism.
However, we cannot support the Council’s efforts to rapidly advance Bill 60 which is
unlikely to accomplish its intended objectives.
Instead, we suggest reexamining the number of legal vacation rentals allowed by the
County, shutting down illegal rentals and prioritizing responsible hotel development in
areas intended for tourism. New projects in resort areas, like parts of South and West
Maui, fund new infrastructure and initiatives and benefit the surrounding communities
and the visitors they serve; from workforce housing to new bike paths, roads, street
lights, water, sewer lines, and replenishing beaches.
Furthermore, HHA shares Maui Mayor Victorino's concerns regarding significant legal
issuesraised at previous hearings. HHA respectfully asks the Council to carefully
consider the legal flaws outlined in the legal opinion submitted by HHA on May 25,
2021.
In sum, HHA supports the Mayor’s veto of Bill 60 and strongly opposes the measure,
strongly opposes the measure. HHA welcomes the opportunity to work together
toward a more sustainable tourism future for the island. We believe that it is possible
to manage the negative impacts of tourism industry without a moratorium that would
jeopardize Maui’s fragile economic recovery and hurt local families who depend on a
paycheck from a job in hospitality, construction, or skilled trade. Mahalo for your time
and consideration .... Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Gibson. Are there any questions?
Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha. Mr. Gibson.
MR. GIBSON: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: A question. It sounds like you don’t buy into the fact that we have
overtourism on our island, or in our County.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 9
MR. GIBSON: No, that's incorrect. I think, I think that we have a lot of tourists . . . Maui
County. But I do--
COUNCILMEMBER KING; --support, support HTA's position that we have to reduce tour, the
number of tourists coming here?
MR. GIBSON; But I think, I think if you look back, Councilmember, to seven, eight years ago
when we didn't have all of the transient vacation units that we have now. Right now,
6,000-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm not. I'm not speaking about-
MR. GIBSON; -illegal-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Because I believe those are, or we've been told less than 200, in
number, the illegal ones. But if you believe that we have too many tourists here, how
do you think you're going to help the situation by building more resorts and hotels?
MR. GIBSON: I think the way to help it is to definitely concentrate on the illegal and legal
transient vacation units, because that is where the challenges are, I believe, on Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so-
MR. GIBSON: I don't believe, Councilmember-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -Planning Department, there, they have taken care of the
majority of illegals and gotten that number down below 200 in Maui County. You don't
believe that. . .
MR. GIBSON: I, I would honestly beg to differ that it's not just 200. I think that it is more than
that. And I would like to work with you and the Counci land show you that it’s more
than 200, if I would be allowed to do that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well, I would invite you to work with the Planning
Department, too. because those statements came directly from the Planning
Department.
MR. GIBSON: Yes. Then. I could help, I could help with that as well and I would be more
than willing to, to do so. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; On top of that, you believe we should, we need more rooms in
Maui County, more hotel rooms?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 10
MR. GIBSON; I think in the tourism zones, if done well and if there is a need for them, and
that, and that, you know, we'd have the proper scrutiny and permitting, 1 don't see that
in the future, if that is something that needs to be done. I don't see a problem with that
at all.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I guess that's the, the difference is who decides that there's
a need or not? Alright.
MR. GIBSON; Definitely.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair.
MR. GIBSON: Thank you so much. I appreciate your time.
CHAIR LEE: Members, 1 want to remind you that the questions should be getting, getting
clarification from the speaker, not giving clarification. Thank you.
So, may we have the next testifier?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Aja Eyre. To be followed by Jonah Eyre.
MS. AJA EYRE [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-377 & 21-392; and Bill
Nos. 67 (2021) & 68 (2021)1:
Is it possible, possible to testify off the phone?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. EYRE: Or can you guys hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE: You can testify off the phone, but we can hear you right now.
MS. EYRE: Alright. Let's just, let's just go for that. Alright. Let's just go for that. Aloha. My
name is Aja Eyre, and 1 am a resident of Makawao.  Iwould like to testify on County
Communication 22-392 [sic], relating to the impacts of and solutions to noxious uses
at the Makawao Baseyard, which affects our residential neighborhood.
I have lived for 10 years with the County baseyard as my direct backyard neighbor.
There are half a dozen garbage trucks packed, parked 20 feet from my house. For
I have tried to work with the Highways Department, Department of Publicmany years
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 11
Works, and the Refuse Office on solutions to the constant noise, garbage truck smell,
and trash blowing into our yard. More than that, however, is the exhaust from idling
trucks and air pollution caused by construction activities. My husband has contracted
chronic lung problems. The children from up and down our safe and well-kept street
like to play outside. But more and more frequently the smell and exhaust leaves them
with burning noses and eyes and so they retreat inside. And if that wasn't bad enough,
the construction and activity at the baseyard has more than doubled in the last three
years. So, this has only increased.
Every morning between 4:15 and 4:45 a.m. my family is awoken by the garbage trucks
starting up and idling for five to ten minutes. State ordinance prohibits idling trucks.
But I have timed idling trucks at close to an hour; an hour of exhaust filling our
100-year-old home rumbling the walls. If you can imagine, it was often impossible for
our five children to be in their classes online last year. It was very, very noisy. And if
any of you have been on meetings with me in the afternoons, you know what a
challenge it is to live peaceably next to so much unnecessary idling truck noise.
My husband's family lives directly on the other side of the baseyard, on the north side.
And they also deal with noise, and especially the increased traffic over the last few
years that moves in and out of the baseyard onto Makawao Avenue. The trucks pull
out over a 200-foot span of road frontage that's just open. So, they can pull out
anywhere they want. So, basically, my niece and nephew have to be extremely
cautious for three to five minutes of walking along this 200-foot stretch of open
roadway, basically. And neighbors as far away as Piikea Road, which is two streets
over from the baseyard, reported new layers of soot and dust covering their homes
since the increase of activity.
I could go on and on. I just, we really appreciate Councilmember Molina's attention to
this, and the help that he’s given us, and also the Mayor's Office, to help our community
with the baseyard. We just ask that the Council send this item to Committee. And,
and appreciate Councilmember Sugimura's willingness to do that, because this is a
problem that we haven't been able to find any resolution. Even just getting it better
has been very difficult. So, I appreciate your vote to move this.
As far as the other items on the agenda, I just would like to briefly voice my support
again to Bill 60 and the override of the veto.
And I also want to support Bill 67, which relates to the restriction of the sale of
disposable bodyboards.
And the support of Bill 68, the restriction of foam coolers. And mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 12
CHAIR LEE; Okay. You got in a lot of information. Any questions, Members? If not. thank
you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jonah Eyre. Followed by Kimo Falconer.
MR. JONAH EYRE (testifying on County Communication No. 21-392):
Hi.
CHAIR LEE; Hi.
MR. EYRE: My name is Jonah Eyre. My, you just heard from my wife, who's more well-
spoken than I am. But I just want to testify that this is the baseyard, what's the number
it? Anyway, this one she was just talking about. Is definitely a persisted, a per,
pervasive, and, and ongoing and getting worse problem. So, it's something that I would
hope that would be able to move forward and go to the next level and be able to be
talked about more seriously, so we can take some action on it. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any questions for the testifier? If not, thank you very much.
on
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kimo Falconer. To be followed by Kent Rayhill.
MR. KIMO FALCONER. MAUI COUNTY FARM BUREAU (testifying on Committee Report
No. 21-56):
Good morning. Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Can you hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can. Good morning.
MR. FALCONER; Okay. Good morning. My testimony today is on item CR 21-56. My name
is Kimo Falconer. I'm a farmer here on Maui for over 42 years. And I'm testifying as a
volunteer member of the board of directors for the Maui County Farm Bureau. Our
members include all types and sizes of farmers throughout the County. Thank you for
the opportunity to review and comment on the proposed ordinance to ban non-organic
pesticides and fertilizers on County property. I'm going to summarize our submitted
written testimony that is more detailed. So, I'm going to break that down.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 13
The Maui County Farm Bureau supports reducing risk to people and environment
through the science and evidence-based policies and regulations. We are concerned
that this bill is not based on those principles. And we respectfully request that it be
returned to Committee for a more thorough vetting. This bill is not based on safety and
health or science, it arbitrarily bans non-organic pesticides and fertilizers, even though
organic pesticides and fertilizers are not necessarily safer than non-organic ones.
The Department testified that organic pesticides are not as effective as the ones
proposed to be banned. Taking effective tools away from the County departments will
severely hamper their ability to combat weeds, insects, and species that transmit
diseases, and that in turn will affect farms near County roads and other County
properties throughout Maui.
Although the current bill is not intended to impact agriculture, we believe this measure
will hurt farmer's ability to grow food and other crops. This is a mainland-based bill,
but Maui is not the mainland. We don't have a cold winter season here where pests
die off. More and more pests get introduced to the islands every month and they
proliferate. In many cases, we don't have the biological predators to keep these pests
in check. The weeds, insects, diseases; they'll become more established and
impossible to control. If not controlled, they can easily spread to parks, and roads, and
surrounding areas including farms and ranches. And there are many examples of
introduced species devastating our watersheds, farms, ranches, and residential area.
The County has testified that the bill is unnecessary because they have already
significantly reduced their use of pesticides. However, they still need the ability to use
amounts of safe and effective pesticides if the need arises in order to
maintain parks and roadways. We too are concerned about roadways that become
overgrown by grasses and brush that will obstruct the driver's vision and cause
accidents. The Department testified that mechanical methods of controlling weeds will
require more staffing and expose workers to extremely dangerous conditions when
used on busy roadways. And to address these concerns, we respectfully request that
the bill be returned to Committee. And 1 thank you and 1 give you mahalo for supporting
Maui’s farmers and ranchers. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thankyou. Any questions for the testifier? If not, thank you, Mr. Falconer.
Next, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Kent Rayhill. To be followed by Mike Moran.
minimum
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 14
MR. KENT RAYHILL (testifying on County Communication No. 21-392):
Good morning. Aloha and good morning. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My
name is Kent Rayhill and I'm here to testify concerning CC 21-392, which relates to the
increased heavy equipment and construction staging activity in the Makawao
Baseyard. As far as I know, this is the only baseyard in the State that shares borders
with residential homes. I live in one of those homes. Heavy equipment activity begins
at 3 a.m. and continues throughout the day and sometimes on nights and weekends.
Garbage trucks are backed into spaces with their hoppers 20 feet from homes, so even
when the baseyard is closed, the smell of garbage fills the neighborhood. Those
garbage trucks sit and idle from as early as 4:15 a.m. until 5 or 5:15, five mornings a
week.
On a daily basis, noise laws and idling truck laws are broken. After closing time, the
large unsecured portion of the baseyard becomes an attractive place for a variety of
illegal activity, including dumping, drug use, and even violent crimes. It was not always
like this. We have been told for three years, by some departments, that this is all
temporary because their old staging site was shut down. However, other department
heads in the County flat out tell us that there is no new activity, which is untrue and
easily disproved. Even if the activity has always been the same, that is no excuse for
the laws that are broken every day.
Not only has the baseyard become an excessive nuisance to the neighborhood, I also
feel that the County has put the workers in a bad position. They are asked to operate
massive trucks and carry out tasks like crushing boulders, or loading gravel, literally a
few feet away from residential homes. How can they be expected to work in these
conditions so close to residents? Their engines alone already break the noise laws
before they even move a single boulder.
I believe the addition of a large 13-foot dust barrier has the unfortunate effect of
allowing the County to forget there are homes and good people just a few feet away
on the other side. The dust barrier is another thing that was supposed to be temporary.
But three years later, it's still looming over our neighborhood. It doesn't even stop the
dust.
There is so much more I could go over, but I don't have time. So, I, I hope you will all
read the detailed report we submitted. I'd be happy to go into greater detail at any time
if anyone wants more information. Councilmember Molina and Laura McDowell, along
with the Mayor's Chief of Staff Tyson Miyake, have been instrumental in helping our
neighborhood be heard. And some positive changes have occurred. However, they
can only do so much, and this is why I'm here today, to ask that the County Council
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 15
helps our neighborhood get back to normal again. As private citizens, we can only do
so much. So, we ask the County Council to help us take the next steps to fix this
problem. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any Members with questions? Questions? If not, thank you very
much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Mike Moran. To be followed by the testifier identified
as 2280.
[testifying on CountyMR. MIKE MORAN, KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION
Communication Nos. 21-377, 21-386, & 21-388: Committee Report No. 21-56: and Bill
Nos. 65 (2021), 67 (2021). 68 (2021). & 69 (2021)1:
Mike Moran, for the Kihei CommunityAloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers.
Association. We have a laundry list of items, but we'll try and zip through them very
briefly, so that your, your Friday can be happy aloha and not too extensive and
excruciating.
So, four bills on second and final reading, we are in support of all of those. Very briefly,
69 on the short-term rentals. Yes, let's, if you haven't filled up the amount by now, let's
cut it at the current state. That sounds fine to our community.
Yes, one more piece of68, the foam coolers, we have testified several times,
styrofoam that we don't need. We can get rid of that.
67, the disposal bodyboards goes right hand in hand. Our semi-retired ocean safety
officer on the Council has seen it way more than we did, being at the beach every day.
But even as an occasional beach user, all of us see these broken up things we don't
need. So, thank you for that one.
And 65, our only comment to that is it seems so discouraging that we have to keep
looking at this year after year. Everybody knows how dangerous it is at Oneloa, Big
Beach. And, you know, why doesn't the State just step forward and either put their
own lifeguards in or make a permanent payment system, so you don’t have to go
through this year after year? But fortunately, you're doing it. They won't do it, you are
taking care of the community, the safety.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 16
Okay. Moving up to 21-56 on the pesticide. We had mentioned going back to Rachel
Carson's in our previous testimony. We still feel the same way. It's only on County
property, yes. Please proceed with that.
21-388, which 1 think is just a communication. Yes, let's keep any, we don't need any
more commercial activities on our County beaches. So yes, please get that to the
proper Committee and take action on that one.
21-386, we have been in complete support of these advisory committees. And we
have participated in a volunteer one for over two years under Councilmember King's
leadership. And now, looking at alternatives, yes, there's plusses and minuses to this.
But we tried to look at some of the existing boards and commissions now that have a
couple of alternatives. And we happen to have a member who served as an alternative
of those, for whatever his term was two or three years. He said he was called
to participate in every single meeting, as an alternative. So, it certainly, and it, you
know, it can inhibit meetings being canceled because they can't get quorum or having
bare quorum and then not being able to reach a decision. So overall, it looks like
something to, to try. And like everything else, it's not going to be there in stone. If it
doesn't work, maybe it can be adjusted. But we think that's a prudent move to examine.
And accord, then for most of the community, at least certainly for South Maui and West
Maui, the big issue today is 21-377. We have been in support of that all along. We
honestly were a bit surprised that the Mayor chose to veto it, seeing what the Council
vote had been, knowing that if, if Councilmembers were consistent, they could simply
override the veto. So, we weren't quite sure what his motivation was in taking this
action. He has spoken to explain his position. And we, too, Councilmember King
mentioned Professor Dick Mayer's Viewpoint this morning, we too were reading that
and applauding it as we were reading it. So yes, please do the override and get this
going so we can at least, you know, stop digging the hole that we're already in. So,
thank you for allowing me to testify on that long list. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mike. Any questions for Mr. Moran? If not, you have a great Friday,
on one
too.
MR. MORAN: Thank you. Chair. Happy weekend all. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is identified as 2280, the last four digits of their
telephone number. To be followed by Lee Evslin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 17
CHAIR LEE: Again, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: 2280.
MS. ANN PICAITHLEY (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. PITCAITHLEY: Aloha kakahiaka. My name is Ann Picaithley. I've lived here for
32 years. I'm testifying in reference to County Communications 21-377. 1 urge you all
to override the Mayor's, Mayor's veto of the visitor accommodation moratorium bill.
After all, this is just a two-year pause, giving time until relevant community plans are
enacted.
The massive influx of tourists coming to Maui is unsustainable. The public turned out
in large numbers to testify in support of this bill. The Hawaii Tourism Authority survey
results reflect resident's dissatisfaction. We've heard from lobbyists groups, including
the Chamber of Commerce, who's does not take the rights of residents into
consideration, or the environmental factors. Overtourism creates negative impact for
the environment, in terms of the impacts. Overtourism contributes to an increase in
water consumption, pollution, litter and waste, damage to our fragile ecosystems.
Maui is housing insecure. Permitting new short-term rentals creates fewer long-term
rentals for our residents. Maui is food insecure. Not only are we almost entirely
dependent on imported food, but in the event of a hurricane or other disaster, ships
may be curtailed. Our infrastructure is strained. Our airports are overcrowded. Our
roads are clogged with bumper-to-bumper traffic, and there was a great picture of that
in today's Maui News. There's often no parking spaces at parks or other destinations,
and our restaurants are overwhelmed. We have only one hospital. We have limited
medical care, a severe physician shortage, and limited emergency services; which
includes fire, police, and medical emergencies.
The Maui Island Plan that was adopted in 2012, that limits the visitor population to
33 percent of the resident population, must be put in force. By 2019, the Maui island's
average daily visitor count had reached over 42 percent, exceeding the, the 42 percent
of the resident population, which exceeds the Maui Island Plan policy. We cannot offer
tourists a quality vacation experience in these overcrowded conditions. Then what
also must be considered that when cruise ships return to Hawaii, or to Maui, and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 18
countries who are currently in lock-down open up again for entry to the U.S., this can
only compound the problem.
Also, I want to make a note that the Mayor and lobbyists indicate that the bill would be
legally challenged. But the bill was written to follow the legal framework provided by
the Office of Council Services. And I read Dick Mayer's Viewpoint today in Maui News,
and I concur with his point of view. That's all I have to say.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, do you have questions?
MS. PITCAITHLEY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
MS. PITCAITHLEY; Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair our next testifier is Lee Evslin. To be followed by Tim Lara.
DR. LEE EVSLIN (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-56);
Thank you, County Councilmembers for this opportunity to testify. I'm Dr. Lee Evslin,
and I'm testifying in strong support of item 21-56. I'm a board-certified pediatrician and
I've lived and worked on the island of Kauai since 1979. Also served as CEO ofWilcox
Hospital. And in 2014, I was part of a state-sponsored pesticide task force. We were
asked to look at possible harmful effects of the pesticides on the island of Kauai.
It's become very, very obvious that the evidence is rapidly growing that as physicians
and as regulatory bodies, we've underestimated the dangers of pesticides. In 2012,
the American Academy of Pediatrics issued a policy statement. And the policy
statement was fascinating because it was quite different than previous ones,
basically said that there's a growing concern about the adverse health effects of
chronic low-level pesticide exposures in children. And this was an eye-opener for us
pediatricians because prior to this, all of our training was about acute poisoning,
somebody drank pesticide or was sprayed inadvertently with one. This was the chronic
low-level exposure led to health problems.
And if you look at the literature in the past five to ten years, there has been numerous,
studies linking pesticides, particularly chronically low-level exposure to
pesticides with childhood issues like cancer, neurodevelopmental issues such as
It
numerous
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 19
autism, attention deficit disorders. And alarmingly, changes in the bacteria on our
body. Roundup, for example, is actually patented as an antibiotic.
Although ail pesticides have inherent dangers and there's this growing belief that
chronic low-level exposure may be dangerous to us, I'm going to briefly just talk about
Roundup as an example of a reason for us to be concerned. So, Roundup and
Roundup-like herbicides are the most heavily sprayed herbicide in the history of
pesticides, essentially. The, in terms of them being safe, the companies that produce
them and sell them have said for years that there are hundreds and hundreds of studies
showing the safety of them, that they pass virtually unchanged out of our bodies, and
that they're rapidly metabolized in soil. It turns out that the majority of those studies
showing safety were done decades ago. They were done with less sophisticated
technologies than we have now.
if you look at the literature in the last five to ten years, you will see hundreds and
hundreds of studies showing that the potential toxicity of herbicides like Roundup, they
affect sea life, they affect insects, bees, birds, genetic cell lines. The evidence is so
overwhelming that 1 think most of you know Bayer offered $10 billion to settle 100,000
claimants alleged that their cancer was caused by exposure to pesticides.
So, I have two very real issues here, that chronic low-level pesticide exposure,
particularly in places like parks and so on that children may play are a risk to our
children. And we have the real liability issue of County workers being asked to spray
these pesticides with the knowledge that there is this $100 billion settlement, 100,
sorry, $10 billion settlement for 100,000 cases. In my mind, it is clear that this, this
ordinance that's being entertained by the Council is a good ordinance. It's time for it
to happen. And I actually applaud the Maui County Council for entertaining the
ordinance. So, I'm in full support of it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here. Dr. Evslin and, and
for being in Committee on this issue as well. I'm going to ask you this, the same
question since you brought the Monsanto. I think  Iasked you this before but in a
different way. But, you know, there's, there’s been this huge settlement, multi-billion
dollar settlement and yet, people are still using Roundup. And so, is there, I know I
asked you how that could happen. We were all kind of sitting there going we don't
know. But are there ongoing lawsuits now that are continuing? Cause, you know-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 20
DR. EVSLIN: So, my understanding is that one of the current debates is they're also trying
to settle future lawsuits. And they're trying to put a sum of money on the table, that
would settle these, which again is in the billions, settling these future lawsuits. And in
addition, since the last time I testified, Bayer has announced that they're planning to
puli Roundup off of the landscape market. And I think this means home landscape
market in the America, because of this, because of these lawsuits, essentially. So,
there are changes. They are coming. And I, I think very strongly that we're going to
look back in history and say which side of this did each one of us . . .
One last point, just out of interest. One of the other things they say about Roundup is
it passes from our body unchanged. What, what, what the data is showing us is that
most of us have some Roundup in our body most of the time. And it's because our,
our exposure is constant; both environmental exposure and food exposure. So,
although it may pass unchanged, what the real question is, what happens when you
have this low level of something that's patented as an antibiotic in your body at all
times. So, I would disagree with the previous testifier that says the science is not clear
about this. The science is increasingly clear that there is dangers here that we need
to address.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so we should all line up for testing and then get in line for
the future lawsuit settlement?
DR. EVSLIN: I leave that to you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Evslin. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions? If not, thank you for coming.
DR. EVSLIN: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Tim Lara.
MR. TIM LARA [testifying on Bill No. 69 (2021)]:
Aloha Chair and Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can, Tim. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 21
MR. LARA; Thanks. I'm testifying for Bill 69. As was brought up at the first reading of this
bill, 1 was in the process of applying for a short-term vacation rental permit. The
process is quite lengthy, I'd been working on it for several months at this time. I didn t
know that this was coming. Before, at the time I started working on it, I think there was
100 for South Maui, with 45 or so being taken. So, there was plenty of applications left
to be filled. It was my understanding that at the last, or the first reading, numbers were
changed for each district up or down by one or two for new permits that had been put
in at that time, or permits that had fallen off or, at that time.
And so, my hope is that the South Maui can be adjusted to go back up as it came into
the first reading to 46. My application went in last week Thursday. We finally were
able to have it finalized with the home inspection on Monday, last week. That's all.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any questions for Tim?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Tim.  Ihope you're enjoying your
vacation, wherever you are. But, no, I just wanted to double-check and ascertain that
I got the correct information, that you had been waiting for the five-year period since
you bought that house to pass and it just passed like, what July 1 or something?
MR. U\RA; That, that's correct. A couple years ago, it was passed, ordinance or bill was
passed that you had to own a property for five years before applying. My five years
was up on June 30 of this year. And then, I think that, you know, the date to stop
receiving applications for this bill moved to July 1. And we were trying to get it in, you
know, kind of right when that five years was up. It just took a little longer. There was
a couple things that we had to rectify on the property to get it in.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. And then, also, that your primarily, primary use for the
property's would be housing your employees?
MR. LARA; That's correct. I have employees that come and work seasonally. So, they're
here for four to five months and then they go back to Alaska. So, we have employees
that worked for us for four seasons now, back and forth between Alaska and here. So,
this, it wouldn't actually change the number of rentals that are available. If this property
't available for them to rent, then they'll come and rent something off of market,
taking that out of the market for those six months that they're here. So, every year they
either, you know, stay with me or they rent something else and . . . house.
isn
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 22
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thankyou. Thanks for that information. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: ...Chair. And aloha, Mr. Lara. Mahalo for your testimony
this morning. Just a question. Have you, you said that you have not submitted or have
you since submitted an application?
MR. LARA: It is in. Yea, it went in last week Thursday.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Alright. Thankyou.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Lara. So, just to clarify
you bought the house specifically to make it a short-term rental?
MR. LARA: Originally, I bought the house to, cause I was running my business out of there
and just used the large carport to store equipment. And then, I rented to my employees
of mine at that time. The issue realty becomes the fact that you can't rent for less than
six months, and then what to do with it the rest of the year outside of that, because
they're here for four to five months at a time. So, in the past, you know, when I first,
the first renters that were there were employees of mine. They left, and then I had to
rent it with trying to let people know, hey, this is available for seven months, which is
challenging because nobody wants to rent something for seven months. So, then rightAnd so those,after that, it was changed where you had to own it for five years,
everything was kind of on hold. And as we got closer to the five-year mark, I realized
that that would be the best solution for me, is to have it where I can rent it short-term
the rest of the month and rent it to my employees while they're here.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Lara. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, thank you, Tim.
Madam Clerk.
MR. LARA: Thank you, guys.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 23
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, Mr. Johnson had his hand up for a question.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't see you, your hand.
Member Johnson. Tim, are you still there?
MR. LARA: Yes, Ma'am.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Sorry, Chair. I was a little bit lagging with my hand. I don't
know it's, could be internet. Good morning, Tim. So, have, have you had a hard time
finding local residents to work for you?
MR. LARA: Yea, absolutely. We've been running ads ever since we opened back up.
Currently, we have six guys working. Prior to COVID, we had 22 guys. And we have
a huge influx for the winter months. So, for the winter months, we usually double our
staff. So, in, we shut down in March of 2020, or 20, yea, 2020. So anyways, but we
were at 22 guys at that point. During the summer months, we typically run about 12 to
14. So, we should have 12 to 14 right now, and we have six. And we, I think we have
another interview for later today. But we aggressively been trying to hire, and we can't
find anybody. Either way, the winter months our, our staffing doubles, and we don't
have a job for them the rest of the year, seasonal, you know, push for those winter
months where our staff doubles.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Alright. Thank you, Tim. Thank you. Chair. I have
no further questions.
CHAIR LEE: No questions?
So, Madam Clerk, next.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Nick Drance. To be followed by David Dorn.
MR. NICK PRANCE (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
I want to offer my thanks and encouragement toBonjour, Councilmembers.
Councilmembers who support Bill 60, this initiative. You're trying to buy some time in
order to find real solutions, rather than stand in the way. You don't take Maui for
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 24
granted. You understand that we can't sit back and expect things to stay the same
and that we are in a dangerous trajectory.
Things like seeing 121-degree temperatures in Portland two weeks ago. California's
second largest reservoir close to dry, epic floods in Germany, yes, the world is
changing ever faster. You see that and you want to protect us as much as you can
from making things worse. You see that both residents and tourists don't like the
overcrowding and the harm that it brings. You're trying to do something about it rather
than preventing an attempt and achieving solutions.
Recently, a friend said to me, 1 just realized I'm the same age as old people, it sounds
funny of course. But when you think about how old people are set in their ways, not
having the same fresh point of view that they had when they were younger, it's not so
funny. I may be the same age as old people, but I strive to keep a fresh perspective.
That's the best I can do. Right now, this initiative is the best we can do. If the pause
this effort attempts to provide doesn't result in real solutions, at least we tried. We
have to try our best.
Another friend told me that when he was a child, his grandmother said to him, try your
best, angels could do no more. She probably said that about a hundred years ago. I'll
never forget it.
So, Councilmembers, thank you for trying to help create a better future for us here on
Maui. I much appreciate it. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Members, questions?
Member Johnson, was that your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; No. Sorry, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: No? Okay.
MR. DRANCE: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Anybody else? I don't see any questions. Thank you.
MR. DRANCE: Alright. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: May we have the next testifier?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 25
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is David Dorn. To be followed by Dave Jorgensen.
MR. DAVID DORN (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Hello, Council persons. Bonjour. My name is David Dorn and I support the
moratorium, and I'm against the Mayor's veto. The proposed Mayoral veto of the visitor
accommodation moratorium goes against the will of the community. And it undermines
the authority of the County Council. The proposed veto undoes ail of the work of the
rule making process, including all of the public testimony and the hard work of the
various Committees. This veto is a shameful waste of our time and resources.
Maui cannot support more hotels at this time. There is no water for more hotels. We
already have water shortages and restrictions for local families, while hotels continue
to build more pools and use enormous amounts of water on landscaping. They are
unnecessarily wasting our precious and limited drinking water. Our island is drying
and dying.
We do not have the infrastructure for hotels. We do not have enough roads or
amenities, inadequate sewage facilities, not enough beach parking, and we do not
have enough lifeguards. As we all know, Maui is drowning in tourism and
unprecedented numbers of tourists are drowning on our island as our island is
drowning tourists. We have more ocean rescues and tourist rescues than ever before,
heavily taxing our emergency services.
Overtourism is no joke. This is a crisis. We need this moratorium so that we can catch
our breath, have a chance to strengthen our infrastructure, and get our island back into
balance.
Sustainable tourism will take time to develop. It is the responsibility of you, the Council,
to protect our community from the harms of overtourism. And you are required by your
own rules to set these limits, to stop the degradation of our island, and protect our
residents' quality of life. This moratorium is the legitimate tool for achieving this. With
this moratorium, no one is harmed, no jobs are lost, no hotels will close. There is no
negative impact on any existing business. But this moratorium will protect our future
and fragile island from more harm by regulating tourist-related overdevelopment for
two years, while we reset and regroup, and bring our island back into balance, and
help to protect our community.
Even the hotel lobbyists from HHA agreed there are too many, many tourists on Maui
and there are problems that we need to address. We just have different ideas on how
to fix the problem of overtourism. This moratorium, Bill 60, is just the first step that we
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 26
need to take as we begin to deal with the problems and harms of overtourism as we
start the process of managing tourism so that we can achieve our ultimate goal of
sustainable tourism. Please reject and overturn the Mayor's veto and support this
important moratorium. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We have a question for you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Dorn. Thank you for your
testimony. So, have you been involved in testifying at the Planning Commission on
recent proposals to, for new hotels rooms?
MR. DORN; I have testified at quite a few. And there's more than any one person can keep
track of. So, yes. So, I am quite up-to-date and well-informed. I do, you know, read
as much as possible, the background. And I also listen to all the testimony, which is a
big way of staying informed. And, yes, the, I think that this is just a first step, this
moratorium. And it is only for two regions; the, you know, West and South of Maui. I
supported it when it was going to be islandwide.
And we need, there's a testifier said, you know,  Isupport it because we're hearing so
much testimony from the public about the lack of housing for the local community. And,
you know. I'm a businessman and I know that sometimes you can't hire from within the
community, and you have to bring in outside workers. But the local workers need the
housing first, you know? We have to support who's here now.
We have a huge homeless population that is the village, you know. You know, we
could name it after the current Mayor if you wanted to, down at the Kanaha Beach
Park, at the wastewater treatment plant. And I drive past that virtually every day. In
fact, I fly over the top of it quite often. And it is a blight on the island. And I feel very
sorry for the people in
COUNCILMEMBER KING; You know, l-
MR. DORN: -living in situation, so.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I just, I just, yea, I just wanted to . . .
MR. DORN: Sorry, I went on.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I just want to clarify because your-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 27
MR. DORN: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; You're talking about. . .
MR. DORN: Sorry. Yea. But yes, we need, we need the housing for the locals. And we
don't need more hotels.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, we need to, and we haven't been, well, my, my, my
question to you is going to be, there's been a lot of community involvement in going to
the Planning Commission to try to stop the increase. And I, I just feel like, and maybe
you can clarify, are they listening to the community in South Maui?
MR. DORN: Yea. This is, you've hit the nail on the head. This is a problem. We, we testify,
we testify, and it's not easy, especially with the, you know, Planning Commission to
testify. You take a day out. It took me eight hours to do a three-minute testimony there
the other day. And, regardless of how much testimony from the public is there, and
enormous amounts and, you know, these are educated people, experts, and people in
the community with firsthand experience giving their mana'o with the Planning
Department. And it always seems to just fall on deaf ears. And we, we never get
anywhere.
And it's, you know, we're losing faith in the system because there's always, you know,
the same result. They do what they're going to do. In fact, the Planning Department
has made its recommendations to the Planning Commission to approve certain
projects, and so it's a done deal. So, really it feels like it's a feel-good exercise, that
they're going through the motions, checking the box saying public testimony has been
heard,
recommendation from the Planning Department before making any decisions. So,
really it feels like by the time something gets to the Planning Commission, there is
really no real hope of, you know, turning it around, or that they're listening to our public
testimony. And that's the reality of what we're living, the situation we're living in.
And this is, you know, why people resort to lawsuits and what you have, because the
actual process seems to be broken. And I, that's why another one of those issues
supporting these smaller planning committees and groups around the island, advisory
boards, is a great idea. I think we need to decentralize the power away from, you
know, a few individuals, or a few, you know, little tight groups, and spread it out where
the community can really have an impact and give, share their, you know, their
concerns,
community is getting cut out of the process and we have no course for redress.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Dorn. Thank you. Chair.
But that's really a foregone conclusion, because they have a written
Because the community is getting cut out of, the vast majority of the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 28
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Dorn.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Dave Jorgensen. To be follo\wed by the testifier
identified as 1677.
CHAIR LEE: And how many more after that?
COUNTY CLERK: Eighteen currently signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We're, we're going to shoot for taking a break at 10:30, approximately
10:30.
MR. DAVE JORGENSEN, AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION OF
HAWAI‘1 (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Good morning and bonjour. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
Councilmembers, and staff. My name is Dave Jorgensen. I'm an attorney in Wailuku
and I'm testifying on behalf of the American Resort Development Association of
Hawai'i, or ARDA Hawaii I'm a registered lobbyist. I'm here today to testify in
opposition to Bill 60, and in favor of Mayor Victorino’s veto of that Bill in CC 370.
While the stated purpose of Bill 60 is to reduce Maui's effect on climate change, there
is no data that suggests that stopping the development of visitor accommodations will
decrease the number of visitors to Maui, mitigate environmental impacts, or improve
residents' quality of life. Excuse me.
ARDA Hawai'i agrees with the Mayor's concerns about Bill 60, related to the
procedures being or not being followed, and the various constitutional issues which
have been raised at previous hearings. Bill 60 has not been reviewed by the Maui
Planning Commission as required under County Charter Section 8-8.4. It also raises
multiple legal issues, including that the moratorium would constitute an unconstitutional
regulatory taking and a violation of due process as the bill fails to substantially advance
a legitimate state interest. That it violates vested rights of certain parties, and that it
violates the Equal Protection Clause as the bill treats . . . persons differently.
Although ARDA Hawai'i opposes any moratorium at this time, we do acknowledge that
another bill has been proposed, which would establish a moratorium. And that bill does
appear to be following the proper procedures for review and comment. As we've
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 29
argued several times now, the numerous legal and procedural concerns inherent in
Bill 60 should be further analyzed with the full advice of the County's attorneys to
reduce any potential liability for the County and the Council.
Today, the fastest-growing segment within the visitor accommodations industry is
short-term rental units. Bill 60 attacks the wrong targets at the worst possible time. If
the purpose of the bill is to ultimately decrease the visitor count, perhaps greater
enforcement against illegal short-term rentals and further regulation on the number of
legal short-term rental units should be pursued. Controlling the number of short-term
rental units in residential neighborhoods will help prevent an increase in visitors per
year and assist in eliminating overtourism.
The timeshare visitor has the exact profile, the type of visitor that we should welcome.
With higher income levels, more spending off-property in restaurants and local stores,
and more likely to take care of their property, which for most is a home away from
home, as they are owners and not transients. We should be mindful that the timeshare
industry could be part of the solution. And we stand ready to participate in any group,
or TIG, or any other issue, any other group that's formed.
ARDA Hawaii strongly agrees that some sort of resolution is needed to provide our
residents with the ability to continue to work, while at the same time, addressing the
significant impacts of the influx of visitors until Maui can transition to a more diversified
economic base. But Bill 60 is not the right answer. Let's instead support the efforts of
the Mayor's existing task forces to find solutions to these complex issues. We urge
you to allow Mayor Victorino's veto to stand. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Chair, thank you. Mr. Jorgensen, can you guys hear me?
Bonjour. I was wondering if you can clarify why did that building permit moratorium
has to go to the Planning .... It’s not a land use regulation and it applies to Chapter 16,
not 19.
MR. JORGENSEN: Yes. Thank you for that question. Our position is that by regulating and
controlling the issuance of building permits, it is a land use issue that controls how the
land will be used. And so, therefore, we feel that it does need to go to the Planning
Commission.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Can you clarify on the part where you said on how the land will
be used?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 30
MR. JORGENSEN: If somebody owns land and they apply for a building permit to use it for
a hotel, and the code is modified to say that they may not do that anymore, that is
controlling the use of that land.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And can you point to other Title 16 items that have gone to the
Land Use Commission?
MR. JORGENSEN: Planning Commission?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea. sorry. My bad.
MR. JORGENSEN: At this time, no. But I can try and present something to the Council
subsequently.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: No. no more questions? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Not from me.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? If not, thank you. Mr. Jorgensen.
Madam Clerk.
MR. JORGENSEN: Thank you for your consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, we'll take-
COUNTY CLERK: Our next-
Go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: No, I said-
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier-
Oh, sorry. Go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: I, I just said we'll take a couple more testifiers. That's all.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 31
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Our next testifier is identified by the last four digits of telephone
number 1677. To be followed by Rod Antone.
CHAIR LEE; Call again please.
COUNTY CLERK: 1677. If you can unmute. You're unmuted on our end.
MS. ELIZABETH MCGAIN (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Can, oh. Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. MCGAIN: Okay. Aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. My name is Elizabeth McGain and
I'm testifying related to CC 21-377. And first, 1 want to thank you for voting through
Bill 60. Mayor Victorino's veto of Bill 60 does not represent the majority of residents of
Maui, just the financially powerful minority. The majority of people you represent from
all districts of Maui are in favor of Bill 60.
We are feeling the impact of overtourism in every community on the island. Everyone
understands the concept, more hotel rooms equals more visitors, plain and simple.
According to Howard Dicus, on August 2, Hawaii News Now, Maui saw 36,000 more
tourists from the mainland this July compared with July 2019, which was a record year.
Clearly, they are not all staying in illegal Airbnb's. We want Bill 60 in place for
leadership to develop a sensible plan and process for future development, and time to
create regulations for the multitude of problems overtourism is causing right now.
Overriding the veto on Bill 60 is a small ask by the resident majority. You are each on
the Council on our behalf. For the few Councilmembers who voted against Bill 60, the
responsibility is on you to represent us honestly with your vote and push aside any
other driving force. We have been raising our voices islandwide to show our support
of Bill 60. Please kokua. You're being called on to vote on behalf and overrule the
misguided veto. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Any questions for the testifier. Members?
If not. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Mr. Rod Antone. To be followed by Jordan Hocker.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 32
MR. ROD ANTONE. MAUI HOTEL & LODGING ASSOCIATION (testifying on County
Communication No. 21-377):
Bonjour, Members.
(Spoke in French.)
That's what Google Translate says, "Good morning. Maui County Councilmembers".
That was good. Rod Antone, registered lobbyist, State and County, with the Maui Hotel
& Lodging Association. You guys have heard me testify on this before, i have mostly
testified on cause and effect. Hotels were here, tourism was here. Hotel rooms,
condos, and timeshares went down. Tourism still went up. So, obviously, the cause
and effect that we're looking for is not there.
But to back that up, I went and did research on the only other U.S. location that has
done a hotel moratorium, that's Asheville, North Carolina, which the City Council there
passed a moratorium. It started in September, on September 24, 2019, ran for exactly
one year to September 24, 2020. Now, that was in the middle of the pandemic. But
according to the Buncombe County Tourism Development Authority annual report, the
2019-2020. Buncombe's where Asheville is located. They said, even with the
moratorium in 2020, tourism was on a track to make, to hit record numbers. According
to the report, prior to the start of the shutdown due to the public health emergency,
lodging sales were up 10 percent and on pace for  arecord year. Hotel room nights
sold were up two percent, and entire place short-term rental nights booked were up
33 percent. The strong pace of short-term rental bookings continued even after the
start of the pandemic and into the summer. But hotel nights sold declined more than
60 percent from a year ago.
So, you know, it, everyone thinks we're going to reduce the number of tourists if you
reduce the number of hotels. I heard the last testifier. That's not true. I have given
you the, the info from Asheville and our own island here. I live in Paia and I would love
to drive down and park in the Mana Foods parking lot. But because of tourists and
heavy use, that's not always, that's not always possible, if this, if all of a sudden 1 can
park in the Mana Foods parking lot during, should this moratorium pass, I will be
surprised.
Again, there are. you know, what, but the Council's, what the Committee's looking for
is a reason for people not to get on an airplane and come to Maui. A hotel moratorium
is not going to do it. I don't go to California to stay at the Disneyland Hotel. I go to, go
to check out Disneyland. And if Disneyland Hotel is closed, I'll stay somewhere else.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 33
I talked to my counterpart over there at the, she, she works for a hotel and lodging
association out there in North Carolina, as well. And she said what happened during
the moratorium is they had an increase in illegal vacation rentals. We have different
rules. Our enforcement's getting, is more strict.  Idon't think we'll have that same
problem. Anyway, good to talk to you guys as always. Mahalo and have a great day.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Rod. Any questions?
Yes, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yea, I just getting information on that
moratorium in Asheville, which was, folks are claiming it was successful because on
the, the day the moratorium expired they actually implemented three new regulations.
So, do you have knowledge of that? Which is the purpose of this moratorium, is to,
you know, try to enact solutions.
MR. ANTONE: Council can do that now. Councilmember Riki Hokama, when the Kaanapali
Ocean Resort was being built, said they wanted certain things done, a parking lot for
employees to park off-site and have a shuttle. I think there was a park. I mean, so
you guys can do that right now.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I'm just saying that what, if we do that, we would be, while
we're adding injury on because we have more hotels that are waiting to expand. And
that's going to happen on top of, you know, before we even make these solutions. So,
just before you, you know, plan something's not successful and the folks in Asheville
did feel like their moratorium was successful. And that's all I wanted to point out.
MR. ANTONE: Alright.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're muted.
CHAIR LEE: Question from Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Antone. Bonjour, I was
wondering-
MR. ANTONE: Bonjour.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 34
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -if that's Baldwin Beach in the back? Nah, nah, not, that wasn't
my question.
MR. ANTONE: Actually, no. that's Big Beach on a-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
MR. ANTONE; -on a high surf day.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; My real question was do you know if the North Carolina
Asheville moratorium, if those folks went into litigation for that one?
MR. ANTONE; I'm sorry, say that last part? You said those folks what?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Went into litigation? If they ever got sued?
MR. ANTONE; You know, I wasn't going to bring this up, because I don't want to get accused
of threatening legal action. And just for the record, I will never say, hey someone's
going to sue you, because anything can happen between the time someone wants to
file a lawsuit and before actually filing a lawsuit. There could be settlement. And then
the guy that says, oh, we're going to sue you, he just looks like they're issuing empty
threats. But there is a lawsuit involving a 185-room Embassy Suites Hotel. And that
involves, that involves the moratorium. Looks like the developer even tried to offer the
city $4.1 million, a $4.1 million settlement that would have included $2 million for the
city's affordable housing fund. The city turned it down and that's still ongoing.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And that's in Asheville?
MR. ANTONE: That is an Asheville lawsuit.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But the moratorium is pau already over there?
MR. ANTONE: It is, but that is, that is because of the moratorium that had stopped. The, you
know, time is money, I guess, for the developers, so. I've got. I've only got one
Associated Press story, if, if you're interested.  Icould see if the lawsuit's available
online.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll try. I'll try Google. Thank you.
MR. ANTONE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 35
CHAIRLEE: Other questions, Members? If not, thank you. Rod. Enjoy your swim at Makena.
Kathy, this will be the last one for, and then we'll take a break, okay?
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Chair, our next testifier is Jordan Mocker. And then, when we
resume from our break, Lucienne de Naie will be up on, on the list.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. JORDAN MOCKER ftestifvina on County Communication No. 21-377: Committee Report
No. 21-56: and Bill Nos. 67 (2021) & 68 (2021)1:
Okay. Hi. Can you hear me and see me, Councilmembers?
CHAIR LEE: We can hear, hear you. But you're like in the dark, sort of in the dark.
MS. MOCKER: I got. I'm backlit in my house. Okay. You can't see me. Here I am. Hear my
voice. Hello, Council Chair, and Vice-Chair, and Councilmembers. Appreciate you
and your time today. Actually, going to go ahead and turn my video off, because I feel
like I'm lagging a little bit.
Okay, so I'm here to testify on the Mayor's veto, because I, I'm here to testify on several
agenda items. But the veto concerns me because what I hear a lot is that it's on one
side you have the lobbyists aligning with the Mayor, which is concerning for me,
because it seems to be in direct conflict with what the public was asking you to do.
And so, i'll just sort of note that for a later point in time, because the, the affiliation isn't
lost on me, I guess I'm going to say the reason that I supported this moratorium from
the time that it was introduced is because we have so many infrastructure issues that
we need to deal with. And a break is a fine thing to ask for. Two years is not that long
of an amount of time. And the more that time goes on, our water infrastructure problem
becomes more and more glaring, and water inequity becomes more glaring.
I had to go to Oahu recently with my daughter for  adoctor's point. And I had the
pleasure of having a window seat when we came back into Maui. And if you get that
bird's eye view, it's really telling where water is going and where .... And I can't help
but feel, in the pit of my stomach, every time I drive Upcountry to see the fields that are
normally green year-round are golden. My concern with the Mayor's veto, if there is
not another action coming on the heels from this from the County, if you are not
committed to continuing to pursue finding solutions for our overtourism problem, is that
we are not going to be able to adapt for climate change because all of our resources
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 36
are going to be allocated in a specific way that can never be sustainable the way that
it's going now.
The status quo exists because we have been doing things a particular way. And so, if
you want to know why things exist right now, look at what we've been doing. The
water, the water issue is an issue. And so, from  aclimate change standpoint, if we
don't have the water that we need, we're not going to thrive. And so, I feel like while
there might have been a narrative that this moratorium wouldn't help climate change,
any development, and/or draw on our resource infrastructure pause is beneficial for
Maui County, period, until we get it together and figure out how we're going to sustain
water in the future for our residents and for their children's children, like in the next 50
years. Climate change isn't going away and our water issues are not going to go away.
So, that's the end of my testimony on that.
I then, I'd also like to testify on CC [sic] 21-56, which is on its first reading with you
guys. Super excited about this bill. But I will say that I was really surprised to hear the
Farm Bureau come out against it. I don't understand why the Farm Bureau would be
against soil health, health of our water, but more specifically the health of our children.
So, this was addressed by another testifier, but I'll just reiterate. The American
Pediatric Association is an authority on the health of our children. And they've done
the research and have maintained the position that pesticide exposure for children,
even small amount long-term exposure, is very, very detrimental to them. They've held
this position since 2012. We'rebehind. We're like far behind. This step for the County,
which 1 have heard that they have already been making steps to reduce their pesticide
usage, this is just the next little push to make sure that our children aren't exposed to
anything that can affect their development while they're playing in a park, while they're
playing sports, while they're on a lawn with their family, period.
I think it is a pretty lofty thing to say that the American Pediatric Association isn't based
in science. And that is the major backing entity to get pesticides out of parks and away
from our children. The only thing that I can see is that perhaps the Farm Bureau is
afraid that we're going to go after farmers who are using pesticides, non-organic
pesticides. And the reality is that if you look at that report that's issued by the American
Pediatrics' Association, home exposure, exposure in food that children are eating, and
exposure in parks and recreational areas are the three areas in which our children are
exposed to something that affects their development, and their long-term health. So,
yes, it's an issue we need to address on one side. Yes, this is one part of the issue.
But I really. I'm going to ask the Council to recognize that this is about our kids. This
is about their children. And, and do we put this bill into practice? So, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 37
And then, last talking point, I'll just put Bill 67 and Bill 68 in. I've testified before you
folks before. I'm a member of Pulehu Posse. We pick up garbage on the side of Pulehu
Road. Anything that can be avoided from going into our landfill is a absolute plus. It
is beneficial across the board. I know that Hawaii politics tends to favor the Chamber
of Commerce, so, I'll give you an aspect that I see could be borne out of these bills
being passed. Which is that if tourists are unable to find styrofoam coolers, if they're
unable to find these really poorly made boogie boards that end up breaking or in the
trash. Then that creates an opportunity for local businesses to begin to rent these
things to tourists, instead of them buying a disposable thing that they're never ever
going to think about. And if they buy a super expensive boogie board, they're less
likely to leave it, or they're more likely to give it to somebody else or try to sell it on
Craigslist before they leave.
So, this foam cooler, this boogie board is just even the first step on our waste
management issue here on Maui. The, any amount of waste material we can keep out
of the consumers' hands that we cannot, like not allow to be brought into Maui County
is going to be beneficial for our future. So, that's the end of my testimony. Thank you
all for your hard work.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? Seeing none, thank you very much.
At this time. Members, if there are no objections, I'd like to take a 15-minute recess.
So, that would be approximately 10:55. Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered. Meeting in recess.
AND WAS(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:36 A.M.
RECONVENED AT 10:57 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER
KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of August 6, please come, return to order.
Let's see. Madam Clerk, I believe we left off with Lucienne de Naie?
COUNTY CLERK: Lucienne de Naie is our next testifier. And she will be followed by
Emmanuel Zibakalam.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Good morning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 38
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-377, 21-382, 21-383
21-384, & 21-386: Committee Report Nos. 21-55 & 21-56: and Bill Nos. 64 (2021)
67 (2021), &68 (2021)1:
Good morning. Aloha kahiaka [sic] ^or all, and bonjour, and c'est magnifique and all,
all of those great things. My name is Lucienne de Naie. And the first few items that I
would be testifying on would be on behalf of the Sierra Club Maui Group. The first item
is Council Communication 377, the consideration of Bill 60, overriding the Mayor’s veto.
The Sierra Club is in agreement with those who have pointed to our community plan,
our Countywide Policy Plan, that we need mechanisms for looking at a sustainable
level of tourism. A, a, a time-out, while we’re figuring out what to do is a time-honored
method. There have been many moratoriums over the years on Maui for various
reasons. And those reasons eventually were resolved, and we moved forward. This
is obviously not an easy thing to resolve, but it's more better try something. Cause if
you try nothing, we'll just have what we have now.
I listened with interest to those who are telling us that the industry is going to step up
and have some solutions. I, I mean, that, that, that would be great, but it's not always
how things happen. I think that was the discussion for years, when lao Aquifer was
going to be designated a water management area. Well we don't need to do that, we
don't, the County has it all under control. But they really didn't. And it has helped, you
know, trying to have some sort of a management overview of, of an important resource.
Tourism is an important resource and we do need a management overview of it. So,
it's time to take that look. So, mahalo all for supporting moving forward on, on this, this
matter.
As to several other matters that we listed. County Communication 384, which is
amending the budget to support the Re-Tree Maui and Hawaii efforts. This is a great
There's never a better time to plant a tree than today, as Mr. Merwin, ourcause,
esteemed late poet told us. So, it was a very successful program, even in the middle
of the pandemic in 2020. And more, more locations want to get involved this year. So,
we're glad the Mayor's Budget is supporting that. We hope you will too. I guess it will
be referred to a Committee, the finance committee.
Item 386, which was just recently introduced, but it's a concept of having alternative
members be appointed to the advisory groups that were recently revised to expand
having South Maui and the North Shore have these advisory groups to the Planning
Commission. The idea of having alternative members who will attend meetings and
participate in discussions, but can only vote if another member is missing is a good
idea. There are a number of our committees and commissions that have alternative,
alternate. I'm sorry, they're not alternative, alternate members. And this means that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 39
you have less quorum issues. So, we hope that this will be passed as soon as possible
so it can take effect as we are appointing people to these new advisory bodies. I know
in Haiku, there's efforts to get the word out to people to apply.
And then we, we actually signed up to testify on Bill 66 under general testimony. But
was a typo. We wanted to testify on Bill 67 and 68, having to do with the foam products
on behalf of Sierra Club. We strongly support efforts to regulate these foam products.
As an organization that does a lot of shoreline clean-ups, we see broken bits of the
coolers and the foam surfboards are a regular and very large component of what we
find in our beach litter. They just are products that are designed to break down into
obsolescence. And then they leave these unbiodegradable sections behind, many,
many sections. So. if we can have less of a problem from the beginning, the solution
is probably more a rental of a more reusable product, or even rental of the foam
products. But they get returned, and at least they don't break apart on the beach,
hopefully. But really we need to step forward, and make sure that we have less things
entering our west stream, waste stream than more.
Now I would like to switch hats, thank you for continuing to listen, and speak to a couple
of matters as just a private citizen. One is, County resolution [sic] 21-55. This is the
extension for the Water Use and Development amendments and work. And as you
know from my frequent testimony, there's some, there's some things that do need to
be changed. And the Committee is making some good progress on, especially the
input from the ‘Aha Moku Councils that warmed my heart to see that find its way.
Because that means, you know, more people aren't calling me up and saying how
come it neva says this? So, anyway, thank you for supporting that extension so that
the good work can continue.
On item 21-56, which is the pest and fertilizer second reading [sicj^or pest and fertilizer
use regulation for County properties. Also, I stand in very strong support of this. We
really do have some options now, and we should move forward and use them to have
a. a greener profile on our public lands.
Also, and in support of Bill 64, setting up standards for the Napili development area.
We testified, 1 testified for this in the past. And it's good when a neighborhood knows
its own needs and reaches out to their Councilmember and gets those needs translated
into action. This give people hope that they're heard by their lawmakers.
And the last two items, I didn't list this on my list, but just testifying in support of funding
for 383 and 382, which are affordable housing projects that we do need in South Maui.
One's a senior housing project at Liloa. They’re near the Hope Chapel. And the other
is the downtown Kihei parcel, is putting in some affordable housing to begin with. And
I think that's something that's very welcomed by the community there to have more. I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 40
think that this is aiming at 60 percent or lower for rentals, which is a really tough price
point to find in the Kihei area. So, let's give our money where our people's need is.
And thank you very much for your consideration of your long agenda today. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. I like your new hairdo by the way.
Questions, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I didn't even realize that was a new hairdo. I thought you
just had a new background, so it looked different.
MS. DE NAIE: No. It's all me.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I just wanted to clarify one thing with you, Lucienne. Thanks
for being here for all your, for reading our long agenda and addressing so many issues.
But you mentioned the Re-Tree Program. And we, and the Council did fund that in our
budget session, so the bill is actually just to change, it's put in the fiscal sponsor of
Lokahi Pacific, So, I just wanted to make sure that you were in support of that as well.
So, that's the only amendment, is that we didn't have a fiscal sponsor named in the
original bill.
MS. DE NAIE: Well, you know, you don't have a lot of choice in who you can get to be fiscal
sponsors these days. We don't have Tri-Isle anymore and I think Lokahi is stepping
up. And they have done mostly housing in the past, but I, I, I would trust that if they
are willing to be the sponsors, that they would have the fiscal responsibility and the
capacity to, to deal with that. But it does need  afiscal sponsor. So-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea.
MS. DE NAIE: -hopefully it will work out.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I just wanted to clarify that. I think Rob, Rob Weltman is
working with them on that.
MS. DE NAIE: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. That's all. Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Lucienne.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
MS. DE NAIE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 41
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair. Chair, our next testifier is Emmanuel Zibakalam. To be followed
by Rowena Dagdag-Andaya.
MR. EMMANUEL ZIBAKALAM. HAWAII CROP IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION (testifying
on Committee Report No. 21-56):
Aloha, Chair. Can everybody hear me well?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Thank you. ! guess, aloha, bonjour, and as-salamu alaykum, Chair Lee,
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and fellow Councilmembers. My name is Emmanuel
Zibakalam, and I am the Executive Director of the Hawaii Crop Improvement
Association. Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to speak briefly in opposition
to CR 21-56.
As you've been provided in my written testimony, I'll take this time to highlight four
points. Firstly, we have concerns regarding the undue burden and needless risk for
the County and State agencies, homeowners, farmers, landscapers, pest control
professionals, and the public, without substantive data necessitating the need for this
measure. Contemporaneously, I often hear the message of transparency and process,
yet this measure stands to circumvent State and Federal regulatory authority without
the necessary resources to accomplish the required results.
Secondly, as in all professions, pest managers need the ability to use the correct tools
for each situation, as directed by the label. Passing unsubstantiated doubt on the
necessary use of pesticides and fertilizer not listed under Title 7 Code of the Federal
Regulations 205.601, 205.603, 205.605, and 205.606, will severely impact Maui's
unique ecosystem by promoting breeding grounds for invasive species and detrimental
pests.
Thirdly, notwithstanding the evidence demonstrated in the safety of pesticide products
when used as directed by the label, cost projections provided by the City & County of
Honolulu and the County of Hawaii found that a shift from synthetic products to
non-synthetic products would result in an increase in spending unfeasible for either the
proposed budgets, especially with the evidence demonstrating the need to necessitate
a change. Also, any replacement product would yield subpar results, meaning banning
synthetic pesticides would not only be unwarranted, but also financially reckless.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 42
Finally, aside from the practical, logistical, and regulatory concerns with this measure,
the provision include, the provisions included are arguable preempted by State law,
specifically. Chapter 149A, HRS. While Section 2.50.060 states that "Nothing in this
chapter will be interpreted or applied so as to create any requirement or duty in conflict
with any Federal and State law" if allowed to proceed, this measure may have severe
consequences regarding the cooperative agreement between HDOA and EPA under
FIFRA.
I want to thank you and mahalo for the opportunity to testify in opposition to this
measure. If you would like me to stay on as a resource. I'm more than happy to answer
any questions. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; As-salamu alaykum. I really wanted to say that. But my
question was-
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Alaykumu salam.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . . salam. When you were talking about the invasive species,
we already have a big problem with that, with synthetic usage. So, I just was wondering
if you can clarify.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Sure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I mean, wouldn't it be more helpful to have better ag inspection
at our borders, because that's how the invasive species comes in, right? I mean, it
doesn't like spontaneously appear.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: I agree. They, they don't spontaneously appear. And I believe that the
HDOA does a very good job at trying to mitigate the risk in regard to invasive species
coming into the State. However, when we do find them in the State, especially as
farmers or ranchers, there's an obligation to take care of the land that you're working
on.
And, and, as such, if integrated pest management practice individual is using the
correct tools but abuts a space that may not have the same tools, those pests are going
to move into that space. And so, basically what you'll be doing is creating breeding
grounds for whether its invasive pests or detrimental pests to continue to grow.
Because as it was previously noted, we don't have  awinter season. And when you
don't have a winter season it allows for many of these bugs to propagate much quicker
than usual. So, that's one of the concerns we have regarding this measure.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 43
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I think we do have a winter season, it's just not the
winter season that folks on the continent are used to, but okay. Thank you.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Very true. Very true.
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Good morning, Emmanuel . Just a
clarifying question for you. What was the name of your organization again?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: The Hawaii Crop Improvement Association.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, does the Hawaii Crop improvement Association believe
in an integrated pest management?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, one of the three tenants of that is mechanical pest
management, which is pulling weeds, just doing it the old-fashioned way. And you
agree with that kind of method as well?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: I believe that there's definitely  aspace for that. But integrated pest
management is, is a toolbox. If you start removing tools from your toolbox, eventually
you're going to come to a problem where you need that tool and you won't have it.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So you think that it's, so the word integration means like,
you know, you're going to do all those, right? So, removing that would, would take it
off the table is what you're saying?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Exactly.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Well, you know, I, I, I worked as a farmer and times an
invasive species tech, so, I, I, I appreciate your concern. But also, there's a lot of
people who are talking about the effects of the, the chemicals on our children. Do you
have a, does your organization have a stance on that?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Well, if it's approved and licensed by the EPA, as well as, you know, as
many of the products are. As long as it's used by the label, that's how we preach our
practice of making sure that safety is the majority of the concern.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 44
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, you're following the EPA, just following the label and
and, and it's okay is what you're saying?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: As long as it's approved by the label ,you know, as long it's approved and
tested by the EPA and it's issued out in the specific State and you use the product as,
you know, specified in the label, we believe that that product should be safe for use.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, do you think that even following the label it doesn't affect
our children?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: I don't know if I entirely understand the question.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. So, will you, will you recognize that some doctors
we had, the Pediatrician Association has, has stated that they did research on it and it
affects our children. Does your organization agree with that statement?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: I'm going to have to say that that's a pretty broad statement to either agree
or disagree with. I, I believe that as long as it's followed by the, and I should say the
Hawaii Crop Improvement Association, as well as myself, believes as long as there's
sound science behind the, ! guess, final results and, and demonstrating label
directions, then we believe that, you know, those are the individuals who have the
regulatory expertise to provide us with the correct way to use these products.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Alright. Thank you so much for answering my
questions. Thank you. Chair. I have no further, oh, you got a lot of questions for. . .
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Thank you. More than happy to answer.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, it, it seems that there are more than just
clarifying questions. And so, my question would be, would it be better to just ask
Mr. Zibakalam to stay as a resource so that when we get to the item, we can ask non
clarifying questions as some of the Members already have?
CHAIR LEE: That's one thought. I'm, I think-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's just-
CHAIR LEE: Yea, I know. And that's a good suggestion. But, you know, I would prefer that
the Members try to, you know, to narrow your, your focus on exactly what the Member
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 45
said. Not, you're not here to persuade them to another point of view. Just asking them
for clarification, okay? So, let's, let's try that and see if we can stay with that regiment.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I have your testimony. So, this is going to
be clarifying from your testimony. I'm going to read the statement. And "As in all
professions, pest managers need the ability to use the correct tool for each situation,
as directed by the label. Casting," now this is the part, "unsubstantiated doubt in the
necessary use of pesticides as fertilizers not listed under Title 7 Code of Federal
Regulations 205.601, 205.603, 205.605, and 205.606 will severely impact Hawaii's
unique ecosystem by providing breeding grounds for invasive species and detrimental
pests". So, could you-
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yea? Yea?
CHAIR LEE; That doesn't sound too narrow to me.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Well, it's from his testimony.
CHAIR LEE; That's a broad question, i, I know, I know you are referring to what he's talked
about--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair, point of order.
if we're going to ask those kinds of questions where it involves a five-minute
answer, then, you know-
CHAIR LEE;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Can you give me a one minute-
CHAIR LEE; -we're probably going to have to-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; -one, one sentence answer?
CHAIR LEE: -designate him as a resource person when we get to it. Cause, you know,
what I had in mind was like short questions with short answers. But if we cannot do
that, then we're going to have to ask him to come back. And then, then you can the
longer questions.
Members, how do you feel about that?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 46
m just trying to clarify his written testimony.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
CHAIR LEE: I know, but that was a long question and, and, you know you had, you had
several references. And then, you know, if I were him I would feel that I would have to
answer the whole question, so.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And Chair, point of order. The clarification should be
on the oral testimony only, not on written testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. That's true. But he did talk about these other things.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: He did.
CHAIR LEE: He referenced these other things.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Your call.
CHAIR LEE: Any-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I mean, I’m fine.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments?
Any, Member Molina, you want to designate this gentleman as a resource?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, I mean, it's, it's the Council's call. But my question is just
very general. And Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez pretty much answered one of the
questions I had. That was the pronunciation of Emmanuel's last name. Is it
Zibakalam? And, and my-
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Very close.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: -my curiosity was just, yea, thank you. My question was just
more about your organization itself. How long you've been in existence and where
you're headquartered at?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Sure. The Hawaii Crop Improvement Association has been around for
over 60 years. We started, I believe on Molokai, actually. And, you know, from there
it grew from a very large organization. We used to see a very large amount of farmers
that were trying to do different type of work with their seeds. And slowly, you know,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 47
those farmers bought each other out and such, and combined, and has come to the
organization that we have now. We're based on Oahu.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Emmanuel, thank you. Thank you. You know, we. you need to keep
your answers a little shorter.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; We're, we're all on a time clock, yea?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: My apologies.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Mr. Zibakalam.
CHAIR LEE; And we have like, we have like 80 other items to go through.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else with a quick question for the testifier?
If not, are there any objections to designating. I'm sorry, I can't pronounce your last
name, but I can say Emmanuel.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Perfectly fine.
CHAIR LEE: Emmanuel as a resource person?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE; No objections? So, Emmanuel, can you come back later when we take up the
item?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Sure. Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. ZIBAKALAM; No problem.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, I-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 48
CHAIR LEE: Anymore quick--
Oh, Mr. Sinenci, you have a quick question?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; I just have an objection. The, the bill doesn't apply to farmers
so I don't know how Mr. Zibakalam's expertise would, would help from a, from the crop
crop association perspective.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other objections? Okay, your, your objection is so noted, but it
apparently, the other Members are amenable to having him come back as a, unless
you all changing your mind now.
Okay, Member Paltin is a "no". Sinenci is a "no". Anybody else is a "no"?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Chair, I don't know if you can see. This is Gabe Johnson
as a "no".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, three. Okay, let's, let's take it as a roll call, Madam Clerk. Cause it would
be 3-5, so let’s verify that vote.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. Chair, can you repeat the question?
CHAIR LEE: The question is whether or not we would designate Emmanuel as a resource
person when this particular item comes up. Okay. That's, that's the issue.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I, I only suggested that because the
Members started asking questions beyond clarifying the three minutes of his oral
testimony. If he is designated a resource personnel, no one has to ask him questions.
He would just be there if we did have a question. That, that’s ail.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, I saw three "noes". Are there anymore "noes"? Because, because
if not, then we're just, we'll designate him as majority rules. I saw Member Johnson as
Member Sinenci as a "no", and Member Paltin as a "no". Are there anymorea no ,
"noes"?
If not, Ms., Member King,
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, Chair, you know, just in the interest of the way we just did
with, you know, Council guidelines for resource personnel, we talked about having a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 49
balance. So. you know, it seems like we might have missed our opportunity to have
Mr. Evslin come on, which would balance out the resource, you know, as testify,
bringing testifiers on. So, i guess I would prefer not to, and nothing personal
Mr. Zibakalam, but because we don't have that balance of the other, you know, I would
have liked to have him, but I think, I don't think-
CHAIRLEE; Okay. So, you're a "no"? You're a "no"?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, that's four "noes".
Member Sugimura. Member Sugimura, did we lose you? Can you just say something.
Member Sugimura? Okay. You know what I'll, I'm going to do? Is I'm going to do is
ask you to ask your question and then we will dispense with the idea of asking
Emmanuel to be a resource. So, can you ask your question in, in a shorter version of
what you did earlier?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, you're talking to me, Member Sugimura?
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, this discussion, you got to ask him, sounds like,
does he only represent farmers? That's the, that's what Shane Sinenci brought up and
the objection. So, does he only represent farmers? If he does, then he shouldn't be a
resource cause this doesn't apply to farmers. That's about this vote.
But going back to my original question. I had wanted to know about the Federal
implications of his testimony. And he was talking about the word "unsubstantiated
doubt". That this would cast unsubstantiated doubt. That was my question. Because
of the Federal regulations.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let, let's ask Emmanuel to respond to that in a. in a condensed way.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Succinct, succinct way.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: No, no problem. So, regarding unsubstantiated doubt, the reason that
that was placed in there, and I would like to clarify the question. Are we speaking
specifically to the Federal government or on the products itself?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 50
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: This is from your testimony, that you said it would create
unsubstantiated doubt.
MR. ZIBAKALAM; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: So. Emmanuel?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Okay. Regard, regarding synthetic products. So, the reason that I said
unsubstantiated doubt is because, you know, there, there are oftentimes when
education is something that’s very important to understanding chemistry properties.
And basically, excluding one group from allowance would cast unsubstantiated doubt
on that group of products.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: And, and that's a short answer. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Members, you have questions for this person?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Ido.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci and then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yea, thank you, Chair, for the opportunity. I guess my, my
opposition to Mr. Zibakalam is that the Crop Association also represents, I believe they
have clients that that are synthetic users. So, so is his expertise would be coming
from, from a lobbyist for those, for those users of chemical pesticides? That is, that
was my, my objection. That he, that the Crop Association has clients that use
pesticides. Is that correct, Mr. Zibakalam?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: We do have members and they are farmers. And I believe that they do
use synthetic products.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Is that, one of those organizations Bayer?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Bayer is a member of the Hawaii Crop Improvement Association.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Hartung?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 51
MR. ZIBAKALAM; Hartung is a member of the Hawaii Crop Improvement Association.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Corteva.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: . . yea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King, you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yes, I just wanted to follow up with you on the,
the unsubstantiated doubt. The clients that you're talking about, are they still using
Roundup or some form of glyphosate?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: I would have to go back and speak with all of our members to understand
what they're currently using on their farms.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, i just, I brought that up because, you know, there seems to
be huge doubt on the use of that by that, you know, lawsuit settlement. But it seems
to be, continuing to be sold and being used. So,  Idon't think that we're actually, I guess
I'm confused by, I don't think we're creating unsubstantiated doubt. I think the doubt
is out there because of those things. But i just wondered if you had any knowledge of
who's using, who's continuing to use that, even after those lawsuits have been settled
in favor of the plaintiffs.
Well, if you do, you know, I would appreciate it because and, you know. I'm not trying
to attack you or anything. I'm just really sincere in trying to figure out why people are
suing for these ill-effects they've had, which have been proven, getting settlements,
and this, yet this product continues to be on the market. So, you know, I see the doubt
as being on that side of things because of those, those kinds of ongoing actions.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: And thank you for that question. In deference to the Council and Chair
Lee, I'm more than happy to speak with you offline at length regarding that
conversation.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I would really like to; cause I'm trying to understand that
whole issue. Thank you.
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Yea. Of course.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're muted. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 52
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much, Emmanuel, for your testimony.
May we have the next testifier, Madam Clerk?
MR. ZIBAKALAM: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Rowena Dagdag-Andaya.  To be followed by
Pamela Tumpap.
MS. ROWENA DAGDAG-ANDAYA. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS (testifying on
Committee Report No. 21-56):
Aloha, Chair Lee and Members. For the record, my name is Rowena Dagdag-Andaya
from the Department of Public Works. Thank you for the opportunity to testify regarding
CR 21-56, relating to pesticide and fertilizer use on County property.
During the CARE Committee meeting on July 21, 2021, the Department of Public
Works suggested revising the proposed bill for an ordinance to clarify the definition of
"County property" and asked if the proposed ordinance would have an impact on
property owners who are required to maintain County sidewalks and shoulder areas in
accordance with Section 12.02.020 of the Code, or if it would have any impacts on
nonprofit organizations who maintain or lease County property? I understand from the
discussion that the proposed ordinance would not affect these groups. But that being
said, I did want to suggest a number of revisions for greater clarity. And my suggested
revisions are actually submitted as testimony, written testimony. So, I'm hoping that
got to you on Granicus.
So, the first one is to revise the definition of "County property" to mean any real property
owned or under the management of the County of Maui, including any other, any
County highway, drainage ways, sidewalk, right-of-way, park, building, community
center or other facility.
The other is to add a definition of "sidewalk." And this is in line with Chapter 12, the
definition of "sidewalk" in Chapter 12, to mean that a portion of a street between the
curb line or the pavement of the road, and the adjacent property line, including any
setback area acquired by the County for road-widening purposes.
I also, or the Department also suggests an exclusion section. And this would actually
help clarify the type of conditions that this chapter of the Code will not apply to. So,
what I, what I did was take existing language from the proposed ordinance and added
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 53
the following. So, the first one would be to identify an exclusion as the use of pesticides
or fertilizers on property's subject to state executive order, County ag parks, or County
property used for agricultural purposes. And then the following would make clear that
it wouldn't apply to nonprofit organizations leasing or maintaining County property, or
to non-County employees who maintain the County's sidewalks in accordance with
Chapter 12.02 of this Code.
As I stated in, on, at the Committee meeting, the Department of Public Works continues
to remain committed to reducing our use of pesticides and herbicides on our County
roadways. We've actually reduced our use of herbicides from 111 gallons of
concentrated herbicide in 2014, to 3.1 gallons in 2020. We've also increased our use
of mechanical cutting and have also implemented the use of weed steam equipment
in our operations.
We do, however, continue to have concerns on the impacts of this proposed ordinance
on the safety of our roads, and would actually appreciate additional time to work on
this bill. But should the Council move this bill forward onto final reading, the
Department will continue to work with the Administration, other departments, and with
the County Council on how to improve our integrated pest and vegetation management
program in the year ahead. Thank you very much for this opportunity to testify this
morning.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You’re still muted, Alice.
CHAIR LEE; I know. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. I just wanted to ask if Ms. Dagdag-Andaya
would be on when we get to this item on the agenda, as a resource person?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Good, I'm glad you said that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yea, because, you know, these did come up, but we didn't have
anything in writing, so I appreciate you putting it in writing and giving us something,
some structure to look at. And we can address that when we get to that item.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: I can make myself available.
CHAIR LEE; Any-
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: There is a mandatory-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 54
CHAIR LEE: -objections, Members-
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Before I go to the next question? Okay. If you can, we should take it up
sometime after lunch. Okay. Thank you.
Then I see other hands. Member Paltin, then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just was wondering if the clarification items in the
written testimony could be submitted in the form of an . . .
CHAIR LEE: In the form of what?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: An ASF. Maybe that would save some time. Cause I mean,
it's not changing substantively. It's just trying to clarify and make it easier for them to
administer. And then if it's in an ASF form, somebody can just make the motion, first
reading.
CHAIR LEE: Well, let's ask the Committee Chair. Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: How do you want to handle that?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think you know. I, I. I've never heard of an ASF coming from the
Department before. But I think it would be a practical way and then we can take a look
at the changes adjusted and we can figure out which ones we want to, to make and
which ones we don't. If we could put it all in one ASF, I think that would be the most
expeditious way of dealing with it. And then we go through it item by item. Is that
possible, Ms. Dagdag-Andaya?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Yes. In fact, i did share some, some of my comments
with Councilmember Sugimura, so I believe she's already prepared something in
writing for the Committee, or for the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. You already have an ASF? Oh okay, so it seems like you already
have one then.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but was it just some or all of what you, you proposed?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 55
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: I believe it's all.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Okay. Okay, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's exactly what I was going to just say. So, thank you
very much, Member King and Chair. So, the concerns that were just expressed from
the Department, that’s my department, Public Works. So, I wanted to gather this and
have it available in an ASF for all the Members to consider. So, I have it if you want it.
CHAIR LEE: You have it? And you're going to send it to us?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, yea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I'll have my staff send it forward. Thank you. Thank
you, Rowena. Oh, others might have questions for her. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Right. But we, Rowena, we still may need you, you know, to, for clarify, to clarify
some questions later. Any questions from the Members right now, though?
Yes, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Not for Director Dagdag-Andaya.
For Member Sugimura, if she was planning to send those amendments now or soon,
so we have time to review it?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Now, I can have my staff send it. It's ready to go. Yea.
Good, then you can look at it until we take up this bill. Thank you. Perfect for my
department.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. And so, we'll go to the next item. Thank you, Rowena.
We'll see you later.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Pamela Tumpap. To be followed by Junya
Nakoa.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 56
ftestifvinq on CountyMS. PAMEU\ TUMPAP, MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
Communication No. 21-390: Committee Report No. 21-56: and Bill Nos. 60 (2021),
67 (2021). 68 (2021), & 69 (2021)1:
Aloha. I don't see that my video has been turned on, but I'm trying. So, aloha, and
bonjour, and happy Friday everyone; Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Members of the Maui County Council. I am Pamela Tumpap, President of the Maui
Chamber of Commerce here to testify on six items today. I'm going to go very quickly
on Bill 60, 69, CR 21-56, Bill 68, Bill 67, and CR [sic] 2^-ZQ0.
On Bill 60, you know, we've come before you many times and we appreciate that the
Mayor shares, excuse me, our concerns. We support his veto. We all agree that we
need to better manage tourism, work on infrastructure improvements, mitigate traffic,
address affordable housing and rentals as quickly as possible, and strongly believe
this moratorium is not the tool to solve these issues and may negatively impact the
industry. The purpose of this bill first came as an attempt to preserve the status quo
in these two areas where we have hotels and look at the community plans and wait till
the community plan updates were completed.
It then shifted significantly to an environmental impact basis and then, you know,
started blaming the visitor industry fora lot of different things; putting a bad spin on the
visitor industry at a time when they're trying to recover and pitted them against the
environment. We think measures need to stop being divisive and start looking at ways
to unite people. We feel that the Council should have worked with the industry and
created a TIG prior to considering the moratorium. And we believe that many of the
concerns that have been discussed and proposed, we need to get broader people
involved in the solutions.
You know, we are up against extreme measures and we need to work together, not be
divisive. We and others have constantly shared our apprehension on this bill because
of legal challenges. The last thing we need to do is spend time and resources on a
legal battle. And that'll take away from the progress that we're trying to make on critical
issues. So, we don't support moratoriums, you know, as a standard Chamber position,
because we think there are better ways to address issues.
However, our concern was heightened when we learned the final bill did not receive
signature from Corp. Counsel. And we feel this sets a bad precedence and opens us
up to additional liability. We feel Corp. Counsel's approval should be paramount,
especially when there are concerns about legal issues. And therefore, we strongly
encourage that you let the Mayor's veto stand and protect our County while continuing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 57
to address improved tourism management, along with housing and infrastructure
issues.
[f I can move onto Bill 69. short-term rentals. We appreciate the opportunity to ring in
and the work that's being done looking at caps and how to address the TVR issue. We
appreciate that the Council ensured that those who currently have a permit are
protected in this cap and wanted to share some additional thoughts. You know, we
hear the community's concerns and understand them. People keep talking about the
Chamber and the businesses like we’re not people, we're not residents, we don't live
here, we don't raise our children here. Obviously, that's just simply not true. So, we
see these challenges.
We're also hearing that some are concerned by the process. They feel some of it was
arbitrary, that maybe Councilmembers are having discussions with some of their
constituents, but again, not necessarily engaging the broader community in the
process. We strongly support and have advocated for a public hearing before, or
community meetings, to reach ail impacted individuals as recommended by the Maui
Planning Commission, which would help address these concerns, ensure all voices
are heard, and hopefully reach those who intended to look at short-term rental and
were in the five-year waiting period as we just heard from Tim Lara. So, we just feel
that public awareness is key before rushing this measure through.
Lastly, we would again like to suggest that the Council allow for family members, who,
you know, parents who might have a legal permitted short-term rental and want to pass
that business operation onto their heirs. We should, feel that should be considered,
and maybe particularly helpful in the areas like Hana and West Maui where the cap is
being significantly lowered. We know, also, that, many families use this as a business
and plan to pass it on. So, we ask again for broader understanding. And we
understand that this request may not be appropriate in Bill 69. But if this bill passes,
we ask that the Council take swift action to address this elsewhere in legislative, in the
rules and regs where you can allow those families to pass it on.
If I could then move on to CR 21-56, determining categories of pesticide and fertilizer
allowed use for County property. We understand that this is for County properties.
And, you know, we were impressed by the information shared by Director Rowena
Dagdag-Andaya and Director Peters on the July 21 meeting, because clearly they've
been making concerted efforts to phase out fertilizer and pesticide use as they noted.
They also shared some of the work they're doing in organic materials, and new
technology, and things to control weeds. However, they also noted that there are times
when some of these other alternative methods are just not necessarily working. So,
we want to, we fee! the bill needs a little bit more work. We feel this is a little premature.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 58
We’re thrilled that Director Andaya is going to continue on and be a resource. We like
the suggestions that she’s made and support those. We also liked that you looked at
longer periods for. say, the Waiehu Golf Course and War Memorial Stadium. But we
also feel this could be done as a resolution. Clearly, great strides are being made for
the departments to move to only organic fertilizers and pesticides by 2023, without
necessarily making it a law. There is already dramatic reductions taking place. So,
right now, we ask that more time be spent and this go baok to Committee, unless all of
these issues can be solved today.
On Bill 68, I'm sorry I didn't put this in the note, but would like add that. We do, we
actually support the addition of foam coolers into this measure, given the breakage and
other alternatives available.
And on Bill 67, and there was a testifier who, who talked about the bodyboards. You
know, we agree that the polystyrene can break. Again, that can be problematic. And
so, it is opportunities to spur rentals. But we also recognize that many guests are going
to purchase long-term use products when they come, whether it's a very expensive
surfboard or it's a $60 boogie board and leave them behind when they go home. So,
it would also be great to have some sort of recycling reuse program. If one exists,
we're not aware of it, but we’d sure like to help promote it.
And then on CC 21-390, we support the resolution and really appreciate the amazing
school supply donations by Ian Smith and Stable Road Foundation to help our school
and students. And I just want to go, real quick to make sure I covered the, oh, the,
yup, I think I covered everything on the pesticide, so short-term rentals. Yup, I think
we're good.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions? Oh okay. No questions. Thank you, Pam.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I have a question.
MS. TUMPAP: I think, I think Councilmember Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Oh, I see you now in the corner.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Sorry about that. Thank you. Chair. Good morning,
Ms. Tumpac [sic]. Just a clarifying questions. I heard the body loud and clear. . . .
very short in clarifying. So you state in your testimony, you said tourism industry is
trying to recover. So, right now, we've heard the stats are higher than 2019. You're
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 59
saying they’re trying to go higher than 2019? And can you clarify "trying to recover"?
That's your words, not mine.
MS. TUMPAP: Yes. Thank you. lean. You know, we are seeing stats and the stats have
gone, certainly gone up. We've also seen that they're starting to level off as well. But
what I mean by that is not related to the month-to-month stats. I’m referring to the
depths of the loss during the periods that we saw during the shutdown and the recovery
of the operations getting back on a financial footing after that significant loss. And I'm
also talking about the job issues that we’re currently having, where we can't fully hire
all the needed workers to help sustain the industry now.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Thank you. And my next clarifying question is
regards to the pesticides. Why would the Chamber have a stance on what the County
does on County properties?
MS. TUMPAP; Well, we have a stance on what the County is doing on County properties
because, you know, they’re, what we're saying is all of this impacts, any, any kind of
management impacts the work that we all pay for, County residents, businesses, we
all pay for the work on all County properties, the development of that. We support the
movement to reduce, and we feel the departments are doing an excellent job at
reducing. But we also want to ensure that their hands are tied when some products
might be the best solution.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. 1 see. Thank you, Ms. Tumpac [sic]. Thank you
Chair. I have no further questions.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you, Pam.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo. Thank you all. Have a wonderful weekend.
CHAIR LEE: You, too.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is Junya Nakoa. To be followed by Rita Ryan.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA [testifying on County Communication No. 21-377; Committee Report
No. 21-56: and Bill Nos. 64 (2021). 67 (2021). 68 (2021), & 69 (2021)1:
Howzit? Morning. You guys can hear me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 60
CHAIR LEE: Yes, sir.
MR. NAKOA: Yessah. Okay. I get six of em for talk about, too. So, I going, sorry, I going
go slow so I no forget. Number one, was, get the 67 and 68, the foam stuffs. Yea, me
I buy one foam cooler cause i left my other cooler at home, eh. So, I feel guilty. So, I
go listen to you, Alice Lee, I stay use um for one planting box like that. So, you know
what I mean? But, yea, we don't need that buggah. And, you know, when I used to
work as a bellman at Kaanapali Beach Club, plenty of the guys, when they buy the
expensive ones, they give um to the bellmens. And the bellmens they can give em,
like we did, is I give em to the kids for my baseball like that. So, we can find one use
for use the expensive one. Get rid of this foam stuff. You know, no be guilty like me
and then you gotta make one planter box. So, okay, that one pau.
The pesticide one, the 21-56. I was one certified pesticide operator. And you know
what, the buggah, the test is hard. You gotta read the labels. You gotta read
everything. So, you gotta know plenty about the pesticide and where to put em, how
long you gotta put em, how long you gotta mark em up so nobody re-enter. So, yea,
the label is very, very important. But if the guy who spraying em no follow em, ah jam
up yea?
Then this thing is for the parks, right? It's not for farms. It's for the parks and the public,
and the County stuff. So me, you know me, 1 baseball coach, so I thinking about the
parks. So, I know if you, and then 1 didn't, I heard the Parks saying they gotta spray
um certain time, but hard eh when they work from six to two in the morning to the
afternoon and us guys we get practice at 4:00. The REI not going be long enough.
So, yea, we going stop using the kine junk kine chemicals that going hurt. And like,
like I said before, yea we going make our kids pull the weeds. But if we going make
the kids pull the weeds then we going do all the work. Ah, maybe they can, the Parks
and Recreation can lessen the fees that we gotta pay, eh? You know, poho we gotta
clean the park and then we gotta pay too. Hui, bah, tell you. Okay, so, yea, so I pau
that one. I pau with that one.
Okay, number 3. Number 3, where the hell is that one? Oh, is the 69, is the short
term cap. Mahalo, you guys. Mahalo for doing that kind stuff. You know what I mean,
this illegal, this thing, short-term rentals is, put a cap on em. You know, I sorry for
braddah Tim Lara like that, you know. It's all the timing kine stuff eh, you gotta do.
But, you know, you get some other, he awesome, he take care the, you know, the
island like that. But we get plenty people who take advantage of em. Like my favorite
friend, Greg Brown, yea. You know, so we gotta make sure we gotta, you know, to
protect our, our little communities and all that stuff.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 61
And you know, and I think Bill 64 relate to this, because you guys when listen to the
Napili community. Mahalo for listening to us. And see 1 can tell everybody, my wallas,
he work, being wallas, you work the buggah. So, mahalo, you guys, brah, big time.
Short-term rental, put the cap on that buggah. No need em.
And going slide right into the 21-377, you know, the veto thing. You know, a lot of the
comments was, you know, we gotta watch the illegal short-term rentals and the
vacation rentals. So, yeah, that's the ones we gotta go watch. But at the same time,
these hotels, especially here in West Maui, we, all we seen was hotels going bing-
bang, you know? The buggah just grow up like, you know, just grow like weeds, like
weeds. And then us guys we no more, we no more place for stay. You know, the local
homes like that, affordable homes. You guys all heard all of that.
But, you know, and the Mayor when veto, veto this thing, yea? And so, it kind of when
piss me off when I heard him and Alan Fukuyama going to the permitting office and
yell at these ladies for tell em hurry up with this, somebody's permit. Why are you
taking so long? Eh, and I get witnesses. And I get everything about that. That kind of
piss me off that, how he when veto that buggah. And then, now he go, and then he
goes down to the permitting office. Oh, my god, this Administration is no lord, you
know.
And earlier, thing was saying is like how the Planning Commission, you know, they
just, they just, they just listen to the Planning Department. And cause they listen to
recommendation of em. And then, us guys we testify. We gotta wait like 10-12 hours
for testify for three minutes, like the braddah Dorn guy said. And then, it seems like
they not listening to us, because they already content. They think the Planning
Department is professionals, but they not. 1 get plenty, I get UIPA documents that the
buggahs is jam up.
So, the veto of that, so just put a cap on, you know. The moratorium, you guys figure
um out, make urn cherry. Nuff tourists. Find out the short-term rentals. And yea, just,
just nuff. We get too much tourists. And watch, you guys going see me take some
action this weekend for hand, handle too much tourism and us locals get lock up. Yea,
mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you, Junya. Are there any questions? Not today. Thank you
Junya. Have a nice weekend.
MR. NAKOA; Alright. ... You guys have a good weekend. Be safe. Yessah.
CHAIR LEE: Madam, oh, it's almost lunch time, Madam Clerk. So, let's take one more.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 62
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Our, our next testifier is Rita Ryan.
MS. RITA RYAN (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Aloha. Bonjour. Dia dhuit in my ancestral language of Irish. Junya, that is one hard
act to follow, I got to tell you. I'm nervous now. But anyway, I'm here, thank you,
Councilmembers, for your patience with hearing our public testimony. It's so, so
important. And thank you so much for hearing us today. I'm here representing the,
the Climate Action Advisory Committee of Maui County, the 350hawaii.org, and also,
the Climate Reality Project - Maui Chapter. And these are all volunteer organizations.
I'm not a lobbyist.
And 1 think you know; you’ve heard me testify on the moratorium before. And
unfortunately. Mayor Victorino has forced us to spend or waste more time deliberating
over this. And it's very, very disappointing to me that he, he, he did this. We don't
know why he did it. I don’t know if he was trying to force your hand and see who's
more powerful. I'm not sure.
But what I want to do is 1 want to really talk about the climate crisis. I want to back up
a little bit. Back up out of Maui County and our, our needs, and not be so myopic, like
the Hotel Association has been and the Chamber of Commerce has been. And let's
step back, and let's look at the climate crisis globally, which we are, we have kuleana
in this, okay? And tourism is our number one cause of carbon pollution, okay. More
than road transportation, and power plants combined, okay; number, number one. So,
put aside the infrastructure issues. Put aside the overcrowding. Put aside everything
else.
We have proven this post-COVID tourism surge, you know, has proven that we can't
control tourism. Maui County cannot. We have very, very few tools at our disposal to
control the number one cause of carbon pollution. Maui County residents, per capita,
may be responsible for the most carbon pollution in the world. That's very arguable.
But there's some statistics that show that our carbon footprint per capita, because our
economy is tourism and because we're so far from all mainlands, and the amount of
carbon that goes in the atmosphere because of Maui County tourism, is excessive.
This is causing fires, floods, landslides, sea-level rise, superstorms, extreme heat
events. People are dying. Species are dying. We're responsible for that, Maui County.
Every person in Maui County who benefits from our economy is responsible for all of
these global catastrophes. And we've got to look at that and we've got to stop doing
this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 63
Mike Victorino asked the airlines, you know, please don’t send so many tourists. He
didn't ask the Hotel Association to please, you know, stop booking rooms, did he? He,
but he has, that was ridiculous, you know. He doesn't want to take the necessary
action because he's afraid of the people, the, the industries that support him. The Maui
County Council, we expect better from you. We expect you to represent the people of
Maui County, who want to curb tourism for whatever reason. Groups like mine want
to curb it because of the carbon footprint. People want to, also people want to curb it
because of the beaches, the infrastructure, the roads, everything else, right? Those
are all great reasons and we've heard very, very weak arguments today from the hotel
industry, from the Chamber of Commerce, of why we shouldn't use the only tool in our
toolshed to curb tourism. So, we are pleading with you to do the right thing. Realize
that this is the most powerful thing that we can do as a County to lower our carbon
footprint.
And for those Councilmembers who did not vote on the moratorium the last round, this
is your opportunity to stand with us, stand with the people of Maui County, stand with
the climate, and do the right thing. And start looking at the bigger picture, not just our
own myopic focus. Thank you, Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE: Thankyou. Members, any questions? Ifnot, thankyou againforyourtestimony.
MS. RYAN: Thankyou.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, how many more do we have, testifiers?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we currently have 17 testifiers signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, shall we take a one-hour lunch?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm willing to go another half hour of testimony if we can get
through some more testifiers before we take lunch.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any thoughts? Go another half hour till 12:30 and then take lunch at
12:30 to 1:30?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. No objections.
Madam Clerk. Just, can you just-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 64
COUNTY CLERK: Continuing-
CHAIR LEE: -watch the clock, and then stop the last one at 12:25? Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Sure can. Continuing through the testifier list, we have the last four digits
of 1425. Testifier identified as 1425.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, it says that on the, on the testifier list that they dropped.
COUNTY CLERK: Dropped? Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Go to the next one.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Dick Mayer. To be followed by last four digits 4200.
CHAIR LEE: Hello. Dick.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Good morning. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. MAYER: My name is Dick Mayer. I'm not a paid lobbyist. Many of you saw the Maui
News Viewpoint that I put in the paper this morning, which describes my feelings about
this. Going back about a decade, in 2009. Maui County had 29 percent ratio of visitors
to residents. At that time, the Maui Island Plan was being developed by the General
Plan Advisory Committee. We were asked to put down our recommendations. We did
it and by that time already it was clear to us that Maui's tourism industry was such a
major component of the island, that it was a threat, if something were to happen. And
exactly, as we all know now, a year or two ago know, the COVID crisis hit and our
unemployment skyrocketed, and our island really was in trauma.
We, at that time, said let's limit it at 33 percent. And we raised it a little bit higher than
we were, but we urged in our Maui Island Plan that we diversify our economy, and we
gave many recommendations. The Maui Island Plan was then looked at by the County
Council, excuse me, by the Planning Commission and then the County Council. Mayor
Victorino was on the Council at that time, and he and his colleagues, at that time,
adopted the Maui Island Plan and the recommendation with 33 percent limit.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 65
I would also like to read some other statements that was in, that were in the Maui Island
Plan that are really relevant to this veto that the Mayor has issued. The plan said, . . .
the Plan said the County's principle role involves regulation of land uses. The, to
protect the quality of Maui's visitor industry and the island lifestyle, the County must
carefully manage and control any future expansion of visitor units on Maui island. In
other words, it says protect the industry and the lifestyle and the quality of life. It also
says, and these are all quotes directly from the plan, comprehensively manage future
visitor unit expansion; mitigate the impact of tourism on the host culture, natural
environment, and resident lifestyles. And lastly, develop programs and/or regulations
to cap the number and type of visitor accommodations that can be permitted. Manage
the number and type of visitor accommodations that can be permitted. This is
absolutely critical.
So, the veto of the Mayor, he's threatening, or indicating that there may be lawsuits. I
would argue conversely. If the Maui Island Plan is not followed by the Council, by the
Mayor, by the Planning Department, by the Planning Commission in their actions, they
are violating the law right now, the Maui island Plan, which sets these limits. So, please
be careful about going over the 33 percent that's recommended in the plan.
There's several other points I'd like to quickly make. If tourism, nothing in the Maui
Island Plan or in this ordinance that you have limits present tourist industry. No hotel
is closed, no timeshare is closed. So, those who are raising issues about threats to
the industry are wrong. There's nothing in the ordinance. It just says future growth.
In fact, if we limit future growth, we're actually protecting the industry: not only the
quality of the experience for tourists on Maui, but from further competition. And that in
turn supports the workers at all of these hotels who do not have to fear that this further
growth of visitor units.
I urge that the Council to also go further and help the Mayor and the Planning
Department institute the various management techniques that are being discussed.
This is not instead of the management; this is in support of protecting the industry so
that we can begin more properly manage the industry. And utilize then, the workers
who have, would normally be expanding the industry to construct affordable housing,
to make repairs and upgrade the quality of the hotels, because many of them are now
20, 30, 40 years old and they need upgrading.
And I would also urge that this only be a first step. That the other bill that's being
considered regarding a moratorium islandwide be instituted and utilizing this as a basis.
And let's get the whole industry controlled in a proper manner, so that the people of
Maui will have . . . industry, . . . good industry, and in the best interest of all of the
people on Maui. I thank you for listening.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 66
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Dick. Are there any questions?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. And I know, thank you for being here, Dick. I
know you've been involved in some of the issues that we've had in South Maui with
the, the hotels that are coming online and proposed to come online. And so, I just
wanted to ask you if you . . . your testimony, you see this as an urgency? And I know
you're well aware, and if you can share with us where we're at right now with that
urgency as far as what's coming into South Maui that's already approved?
MR. MAYER: Yea, you hit the nail on the head. Right now, you may have seen the, the new
Maui Lu site. There'll be 380 units, approximately, 388 units being put up and they're
being finished. This ordinance will not affect them,
numbers. In fact, the Mayor, when he gave his Viewpoint in the Maui News, by 2,800
underestimated the actual number of already units. And now we have another 380
that will be opening up in September, next month.
In addition to that, the Planning Commission gave the Maui Coast Hotel permission to
put up another 170 units. And the Grand Wailea is, is, the numbers have varied over
the last year but somewhere around 150, they're trying to expand that property. So,
there are constant efforts being done in South Maui, but also in other areas. The,
there's an effort by the Olson Company to put up  ahotel up near Costco, another,
another hotel. They built a first one, now they want to build a second one with
200 rooms. So, islandwide, we need this control to get our island in better balance
with what is in the needs for the, for the benefit of the population on Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, thanks for that information.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, I see two more questions. Member Sugimura, then Member Molina.
Thank, nice to see you, Dick, always
advocating for a better community. So, you know,  Ifinally did the research, sorry,
about the Maui Island Plan, what the policy states. And verbatim, it says,
"4.2.3.a Promote a desirable island population by striving to not exceed an islandwide
visitor population of roughly 33 percent of the resident population. This policy does
not call for a daily visitor count not to exceed one-third of the resident population since
it is a policy to promote, that's the important word. There is still an opportunity to
address concerns without a moratorium. And the Maui Island Plan does not mandate
the 33 percent ratio as law. Oops, sorry about that. So, that's it.
So. that's an addition to the
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 67
MR. MAYER: Yea, it advocates, my belief is that it advocates it as policy. And that's what
you do by creating laws. You set up the mechanisms to implement the policies that
are recommended. And right now, we're at, in 2019, we were already up to 42 percent
of the resident population. And I believe when the July figures come out in a few
weeks, we are going to find that we're already about 42 percent again, somewhere
around 75,000, 70 to 75,000 tourists on the island.
So, this, this moratorium is one measure to make sure that we don't continually
increase above that 42 percent. That we, we hold the line at this level. Already
nine percentage points above what the policy recommends. And I would hope that
you would sustain the Maui Island Plan, as well as the whole plan. That's law. That's
not a, that's not something that was just a nice idea.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Yea, so thank you. 1 was just trying to clarify
that it's a promote, it doesn't, it's not a law per se. So. that's all. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Another question from Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good morning or good
afternoon, Mr. Mayer and thank for your, a very thought-provoking Viewpoint that I read
in the Maui News this morning. To be clear, so the moratorium also, it's not just about
hotels, it was also, I don't know if you mentioned, but also about short-term rentals.
Am I correct with that? And also, using an old economic terms the opportunity cost, if
we proceed along the current path and instead of considering this pause, what are the
opportunity costs here?
MR. MAYER: Well, 1 think that what, what, what, a few weeks ago you all unanimously passed
a resolution urging that the quality of life on Maui was extremely important with regard
to these kind of issues. And this would be perhaps a loss to the quality of life, not only
of our residents, but also the tourist experience. If more and more of the places where
the visitors want to go, whether it be Twin Falls, or Haleakala, or the Hana Highway,
or wherever it might be, if more and more people crowd those areas, the quality of the
tourist experience and consequently the experience of, of people who might want to
come to Maui will be affected. And that's, that's  areal cost. Not only that, but it also
affects residents who now find when they want to go to certain beaches there's no
parking because there's so many visitors. So, what we want to do is maintain a proper
balance. And those are costs that I hope we don't have to suffer by continually
expanding the industry. And I appreciate the question, because it is a real concern, I
think, for many, many residents on the island.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 68
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you. Mr, Mayer. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Questions? Any other questions? If not, thank you, Dick.
MR. MAYER: Thank you and have a good day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for your testimony.
Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier, please?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is identified with the last four digits of 4200. And 4200
will be followed by Kekoa McClellan.
CHAIR LEE: Call once again.
COUNTY CLERK: 4200.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Looks like they left the call.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Kathy, is somebody helping you check, check the list? People are still on
the list.
COUNTY CLERK: Yea, it's possible. It’s possible they left the call after I added, updated my
list.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: So, next testifier would be Kekoa McClellan. To be followed by Tina
Yama, Yamaki.
CHAIR LEE: Once again.
COUNTY CLERK: Tina Yamaki.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, next.
COUNTY CLERK: I don't, I don't see that name either.
Autumn Ness.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 69
MS. TINA YAMAKI. RETAIL MERCHANTS OF HAWAII [testifying on Bill Nos. 67 (2021) and
68 (2021)1:
I'm here. I'm sorry. 1 didn't unmute. I'm Tina.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Oh, Tina.
MS. YAMAKI: Sorry about that. I was trying to unmute.
COUNTY CLERK: Tina Yamaki, to be, to be followed by Autumn Ness.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. YAMAKI: Aloha. Bonjour, comment ca va. Finally got to use my college French here.
My mom would be so proud. I’m Tina Yamaki, I’m the President of the Retail Merchants
of Hawaii and we're opposed to both Bill 67, prohibiting the sale, rental, and distribution
of disposable bodyboards; and Bill 68, restricting the use and sale of foam coolers. 1
just wanted to make clear that retailers continue to be concerned about our aina and
we have supported many initiatives that preserve and protect our environment. But
there has to be a balance.
We are unsure when this pandemic will end. Today, already, there's over another
600 people who are diagnosed with having COVID. As you’ve seen in the last couple
of weeks, the numbers has significantly increased. Today wasn't the only day with
these high numbers. COVlD-19 isn't going to go away any time soon, and we
understand that the want for some of these organizations to get rid of all foam and
plastic items, but this is just not the time.
Bans are not the simple answer, especially in a pandemic. This pandemic has shown
that a need for disposal items, in an effort not to spread COVID and the various variants
that are coming into our community. Some of the alternative disposal coolers are not
only more expensive, but they are also not as efficient in keeping products cool or hot.
Some of the ones made out of paper do not hold up well, and when used with ice for
cold items as the ice melts, saturates the cooler and causes water leakage. Foam
coolers are often recycled to be used multiple times, and are inexpensive in
comparison to the Yeti's, Coleman's, and others.
Currently, many local residents have been going to the beach with their families during
this pandemic. Many keiki have learned water sports using these types of bodyboards
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 70
as a easy to ride and economically priced. Hawaii still has one of the largest
unemployment rates in the nation and many local families are looking for family friendly
entertainment that is not too costly. Visitors who come to the island purchases these
boards and often leave them behind. The hotels recycle these boards by letting other
visitors use them, or they donate them to nonprofit organizations or less fortunate
families who are unable to afford these non-necessity items.
Retailers have been one of the hardest hit industries during this pandemic through no
fault of their own. Government mandates, closing of tourism, and many has
contributed to the many stores not being able to remain stable or open. I'm sure as
you walk down anywhere in Maui, you're going to see a lot of places that are boarded-
up for good or have gone out of business. In the last year, with little or no income from
customers, we have seen so many retail stores closing. And hundreds and many of
those that are still open, they still have hundreds of thousands, some even are in the
millions of dollars in debt and unable to pay their commercial rent lease, utilities,
supplies, and other operating expenses. They can barely pay their employees and the
reason they're keeping open is to keep jobs alive on Maui. While customers are
starting to come back, the sales are nowhere near what this pre-pandemic has been,
and many will take years to recover. It's not going to go away in a year. I think when
this started, we thought it was going to be six months, then, you know, few months,
and now we're over a year and a half later. Now is not the time.
We should really look at where the litter is coming into Hawaii is actually originating
from. We have taken into consideration that much has come not from Hawaii but
carried to our islands from currents. We should be looking at a coordinated
comprehensive litter reduction program. Government, business, and the community
should work together on the wise management of our resources by reducing, reusing,
and recycling principles. We should be looking at litter control programs and education
and not a ban. And we should also take a look at the various opala receptacles that
are in our public and city parks to make sure that this disposed rubbish in them are not
easily blown out.
So, again, we hope that you oppose these two bills. It is not the right time right now.
Retailers are struggling. Even if it's a year and they can't sell all of their inventory it
would be a loss, and they just can't accept it. You may see more stores closing. And
also too, we want to be able to have it affordable for those local families who can't
afford the more expensive boogie boards or bodyboards, and also the coolers. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 71
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Autumn Ness. And Autumn will be followed by
Kekoa McClellan.
MS. AUTUMN NESS: Aloha, Chair. I’d like to ask a favor. I'm so sorry. My, Jay Feldman,
also from Beyond Pesticides, is a few testifiers down the list and he's on the East
Coast. In the event we don't make it to him before lunch, can I switch places with him?
I'll just go to his space and could he have mine?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to that. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. NESS; Mahalo nui, you guys. Okay.
MR. JAY FELDMAN. BEYOND PESTICIDES (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-56):
I'm Jay Feldman, Executive Director of Beyond Pesticides.MahaloAloha.
Councilmembers and thank you for those thorough hearings held by the CARE
Committee in July, and the long work of history on this issue. We speak in support of
CR 21-56.
First, I'd like to emphasize what others have before me, that the scientific evidence in
support of this bill is overwhelming. The hearing record reflects this with cited scientific
and regulatory documents. This is true whether we analyze the impact of toxic
pesticides and fertilizers from the perspective of public health and ecological threats,
from the perspective of island resilience in response to the climate crisis, and in an
effort to address biodiversity decline.
In so far as pesticides being safe because they're registered by EPA, note that Hawaii,
in phasing outthe insecticide chlorpyriphos, the chemical allowed by EPA in agriculture
because of the indisputable science on its brain-damaging effects to children.
On land management, this legislation is about land management systems, pest
prevention and proper fertilization. The bill recognizes that we can manage playing
fields and park land on Maui with the whole systems ecological approach. The
legislative language wisely cites the Federal organic law, which establishes this
national list of allowed and prohibited substances. This creates a framework for
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 72
nurturing desirable plant life in a management system like the one we developed for
organic transition planning provided to Maui County.
In my experiences, those questioning the viability and cost effectiveness of organic
practices typically do not have experience with organic land management, The Council
can be confident that organic management systems work whether we're producing
food, growing grass, or managing rights-of-way. Historically, the companies
represented by the "farm groups" you've, you've heard from today in opposition to
21-56 actually told us organic food production was not commercially viable. It's now a
$60 billion industry.
As a parks manager in Montana said to me last week, whether you're growing crops
or growing grass, managing in sync with the ecosystem is the same. There is nothing
about the national list of allowed and prohibited substances which is cited in the
legislation that is unique to the East Coast, or the West Coast, or the mainland, or to
the island of Maui. The list offers options for organic compatible systems.
When the Farm Bureau and the Hawaii Crop Improvement Association, which both
represent chemical companies, talk about a list,  aresistance to this list, they are
looking at a product replacement approach to growing plants and killing weeds. Not a
systems approach to recognizing the value of nature, the ecosystem, and resilient land
management practices that nurture health and plant systems, and that protect the
health of the environment.
Let's not let those who have a vested economic interest in using toxic materials inject
doubt into your deliberations and derail your incredibly important efforts. If anything,
doubt should be a reason to stop using toxic chemicals by embracing a precautionary
approach. Also, exceptions like nonprofit leased land, if I understand that proposal
correctly, appears to create a broad loophole in potential adverse effects to children
and the environment. Thank you so much for your deliberations on this, and your long
work on this important issue. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Feldman. Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much.
MR. FELDMAN; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Appreciate you stopping by.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Kekoa McClellan. And Kekoa will be followed by the
caller identified as 7937.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 73
CHAIR LEE; Kekoa McClellan?
Next, Madam Clerk. You're muted.
COUNTY CLERK: The, the testifier identified as 7937, last four digits of telephone number
7937.
MR. KEKOA MCCLELLAN. HOST HOTELS AND RESORTS [testifying on Bill No. 60 (2021 )1:
Chair, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. MCCLELLAN: Chair, sorry. This is Kekoa McClellan. My, my BlueJeans wasn't working
very well for us. So, I am the caller 39, 7937.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. You can proceed.
MR. MCCLELLAN: My pleasure. Aloha'auinala, Chair, Vice-Chair, Honorable Members of
the Council. Kekoa McClellan, I am the registered advocate on behalf of Host Hotels
and we respectfully ask that the Council allow the Mayor's veto on Bill 60 to stand.
Host Hotels is the steward of the Andaz, the Fairmont Kea Lani, the Hyatt Regency,
the Hyatt Residence Club, and employs more than 2,000 Maui residents and more
than 100 independent contractors.
And in earlier testimony today we heard a common message on both sides of Bill 60.
Where we've been going isn’t working, it isn't sustainable and it exacerbates our
concerns around climate change and the impact of overtourism on our communities.
These testifiers are absolutely right, and Host Hotels and the entire hotel industry are
united in this sentiment. Need only look at the State of Hawaii's 2020 visitor plan
inventory report, which recorded 15,042 hotel and lodging units just on the island of
Maui. Now, 20 years earlier, that visitor plan inventory report for the year 2000
recorded 16,344 units. That's a 20-year reduction of 1,302 hotel and lodging units.
And on the contrary, in 2020, vacation rental units on Maui increased to 6,056, B&B's
at 192. Twenty years ago, that number was 327 and 134 respectively for an increase
of 5,787 units on Maui alone, the vast majority which are not locally owned. To be
clear, in 20 years, hotel and lodging operators eliminated 1300 rooms on Maui, while
short-term rental operators dropped 5700 units in the middle of communities across
the islands. Now, we often hear mention of how, we don't want Maui to look like
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 74
Waikiki. And unfortunately, this increase in short-term rental units is more than the five
largest hotels on Waikiki Beach combined.
Now, our jobs as advocates is to provide our policymakers, today the Honorable
Members of the Council and the broader community tuning in, with information on
behalf of the members or organizations who can’t be here today, because they're
working. Like Amy Taylor who's probably swamped ensuring that they have to
maintain ... can support... onsite meals at the Andaz, where a majority of our produce
is locally sourced. Or because Dena Ready is probably scrambling to help her HR
team get as many local team members back on the line at the Hyatt. Or because
Kimberly Brown might be catering to her onsite Vacation Club residents. Or engaged
because Michael Pye might be up to eyeballs working with the team at the Fairmont to
ensure that ... in guests are fully resourced, entertained, and engaged on property
where we can minimize their impact on our streets. Or because ... is, is, you know,
scrambling to ensure that our enhanced safety protocols keep guests, employees, and
our community safe from the spread of COVID-19.
As written. Bill 60 hurts our hotels and the communities we serve and does not get to
the heart of the problem. New hotel rooms go through a rigorous community planning
process. They come with built-in affordable housing requirements and create jobs that
allow local residents to actually buy them. And repositioning our hotel properties is
crucial to our enterprise-wide efforts at Host, to reduce our impact on our environment
and, and comports with our moral obligations to the communities we've served. And
frankly, it just makes good business sense to use less water, generate less waste, and
produce more on-site renewable energy. And we need to retool our properties to do
that, and Bill 60 would prohibit this.
On the contrary, this explosion in short-term rentals, both legal and illegal, are flooding
our streets, crowding our airports, and taking away affordable housing. Short-term
rentals are the only reason that a home in Kihei sold this month for $45 million; second
most expensive home in the history of our State. Second only to a home on Kauai that
sold in 2018 for $46.1 million, which is, in fact, a short-term rental. All driving housing
prices across our island chain through the roof.
And with that. Honorable Members of the Council, we ask that you consider allowing
the veto on Bill 60 to stand and focus instead on furthering this conversation through
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez' Resolution 21-98 with an added emphasis on the real
problem with overtourism throughout Maui County. The short-term rentals and their
impact to our, our communities and further expanding limits and short-term rentals
through Bill 69, we welcome the opportunity to work with the Council and the
Administration on this effort. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We have questions for you.
First, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Can you hear me?
MR. MCCLELLAN; I can hear you,
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Thank you, Mr. McClellan for your testimony. I just
was wondering your organization, you, you testify in support and against things both?
MR. MCCLELLAN: I, I'm sorry. I'm representing Host Hotels and Resorts. And Host is the
steward of the Andaz, the Fairmont Kea Lani, the Hyatt Regency, the Hyatt Residence
Club on Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering, like,  alot of your testimony focused on
short-term rentals. And I just wanted to clarify, are you only testifying against short
term rentals when we're talking about no more hotels? Because we had so much
short-term rental bills and I've never heard you testify that it was a problem until it affect
us not wanting any more kind of accommodations in addition. Cause when-
MR. MCCLELLAN: I, I, I appreciate that clarification. So, thank you for that opportunity to
talk about, about the short-term rentals, because the plain and simple fact is me, my
client at Host Hotels and the industry is aligned in our position on how short-term
rentals impact the industry and our employees who are dealing with the costs of
housing throughout the market space on, on Maui and elsewhere where Host, where
Host is engaged and operates hotels. And so, it is a consistent position of the brand
across every market, including and especially on Maui.
And I, I was asked to be a part of this forward conversation, and we can and will be
present. Host is a member of organizations like the Hawaii Hotel Alliance. You heard
Jerry Gibson volunteer president of that organization-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MR. MCCLELLAN: -speak on that issue earlier.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You kind of answered my question. I just, I mean, I, I'm still
confused as to, we have a actual bill limiting short-term rental, but you're not testifying
on that. You're testifying on this bill. So, I mean, I just, thank you. You answered my
question but I, I still don't understand your answer. But I don't think continuing talking
will get us there. So, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 76
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Paltin.
MR. MCCLELLAN: Thank you. Councilmember.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Paltin. Are there any other questions for the testifier? If
not, thank you.
Madam Clerk, let's have the next one.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is identified \with last four digits of telephone
number 8043. 8043 \A/ill be followed by Autumn Ness.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, hello? Hello? Can you state your name for the record, please?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I think it is, that might be, 8043 might be Autumn.
CHAIR LEE: Autumn? Autumn is that you?
MS. NESS: No, that's not me.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Autumn, Autumn's right there.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: So, shall we call up Autumn next?
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Let's call up Autumn and mute this other person.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Autumn Ness. And Autumn will be followed by Bruce
Douglas.
MS. AUTUMN NESS. Beyond Pesticides (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-56):
Aloha, Councilmembers. I'm Autumn Ness. I'm here to testify in support of CR 21-56.
I also would like to clarify that I'm here in my capacity as the Hawaii program director
for Beyond Pesticides, and not as a part-time staffer for Councilmember Gabe
Johnson.
On behalf of the keiki of Maui, I'd like to thank the CARE Committee for passing this
bill out. Kids and pesticides don't mix as we've heard repeatedly today and previously.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 77
We heard from the Department that the only parks that use pesticides on are the high-
intensity playing fields, which means that a lot of the kids play on these fields day in
and day out, a lot of kids. Thanks for prioritizing their health over the aesthetics of a
field.
The science is crystal-clear, especially regarding pesticide danger to kids and wildlife.
The science is disputed only, almost entirely, by studies funded by chemical industry
interests and people with financial ties to the industry in some way. You can see
item 46 in Granicus for my written testimony, including links to scientific peer reviewed
studies, agency reports, and data bases that support the passage of this bill.
Opposition testimony from the Farm Bureau, the IPM or Integrated Pest Management
. . . is false. IPM is green washing. It's a way to allow the continued use of chemicals
that weren't, that aren't needed. I'd also like to point out that Lee Johnson, the
gentleman who won the first lawsuit against Monsanto was on to, Maui two years, was
an IPM specialist when he was exposed, leading to his Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma.
References to millions of dollars of increased costs show a fundamental
misunderstanding of how pesticide free land management works. And item 47 in
Granicus can give you some more details about that. For example, public, also an
example, Public Works only used three gallons of herbicide concentrate last year. If
it's only three gallons, substituting that amount with a more expensive but highly
effective organic herbicide won't cost that much.
Fear mongering and the sky is falling statements in opposition are misinformed. I
would argue that the sky is falling, but it's as  aresult of our generations long reliance
on ever increasingly toxic chemicals, leading to  acascading health and environmental
crisis. Our beers, bees are, bees are disappearing, other pollinators, birds, beneficial
micro-organisms in our soil, coral, fish populations are suffering. The sky is falling, and
this is one opportunity to be the change. The pesticide industry business model
depends on the false assumption that we cannot manage our public spaces without
their toxic products. We can, but we have to be motivated to do so.
There is no one substitution for pesticide use. But with motivation to apply various
solutions as appropriate, there is success. Where there isn't motivation, no amount of
funding or resources will result in success. I firmly believe that this bill is exactly the
motivation our departments need to do better. If  Ihad the time to talk about invasive
species, I would, but I don't, if this, if invasive species is a pressing issue for any of
the Members here. I'd be happy to answer questions and expand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 78
CHAIR LEE: Questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And aloha, Ms. Ness, for your testimony. So,
the bill also has a waiver. Do you see, where would there be areas where you'd need
to, that could use the waiver?
MS. NESS; In my, in my opinion, the waiver was kind of written in, in from what I understand
over, as a result of the years of work we've been doing with the departments. Public
Works, for example, expressed a concern about certain areas of the highway. And a
lot of communities when they do this, instead of just granting the ability for departments
to spray pesticides wherever, whenever, they do it the other way. If you want to use
pesticides, you have to show us that you've done everything first. That you actually
are thinking holistically about land management. And if you have a plan for x amount
miles of highway, you have a plan. But this one little area is giving you trouble, then
let's talk about that. But the, the days of just giving departments carte blanche to use
wherever whenever are kind of over in a lot of communities, you know?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you. Yes, just so, just for more information to
the public. ...Thank you.
MS. NESS: Thanks for the question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: I'm muted. Did you have a question, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Ness. Mahalo for your
testimony today. So, you, you talked about land management. And if using or applying
pesticide in one area that is being managed and is not in another area that invasive
species would go to where it's not being applied, where pesticides is not being applied
and it would create a breeding ground. And so, in clarifying your response to Member
Sinenci's questions about, you know, invasive species, would you please explain that?
MS. NESS: Yea, I'm, I, this is a really important topic, actually, especially for us here in
Hawaii. To clarify, herbicides don't eradicate invasive species. They don't. You spray
them and then they grow back. When agencies apply herbicides to large areas of
invasive species, they actually create a vacuum and open space if you will, where
those species grow back thicker and more resistant. Herbicides don't ever end that
cycle. So, in certain areas where you can't mechanically cut things, like, like on the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 79
highway where there's a big . . . you can't reach over it or something, I could see
possibly using an herbicide or a pesticide in that area. But if not, then mechanical
management is as or more effective, cause it doesn't create herbicide resistance.
I will clarify herbicides, sometimes, when used as part of a more holistic invasive
species management plan, which includes soil rehabilitation and replanting of other
species that will not allow the native species to come back is a management plan, but
that's not what our departments do. Our road crews and our Parks Department do not
do that. They spray and leave and come back, and it's actually making the problem
worse. If that makes sense?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for that clarification, Ms. Ness. Mahalo,
Chair.
MS. NESS; Yea, you're welcome. Thanks for asking.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else. Members? Apparently not. Thank you, Autumn.
MS. NESS: Thank you very much for your time. Mahalo, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair our-
CHAIR LEE: Members, it's a little after 12:30. Do you want to continue on, or do you want to
take a lunch break now?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: How many more testifiers. Chair?
COUNTY CLERK; We have eight more testifiers at the moment.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Molina, what did you say?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair. I'm fine if everyone else is with finishing up the
last eight testifiers.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm good with that.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: That's me.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 80
CHAIR LEE: Everyone else? Okay. Let's do that.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Bruce Douglas. And Mr. Douglas will be followed by
Genesis Young.
MR. BRUCE DOUGLAS (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Aloha, Council. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
MR. DOUGLAS: Fantastic. I'm testifying on the moratorium. And I commend the Council
for, you know, its bold move to pass that, because it's definitely the community pulse
is definitely what the community wants this to happen. However, as we know and
would expect, there are special interests that don't want to see it happen, particularly
when you talk about the vacation rental association and the timeshares, who account
for a large majority of our increasing vacation rentals. So, with this, you would expect
those people who are in the hands and the pockets of those special interests, those
big money interests, to vote the way they do. So,  Ipretty much expected that our
Mayor would do what he did and veto it and come up with some lame excuses as to
why it wouldn't work.
The big lame excuse of course is that it would be legally challenged and forbidden by
law. Well, in actuality, zoning is one of the things that is expressly given to the Counties
by the State Constitution. In the State, State Constitution that Counties can regulate
zoning, because that affects the local communities, and it's completely within our
jurisdiction to do that. As a co-author of the Maui GMO Crop Moratorium, I'm very
aware of pre-emptions and legal challenges. And in this case, there would not be any
grounds for it, such a thing to happen.
But it will be interesting to watch how the Council votes because it's very much going
to vote on the party line, you know, of who's in whose pockets. Those who support the
aina and the people will of course vote to maintain the moratorium, or to vote for it,
override the veto. And those who are in the pockets of the big-money interest will of
course vote the other way. So, you can pretty much count that this'll be one of the
voting scores that the Maui Pono Network and others will be using to rate how our
Councilmembers vote. And we'll be watching this carefully.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 81
But I encourage this Council to have the bravery and to vote with what the people want,
which has clearly been demonstrated that we want this temporary moratorium, it's
necessary, because right now, we are fighting one, you know, one development at a
time. And the community is putting its efforts into fighting development at a time, rather
than putting a pause on this and giving us a chance to get a complete overview and to
rethink our whole process on our whole reaction to tourism.
Because this whole concept of do we need to put a limit on tourism is really just hit the
community like four years ago at that four years ago election, when, when members in
the community were bringing that up. Before, there was very little discussion, just let,
let's keep promoting tourism more is better. 1 spent a lot of time in Bali and I, I see the
results of overtourism there and overdevelopment and it is horrendous and has had
huge impacts on their community. And they don't have the mechanisms as we do here
in zoning and other things in order to remedy that situation.
So, I encourage this Council to stand forward, stand strong, with those who voted
against the moratorium last time. I encourage you to do the right thing and to stand
with the people and the aina and vote in favor of maintaining the moratorium. Thank
you much.
CHAIR LEE: Questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair. Thank you for your testimony, Mr. Douglas. And thanks
for your support. I just wanted to clarify that this is not a zoning law that we're trying to
pass. It's about building codes and that's why it did not go to the Planning Commission,
because it's not specifically about zoning. We're not trying to change anything with
zoning.
MR. DOUGLAS; Okay. Thank you. i know it's not that. But it's within, what I'm saying is
zoning and building codes and things like that for local are, are expressly given to the
Counties to have jurisdiction over.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
MR. DOUGLAS: Since Hawaii is not a, what do you call that, a home-rule State. Wherein
the parent-child relationship, the Counties are given specific directions on what they
can do and that is written into the State laws that we do have jurisdiction over that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 82
CHAIR LEE: We do have another question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I had a similar question to Member King. Like it's kind of
confusing when he talks about zoning, because it's a land use ordinance.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait. Member, Member Paltin, do you have a question-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, why-
CHAIRLEE: -for the testifier?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -was he talking about zoning in relation to this bill?
MR. DOUGLAS: My apologies. I should have used different terminology. Not zoning, but
I'm using that in the broad sense of not only zoning, land use are things that are
expressly given to the Counties that have jurisdiction over. And so, that's what I was
trying to say. I should have said land use. My apologies.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's worse. Okay. Thank you. No more questions.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. But you know what, every, every testifier is entitled to their opinion.
Let's say, let's see, anybody else. Thank you. Let's have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Genesis Young. To be followed by Scott Shapiro.
MR. GENESIS YOUNG ftestifyina on County Communication No. 21-377: Committee Report
No. 21-56: and Bill Nos. 67 (20211 & 68 (202111:
Aloha, Genesis Young testifying for myself. CC 21-377, the hotel moratorium,
definitely support the hotel moratorium, and everything that Dick Mayer said in
particular. And it doesn't go anywhere, as he said, and I agree with, doesn't go far
enough. We have to have a islandwide moratorium and recognize, a lot of people are
treating this, talking about it like it's a ban. It's not. It’s a pause. And then we get to
actually figure out what's right. And I want to hear from everybody, personally, about
what, how we might to, you know, get out of our overtourism issue, which is an issue
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 83
for everyone. I don't think anyone would deny that's not an issue. So, let's all work
together on that is my request.
Bill 67, Bill 68, I support both of those. We gotta do what we can to decrease our
plastics. It’s a small thing to do, which may, which as we do more and more of those,
we'll have a bigger effect. So, I want to support that.
I also want to support CR 21-56, the pesticide bill that I know Gabe, Honorable Gabe
Johnson, Councilmember Gabe Johnson worked on long and hard on and had a lot of,
I hear opposition. And everybody telling him to do this, this or the other thing is kind
of what I hear. I don't know if that's true. But this, the bill, this pesticide bill goes
nowhere near far enough, you know what I mean? This is so limited. It's just the
County. It should be, again, islandwide. This should involve, you know, green
landscaping in general or using electric lawn mowers and gas. And get rid of the noise
with all these, these blowers.
And, and let's go to organic, just like Autumn Ness and, and Beyond Pesticide said,
that's just like right on. But we have to make this much bigger. And this is just such a
small thing. I don't know how anyone could say don't do it, except people like who are
making the chemicals like Bayer. Very disingenuous of them to even speak when the,
you know, people are dying. I'm a doctor and I know that this is just like, not right, just
so not right to be killing our kids. And anyway, there we go. That's enough for me and
I hope we can get to lunch.
CHAIR LEE: Questions?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Just to clarify and point, 1, 1 appreciate
Genesis giving me a shout-out, but I'm going to turn it over to Councilmember Shane
Sinenci for all his hard work and his team, so .  ..
MR. YOUNG: Oh, sorry, sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Usually, I'd take all kinds of credit, but this one's our friend
over here, Shane Sinenci from Hana. Alright. Thank you. Just clarifying question or
clarifying point.
MR. YOUNG: Kudos for Shane. Great Shane. Sorry about that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Young, Dr. Young.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 84
MR. YOUNG; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Scott Shapiro. To be followed by Kevin Watkins.
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk, if the list keeps growing, yea, we're going to have to stop for
lunch, because we need to give our staff a break, yea.
COUNTY CLERK; Kevin Watkins. Or I'm sorry, Scott Shapiro. He's unmuted. He's muted
on his end.
CHAIR LEE; Scott, you want to unmute yourself?
Okay, go to the next person.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay. Mr. Kevin Watkins. Then following, Greg Takeshima.
rtestifvinq on CountyMR. KEVIN WATKINS. MAUI SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
Communication No. 21-377; Committee Report No. 21-56; and Bill Nos. 67 (2021) &
68 (2021)1;
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
MR. WATKINS; Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. I wanted to talk on a couple
of the bills. First and foremost being the moratorium.
CHAIR LEE; Kevin. Kevin, could you state your name for the record, please?
MR. WATKINS: Oh. My name is Kevin Watkins, II. I am the owner of Maui Sustainable
Solutions. I am not a lobbyist, though I do make frequent appearances with all things
sustainability in pertinence to Maui County.
So, I just wanted to be in favor of the moratorium. You have the previous passing,
which was great strides by the County Council. The Mayor, who has gone on the news
multiple occasions and has spoken of quality tourism over quantity tourism. Well this
is just an opportunity where he just proved that he isn't in alignment with what he's
telling the community. And it's a perfect opportunity for our County Council to continue
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 85
to prove that they do listen to their constituents, and they do have the aina and malama
in mind. And so, I won't spend too much time on that, the other testifiers have said
much in that accord. And it is just a pause. It isn't a complete ban. And we need to
be figuring out affordable housing, and how to handle this Coronavirus. When you
have the Mayor, the other day, saying we shouldn't have schools go back in session,
but at the same time, he's going to veto this bill .So, there's a discrepancy there and
we've all seen it.
So, moving on. The, the two different foam bans are particularly up my alley. My
website is ptasticfreemaui. And if you will recall from the Sustainability Division's
budget meeting, Tamara Lee had stated that the cost of recycling has tripled. And we
do not even have a, a lifecycle for foam products, such as the coolers or the
bodyboards. And there are organizations like mine that focus on reusables with, for
example, with the plastic ban that will be going into effect in January. Myself, and other
community members have started an organization called Hui Zero that will be doing a
reusable food container program for local restaurants so that there is a reusable option
in light of ail of these disposables being pulled off of the market for the sake of the
health of our island. Because, let's face it, they're just going in the landfill.
And even if they are recycled, I invite somebody that's done a more professional, more
recent dive than me to come in and testify to the County that our recycling doesn't even
end up recycled half the time. It is a heavily subsidized industry that'll still end up in a
far-off landfill. Five years ago, we're trying to launch Operation Sword, and they
stopped taking the west’s recycling. And so, that infrastructure does not exist in the
United States. And you combine that with the global shipping problems that have been
compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic and you have, we're in a serious pickle when
it comes to how our man, how our waste is managed.
And so, there was somebody that was on here asking about reusables, somebody was
saying oh the Yeti's are too expensive. Well, one of the efforts that my organization is
working to create is in the back of every one of these rental cars, is that there is a full
reusability kit. We ban the plastic bag. You have  areusable bag in it. We're going to
ban these coolers. You have a reusable cooler in it. You have reusable water bottles,
and you have these reusable food containers that local restaurants participate in this
program. And they'll refill your water, and they'll reuse your food container.
And we have, an in light of what some of the other testifiers were saying about the
COVID-19 pandemic and about the need for these single-uses because of the health
concerns, we have worked together very consistently and closely with the Department
of Health to create a very clear and concise protocol to make sure that reusables are
able to work. Fine dining restaurants or even just your local dine-in restaurants aren't
spreading the COVID-19 virus because they have a strict health protocol for how to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 86
sanitize their products. So. as we transition away from disposables to reusables, these
protocols are very clear, very concise, and very simple to follow. And so, there really
is no reason other than these big companies, which are big plastic, which is ultimately
big oil, just wanting to continue to create more sales.
am in full support of moving forward on banning these styrofoam products.And so
But I also am in favor, because just like with plastic styrofoam, they will never be
completely phased out. And I also invite, whether it's in a budget session or a finance
committee, to start to make space for finding a closed-loop waste stream for those
products. So, for example, for the foam bodyboards, you could be making those into
foam rollers, which there's a shortage on the island. If you go to any of the gyms,
they're like, oh you can't buy foam rollers, they take forever to get here. We could be
turning those bodyboards, even the premium ones, into foam rollers. And those could
be island-made products that are upcycling and creating value use products, that then
we could even be exporting since we do have a surplus of that waste here.
The last thing is for the pesticides. I just wanted to be a big proponent of that. We
don't need to be poisoning the kids. And as the hard work of Autumn, and Gabe, and
Shane have shown that with the transition over the last couple of years, that now we're
using very minimal chemicals. It shouldn't be too much of a large step to completely
mitigate that, and transition into a more sustainable practice. I think that's, I think that's
all I got for you guys today.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions, Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Watkins.
MR. WATKINS: Thank you so much for your time and  Ihope you guys have a fantastic
weekend.
CHAIR LEE: You, too.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Greg Takeshima. To be followed by~
CHAIR LEE: And then how many, how many after that?
COUNTY CLERK: Five.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We're going to have to take a lunch break at 1:00 and come back at two.
Okay, cause the, the staff is, needs, needs to take a break. Alright.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 87
MR. GREG TAKESHIMA. HAWAI I DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (testifying on
Committee Report No. 21-56):
Good afternoon. Chair and Councilmembers. My name is Greg Takeshima and I'm
the acting pesticide's program manager for the pesticide's branch at the Hawaii
Department of Agriculture. The Department stands on the, on its written testimony,
but would like to highlight that the provisions of the bill are arguably impliedly
preempted by the State law. specifically, the Hawaii Pesticides Law, under
Chapter 149A, HRS.
The potential conflicts, or inconsistencies created by this measure may jeopardize the
cooperative agreement that the Department has with the U.S. EPA and could
potentially impact the Department's statewide enforcement capacity adversely. If the
Department's agreement and enforcement are jeopardized, the Department will have
no choice but to challenge the legality of this measure.
CHAIR LEE: Does that conclude your testimony?
MR. TAKESHIMA: Yea, that's all.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea. sorry. Chair. I, I got dropped off for a little bit and I'm not
sure what measure he's talking about, so I just.
MR. TAKESHIMA: I'm commenting on providing testimony for CR 21-56.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. The pesticide bill?
MR. TAKESHIMA: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. That, that's all. I just didn’t know what.. .
CHAIR LEE: Any, anybody else? Okay. Did, did you send us your testimony in writing?
MR. TAKESHIMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 88
MR. TAKESHIMA: The testimony was submitted by Phyllis, our Chairperson.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Oh, wait, wait, hold on.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Real quick. Aloha, Mr. Takeshima.
Mahalo for your testimony. Did you say that your Department is going to sue our
County?
MR. TAKESHIMA: No. So, depending upon how the program is implemented, there may be,
you know, issues that are, that would be covered under both State and Federal laws
already. And we do have, we have those agreements required by the EPA. And if
those agreements are breached, you know, we could potentially lose funding.
Therefore, we would have to take this particular measure to, to court.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And sue us?
MR. TAKESHIMA: Well, you know, essentially, yes. That's, that's what it would come to.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's, that's what you do when you take someone
to court. You're suing them, right? It says the Department, you, I'll repeat what you
said in the transcription here. The Department will have no choice but to challenge the
legality of this measure. So, you're going to take us to court and you're going to sue
us. Okay. I just wanted to clarify.
MR. TAKESHIMA: Yes. That is correct.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Mr. Takeshima for
your, you do understand that this bill does not, we understand the preemption that the
State has. It doesn't apply to agricultural properties. It doesn't apply to State
properties. It distinctly applies to our County properties. You realize that, yea?
MR. TAKESHIMA: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 89
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Okay.
MR. TAKESHIMA; Yes, that's correct. However the-
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Oh, okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Takeshima.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Clare Apana.
CHAIR LEE: Okay and that, she'll be the last one for now.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
MS. CLARE APANA [testifying on County Communication 21-377; Committee Report
No. 21-56: and Bill Nos. 67 (2021), 68 (2021) & 69 (2021)1:
Thank you, Councilmembers. Thank you, Chair. Long day. Thank you. Well, I’d like
to start right there with the pesticides 21-56. I'm just wondering how well the laws that
are in place are enforced? Because from what I've seen in the, when we get to the
State-level, the precautions or the, the protections that we have such as in the clean
water or any of the other run-off water, things that actually affect our lives. Wow, the
State is not enforcing them. So, I don't know if that's true, but I am in support of the
21-56. And I think Director Andaya gave a very nice testimony. And she didn't seem
to be opposed to it.
Okay. The next. I'd like to go to short-term rentals, 69. And i am also in support of
putting limits on that. I find it very hard to listen to people who say that they want to
leave behind a legacy, or a business for their children, knowing that our Hawaiian
children are homeless, because of the corruption of the laws that protect our Hawaiian
lands, and just the very small properties that should belong to each Hawaiian family.
It’s very hard to listen to the business that has really impacted how many Hawaiian
homeless people there are by taking out the possible rentals, or homes for people to
live in. So, thank you for that. I, I would like to support that.
And then, I would also like to. I'm, I am against the styrofoam and hope that you will
pass the ban. Because I think that that is the only way that we will get a change.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 90
And then, I would like to speak about 21-2, is it, 377, the over, over, overturn the veto.
I'd just like to thank Councilmember King for bringing this issue forward. As you know,
we, we are the intervenors of the Grand Wailea expansion. Have been in this for two
years now. It has been drawn out for two years by this, by Blackstone, and the
subsidiaries who own the company. And we're just three small little groups, who are
trying to protect our iwi kupuna. But, unfortunately, a lot of times the expansion of
tourist accommodations is coming off of the backs of our culture, especially as it's seen
in the Grand Wailea.
CHAIR LEE;Excuse me.
MS. APANA: It's already a burial ground.
CHAIR LEE;Clare? Clare?
MS. APANA; Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Can I, could you stop for a second?
MS. APANA; Sure.
Madam Clerk, can you check why we’re no longer on Akaku?CHAIR LEE;
COUNTY CLERK; We'll look into it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair, I texted, I texted Chivo about it
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Maybe they had to take a lunch break.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNTY CLERK; Yes.
CHAIR LEE; What did Chivo say, Kathy? Are you in communication with Chivo?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. They said they're still recording. They have a new-
MS. LINDA DORSET; Yea, we have a substitute program and we thought you were going to
end at TOO and . . . without looking. But we're still recording.
CHAIR LEE; What did she say, Kathy?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 91
COUNTY CLERK; They're still recording and they’re still sending the tape to Granicus. They
just thought we were going to break at one. But they're still online.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we'll, we'll just ask her if it's okay if we just continue on, cause I
understand we only have four, four more.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Linda?
MS. DORSET: Yes?
COUNTY CLERK: Are, are you good with us continuing through the last four testifiers? Okay
thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Sorry, Clare.
MS.APANA: That's okay. I'm glad it wasn't me this time for once.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, no, no, no. You're fine. You're doing fine. It's just that we-
MS. APANA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We have to take care of these technical things.
MS. APANA: Let's see if we can pick up. Okay. The many things that are overlooked to
allow, say, hotels or short-term rentals to be in existence to service the tourist
population hurts our place, hurts our Maui, hurts our Hawaiian culture. When you have
to build in burial grounds to be able to have more hotel rooms, that is not right. When
you have to change the ecosystem at the ocean, so that you can build your, your rooms
right on the beach, that is not right. But yet, we seem to be able to bow down to this
great lord of tourism, instead of us making the rules so that it will serve our County.
And I, 1, I trust that this Council will have the wherewithal to work this out, to make it
right, and to go forward with the intention of the moratorium bill. 1 thank you so much
for letting me speak. Thank you. Council.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Clare. We always enjoy your testimonies. Have a great weekend.
MS. APANA: You too.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions first.
Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 92
MS.APANA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Clare. Don’t leave yet. I have a
question for you. So, since you brought up being one of the interveners at the Grand
Wailea, so they do not have their discretionary permits for that expansion yet is my
understanding, is that correct, is that correct? So, this moratorium would-
MS. APANA: They do not have the SMA, so I don't think they can go forward with the rest of
the expansion. I am really afraid that if, I don’t know what happens in the interim before
the, another bill is passed, or how, how long it takes to enact something. I'm really
afraid that we're going to be like the sand mining moratorium, where everybody rushes
in to get their permits right, right before. Like, get the permit right, the day before. I
hope that Director Dagdag will not do that. But you know, it's, it's a really scary thing
to me to, to think that that might happen.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: This moratorium would pause that, that and give you the
opportunity, the resting time you need to settle that issue. But yea, we had heard from
another testifier that, you know, they may be pushing some of the permits through. So,
I just wanted to clarify that that would be one of the items that would be paused, that
expansion.
MS. APANA: Yes, I believe that it will.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. APANA: I never know with Blackstone. They've been able to do ail kinds of things, so.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Members, any more questions for Clare? If not, thank
you very much, Clare.
MS.APANA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: May we have the next testifier?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is identified by the last four digits of telephone 5483.
5483 will be followed by Sean Lester.
CHAIR LEE: Again, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Last four digits of-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 93
MS. JANET ASHMAN (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-56):
Hello?
CHAIR LEE; Oh, I hear somebody.
MS. ASHMAN: Hello? Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. ASHMAN: Oh good. Thankyou. ... I'm Janet Ashman and I'm a small organic farmer.
And I’m also a member of the Farm Bureau. I am a strong believer, and the reason
I'm participating today, in local agriculture, and being able to feed our community wWh
healthy local food, not to make it harder for farmers to stay in business. I'd like to
speak on CR 21- 56, the bill that prohibits non-organic pesticides and fertilizers. I want
to first thank each of you for your endurance and your dedication and service to the
community. I really appreciate the work you're doing to make Maui an even better
place and to support farmers and ranchers.
1 want to talk about why I'm concerned, and why the Farm Bureau is concerned about
this bill. And the reason is because, as others have said, we're really concerned about
the spread of devastating pests to farms and ranches, even though we understand that
this bill is not currently intended to affect agriculture. Because weeds spread and
insects spread, if there are banks of them, if they're left to proliferate, they easily spread
across the island, as we’ve seen with lots of invasive species if they're not adequately
controlled.
So, 1 want to say, to correct some of the misinformation, that the Farm Bureau
absolutely supports reducing risks to people and the environment. And we do, we
believe in science and evidence-based principles, which are, well, we'd like to suggest
that if the goal of the bill is to make pest management safer, please look at risk
reduction. Not look at organic versus non-organic or synthetic, but actual reducing the
risk of toxicities.
So, organic has been said does not mean safe, and synthetic does not mean harmful.
It depends on a toxicity of the product and what its toxic too. Each pesticide has to be
looked at each individually. You can't just generalize. You could be using an organic
pesticide like copper sulfate, which is very toxic, compared to a very low-risk pesticide
that is not organic. So, that's, that is so substantial to me. And I think the bill, you
know, really doesn't look at that at all.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 94
And in order to be really informed about the science, the safety, and the laws on pest
management and pesticide use, I think we need to look at local experts like the
University of Hawaii CTAHR, like Department of Ag, like the Invasive Species
Committees, and not a Washington D.C. advocacy group closely tied to the organic
industry, even though I am an organic farmer myself.
It also bothers me that the bill is flawed, because it's incongruous and really illogical to
allow pesticide use in other situations. For example, if you're going to ban non-organic
pesticides, but allow them in people's homes for termite and cockroach control, in yards
against little fire ants, for watershed protection from mosquito control, and in agriculture
right now. If you're going to allow that, and I'm not saying I'm against it, but if you're
going to allow that that's what is written in the bill, how can you justify not allowing it on
roads and other areas? It's not, it, it, the science isn't there to say it's okay to use toxic
poisons, if that's what they are for some things but not for others.
So, ! guess I'll conclude by saying it doesn't sound like we need this law, because
pesticide use, chemical use in general, is being, is being decreased by the County
departments, which is a great thing. But maybe we want to look at either putting into
law a pesticide management, pest and vegetation management plan and program,
which is just using the safest and least risky method to manage pests. It doesn't say
you have to use pesticides. You choose what is the least risk, or like the Chamber of
Commerce mentioned, maybe we need a reso that we’re moving in the direction of
less risk and, you know, more beneficial pest management.
Anyway, thanks for listening to all of that. I hope I can answer questions. And i do
want to ask this, you know, as a, as a Farm Bureau member, and a farmer, and a
researcher, could I be named as a resource person if you have questions later today?
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any questions right now? No questions? No questions.
Ms. Sugimura. Am I muted? Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, could I ask if she could be a resource person for us?
She seems to come from both sides of the issues.
CHAIR LEE: Members, I have to put it out to the body.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. And nothing personal, it's, it is nice to hear
from both sides of the organic and pesticide issue, but this bill has nothing to do with
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 95
agriculture right now. We're not, we're not trying to regulate agriculture and that's the
testimony was all about farming.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
So, so, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yea, and just, I just wanted to ask if she has any business
interest or is a paid consultant?
MS. ASHMAN: Am I still unmuted?
CHAIR LEE: No, you're not, your-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: We can hear you.
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you.
MS. ASHMAN: Okay. Thank you. Yea, my business interest is that I want to, I want our
islands to be self-sustaining. And there's, I work with a lot of farmers on policy issues.
And I am appalled at how many farmers are going out of business or just not being
able to work full-time as farmers. So, that’s my answer and, and I really want to correct
that. And I think all of you do, too.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions?
Yes, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Earlier, I had suggested designating
an earlier testifier as a resource person, because there were a lot of questions and
they were beyond clarifying. But I don't see anyone asking questions right now. So, if
people don't have questions now, I, I don't imagine .... So, I, I just, I don't see the
purpose in, in my perspective, to have her as a resource.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Let me put it this way, who wants to have this person as a
Okay, so apparently, you're the only one.
So, we're going to not request that we have, cause the body has
resource person? Raise your hand.
Ms. Sugimura.
provided an answer right here that obviously they don't feel a need at this point, yea
to have her as a resource person.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 96
CHAIR LEE: So, thankyou, Ms. Ashman. Appreciate yourtestimony and yourofferto provide
more.
MS. ASHMAN: Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Where are we? Madam Clerk? You see, that's the problem when you don't
take, you know, the breaks, the lunch breaks on time at a certain time. It just drags
on. No matter what, it just drags on. So, how many do we have now? Two?
COUNTY CLERK: We have two that have been lined up, but a total of six.
CHAIR LEE: Six?
COUNTY CLERK: But the two have already been called, called up to the--
CHAIRLEE: Okay, we'll take that two-
COUNTY CLERK; -the bullpen.
CHAIR LEE; -and then absolutely have a lunch break after that.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Because it's going to continue to grow no matter what.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay.
CHAIR LEE: So, call them.
COUNTY CLERK; So, our next testifier is Sean Lester. To be followed by Scott Shapiro.
MR. SEAN LESTER [(testifying on County Communication No. 21-377; Committee Report
No. 21-56: and Bill Nos. 67 (2021) & 68 (2021)1;
Aloha kakou. I'm sorry, Counciimember Lee. I hear you. I've been sitting here, too.
But I do hear you and I do hear the staff has needs. And thank you. And please don't
let that react on what I'm going to tell you. I appreciate it. I'll try to make this quick and
succinct as I can. First of all, thank you for taking these things up. Rita Ryan was
totally on the money regarding the cost of tourism and how to use the few tools we
have to control this onslaught to our environment and lives.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 97
Regarding CC 21-377, I strongly urge you to override the Mayor's veto of Bill 60
regarding a moratorium on visitor accommodations. My name is Sean Lester. This
Council is showing its ability to take ... powers that have been relegated to the Mayor's
Office for decades. And this particular bill, I laud the Members for their thoughtful
process in voting for the moratorium and ask you to stay the course and, once again,
vote to override the mayor's veto. The gentleman that was speaking for the Host Hotels
is missing a fact. We have very little control over the per unit cost of tourists. This
includes hotels that flip every few years for more and more money. That pushes for
massive upgrades that cost us environmentally. So, it is just as, so it is just as much
a problem, and gave no real reason why they should not be part of the moratorium.
They should be.
1 also urge a yes vote on Bill 67 and 68, which will ban the use of disposal boogie
boards and styrofoam coolers. When 1 go to the beach, I can see the trash overflowing
with broken disposable products like this. The landfill is already overflowing. I drive
Omaopio Road, Pulehu, every day and we're doing our best but it's, it's it's crazy. It's
like . . . there. And these are just the people who are willing to put them in the trash.
The environmental impact of an unnecessary environmental burden, which these have
on already stressed Maui County environment, is ludicrous. I heard someone testify
that people want things that are not too costly. We live in a short-sighted consumer-
based economy and it is drowning us in our own ability to pass, to, to mass produce
and sell for a few dollars. As an island, we are literally choking on our success of
selling such islands and the buildup of the cost over the years must stop. These bills
are incremental steps in doing that.
Regarding fertilizers and pesticides, CR 21-56. When I hear a disingenuous lobbyist
try to tell you as long as a pesticide is okay on  aFederal level, it's safe, or hear the
State threatening to sue us? Kick urn. Vote yes on the moratorium and show wisdom
on this matter. Thank you so much for your time. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Sean. Members, are there any questions for Sean? Looks like no
questions. Thank you very much, Sean.
MR. LESTER; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. Our final testifier, prior to taking the lunch recess, is
Mr. Scott Shapiro.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 98
MR. SCOTT SHAPIRO (testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-377 & 21-386: and
Committee Report No. 21-56):
Alright. I'm going to be, well, entertaining, 1 hope. First one is CC 21 -377. And can
you all hear me? Am I on?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
MR. SHAPIRO; I'm sorry. I shut my screen off cause I want to read. Okay, here we go. Our
island is bursting at the seams. We feel it everywhere. We need relief to figure out
what to do. We need an islandwide moratorium. We're not getting that, but I hope we
get a partial one. In June 2021, just a couple of months ago, in a press conference.
Mayor Victorino, when asking the airlines to pause flights said and I quote, "I want to
remind the visitors that Maui is a community first, and a vacation destination second".
The moratorium will not immediately drop the levels of tourism. We know that. What
it will do is give us time to plan how to proceed with visitor accommodation
development in light of the impacts of climate change, in light of our infrastructure
needs, in light of transportation requirements without the threat and the immediate
burden of more and more and more visitor accommodations breathing heavily down
our necks.
Lawsuits. Let's not be scared of lawsuits. Any great idea always has naysayers in
opposition and false narratives. Here's one from  atestifier earlier today. 1 just read
about the Embassy Suites Hotel in Asheville, North Carolina. A lawsuit has nothing do
with a moratorium. It started two years before the moratorium went into effect, when
the City Council voted against giving the developer a permit. So, there's an eviction
moratorium in effect right now. There's a moratorium on student loan payments right
now. Did the lawmakers who passed those measures worry about lawsuits? Yea,
perhaps. But in the end, they knew it was right thing to do.
So, here's the entertaining part real quick. To quote another person, Bob Dylan, in his
song, "All Along The Watchtower". "There must be some way out of here said the joker
to the thief. There's too much confusion, I can't get no relief. Businessmen, they drink
my wine, plowmen dig my earth. None of them along the line know what any of it is
worth". Well, we all know the worth of our island, and what it means to live here and
raise our children. We've got to look to the generations ahead to come. And in striking
down this veto, you will be doing your part to value community first, and Maui as a
vacation destination, secondly.
Oh, and also, a false narrative, the decrease in hotel rooms overall. Here's what's
happening now. The 310-room Maui Prince Hotel is being converted to just 50 luxury
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 99
condos. So, yea, we did lose about 260 more hotel rooms. So, there you go. Thank
you for that one.
Quickly, on CR 21- 56, limiting pesticides and fertilizers on County-owned properties,
not including the ag park, will help you to do your part, honorably, for the generations
to come as well. I fully support the close regulation and disuse of certain harmful
products which destroyed our precious ocean environment and may cause harm to
kids and adults that play on the grass. We all know most users do not follow the
regulations on the labels.
My last one, CC 21-386, the alternates to the advisory committees. I am in full support
of adding alternates to these hopefully soon formed South Maui and Paia-Haiku
Advisory Committees. Alternates would decrease the times meetings have to be
adjourned or delayed due to lack of quorum by its volunteers and will allow for good
training opportunities for individuals interested in these other County volunteer
positions. Thank you. Have a great lunch.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Scott. You have a great
weekend.
MR. SHAPIRO; You, too. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, it's about 1:25. Let’s come back at 2:25, alright? This meeting is in
recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 1:25 P.M. ,AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2:25 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the March 6, March, yea, March alright. Will the August 6 Council meeting
please reconvene?
Ms. Madam Clerk, where are we now with testimony? Please call the next testifier.
Oh, you're muted. You're muted.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier. Chair, is Carol Lee Kamekona.
MS. CAROL LEE KAMEKONA (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-5^:
Aloha ‘auinala na hoaloha. Bonjour Mes Amis. .. . Carol Lee Kamekona. I am a part-
time assistant for Council, Councilmember Sinenci. I am here testifying on my own
behalf. And I am not a paid lobbyist. I offer you my testimony as a testament to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 100
previous testifiers, and scientific data regarding the detriment to children's health on
CR 21-56 pesticides and fertilizer.
When ! was on active duty stationed at the military base near areas where pesticides
were utilized, I was pregnant at the time. My daughter was born. She had spina bifida.
So, she was born with a handicap. Agencies that do the approval may not necessarily
know the long-term effects when the approval is given. Thirty-plus years later, my
daughter is a part of that case regarding the pesticides.
So, I present to you my testimony in opposition of utilizing pesticides and fertilizers that
affect the health of our children. I do understand that this ordinance is not related to
any agricultural, and it is also not named as to any specific pesticide. I just offer you
my testimony for your consideration when it is time for you to deliberate. Mahalo. Have
a blessed weekend. Ke akua pu.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, and you, too. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank
you again for your testimony.
MS. KAMEKONA; Mahalo.
COUNTY CLERK: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kaupena Kalima. To be followed by Tom Croly.
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MS. KAUPENA KALIMA [testifying on Bill Nos. 67 (2021) & 68 (2021)1:
Aloha. My name is Kaupena Kalima. I'm in opposition, oh wait, e kala mai. I'm against
the use of styrofoam boards and coolers in, for here in Maui. For me, I worked at a
rental car company. And the one thing that we have choke of, styrofoam coolers and
boogie boards. Our tourists come, they use it, they leave it in the car. And that makes
most of the trash at a rental car company is the, is styrofoam boards and coolers. I
think it's, I have mine that 1 got from a rental car many years ago. I wanted to dump it,
but that's the, that's just adding to the problem that we have.
And even at the time, back when we had the plastic bags, those are still by the landfill.
You still can see them. So, to ban this use of this particular product in the long, in the
long run, it would actually protect our own resources, what's out there, instead of seeing
these things on the trash. ... the consumers of those items are our tourists. So,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 101
please consider banning those items for the, for my keiki, my grandchildren. And I
appreciate your time in listening to my testimony and mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo to you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you Ms. Kalima. Thank
you.
MS. KALIMA: A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Tom Croly. To be followed by John Kahawaii.
MR. TOM CROLY [testifying on County Communication No. 21-377 and Bill No. 69 (2021)1:
Aloha, Chair. Aloha, Council. I was not planning to weigh-in today. But I heard
testimony that was so misleading, so false, straight out lies being told and I just wanted
to correct the record on some of this stuff. I think the Council knows there are 123, or
153, excuse me. bed & breakfast homes that are owner-occupied Maui residents
operating bed & breakfast out of their home. So, let's take that off the table, that's not
what's, what's causing a housing shortage and that's not what's, what's creating the
problem.
With the action that you'll take today, there'll be fewer than 200 short-term rental,
permitted short-term rental homes. Adding together the bed & breakfast and short
term rental homes that's less than the one new timeshare that's going up in, in North
Kihei. So, we know that short-term rental homes and bed & breakfasts are a manini,
manini part of, of this whole visitor industry. But the point has been made about the
condominiums, the, the short-term rentals in general.
And I want to make clear that I've been helping the Hawaii Tourism Association get
more accurate numbers on that for the last 15 years. They have not counted
condominium units that are allowed to make short-term rental use that were being
made by their individual owners for many, many years. And only recently have they
begun to include them in their inventory. So, when you see that number go up, those
units have existed since the seventies, okay? And only recently have they been
included in that, in that number.
What has increased and the lobbyists from the, from the hotel industry who made
reference to this are the short-term rentals that have been built in the hotel district that
the hotels are managing. They are owned by individual owners, and the hotels are
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 102
managing those, and that number has gone up dramatically in recent years as that has
been due to approvals of essentially hotel uses in those, in those areas.
Now, where are all these illegals, and our neighborhoods being taken over thing?
Those are second homes. And, and, and you guys are sticking your head in the sand
about this. We have second homes that make up 20,000 single-family homes, not
permitted bed & breakfasts, not permitted short-term rentals. And maybe, maybe some
of them are being used as illegal short-term rentals. I don't know. But that 20,000
homes also makes up around 20,000 of the daily visitor count of people who are part-
time residents here. So, we really need a more accurate number on all of these things
before we can make informed decisions about how are we going to get everything in
balance. So, so that's the only point I was, I wanted to make today. 1 know you're
going to do what you're going to do. But there have been so many, you know, incorrect
statements made.
I want to move onto the second issue, which was the caps on the short-term rentals.
And the caps that you're going to pass, as 1 understand from first reading, will address
all of the permits that currently exist, and the permits that are currently being
processed. I hope that the other action you are taking is not going to take away the
ability for those permits that are being processed to be granted. Dick Mayer seemed
to indicate that that would be the case and there seemed to be some agreement among
Councilmembers that that would be the case. 1 hope that's not the case. I hope we're
not stringing these people along saying we're going to process your application, and
then when they get to actually being granted, they're going to say well, now you're not
allowed to grant it, because the Council has taken this action to, to stop allowing these.
That really would be unfair to these folks. So, I hope that that's made clear today in
the meeting. That's all I have to say. Chair. I wish you luck in your deliberations this
afternoon. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Tom. Questions?
Yes, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Croly, for your testimony. I
just had a question about the non-owner-occupied second homes that you had
mentioned. So. a non-owner-occupied second home could either be a short-term
rental, a long-term rental, a illegal short-term rental ,or a, not a vacant second home
that they use only when they come to visit, is that, or their friends come to visit. Is that
your understanding of the four different ways that an non-owner-occupied second
home could be used?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6. 2021
Page 103
MR. CROLY: Home could be used. One nuance to that. The action that the Council took
last year, that took 2400 properties that were in that non-owner-occupied category and
said we’re going to put you into the short-term rental category even if you're not making
short-term rental uses, okay. That moved all the condos out of that that definition that
you just made,
condominiumized, that were allowed to be used as short-term rentals outside of the
hotel district, or the specific districts that you named. So, the 20,000 non-owner-
occupied properties, you're right, they split up into, could be, could be long-term rental,
could be owner, owner only uses them a portion of the year. But they're not short-term
rentals of any type, okay? Because you moved all the condo guys into that short-term
rental category.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But those are the four main uses of a non-owner-occupied?
MR. CROLY: No. I'm taking it back to three. Cause I'm saying the short-term rental doesn't
There aren't too many single-family homes that are not
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
MR. CROLY: It doesn't fall into the non-owner-occupied, cause those are already in the short
term category, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Got it. Thank you. Thank you. That’s very helpful
to me, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Mr. Croly. !
just wanted to clarify, because it sounded like you were getting offended by this, this
implication that the short-term rentals are just running rampant, and there's thousands
of them.
MR. CROLY: Yes, I was getting offended.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, do you agree with the Planning Department that there's
probably, they, what they told us was there's probably they're down to between
150 and 200 illegal ones. Does that sound like the right number? Because that's what
they’re . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 104
MR. CROLY: 1 would agree that of the ones that they can see that might be advertising, that
the number is that small. But there certainly are some folks that may be operating a
single-family home, and have transient guests come in and out who have no need to
advertise. They may have their own little network of friends that they rent to and so
forth. And that would technically be illegal, okay? But the County doesn't have a really
good way to enforce on that situation, when let's say, a guy who works in an office just
posts his place on a bulletin board inside his office in California. And his friends and,
and officemates rent it from him, which I'm sure happens. And he doesn't advertise on
Airbnb and VRBO. So, yea, that second home is probably illegally being used. And I
have no idea how, how many of those there are. But when you hear people identify
them and say there's six in my neighborhood, when  Ihear that, 1 often look up to see,
there any permitted short-term rentals in that neighborhood? And 1 come up with
none, okay, so.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well, that's, that's kind of the information, but that was,
but that, the number that they were giving us was based on the number that they had
that was in the thousands before, which--
are
MR. CROLY: Absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -don't include those rentals you're talking about. So, so, yea, I
just think they got offended by the same thing you got offended by because they were
MR. CROLY: Yea, I'm not implying they're not doing their job. They're doing their job as best
that they're capable of doing it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions? More questions? If not, thank you, Tom.
MR. CROLY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
MR. CROLY: Have a good day.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is John Kahawaii. To be followed by the last four digits
of telephone number 8043.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 105
MR. JOHN KAHAWAI I (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Aloha. Good afternoon.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. KAHAWAII; I'm testifying on, 1 believe it's Bill 60. Is, can someone correct me, the
moratorium or the veto, is that, am I correct on that?
CHAIR LEE; You're right. You’re right.
MR. KAHAWAII: Okay. I'm a part of the intervener group with Clare Apana folks and Malama
Kakanilua. And, you know, 1 just, I just want to shout out to you guys, you know,
mahalo. Mahalo for helping put some kind of a, some kind of a stop, or I guess it's a
moratorium that's trying to be established by the, by the Council. Is, is that correct?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. KAHAWAII: Anyway. Okay. Okay, sorry. Anyway, you know, some of the, some of the
things that we're faced with in dealing with protecting our burials in Paeahu, particularly
the Grand Wailea Hotel. There's one particular area that they're working, putting a lot
of work into expanding on the Wailea wing area. And this area is kind of hidden from
the road. You cannot really see this area. You gotta, you gotta actually walk in by the
garage, up on the top, and then you can see the preserve.
So, some of the things we're faced with is that back in 1988, there was a mora.
Memorandum of Agreement made with OHA, and the hotel, and the State Historic
Preservation Division. And that moratorium, I mean. I'm sorry, not moratorium, that
Memorandum of Agreement, it talked about a mound for the preservation, the burial
preservation site at the Grand Wailea. And so, some of the people that represented
that agreement back in 1988, and it's no one's fault. It's no one's fault with what
happened. But there's a large group of Hawaiian people that got together that
represented OHA, that helped with that agreement. And today, what I really want to
let the Council know how much, how much this means to our group and our people,
especially our people in our, in our movements. And we're trying to save some of this,
you know, just save some of our history.
So anyway, one of the, one of the members that was within OHA back in 1988, he was
a representative of Maui, I believe, because his name is Manu Kahaialii. And Manu
Kahaialii is the same age as my dad. And so, I know everybody, or everybody doesn't
know who that is. Manu Kahaialii is Willie K's father. So, you know, I think about Willie
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 106
and I think about Manu, you know, and I think about my dad, you know. And so, it just
adds, you know, more heartfelt feelings about this place. You know, they want to
expand into our burial preserve.
1 mean, they even have, they even have people that come forward and say that they're
going to protect that area. And these people don't even know where the area is.
They're not even from here. So, it has to come down to people like us, who are
standing up to this. We have to go over there, and we have to show them where the
burial preserve is, so that everybody knows. You know, these people come, and they
got one engineer that went and just recently in 2019, he put a, he put a thing in the
Bureau of Conveyances and tells us and shows us where the burial preserve is. I going
tell you this right now, it's wrong. So, that's what we faced with. We faced with not just
the hotel, but we faced with all of these different groups that represent the hotel. So, I
just want to thank you all. Thank you all for this bill, for Bill 60. I hope, hope 1 saying
the right one. And mahalo. Have a nice day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much for your testimony. Anybody has questions. Members?
If not, Madam Clerk, next testifier, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next and final testifier, as far as being signed up, is the
telephone number 8043.
MS. MADDIE MCGAIN (testifying on County Communication No. 21-377):
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can. Please state your name.
MS. MCGAIN: My name is Maddie McGain. Thank you guys so much for listening to so
I'm testifying in regards to CC 21-377, to askmany testimonies today.
Councilmembers to override the Mayor's veto of Bill 60. Of course, the overtourism
problem is one that is very multi-faceted. But a break from development, a break from
creating more places to house visitors on an already overcrowded island, seems like
a pretty rational solution to something that appears way out of hand and absolutely
unsustainable. If there are less places for prospective visitors to sleep, less . . . travel
here.
Moreover, we so desperately need time to step back and re-evaluate how we handle
tourism on the island. And the moratorium would allow for just that. If we are already
feeling overwhelmed, already very limited in resources, already crowded out of our
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 107
towns, public spaces, roadways, and beloved beaches, why would we not stop and
pause building places for visitors to stay? It feels like we are seeing an ugly side of
the tourism economy that wasn't planned with sustainability in mind, or with economic
diversity. And the public is overwhelmingly asking the Councilmembers to take the
steps necessary towards a more sustainable future. The moratorium feels like a very
necessary step.
I am so sorry, I forgot his name, but I also wanted to touch on what the hotel lobbyist
said about Asheville, North Carolina's tourism moratorium, stating that it was ineffective
at stopping tourism, and instead, more illegal rentals arose. I am wondering if this
information can really be looked at without taking the pandemic into account,
considering illegal vacation rentals increased in many places that were naturally
beautiful and not densely populated during COVID, such as Upstate New York,
Vermont, and Maine. It seems . . . with the increase in Asheville was not so much a
direct repercussion of the moratorium and was more likely due to the increase in
remote work and mass exodus out of cities all over the country.
And if there was an illegal vacation rental increase on Maui, that doesn't mean that we
shouldn't have limited hotel development and taking a pause, it just means that we
should probably be more vigilant of the illegal vacation rentals as well. The hotel
moratorium, of course, isn't the singular solution, but it's a long overdue step in the
right direction. I hope that after hearing so many testimonies today, the Council will
override the veto. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Maddie, could you please spell your last name?
MS. MCGAIN: M-C-G-A-l-N.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? If not, thank you, Maddie.
And so, may we have the next testifier. Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Maddie was the last testifier signed up. And at this point we have
no other testifiers noted, if an individual connected to the meeting has not testified,
but would like to do so, please unmute, and identify yourself now. This is the last call
for testifiers. Please indicate if you would like to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Proceed, Madam Chair, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify. And we have
for the record received written testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 108
CHAIR LEE: Members, if there are no objections, are there any objections to receiving test
\A/ritten testimony into the record and to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Jerry Gibson, Hawaii Hotel Alliance;
Lee Evslin;
David Dorn;
Emmanuel Zibakalam, Hawaii Crop Improvement Association;
Rowena Dagdag-Andaya, Director of Public Works;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Tina Yamaki, Retail Merchants of Hawaii;
Madison McGain;
Lahela Aiwohi;
Karri Ayasanonda;
Sandra Brissette;
Randal Cabral, Hawaii Farm Bureau;
Jon Gaeta, RISE;
Rita Goldman;
Bill Greenleaf;
Molly Jacobson;
Dorothy Jakubek;
Mark Joiner;
Derek Kanoa;
Lii Kualaau;
Cynthia Lebowitz;
Matt Lyum;
Makawao Baseyard Neighbors;
David Marts;
Thomas Mellin;
Ryan Nobriga, ARDA Hawaii;
Nate Oswald. Molokai Farm Bureau;
Darla Palmer-Ellingson, Climate Action Advisory Committee;
Sherry Pollack, 350Hawaii.org;
Darlene Rayhill;
Evan Ryan;
Phyllis Shimabukuro-Geiser, State Department of Agriculture;
David Simonson;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 109
Patricia Stillwell;
Warren K. Watanabe, Maui County Farm Bureau;
Madolin Wells; and
Tina Wildberger, State House of Representatives.
34.
35.
36.
37.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No objections. So, ordered.
So, Madam Clerk, your turn.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui’s regular meeting of May 7, 2021 was
presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the minutes as read by the Clerk.
Any discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion please say "aye" and raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 110
CHAIR LEE; All "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". So, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one
"excused".
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the consent. Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- SANDY BAZ. MANAGING DIRECTOR
(dated July 21, 2021)
NO. 21-372
Transmitting the Fiscal Year 2021 Capital Improvement Project status reports. Fourth
Quarter.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-372 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEYNO. 21-373
(dated July 15, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of Administrative Directive No. 19-01 from the State of Hawaii,
Department of Budget and Finance, authorizing the County of Maui to be reimbursed
for allowable expenses incurred by the witnesses and defendants in criminal
proceedings in the amount of $50,000.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated July 21, 2021)
NO. 21-374
Transmitting copies of the notices of grant awards from the State of Hawaii, Executive
Chambers of the Governor, for the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, totaling
$810,000.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 111
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 21-375
(dated July 26. 2021)
Informing of the acceptance of Sewerline Easement "A", 471 Lihi Street, Lot 1, Puuone
Tract Unit 1, Wailuku, TMK: (2) 3-8-037:001 POR.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 21-376
(dated July 26, 2021)
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easement 612, Wailea Community
Association, Lot 625, Map 71 Land Court Application 1804, TMK: (2) 2-1-008:129.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Oh, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: A motion for the-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I move to refer-
CHAIR LEE: -entire Consent Calendar.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
1 MOVE TO REFER COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 21-372 TO
THROUGH, OH, TO YOUR BUDGET, FINANCE, AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE; AND TO FILE ALL
REMAINING ITEMS.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It's been moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to refer County Communication 21-372. And did you say 373 as well?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 112
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No. Just 372 and then to file all remaining items on
the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: And to file all remaining items. Any discussion? If not, all those in favor of the
motion, please say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 1 see one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight "ayes", zero
"noes", one "excused": motion carries.
Alright. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with item J. Communications; 1. County Communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR,
(dated July 19, 2021)
NO. 21-377
Notifying of his veto of Bill No. 60 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE TO ADD CHAPTER 40 RELATING TO A
MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS".
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. No. You didn't raise your hand. I just guessed it would be you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, thank you.
I MOVE TO OVERRIDE THE VETO. AS IT PERTAINS TO
BILL 60 (2021), RELATING TO TEMPORARILY MAINTAINING
THE STATUS QUO IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF HOTELS AND
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 113
OTHER VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS IN SOUTH MAUI AND
WEST MAUI UNTIL THE RESPECTIVE COMMUNITY PLANS
FOR THE AREAS ARE UPDATED OR TWO YEARS HAVE
PASSED, WHICHEVER IS SOONER. AND TO FILE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 21-377.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Johnson, to pass, vote
to override in, the bill contained in County Communication 21-377, and filing of the
communication.
Discussion? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Members, as we, as we have previously
discussed. Bill 60 is an opportunity to give the South and West Maui communities a
pause in visitor accommodation growth until community plans are enacted to, to ensure
development policy input of area residents. The moratorium pauses visitor
accommodation construction, addresses the injury that residents are feeling, and gives
stakeholders an opportunity to create solutions without simultaneously making things
worse. There is no indication that Bill 60, violates any processes required by the
Charter and Building Code amendments do not require Planning Commission review.
The Clerk has forwarded an opinion to you from Office of Council Services Deputy
Director David Raatz clarifying that Corporation Counsel and the Council have always
held that only amendments to Title 19, the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance, are land
use ordinances; and that amendments solely to other parts of the Code, like Bill 60,
which is an amendment to Title 16, the Building Code, are not. And you have this, this
letter in, I just wanted to read a section of the letter from David Raatz. And you can
ask him questions later on, Members. The Council has always followed Corp.
Counsel's advice that amendments to Title 19 are land use ordinances and the
amendments to other parts of the Code are not. OCS has questioned that advice from
time to time because, in some circumstances it arguably elevates form over substance.
Still, the Council has never referred an amendment to Title 16, the Building Code, to
Planning Commissions. Bill 60 is an amendment of the Building Code. So it will be
unprecedented and contrary to longstanding Council practice to regard a bill like Bill 60
as a "land use ordinance".
And here, there was, he gives an example of a exchange in a meeting from 2006 when
then Councilmember Michele Anderson questioned then Deputy Corporation Counsel
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 114
Ed Kushi. His response to Ms. Anderson's question "Mr. Kushi, just to distill it down to
sentence, basically, only amendments to Title 19 require Planning Commission
Mr. Kushi "Simply, yes." And then, he attaches Mr., Mr. Raatz attached in his
letter the 1998 opinion from Deputy Corporation Council Kelly A. Cairns, advising that
the moratorium on building permits didn't require review by the Planning Commission.
An overwhelming, overwhelming number of community members expressed support
for Bill 60. But most of the opposition, pretty much ail of it, coming from industry
lobbyists. My community of South Maui, especially, has been vocal on this issue. Kihei
residents have recently seen the Maui Coast Hotel get approval for 170-room
expansion. The old Maui Lu, now Maui Bay Villas, will open 388 new units next month.
We know the Grand Wailea is hoping to expand. And we've heard from two members
who are challenging that expansion, who would be greatly hurt if we do not override
this mora, this veto.
Other industry interests will set their sights on developments in South Maui to make a
profit, despite the concerns of residents. Without this moratorium, the community feels
like there is no end in sight to this kind of uncontrolled growth. Please do not doom
South Maui to this fate. We heard lobbyists say today that Asheville, North Carolina's
hotel moratorium was unsuccessful and resulted in litigation. His testimony was wrong
and misleading. The lawsuit he mentioned dates to 2-7, 2017, years before, two years
before the moratorium was even in effect, and relates to the, a separate denial that the
Council gave to a proposed hotel.
Asheville was one case study our attorneys at OCS researched when drafting Bill 60.
Like Maui, residents they were unhappy with the expansion of the hotel industry, and
their elected officials came together, after that lawsuit, to pass a moratorium on new
hotels. During the moratorium, as intended, rules and regulations were created to
incorporate community input on considered proposed developments. That makes their
moratorium a success. States and municipalities have long been afforded substantial
discretion by courts, in establishing development moratoria. And the County has a
history of establishing various types of development moratoria. I ask for the Member,
Member's full support of my motion. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. We absolutely need to manage
overtourism, no question. That is why we established a Tourism Management and
Economic Development Diversification TIG, and have, as individual Councilmembers,
been working very hard on progressive ways to manage tourism as quickly as possible.
one
review.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 115
Unfortunately, I cannot, in good conscience, allow this bill to stand as a test in court
against legal challenges which have already been outlined in great detail and
submitted to this Council, especially knowing that our islandwide moratorium is
currently with the Maui Planning Commission, and will be before this Council for
approval very soon. So I will not be able to support the motion to override. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I got to support Member Rawlins-
Fernandez. You know, the case that Mr. Raatz . .  .hinges on the Life of the Land v.
the City and County of Honolulu. And it’s not really a good authority over the issues in
this situation cause the revised ordinances of Honolulu define exactly what a zoning
ordinance is. And the court found the moratorium, which did affect land use was not a
zoning ordinance as it was defined, which was a building permit moratorium. Our
Charter says land use ordinance, which is not defined and is broader than what
happened in the Life of the Land.
And, you know, I think Mr. Whittaker said it best in one of the Committee hearings.
Like, if you want three opinions, invite two lawyers. And I've been having a hard time
with lawyers not all agreeing, and Member Rawlins-Fernandez saying that lawyers are
humans, too, which I guess I'll accept that they're human. But all of these lawyers that
are advising us, I only knew them for three years max. And I. there's one lawyer that I
consider like more than human. And I'm going to go on his advice, because he's not
afraid to be radical and he wins. And it's not that we don't want these things in the
moratorium. It’s not like we don’t want our kingdom back. There’s all these things that
we do want. We want to stop more hotels. We want to stop more tourists coming in.
But I guess my, my fear is, that if we rush it and then Member Rawlins-Fernandez bill
that is going through the Planning Commission gets swept up into that lawsuit, then
we would have, you know, blown our load without getting the full, the full chance for
the whole County. So, I'm going to vote the same way as Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Other Members? Discussion?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair, for my opportunity. Yea, I, I am hearing from
the other Members. I, too, I think we heard today, including the, including from the
hotel industry, that recognizes that overtourism is a problem. The intent of the
moratorium is to pause development while we engage in meaningful dialogue about
how to address the problems, water scarcity, lower quality of life for residents.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6. 2021
Page 116
degrading our environment, and destroying our cultural assets with construction
projects. So, we all agree, and we've heard all of the testimony that these are the
reasons why we want to go ahead and do the moratorium. It's just temporary. It's not
permanent. I'm supporting the pause.
During the pandemic, we, we saw the island without tourists and got a much clearer
vision of the effects of how too many people are on the island. So, I think we need a
plan. And the moratorium gives us that time to develop this. I think we've also seen a
lot of support from the U.S. You know, we've, we've been highlighted in the
Washington Post, been highlighted in the Gawker. We've been highlighted in a lot of
periodicals, and in getting a lot of support from, from people, especially when Kaniela
put that post on Instagram, 1 believe, about, about our residents being treated as
second-class citizens to the visitor industry, with the water restrictions. So, we are
getting a lot of support. And so. I'm going to continue that support. And I, and 1 too,
understand the process, and Member Rawiins-Fernandez' other bill as well. Thank
you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I’m going to support this, with
Councilmember Kelly King. I don't, I mean, I'm not sure that we can't do this one, as
well as the second one. That's, that's my, where I'm standing. Hmm, you know, I, I
consider myself open-minded and I'll listen to difference of opinions and, and
everything. And I've heard the lobbyists loud and clear. And I'm sorry, they came to
the table and they didn’t convince me. So, I'm, I'm here to stand with what most of our
voters have been talking, is the overtourism and the, the day in, day out. We see it
with our own two eyes. You know, I feel like the gas lit, lighting that has been
happening to our lobbyist brothers and sisters, we, 1 can't handle it. It's, I can't abide
by it and I don't agree with it. So, I, I'm going to go with Councilmember Kelly King on
this one. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anyone else? If not, just remember that we need six votes.
Yes, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, just, 1 wanted to ask David Raatz to give us his legal opinion.
And I understand that some people are choosing Corp. Counsel legal opinion over his,
but I think his is important. He and, and our staff at OCS worked on this bill, addressed
the legal issues, and they feel it is defensible in court. And so, just if you could have.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 117
if we could ask him to just give his opinion? And maybe he could more thoroughly
explain his email about the difference between a building code and land ordinance.
CHAIR LEE: David, are you on the call? David Raatz? David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ; Yes. Thank you, Chair Lee.
I don't have a formal legal opinion. ! haven't had occasion to really analyze this issue,
but I can provide some background, if the body would like. So, the, the Charter says
the Council cannot enact any land use ordinance until it first receives the comments of
the relevant Planning Commission. Unfortunately, the term "land use ordinance" is not
defined, so the Council has room to make a judgment of what is a land use ordinance
that triggers Planning Commission review.
Consistently, we received advice from Corp. Counsel and the Council has followed it,
that if you're amending the County Code, but you're not touching the Comprehensive
Zoning ordinance, which is Title 19, then that ordinance will not be deemed a land use
ordinance. That came up under the Residential Workforce Housing Policy; the
moratorium on ag subdivisions; Bill 84 (2002), which became Chapter 2.SOB. So, that's
been the consistent guidance.
The Council has the ability to go a different direction and make a different assessment.
But we, we've just, we've been aware of that prior advice and we advised the
Committee Chair, during the course of deliberations to that affect. But it is, it is the
Council's prerogative on how to apply terms in the County Charter. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. 1 just was wondering if you had any Maui
cases besides the Life of the Land case that could be?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Chair Lee, if I may? I'm not aware of any
reported judicial opinion where this question of what land use ordinance, what that term
means in the County Charter, has ever been issued. So, again, there is some potential
ambiguity and that leaves the Council with some discretion.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's, thank you. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Raatz.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 118
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Raatz. Mahalo for
answering questions. So, to dovetail off of Member Paltin's question, the, there isn't a
definition for proposed land use ordinances and amendments in the Charter. Black's
Law Dictionary defines land use regulation as "an ordinance or other legislative
enactment governing the development or use of real estate". Is that a reasonable
definition of land use regulation?
CHAIR LEE: David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Yes. Vice-Chair, yes, I think that would be
reasonable if the body wants to adopt that definition.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Raatz. Are the West Maui and South
Maui Community Plans land use ordinance?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: I'm not sure. I do know that chapter.
Chapter 2.SOB of the County Code, which applies to community plan updates,
specifically requires Planning Commission review. So, I don't necessarily think we've
had a need to analyze that question just by looking at the Charter term of "land use
ordinance".
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So, is the Maui Island Plan considered a land use
ordinance?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; That's also subject to Chapter 2.80B, where
there's a requirement in the Code for referral and comment by the Maui Planning
Commission. So, again. I'm not aware of that question needing to be addressed.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So, if the moratorium is tethered to the community
plan updates, wouldn't it then be ambiguous on whether it's land use or not, if, if you
aren't able to answer whether the West Maui, South Maui Community Plans, and Maui
Island Plans are considered land use ordinances?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Chair, if I may? Again, based on prior
advice, I don't think that would resolve the question. Back in late '90s when the
Agricultural Zoning District ordinance was being debated, on the advice of Corporation
Counsel, the Council enacted Ordinance 2636, to establish a moratorium on ag
subdivisions, pending enactment of ag zoning ordinance, which was clearly a land use
ordinance. And that moratorium was deemed not to be a land use ordinance, even
though it was tied to a land use ordinance.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 119
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Mr. Raatz. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I did, I was actually still on my, my discussion with David
Raatz, but you went over to Member Paltin. But that's fine. I just wanted to ascertain
the, just have Mr. Raatz, David, can you confirm that when we were discussing this
bill, and we had, we had considered making it a zoning ordinance and sending to
Planning Commission the, the OCS advisory that we could do it through Building Code
and not have to go to the Planning Commission? Cause that was one of the
discussions we had.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Chair Lee, if i may? Yes, again, that was
consistent with the advice we've seen over the years. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. And, and that was basically because we're,
we are in an emergency situation in South Maui. And we have, we'll probably be
ending up with another 500 plus rooms if we don't do this override right now. Thank
you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments or questions? Just to remind you that we need six votes
to override the Mayor's veto.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. When this bill was in Committee, and
at first and second reading, I was a very strong proponent of this bill. I really wanted it
to pass quickly, for the reasons that Member King stated. With the passage of the
update to the West Maui Community Plan, this moratorium will not apply to the West
Maui area. It'll only apply to South Maui.
We already received what will be transformed into  alegal brief that will be submitted
to court by Cades Schutte. And for those who don't know who Cades Schutte is, they're
a, a pretty big law firm on Oahu. And so, it's not an empty threat. They will sue us.
But that didn't stop me from voting in favor of passing this bill. I’m not going to allow,
you know, lawsuits to, to sway my decision. However, this moratorium will ultimately
only apply to South Maui. And it would be up to the Administration to enforce it. And
then, once it goes into active litigation, they'll likely file for an injunction. And those
types of motions in the court are expedited.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 120
And during active litigation, our islandwide moratorium that has been sent to the Maui
Planning Commission, as Member Paltin stated, will likely get swept up into the same
active litigation. And so, that was one of the big reasons, or one of the big variables
that I factored into this decision. We have to choose, with this motion, if we're going to
take a gamble on a moratorium that we've expedited for, for good purposes, but may
not be enacted, and may not be enforced, and may get wrapped up into litigation. And
in, in litigation, it'll end our chances of an islandwide moratorium.
And so, if I don't vote for the override today, it preserves the chance of our islandwide
moratorium from being heard and being enacted. And that moratorium bill, I did work
with different attorneys; our OCS attorneys who advised me to go the route of putting
it into Title 19, and Corporation Counsel, who also advised me to put it into Title 19.
Putting it into Title 19 resulted in going to the Planning Commission, which is a longer
route. But it will survive the legal hurdles that has already been outlined for us in the
legal brief. So, it's more comprehensive. It will stop the permitting of STR's. And it'll
be more legally defensible. And that's why 1 cannot support the motion on the floor.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else. Members? Are you ready to vote?
Oh, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I just realized that bill will probably come to
my Committee then. Great. Anyways, you know, like it comes down to, like, the
lawyers. And I guess in this case, we're kind of like the, the judge, you know, because
hearing the two different sides of lawyers of things and, and on top of that, also
hearing all the people's testimonies. And you know, for me, it's those testimonies that
want this so bad. That means that we have to dot our "i's" and cross our "t's" on it. we
gotta give them something that they're going to able to, like, stand up to the legal
challenge.
And so, the, all of the testimonies, like, even one testifier referred to this as a zoning
ordinance. And then when I said it's not a zoning ordinance, then he said it's a land
ordinance. And then, it's like, that's playing right into other side's hands right there.
And so you know, because it means so much to the people, then we gotta give them
the best defensible bill too. So, that's, that's how I feel. I mean, not that I really want
it in my Committee, but I'll do my best there too, because of the, all of the testimony.
But that's how I feel. I don't want to give them something that's gonna be shot down
right away. That's why I'm voting how I'm voting.
we re
use
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 121
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Anybody else? Let me say a few words. I think this, this bill involved
a lot of work, and I appreciate and acknowledge that. But 1, too, feel that this bill isn't
necessarily on firm legal ground. It may, it's kind of a partial tool, as opposed to the
more comprehensive moratorium that we'll be looking at very soon after the bill returns
from the Planning Commissions. So, 1 mean. I'm pretty sure there's going to be some
kind of moratorium coming up. it just may not be this version. So, I'm ready to vote.
And one last call for comments.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes. Can we ask Mr. Raatz to comment on the defensibility of
this bill? Because that was a big conversation that was ongoing throughout the
passage of the bill.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz. Mr. Raatz.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Thank you, Chair. I think OCS staffs view
of the legal issues was presented in the committee report when the bill was up for first
reading. I don't have anything yet to add at this point.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can you, can you summarize that, Mr. Raatz?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Sure. Chair, if I may?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, about, about the legal defensibility of this bill.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Sure. We, we looked at applicable case
law from the U.S. Court of Appeals from the Ninth Circuit, which has jurisdiction over
Hawaii, and other case law, and saw that a moratorium ordinance of this type is subject
to the rational basis test, which is a level of judicial scrutiny that's deferential to the
legislative body.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, it, Mr. Raatz, is the, is, is the idea that this would be
challenged solely on the fact that it's a Building Code issue and not a land use?
Because that was one of the things that we talked about, and it, and it was made clear
to me by the attorneys, our attorneys, that this is a Building Code issue and not a land
use ordinance. And so, it would not, it could not be challenged successfully on that,
on that basis, which is the argument for waiting for the other bill. Because the other
bill could be challenged on any of the other issues that were talked about as well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 122
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair. Again, we don't have a
formal legal opinion on the question, whether this is a land use ordinance. We just
been relying on the Corp. Counsel opinion that had been insisted, as we understood
it, dating back to a 1998 opinion that was referenced in the Committee Report
regarding a moratorium on building permits as not being a land use ordinance.
And with these types of moratorium ordinances being subject to the deferential rational
basis test, which the attorneys in opposition had also acknowledged is the question of
whether the ordinance would satisfy the rational basis test. And because that's such
a deferential standard, we think it would be likely for a challenge like that that the
County would be able to, to defend the ordinance. Thank you. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, you’re muted. We didn't hear anything.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Again, those in favor of the motion to override would say "yes" or "aye'
and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; "Aye".
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: "Yes" or "aye".
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Deputy, I mean, not Deputy Clerk. But Madam Clerk, can you take roll
call? I don’t want to make a mistake on, you know, by missing somebody’s box.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK;
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 123
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK;
NO.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK;
NO.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
CHAIR LEE; A little louder, Member Sugimura.
OH. NO.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
Councilmember Tasha, pro, Council Pro
Temp. Tasha Kama.
COUNTY CLERK;
EXCUSED.CHAIR LEE;
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK;
NO.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
Council Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK;
NO.CHAIR LEE;
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
AND SINENCI.
AYES;
NOES; COUNCILMEMBERS PALTIN. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, there are four "ayes" and four "noes".
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNTY CLERK; And one "excused".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 124
CHAIR LEE: So, motion fails. Any objections to filing the communication, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Can we refer to the Planning Commission?
CHAIR LEE: The subject matter?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The bill.
CHAIR LEE: No. The bill failed. But we could, if you want it, if the body wanted to refer the
communication to a standing Committee? Probably yours.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Alright, yea.
CHAIR LEE: You want to make a motion to that, so that, you know, everybody can vote on
it?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure.
I MOVE TO REFER THE BILL TO MY COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It's not the bill. It's the county communication.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Same thing.
CHAIR LEE: Which is the subject matter. Which is the subject matter, yea.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: CC 21-377.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Could I then refer it to the Planning Commission?
CHAIR LEE: No, because that's something that the body has to decide on.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. Okay, yea, I'll take it, or the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I don't, how, just a point of process. How does that work for
referring the communication on a veto override to  aCommittee?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 125
CHAIR LEE; Well, it's the subject matter. So, the subject matter would go to her Committee.
And, you know, and during the Committee process you could review, you know, the
contents I suppose, again, of the bill, and for reference. And you know, incorporate, if
you wanted to, incorporate some of the aspects of that bill into the other bill. That's
just a thought. 1 mean, it's really up to the body of what they want to do.
Well, what did you have in mind, Ms., Ms., Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I was going to take it and redo it and send it to the Planning
Commission, cause that's the issue here. Redo it and send it to the Planning
Commission.
CHAIR LEE; Well, that's, by taking the communication, you can do that.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
THAT'S WHAT I'D LIKE TO DO.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Do we have a second? Okay, you're moving to refer that to the, to your
planning, PSLU Committee. Is there a second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member Johnson. Okay, to, to move, to refer this item, subject
matter to your Committee.
All, anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCi, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: So, I see one, two, three, four, five, six "ayes".
Okay. 1 see Member King is a "no". Member Sugimura, are you a "yes" or a "no"?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I wasn't a "no".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 126
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: "No".
CHAIR LEE: Oh. you're a "yes".
Member Sugimura, are you a "yes" or a "no"?
NOES; COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Did you say "no"?
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: So, seven "ayes", one "no", one "excused". Is that correct. Members?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: I said "no". 1 said "no". Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: You cannot hear me? I said "no".
CHAIR LEE; So, I said seven "ayes", one "no", one "excused".
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh, I thought Member King voted "no". Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Well. I. me too, in the beginning. But she said she voted "yes".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I just, I don’t see the point, but whatever. I vote "yes".
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. So, this matter will be, the County Communication CC 21-377
will be referred to the PSLU Committee, right?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair. Just a question of process.
So, Member Rawlins-Fernandez's bill, what is the status if I may ask the Vice-Chair.
Is it at Planning Commission right now?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair. Your, the status of your bill.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 127
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. It's, we sent it to the Planning
Commission. They have 120 days to, to schedule it.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, okay. And is the intent to have it sent to the PSLU
Committee?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It would have to.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It, it would be directly referred to PSLU Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Then this body can decide whether it stays there or goes
somewhere else? But more likely, that would be the appropriate Committee 1 would
assume?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, that would be the appropriate Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Okay. Alright, thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura, did you have your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm just kind of curious with going to, this moratorium veto
bill, right, it was basically sustained the Mayor's veto. And now, we're going to keep it
alive and send it over to PSLU. is that what's happening?
CHAIR LEE: No, that bill is done. It's-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: It's done, right?
CHAIR LEE: It's lost, yea. Yea, it's dead.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right. It's lost.
CHAIR LEE: But the subject matter-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the purpose of doing-
CHAIR LEE: -can still be alive. The subject matter can still be referred.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 128
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. And, and Tamara said you're going to rewrite the
bill and then send it over to the Planning Commission? Is that what you said your intent
is?
CHAIR LEE: Well, whatever happens in the Committee. Whatever the Committee Members
decide, yea?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, I can't do anything by myself. I'll probably need like five
votes.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, she'll need a few votes to help her.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Just because Keani's bill is moving. So, I'm just
wondering what the intent is. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk. Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. Chair, proceeding with communications for referral.
The following county communications are recommended for referral to the following
Committees as noted:
- LORI TSUHAKO, DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated July 26, 2021)
NO. 21-378
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING THE DIRECTOR OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS TO MODIFY THE
REQUIREMENTS OF CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE, IN RELATION TO
THE COUNTY’S PURCHASE OPTIONS, AND APPROVING CERTAIN FINANCING
STRUCTURE COMPONENTS RELATING TO THE USE OF FUNDS RECEIVED
THROUGH CHAPTER 3.35, MAUI COUNTY CODE, FOR THE LILOA HALE SENIOR
RENTAL HOUSING PROJECT".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-378 be referred to the
Affordable Housing Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, are you going
to take any floor action on this item?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. No. Referral to BFED please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 129
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's 378, correct?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. 21-378.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, so if that can go with 384, 21-384. Oh, sorry
383. They, they belong together.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
NO. 21-383 - MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated July 23, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022, AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUND (LILOA HALE PROJECT)".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-383 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, 378. I mean. 379.
- MICHAEL WILLIAMS. CHAIR. COST OF GOVERNMENT
COMMISSION, (dated July 16, 2021)
NO. 21-379
Transmitting the Cost of Government Commission's Report on Wildfire Prevention and
Cost Recovery on Maui, dated July 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-379 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 130
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTORNO. 21-380
(dated July 23. 2021)
Transmitting the Budget Implementation Report as of June 30, 2021 (Fiscal Year 2021
Fourth Quarter).
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-380 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 21-381
(dated July 26, 2021)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the 2021 Proposed General Obligation Bond Fund as
of June 30, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-381 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR.NO. 21-382
(dated July 23, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022, AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUND (HALE O PlIKEA II)".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-382 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR,NO. 21-384
(dated July 23, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
THE OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM (RE-TREE HAWAII)".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-384 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 131
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rules of the Council.
Any discussion? Ifnot-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Uh. Oh, go ahead.
CHAIR LEE; You don't, no discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh, okay. Mahalo, Chair. This is just a, a name
change for the fiscal sponsor and I'll explain that in the main motion. But the sooner
can do it, the sooner we can grant the funding. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
we
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE,
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
So, that's eight "ayes", one "excused"; motionCHAIR LEE; Okay. All "ayes’
carries.
zero noes .
Madam Clerk.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 132
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-384.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You said to, to waive the Rule of the Council, right? Did you say that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yea, we did that one. And then we're going to pass
it now.
CHAIR LEE; On 383? Or. 383?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 384.
CHAIR LEE: 384. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Re, Re-Tree Hawaii.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Got it. Got it. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
motion carries. Seven, eight "ayes", oneII.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All "ayes , zero noes
"excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay, mahalo. Chair. That was the, the main
motion. But after the fact, the proposed bill would amend Fiscal Year '22 Budget from
Re-Tree Hawaii to add "Lokahi Pacific" as their fiscal sponsor to the title. That's all.
Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 133
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Madam Chair. I mean, Madam Clerk. Most you.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair, For the record, that's BILL NO. 70 (2021).
CHAIR LEE: Oh, there you are.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with further referrals to Committee.
- FRANK R. DE REGO. JR.. CHAIR. MAUI POLICE COMMISSIONNO. 21-385
(dated July 16, 2021)
Providing comments on Ordinance No. 5174, Bill No. 142 (2020), entitled "A BILL FOR
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 9.40, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO SOCIAL HOST LIABILITY".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-385 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER.NO. 21-386
(dated July 28, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTIONS 2.28.050 AND 2.28.080, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
ALTERNATES FOR ADVISORY COMMITTEES TO THE MAUI PLANNING
COMMISSION".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-386 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: To your Human Concerns and Parks Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Member-
COUNTY CLERK: County Communication 21-3-
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me. Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 134
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes. Can I make a motion on 21-386 at this point? Or do you
want to wait till the-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you can do that now. You can do that now.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council will
enable the Council to consider the proposed bill today. This matter is time-sensitive,
as Advisory Committee applications are due by August 23.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Second, somebody.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member King, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
to move, to waive the Rules of the Council regarding County Communication 21-386.
Councilmember King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you. Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: It's only on the waiver.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Anything else?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I think-
CHAIRLEE: Okay, if not-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Maybe I explained it too early, why was the urgency.
CHAIR LEE: So. all those in favor to waive the Rule, the Council Rules.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 135
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE; Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-386.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass the bill on
first reading in County Communication 21-386.
Member King, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you, Chair. Members, the proposed bill would allow
the Council to appoint up to two alternate members to each of the community advisory
committees to the Maui Planning Commission; Hana, South Maui, and Paia-Haiku.
If a mid-term vacancy occurs, or one or more alternates have been appointed, an
alternate would fill the remainder of the departing member's term, allowing the work of
the Committee to continue without interruption.
Councilmember's support of my motion.
I  ask for the member,
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If-
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you very much, Madam Chair. 1 stand in full
support of Member King's proposal. As we have seen with some of our other boards
and commissions, they have difficulty making quorum, or those of the boards that don't
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 136
have alternates. So, I think this is a very good consideration for these respective
advisory committees. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not. all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise
your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: That is BILL NO. 71 (2021).
CHAIR LEE: Next.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated July 26, 2021)
NO. 21-387
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING THE EMPLOYMENT OF
SPECIAL COUNSEL LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF HAWAII TO PROVIDE LEGAL
SERVICES TO QUALIFIED RESIDENTS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-387 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBERNO. 21-388
(dated July 29, 2021)
Relating to Commercial Ocean Recreational Activity permits and other commercial
activity at County beach parks.
The recommended action is that County Communication 21-388 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 137
- TASHA KAMA. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated July 29, 2021)
Relating to Commercial Ocean Recreational Activity permit management and
administrative rules.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-389 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
NO. 21-389
NO. 21-390 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR,
(dated July 30, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE
DONATION OF VARIOUS SCHOOL SUPPLIES FROM IAN SMITH TO THE COUNTY
OF MAUI, PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.56, MAUI COUNTY CODE".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-390 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR,
(dated July 30, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE
DONATION OF VARIOUS SCHOOL SUPPLIES FROM THE STABLE ROAD
FOUNDATION TO THE COUNTY OF MAUI, PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.56, MAUI
COUNTY CODE".
NO. 21-391
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-391 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina, did you want to deal, address this one?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes. May 1 ask, also have the Clerk call up County
Communication 21-391?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: I just read that one. 1 ended with that one
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 138
CHAIR LEE: I thought you did 390?
COUNTY CLERK: 390 and 391.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Sorry, I missed the 391. but. okay.
ALRIGHT, WELL. WITH THAT BEING SAID, I MOVE TO WAIVE
THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND
REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES
OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci, to waive the Rule
the Rules of the Council.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Approval of this
motion by a two-thirds vote will enable the Council to consider this matter today. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: All those in, anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please say
"aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Looks like eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 139
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 21-390 AND
21-391. AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 21-390
AND 21-391.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Ms., Mr. Molina, seconded by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, okay, to approve these two communications.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The letter from
Mr. Smith, which is dated July 21, 2021 and attached to County Communication
21-390, the Paia resident, Mr. Smith, is donating 264 17-inch backpacks and other bulk
school supplies valued at approximately $2500 to our County's keiki, just in time for
the start of a new school year.
And the letter from Mr. Edward Freedman of the Stable Road Foundation, attached to
County Communication 21-391, notes a donation of 504 17-inch backpacks,
504 50-piece school supply kits, and 566 glue sticks to our County keiki valued at
approximately $6,136.63.
There's a list of elementary schools in Maui and Molokai that will benefit from this. And
as the keiki are heading back to school at this, this week, these donations are quite
timely and would be greatly appreciated by those that receive them. So, I ask for the
Member's full support of this. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion? If not, ail those in favor of the motion-
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: -please say "aye" and raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 140
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair? Chair? Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you have discussion? Okay, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. I guess I need to speak louder. So, I just want to
express my support for these, these, actually two donations that were very generous.
And if you could have seen upstairs on the 9th floor, all the school supplies that were
donated and the many, many backpacks. But there are many needy children. When
I worked with Ready to Learn Program, and there's  ahuge need out there. And I'm
very grateful to the Mayor for collecting these donations to donate to the schools to
give to the kids in need. And it's been a goal countywide. So, appreciate it. I support
this whole-heartedly. And I request for other Member's support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion?
Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, Madam Chair, just for the record, the topic here is the
donations from Mr. Smith. So, while I appreciate what was done on the 9th floor, but
we need to keep the conversation here just specifically to the donations of Mr. Smith
and Mr. Freedman. So, thank you. Just wanted to state that for the record.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, the County Communication 21-390 resolution is
assigned RESOLUTION NO. 21-123. County Communication 21-391, resolution is
assigned RESOLUTION NO. 21-124.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 141
- MICHAEL J. MOLINA. CQUNCILMEMBERNO. 21-392
(dated July 28, 2021)
Relating to impacts of and solutions to noxious uses at the Makawao Baseyard
affecting residential neighborhoods, including idling large machinery and installation of
a security gate.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-392 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
- YUKI LEI SUGIMURA. CQUNCILMEMBERNO. 21-393
(dated July 29, 2021)
Relating to well development and other water infrastructure.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-393 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
- YUKI LEI SUGIMURA. CQUNCILMEMBERNO. 21-394
(dated July 29, 2021)
Relating to U.S. Department of Transportation RAISE grants for County infrastructure.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-394 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. CQUNCILMEMBERNQ. 21-395
(dated July 30, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "URGING THE MAYQR TQ CQNTINUE
FQCUSED CQLLABQRATIQN WITH THE CQUNCIL QN IMPRQVING THE
CQUNTY'S WASTEWATER SYSTEM".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-395 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 142
COUNTY CLERK: To your Planning-
CHAIRLEE; Oh. Oh, wait. Hold on.
Member King, did I see your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes. I'd like to address the 21-395.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-395 AND FILE
THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Johnson, to adopt the resolution
in County Communication 21-395.
Discussion, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you, Chair. May I please request the Clerk read
the resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Did you call on me? You’re muted.
CHAIR LEE: I always turn my mic off so then it doesn't cause feedback to her. I don't know
how we're connected, but I guess we're connected.
Any discussion? Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 143
COUNCILMEMBER KING; We are all familiar with this case. It's been going on for the past
10 years. On April 23, 2020, the Supreme Court rendered a decision in County of Maui
V. Hawaii Wildlife Fund, rejecting the County's arguments and sending the case back
to the U.S. District Court to ... be created. We all knew what the outcome would be
at the U.S. District Court. On July 15, 2021, the U.S. District Court granted the plaintiffs'
motion for summary judgment, again, ruling against the County.
Now is the time for the Council and the Mayor to work together in collaboration for the
benefit of the people of Maui, and work on improving the County's wastewater system.
Now is the time for the Maui Council to focus on addressing the urgent needs of the
residents of Maui County by securing jobs for residents, enhancing local economy,
providing shelter, and assisting individuals and families who need healthcare and
treatment.
The alternative is to spend more time, money, and other resources on legal fights over
the Clean Water Act. The choice is clear, and let's let the past be the past. Let's move
fon/vard together and put this chapter behind us.  Iask for Members full support of my
motion. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not--
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I, I support working with the wastewater,
improving the wastewater system. And as you know. Central Maui Wastewater, we're
going to have an issue there to improve that and the issues for the, in Lahaina and that
whole system and that side which caused this concern. I definitely stand with my
Department to work and improve this. So, I understand where this is saying, oops
sorry. And I support this resolution for that, for continuing to work with the departments,
which that is my Department assigned to my Committee. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand and say aye?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 144
CHAIR LEE: I see eight "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: For the record, that's RESOLUTION 21-125.
NO. 21-396 - MICHELE MCLEAN. PLANNING DIRECTOR
(dated July 26,2021)
Transmitting the Department of Planning's quarterly report on the status of all active
conditional permits as of June 30, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-396 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll take that. But you're muted. Chair. I'll take the quarterly
reports to my Committee.
CHAIR LEE: You want the quarterly reports to your Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, I'll take it.
CHAIR LEE: 1 think that's where they were going, right? Okay. So, any objections to the
referrals as read by the Clerk, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. Okay.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Moving forward with agenda, agenda item K. Committee Reports.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 145
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-55NO. AGRICULTURE AND PUBLIC TRUST COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 21-126 , entitled "APPROVING A TIME EXTENSION
FOR THE COUNCIL TO ADOPT THE MAUI ISLAND WATER USE AND
DEVELOPMENT PLAN," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-55.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member King, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-55.
Discussion? Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Your APT Committee met on July 27, 2021
to discuss the proposed resolution. In addition to the work done in the Water and
Infrastructure; Water, Infrastructure, and Transportation; Environmental, Agricultural,
and Cultural Preservation Committees in the 2019-2021 Council term, your APT
Committee has been meeting to discuss proposed updates to the Maui Island Water
Use and Development Plan.
Section 14.02.040 of Maui County Code requires the Council pass a proposed update
by ordinance within 180 days from receipt of the proposed update. But also provides
the Council may, by resolution, extend the time to pass the update.
Your Committee notes the original deadline to pass the proposed update was
September 18, 2019. But Council has extended the deadline a few times until our
current deadline of September 30, 2021. My initial intent with the resolution was to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 146
extend it, the deadline, one day to October 1,2021. However, after receiving testimony
and discussing the need for additional meetings to address community concerns and
propose updates to the Plan, although I don't anticipate utilizing all of the time, 1
appreciate the additional time.
Chair, your Committee voted to revise the proposed resolution to extend the Council's
deadline to December 31,2021. The Committee voted 6-0 to recommend adoption of
the revised proposed resolution. And I ask for the Members full support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion?
Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I whole-heartedly support this extension. And
I also want to thank the Committee, the APT Committee, for taking the time to go over
the Water Use Development Plan, I think probably more thoroughly than any Council
has done in the past, and to really bring the local voices in, especially the Aha Moku
voices in to redrafting some of the portions that had previously left them out. So, I think
this time will be well used, although, I do agree with our Committee Chair, that we could
probably get it done before the end of the year. It's just precautionary. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Members.
COUNTY CLERK: That would be RESOLUTION 21-126.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that wasn't me cause I turned mine off really fast, my, my microphone
Okay. Proceed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 147
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-56NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 72 (2021). entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 2.50, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
PESTICIDE AND FERTILIZER USE ON COUNTY PROPERTY,” be PASSED
ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1.
That County Communication 16-37, from Councilmember Elle Cochran, be
FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
1  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-56.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 21-56.
Discussion? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Your CARE Committee met on July 21, 2021
to discuss a proposed bill determining the categories of pesticide and fertilizer allowed
for use on County property.
Continual efforts are needed to protect County employees, residents, keiki, visitors,
and the environment from the harmful effects of its use. Pesticide and fertilizer
restrictions will only apply to the County-owned land, but will not apply to County
agricultural parks or County property used for agricultural purposes.
The proposed bill also outlines a waiver for, a waiver process for instances when
pesticide use may be the only option and provides transparency as to the type of
pesticide being used, where and when it's being used, and the quality [sic] being used.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 148
Your Committee revised the bill to take effect three years after approval for pesticide
and fertilize use at the Waiehu Municipal Golf Course, and to automatically approve
waiver applications and waiver extension requests if the Council fails to approve or
disapprove them within 180 days. I'll, I'll just read them. I know there’s going to be
some proposed amendments. But at the meeting, we recommended passage of the
revised propose bill on first reading and filing of the communication by a 6-0 vote. And
I will ask for the Members full support once we get through these amendments.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
Member Sugimura, are you ready?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea. So, everybody got the ASF? It was sent to
Committee and it was sent to each individual Councilmember. So, and did we, do we
have Director Dagdag-Andaya? We asked her to be a resource when this came up.
This is her, are you there?
CHAIR LEE: Director Dagdag-Andaya, are you on the call?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS ROWENA DAGDAG-ANDAYA: I'm on the call.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, Members, based upon the testimony we heard during
Committee, as well as this morning, Director Dagdag-Andaya submitted the following:
amendment to clarify the definition of "county property," adds a "sidewalk"
definition, and adds an Exclusion section. That's the total, that's all the amendments.
so
SO, THE FIRST MOTION IS TO MOVE TO AMEND
SUBSECTION 2.50.020 OF THE PROPOSED BILL TO READ
AS FOLLOWS:
AND 2.50.20 [SIC] DEFINITION. WHENEVER USED IN THIS
CHAPTER, UNLESS THE CONTEXT OTHERWISE REQUIRES:
MEANS ANY REAL PROPERTY"COUNTY PROPERTY'
OWNED OR UNDER THE CONTROL OR MANAGEMENT OF
THE COUNTY OF MAUI INCLUDING ANY COUNTY HIGHWAY,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 149
DRAINAGEWAY, SIDEWALK, RIGHT-OF-WAY, PARK,
BUILDING, COMMUNITY CENTER OR OTHER FACILITIES.
"SIDEWALK" MEANS "ANY PORTION OF A STREET
BETWEEN A CURBLINE OR THE PAVEMENT OF A ROAD,
AND THE ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE INCLUDING ANY
SETBACK AREA ACQUIRED BY THE COUNTY FOR ROAD
WIDENING PURPOSES.
AND THE SECOND MOTION IS TO MOVE TO AMEND THE
PROPOSED.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Let's do one at a time.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: So, that's a motion. That's your first amendment?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, 1 was just seconding the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Oh, you're seconding the motion. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any questions regarding the, the first-
Yes, Member Sinenci?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 150
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Yea, just a question for Director Dagdag-
Andaya. So, for under the control and management of the County of Maui, does that
include nonprofits that, that also rent County.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, that’s taken, oh.
CHAIR LEE: Director.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Chair. Yes, the, so this portion, the definitions just defines
what "county property" would mean. And then the Exclusions section that I, I had
suggested would indicate that any property, or County property under the management
of the County, I guess that there's one. It might, I don't know if it's here. But yea, so
what I had proposed earlier was any County property under the management of the
County, or nonprofit organizations, or I'm sorry, leased or maintained by nonprofit
organizations. But I think the, it changed in this ASF.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. I apologize, Chair Lee. I can wait to the Exclusions. I
know you wanted to address the definitions first.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Can't hear you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to make sure that the
definitions as they were read of "county property" and "sidewalk" is that what you had
intended. Director Dagdag-Andaya?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Yes, the, and the definition of "sidewalk" actually comes
from Chapter 12. So, it's the same definition as used in Chapter 12.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. Those in favor of the motion, on this first amendment, raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 151
CHAIR LEE; Okay. All "ayes", zero "noes'one "excused"; motion carries.
That's the first amendment.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, do you have a, you have three right?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I have two, so-
CHAIRLEE: Two?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
THE NEXT ONE, THE NEXT ONE IS MOVE TO AMEND THE
PROPOSED BILL BY ADDING AN "EXCLUSIONS"
SUBSECTION AND RENUMBERING THE FOLLOWING
SUBSECTIONS AS FOLLOWS:
2.50.050 EXCLUSIONS. A. THE CHAPTER SHALL NOT APPLY
TO THE FOLLOWING:
1. COUNTY PROPERTY UNDER THE CONTROL OR
MANAGEMENT OF ANY OTHER ENTITY.
2. PROPERTY SUBJECT TO EXECUTIVE ORDER, COUNTY
AGRICULTURAL PARKS, OR COUNTY PROPERTY USED
FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES; AND
3. USE OF PESTICIDES OR FERTILIZERS BY NON-COUNTY
EMPLOYEES ON COUNTY SIDEWALKS MAINTAINED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 12.02.020 OF THIS CODE.
I think, so that's what Member Sinenci was wondering. So, that's that. And then, what
would happen is by adding this Section, it's talking about renumbering the following
items, right? So, it's by adding in-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, we have to, so you're not done with the, the motion. Cause we
need a second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 152
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, I'm sorry. That was, I'm sorry, I read too much. That
was the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Second by Member Paltin. Okay. And so, discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, you might want to ask the Department. This came
from the Department. And Rowena?
CHAIR LEE: Comments. Director, comments?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Yes. My testimony this morning had indicated that the
Exclusions section would include the language "Use of pesticides or fertilizers on
County property leased by nonprofit organizations". I think that's the, that was meant
to be number 1.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: It is.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: So, County or property under the control or management
of any other County. Okay. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
Member Sinenci, Member Paltin, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. Just have a question for Director Dagdag-
Andaya. Is there a, do we have a list of those nonprofits that, that have the leases of
those County properties?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Chair, the those, the list might be with other departments.
I know Housing and Human Concerns and Parks Department worked with other
nonprofit groups, as well as Office of Economic Development. I think there's a number
of other properties as well. So, that question might be best referred to the Finance
Director, or perhaps those departments, like Housing and Human Concerns and Parks.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci, would you like our staff to request that information?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 153
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Well, I was possibly concentrating on the Parks Department,
only because the Parks Department, you know, they kind of REP out to landscaping
companies. They hire outside companies to, to take care of some of the parks. So,
we didn't want to exclude those that are, that are taking care of our County parks to be
able to use chemical, chemical substance. That was the concern that came from the
Parks and those, those companies that are, again, landscaping companies that are
hired by the County. We didn't want to exclude them.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, how, let's see, how do we add that. Director?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
CAN I AMEND THE AMENDMENT TO REMOVE 1 AND 3?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, can you repeat 1 and 3?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, under 2.50.050 for Exclusions, the chapter shall not
apply to the following: 1. County property under the control or management of any
other entity. And 3. is use of pesticides or fertilizers by non-County employees on
County sidewalks maintained in accordance with sections 12.02.020 of this code. And
I, and I-
CHAIR LEE: Let's, let's have Director comment on that. Director.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Thank you-
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: I know at the last, at the, during the Committee meeting,
there was discussion about impacts to nonprofit organizations that lease land, lease
County property, and maintain the County property, as well as any impacts to property
owners who are maintaining County sidewalks and right-of-ways in accordance with
12.02.020 of the County Code. And during the discussion, it was indicated that, you
know, the, the bill wouldn't have. But the reason why these, this language was included
was just to make it clear that it wouldn't impact nonprofits, and non-County employees
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 154
or residents, who maintain the frontage of their properties. And that's the point of this
these, these two items.
CHAIR LEE: Do you still want to remove them, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; It was moved by me and seconded by Member Rawlins-
Fernandez. And my discussion would be that 1 don't think this ordinance goes into
effect for like a year, and then three years for certain areas. And basically, the County
can enter into agreements about how they want their property to be managed. And,
and if we're saying these things are harmful to kids, they're harmful to kids regardless
of who's the person that's using them. But we did say that, you know, we don't want
to go over on the ag authority of the State. So 2, 2 sounds good.
But I think, you know, in the process of making a change, we have to actually make a
change and educate folks as to why it is we're doing this. You know, most nonprofits
are for the betterment of the community, for the betterment of the people and, and so,
you know, this is us educating them. And, you know, I mean, I'm not opposed to
working with them to, to help change things. But, but we're not talking about telling
everybody what to do on their property. We're taking a stance on, on County property,
and not agricultural County property, just, you know, County property where kids play,
or walk to school. And it's, if it's important, it's important. It's important. So, that's my
discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, then Member, oh wait  aminute, wait. Was it Member
Johnson that I was supposed to call on first? Okay. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Sorry, Chair. I'll, I'll be quick because Councilmember Paltin
kind of nailed it on the head. So, my question is for Rowena Dagdag-Andaya. Are
there nonprofits that work with children on our property?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS; I'm not sure which nonprofits. The one that comes to mind
perhaps, are like Boys and Girls Club and, yea.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yea, that's all, that's all it is for me. That's a no-go for me.
That, thank you. I don't have any further questions. The kids don't care, or cancer
doesn't care if you're for nonprofit or profit. The diseases that these are causing have
no bearing on whether they're profit or nonprofit. So, I'm, I'm going to disagree with
that. So, thank you. Thank you, Chair. I have no further questions.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Wait. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Richelle has her, has been popping in and out.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 155
CHAIR LEE: Richelle. Ms. Thomson, did you have a comment?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON; Thank you. 1 think
that one of the, one of the issues that we have brought up when this was in Committee,
and also the Department of Ag brought this up, the enforcement is a State issue. So,
I think the thinking was going through Committee, that the County wanted to regulate
basically what is used by the County on County property, but not what is used
potentially by the State, or other entities on County property.
Tangentially, I'm aware of, you know, many, many leases and licenses to other entities.
Some are nonprofit and some are for-profit. And 1 know that the State is using County
property. I don't have a list. You know, obviously, we could get that, probably from
Finance or the other departments. But that's the, the thinking behind 050.1, is not to
regulate the use by other non-County entities, even if they are on County property.
One small other side note on that is that we have written agreements, contracts with
these entities. And you know, going fonward we could put in restrictions on the types
of, you know, maintenance chemicals that can be used. But making a broad prohibition
like this could affect some of existing agreements that we have.
CHAIR LEE; Any comments?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, 1 just wanted to disclose that my children go to Boys and
Girls Club. They're right there right now. And I do not want them to get cancer.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura, then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, 1, I guess, I think these were one of the things that
were brought up during Committee. And the people, besides the nonprofits, what
about residences that have property that are, you know, abut ours? What are the
requirements for residents? Is there no, do residents now have to convert to this
pesticide bill? Or is that, that-
CHAIR LEE; This is only for County property, I believe, yea.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; No. But roads, right? Roads go up to, like in front of my
house. You know, that's what 1 mean, it's shoulder also, right? So, does it affect all
of our houses that are on County roads? We're not all on County roads. But I just
wondered the impact, if Department can, can explain that? Maybe it's a non-issue.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 156
CHAIR LEE: Director Dagdag-Andaya.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Yes, thank you, Chair. For many of our right-of-ways there
are shoulder areas that are the frontage areas for private residences. And according
to the Code, under "sidewalks", the residents who live adjacent to these shoulder areas
are required to keep free and make passable or, you know, maintain noxious weeds
from the frontage of their properties. So, I know in the last discussion, yea, we did, we
raised the question regarding any impacts to, to private residents, or residents who live
near or next to the, in these areas. And there wasn't, it was said that it wouldn’t impact
residents. So, that was the whole point of this, was just to perhaps, was to allow for,
you know, the property owners to not be impacted.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this amendment-
CHAIR LEE: Member King? Member King.
Oh, Member Sugimura, were you done?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, 1 just, so, just for clarification, Rowena. So, you're
saying that the number 3 then, use of pesticides or fer, that’s why you put that in?
Non-County employees on County sidewalks, maintained in accordance with section
12., that’s why you put this in?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: This is your recommendation because-
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: That was . . . I'm sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No, go ahead.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Yes, based on the discussion that was had during the
Committee meeting. So, that, you know, just to reduce the impacts to residents.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Who maintain the frontage of their properties.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, otherwise, they would have to comply with this
pesticide, the new pesticide law?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 157
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: I would think, 1 would think that it would apply to them.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. You know, it's, it's kind of interesting to, to talk
about the right to use pesticides or fertilizers as being, as, or, or trying to avoid that as
being impactful. Because the whole thing is, is we're trying to protect our residents
against these harmful pesticides and fertilizers. So, they're going to be impacted if
their excluded. To me, if there's an exclusion where we're not, we're not paying
attention to our County facilities because somebody else owns and manages them,
the kids or whoever is using those facilities are going to be impacted by the fact that
there's fertilizers and. and harmful pesticides there.
This is, to me, this is trying to help all of these, you know. We, we're only doing it with
our County facilities because that's all we control. But we're trying to help anybody, I
think we're trying to help anybody who also manages or uses or rents any of our
facilities by including them in the pesticide ban. We're acting like it's a bad thing. I
think we passed it out because it's a good thing. And it's, it's helping people who live
near these areas.
I was kind of intrigued by the idea, and I didn't realize it was in Code that, that, you
know, like those parkways in front of our houses, that we're responsible for removing
noxious weeds. Cause I've never heard of anybody getting a ticket for having weeds
in those parkways. And believe me they're all over Kihei, because we just can't get rid
of them. But 1 would, 1 would think that if, you know, for me, as being a homeowner
who is on a corner and has two of those parkways, which I guess are considered our
responsibility, but abut County land, I would hope that myself and other people like me
would follow whatever the County rules are, and not use harmful pesticides. Because
a lot of people walk along that area in front of my house. They go, they go on their
way to the beach. And, and 1, you know, I would feel responsible if I used some harmful
pesticide and somebody stepped in it and got sick.
So, you know, I, I agree with what's been said before about, you know, we should be
looking, we should be protecting people on our County, from our County facilities being
pesticide heavy. And, and it's not saying, well, that's impacting them by making them
use something that's organic and less harmful. So, that's, I, I would support the
amendment. I have another question about number 2, but I'll focus on the amendment
to the amendment right now.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 158
CHAIR LEE: Alright. If, so, the amendment is to remove number 1 and 3, is that what you
said?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; From the, from the earlier amendment. So, this is an amendment
to the amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea, that's, that’s what I said.
CHAIR LEE: Everybody ready for that vote?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Those in favor of removing 1 and 3, raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused". Okay. MotionCHAIR LEE: Okay. It looks like seven "ayes'
carries.
one no
Now, any other changes?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes. 1 don't know if I have a change yet. But I'm just curious as
to what the number 2, what does that mean property subject to State Executive Order?
Because does that mean properties that we get, that the County gets through
Executive Order? Director?
CHAIR LEE: Director?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Chair, that was in the original language. And I would think
that, yes. anything that's under State Executive Order would apply.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Because those are actually under County management,
correct? The, the, the Executive Order is to give the County whatever piece of property
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 159
that belongs to the State for a period of years, usually it's 65. under the order. And so
I'm looking at a lot of park properties, some specific parking lots possibly, but.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS; This would also include, oh sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I just, I just have a problem with that property subject to State
Executive Order, because if it's under County management, then it should be subject
to the same pesticide ban that the rest of the County property is. That's my opinion.
SO. IF THAT'S WHAT IT MEANS, THEN I GUESS I WOULD. I
WOULDN'T AMEND NUMBER 2, WHICH WOULD BECOME
THE ONLY EXEMPTION TO JUST TO REMOVE "PROPERTY
SUBJECT TO STATE EXECUTIVE ORDER".
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think he seconded.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Did you have a question or comment, too?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: A comment. I know that the, so the State, for this section of
property subject to State Executive Order, the State owns it but leases it under an
agreement called an Executive Order, so.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Right.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I'm not sure if that State preemption would, would still includes
State-owned properties. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just was wondering if  Icould suggest a friendly
amendment to say State executive, state that's managed by the County, like, that's not
managed by the County.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, yea. I was only, I was only implying that for properties that
are under County management. So, I thought that's what this whole bill was about,
properties under County management. So, that's why I was saying that if we're
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 160
managing it and our, you know, we're responsible for it as a park, or a parking lot, then
1 think we should, we should afford the people that use those properties the same
benefits of not having to deal, you know, walk on pesticides, or absorb pesticides from
those areas.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess 1 just was thinking you don't want to overreach if its
State executive ordered land that's like say managed by Lahaina Restoration
Foundation. I would agree I wouldn't want them to use pesticides, but that would be
us telling another entity how to do it on State lands, which might be the legal issue? I
don't know. I'm not a lawyer.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, we were just, we could just make a friendly amendment that
says properties subject to State Executive Order that's not managed or controlled by
the County. Okay. Yea, I accept that. if. if Member Sinenci accepts it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Does everybody understand that? Any further questions, or? Director?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Thank you. Chair. I wanted to note too that the Makawao
Cemetery is, the Veteran's Cemetery is State Executive Order. And we are under a
Shrine Status. And I'm not exactly quite sure if, you know, the impacts of that would,
you know, of any changes to this section of the code, what kind of impact it would have
on our ability to maintain the property in Shrine Status. As you know, we don't get any
monies from the, the State to, to maintain the cemeteries. So, that's something to
consider.
CHAIR LEE: Members?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, can 1. . .
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I'm not sure what you are saying. Director. So, the cemetery
is under our control or not under our control?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Chair, the cemetery is, it's under the maintenance of the
County. We maintain it for the State.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. But it's not under control or management of the County?
Or is it?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 161
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS; We, yea it's, but we maintain it. So, we mow the lawn.
We do all of the events, put out the chairs, and we make sure that the grass is trimmed,
and that certain types of grass, a certain type of grass is grown there.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so, but, but if it's not, again, if it's not under the control or
management of the County, then it would be, it would, it would fall under the exclusion?
You know, it's just, you know. I'm not sure what the status is, what you're saying.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Yea, so I guess maybe I misunderstood. So, property
under, subject to State Executive Order, this would include the, the Veterans
Cemeteries, or Veterans Cemetery.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, the way we have it now, Director, is in this amendment,
proposed amendment, is properties subject to State Executive Order not under the
management or control of the County.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, if it's Executive Order, but it's still basically under the control
of the State, then it would fall under that category.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Alright. Yea, I guess that would be, that would be okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We're just trying to control what we can control. And we can't
control if it's under the State control.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ready to vote?
Member Paltin, you have anything else? Everybody ready to vote. All those in favor
say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE,
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 162
ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay. Looks, it's, it's unanimous
Okay. Where are we now, Madam Clerk?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; So, Chair? Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, what would happen then is that the numbering would
also . . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any, any objections to making the non-substantive changes?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, the numbering. The numbering.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think the numbering, we only have one exclusion, so we wouldn't
really need any numbering, right? It would just say, it shall not apply to properties
subject to State Executive Order not under the control
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -or management of the County, the County .. .
CHAIR LEE: Okay. That's good. Member Sugimura, what were you referring to?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the waiver-
CHAIR LEE: You said the numbers have to change.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the waiver, I’m sorry, exclusions. So, 2.50.050
Exclusions. I think what's left is only number 2. Oh, I'm sorry, waivers. I'm on the
wrong page. For the, what would happen with the numbers is it would change,
because of the inclusion that we just did, or the changes that we just did for the
exclusions. And so, the numbering will change. That's all.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 163
CHAIR LEE: Yea, so are there any objections to making any non-substantive changes?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Just wanted clarification. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: No? Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.
Now, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, so our main motion to the exclusion, sorry, let me repeat that.
CHAIR LEE: The main motion as amended.
COUNTY CLERK: No, to the exclusion portion. So, you made multiple amendments within
the Exclusion 2.50.050. And you took each of the amendments separately, so now
you need to do a main motion of that Exclusion section. And then it'll go to the main
motion of the entire amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we need a vote on the Exclusion section?
COUNTY CLERK: Yea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: All the pieces.
CHAIR LEE: I see a frown on Member King's face. What is that for?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, okay, so we, so we voted on this amendment for the
Exclusion section, I thought. Or are you saying that we didn't vote on this yet? I thought
we voted on this, so now we have, we have, we voted on the first amendment, we
voted on the second amendment. And now we, 1 thought we were back to the main
motion as amended.
CHAIR LEE: That's what I thought, but she says no.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 164
COUNTY CLERK: It's still, the, the second, the second amendment proposed bill by adding
an Exclusion subsection and renumbering the following section. That overarching
amendment still needs to have a vote.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright. Ready, everybody? All those in favor of the motion say "aye'
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Now, now we can vote on the main motion as amended.
COUNTY CLERK; Correct.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Main motion as amended, everyone. Raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay it's, it's unanimous; all "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, where are you?
COUNTY CLERK: Right here.
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
COUNTY CLERK: That would be BILL 72 (2021).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 165
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-57NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THE21-127Recommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF KALEIALOHA MOSS TO THE MOLOKAI PLANNING
COMMISSION," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-57.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Member, moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt
the recommendation in Committee Report 21-57.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
July 20, 2021 to discuss a proposed resolution relating to the Mayor's nomination of
Kaleialoha Moss to the Molokai Planning Commission for a term expiring on March 31,
2022, due to the passing of John Sprinzet. Council's deadline is August 23, 2021 to
approve or disapprove the Mayor's nominee.
Ms. Moss is a resident of Molokai who owns and operates an automa, automotive
repair shop and a laundry, laundry business on the island. Your Committee voted 8-0
to recommend the, her nomination be approved. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say
"aye", raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 166
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: That'll be RESOLUTION 21-127.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-58NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBERRecommending that Resolution 21-128
TO THE COMMISSION ON HEALING SOLUTIONS FOR HOMELESSNESS FOR
THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-58.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci, to adopt the
resolution in Committee Report 21-58.
Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 167
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your Committee met
on July 20, 2021 to discuss a proposed resolution appointing a member a fill the West
Maui seat on the Commission on Healing Solutions for Homelessness for a three-year
term expiring on March 31, 2024. Your Committee received five applicants for the
West Maui seat and prior to the July 20 Committee meeting, three of the five applicants
\A^ithdrew from consideration. Your Committee met \A/ith Scott Hansen and Michelle
Lelle, the remaining two applicants.
And your Committee was satisfied with Mr. Hansen's experience and qualifications
working with unhoused residents previously in New York and now on Maui. He is
currently the Executive Director of the Maui Rescue Mission, which focuses on
addressing homeless issues in West Maui. Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend
adoption of the revised proposed resolution approving Mr. Hansen's appointment to
the Committee on Healing Solutions for Homelessness. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Ifnot, all-
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I think during the Committee meeting, because this is
West Maui, is that he said if he had to move, he would move to West Maui because he
doesn't live in West Maui. But what an ex, what a impressive candidate he is. So,
thank you, Tamara Paltin, for bringing him forward. And I hope he does move and
become your neighbor. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye’
your hand.
raise
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 168
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes". Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: From your Human Concerns and Park, oh, kala mai. That would be
RESOLUTION 21-128.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-59 HUMAN CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE:
Recommending that the Miscellaneous Communication, from the County Clerk,
referring Grant G4876-2, between the County of Maui and Maui In-line Hockey
Association, for improvements to Kalama Park Inline Skating Rink. Kihei, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thankyou. In behalf of Tasha Kama, recommending filing
of communication relating to Grant G4876-2, between the County of Maui and Maui
In-line Hockey Association, for Improvements to Kalama Park Inline Skating Rink,
Kihei.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
file Committee Report 21-59.
Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thankyou.
CHAIR. I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-59.
I need a second.
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 169
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I did it backwards, yea?
CHAIR LEE: 1 thought you said to file? I thought you said to file that.
Yea, we're going to file, but I move to adopt theCOUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
recommendations.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, the motion is to--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And file the grant.
CHAIR LEE: -to adopt the recommendation in Committee Report 21-59. Okay. Any further
discussion? Any further discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: No?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the Human Concerns, Parks Committee met on
July 19, 2021 and noted that the Grant agreement was issued on March 22, 2019, for
the purpose of replacing light fixtures at Kalama Park Inline Skating Rink.
Your Committee further notes the First Amendment to the Grant, G4876-1, was
entered into on December 31, 2019. The Second Amendment to the Grant, G4876-2,
was further extended to December 31,2021.
The extension allowed additional time for the Grantee to replace the light fixtures which
is necessary for compliance with the County's Outdoor Lighting Standards.
No legislative action is pending for this matter. And your Committee voted 4-0 to
recommend filing of the communication. May I ask for the Committee's full support?
Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 170
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Motion carries; eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused".
Madam Clerk. Uh, you're muted.
COUNTY CLERK: Sorry about that. Moving to item M. of the agenda, ordinances for second
and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 64 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.60.030,
MAUi COUNTY CODE. RELATING TO HOTEL USE AND DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS IN THE NAPILI BAY CIVIC IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT (U\HAINA)
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin, is this the Junya Nakoa bill? Okay, I'm calling on you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 64 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to pass
Bill 64 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure. The purpose of this bill is to prohibit new hotel use and
to revise the precise plan development standards for the Napili Bay Civic Improvement
District. This bill was amended to clarify existing hotels are permitted uses, including
references to a cut-off date of August 6, 2021, today. This bill, as amended, does not
affect existing hotels in that area.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 171
As mentioned at Committee, this has been an issue for my community for a while. And
this clarifies what the height should be; not more than 30-feet and not more than two-
stories, in line with the action we've been taking for short-term rental use. and in line
with the action we've been taking for short-term rental use and reining that in. Napili
Bay Civic Improvement District is at full capacity.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? If-
Oh, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I want to thank my
colleague from West Maui, Ms. Paltin, for this legislation. And also, mahalo to
Mr. Nakoa for his efforts at keeping the Council and the community aware of what,
what's happening there, as it relates to this bill and for providing the impetus for this
legislation. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say
"aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Members, is it okay if we take a, a 10-minute break? I need to do something.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Sure.
CHAIR LEE: No objections? No objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, 10 minutes.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 4:46 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 4:58 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT. EXCEPT MEMBER KAMA AND VICE
CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, EXCUSED.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 172
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of August 6, please reconvene.
Okay. Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 67 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 20.18, MAUI COUNTY CODE, PROHIBITING
THE SALE, RENTAL, AND DISTRIBUTION OF DISPOSABLE BODYBOARDS
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 67 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to pass Bill 67 on
second and final reading.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Bill 67 will regulate the sale, rental, and distribution of disposable
bodyboards and encourage the use of environmentally preferred alternatives.
Disposable bodyboards are a source of litter on Maui County's beaches; breaking
easily and potentially causing injury to the user. Regulating disposable bodyboards is
an effective way to prevent them from becoming sold in the County. I respectfully ask
the Council's support for the motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say
"aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 173
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAiR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", two "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Bill 68 (2021).
CHAIR LEE; Sorry, sorry. I should say, the two "excused" are Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
and Member Kama. Okay. Sorry.
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez returned to the meeting at 5:00 p.m.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 68 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.26 MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RESTRICTING THE USE AND SALE OF FOAM COOLERS
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 68 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Mem, moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to pass Bill 68
on second and final reading.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. Bill 68 would generally ban foam coolers as
of January 1,2022. The prohibition will be placed in Chapter 20.26 of the Maui County
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 174
Code as part of the general ban on plastic disposable foodware, which takes effect on
January 1. I respectfully ask the Council's support of the motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion say "aye", raise
your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Unanimous; eight "ayes", one "excused"; Member Kama. Motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 69 f2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.65.030
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOME PERMITS
CHAIR LEE: Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Bill 69.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
MOVE TO PASS BILL 69 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 175
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to pass Bill 69 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. The Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee discussed this proposed bill for short-term rental home permits. This bill
does not include Lanai or.. . Your Committee considered existing and pending STRH
permit applications, current caps in each community plan area, and the Commissions
and Planning Department's recommendations and further revised the revised
proposed bill to establish a new set of caps.
Your Committee also established an application deadline of July 1, 2021 for STRH
permits to be processed under the existing version of Chapter 19.65. I respectfully ask
for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any further discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE BILL TO CHANGE SECTION R-2, THE
KIHEI-MAKENA SECTION, TO 46, WHICH WAS THE
ORIGINAL NUMBER, WHAT IT WAS, SINCE WE HAVE 46. WE
HAVE SOME PERMITS OUTSTANDING.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Johnson, to change the number
to 246, is it?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; To, to the number 46.
CHAIR LEE; To the number 46. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Not 246.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 176
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no. I didn't, yea. Okay. So, I mean, unless Tim Lara has, has a whole
slew of units. Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the amendment,
signify by saying "aye"--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE; -raise your hand.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Looks like all "ayes", zero "noes"; motion, oh, oh.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I have discussion as well.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you have discussion? Okay. I'm sorry.
Member. You know, Member Paltin, I can only see from your, yea, okay. I could only
see that much.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: This, this won't stop us from passing it today will it?
CHAIR LEE: Urn, well, in my view it's not substantive. But we can ask the attorney on call;
Corporation Counsel.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Corporation Counsel? Richelle, are you still there? Hi Richelle. Did you hear
the question?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: No, I didn't.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We're changing the number on the, on Bill 69, we're changing the
number, the cap to, to the number 46 for Makena, Kihei-Makena,
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: So, just changing whether it's written out or
numerical?
CHAIR LEE: Member King, you want to explain your amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We, we were, we're changing it to add back, to change it back to
46, which is what the number was before the first reading. And there's a, there's
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 177
another outstanding permit from somebody, who, you know, waited the five years, and
missed the deadline by a day. But if we change it from 45 to 46, is that a substantive
change? Can we still pass it on second reading today or do we have to waive the
Rules?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. 1 understand the question.
Thanks very much for that. No, I think it falls under what you’re considering today, so
[ wouldn't consider it to be something that you would have to wait.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. Ms. Paltin’s wiping her brow.
CHAIR LEE: ! know, I saw that. You're so dramatic Member Paltin. Okay. Any more
discussion?
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. You know, together as a Council, we
said that STR's have not been good for our County overall. And so, by giving special
treatment to one person, that we all know, we would be rewarding that behavior that
we’re saying that we don't support. Increasing STR’s is eliminating homes that could
be used for long-term rentals. You know, the applicant is many of our friends, but
regardless of whether it's a friend or anonymous person, this is something that we said
that we don’t, we don't want to have more of.
We said that we want to increase housing for long-term rentals. We’ve had how many
people come before us talking about the lack of inventory? We talked about investment
properties jacking up the sales price. We're at over $1.1 million sales price. Yea, I, I,
I cannot support this motion. I, I think this is kind of hypocritical of us. There's so many
families that need long-term rentals, and I disagree with the argument that it would be,
it wouldn't be a difference. It would be a difference. It's one more, one more home for
a local person here. Yea, so, I, I'm going to be voting against the motion. I, I don't, I
don't think it aligns with what we said that we want to see for our County moving
forward. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're muted again.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yea, I think the fact that whether we know this
person or don't know this person shouldn't, shouldn't punish the person because we
know them. I would do this, I would make this consideration for anybody in my
community who had put, who had already invested in the permit process. And I talked
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 178
about that in the. in the original discussion, that we wanted to make sure that we
weren't harming anybody who had invested in the process already of trying to get a
permit. I also think that there is going to be short-term and long-term rentals, even in
this house, because many of, he is using it for some of his employees.
And, and, you know, the, the actual idea for the, the tax credit for long-term rentals
came from Tim Lara. He was the one that originally suggested it to me, when 1 asked
the TIG to create that, Because he saw, he sees the value of long-term rentals. And
I think if he didn't need this for his employees, he wouldn't be asking for being able to
supplement with a short-term rental.
So, I, I think it's fair, because it just puts us back up to that number of 46, which is
where we were before, like 1 say we removed one.  Ithink it maybe it was because of
the sale of the house for that $45 million home. But, you know, I just want to speak in
favor of it, because I don't think someone should be punished for being our friend,
when they have a perfectly reasonable request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Yes, Member Paltin, and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll yield to Member Sugimura. It's her first time and that would
be my second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I got a call also, well, you might have gotten
calls from Tim Lara. And as Keani said, we all know him; very hard-working, very
enterprising. And kudos to him to be able to, you know, get this house and, you know,
wait the five years and, and comply with that.
I will say that, in my community, my number changed because right before we had the
first reading, the Department gave us a summary of whatever was applied and
completed at that time. And so, therefore, there was one application that came in and
made that deadline. So, I’m just wondering. I'm, this is not personal, because 1 think
Tim Lara is a pretty interesting and amazing guy and what he's done in the community.
But 1 think for fairness, for other people who may not be able to, or may not have made
that July 1 deadline, which was, I think that was the cut off for the Planning Department,
then in terms of fairness, just, you know, across the board fairness. So, I’m going to
vote against it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 179
And it pains me, because I think a lot of this guy. And I know that he has good
intentions of trying to house his employees and, you know, what he testified this
I didn't realize that until this morning. But he basically kind of did not makemorning,
the deadline that gave Planning Department the, the final list of numbers that we
received. My numbers increased because there was one applicant in my community
that applied, right, and, and got it completed. I checked, completed application by that
deadline. So, I think that's fair. So, I gotta be consistent with how I voted before on
this, And I apologize to Tim. But that's going to be my vote, and prevailing vote will
decide. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Otherwise, Members, I've been advised by our County
Clerk that we, before we take this step, we have to deal with Rule 19. So, a bill or
resolution being considered for final reading that is amended in a Council meeting shall
not be acted upon at the same meeting as the amendment. So, we need to waive
Rule 19.C.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, you can, you can pass the amendment first, and then do the waiver
once the amendment is passed.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, okay. Sure.
Member Paltin.
COUNTY CLERK: Cause then you don't-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. For my final opportunity to speak on this, I
don’t really support it. I think, you know, if you need to import workers from Alaska,
maybe you should pay local people more, like a living wage. But for me, my,
throughout the whole bill was to defer to the area resident. So, I'll defer to the area
resident. But I, I don't support it. I stand by my plea last time, that if you have houses,
to rent them to local people. If you have businesses, rent them to local people. But I
will defer to the area residency.
CHAIR LEE: Did I see another hand? Okay. Are you ready to vote?
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 180
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I know I'm not going to change
anyone's minds, but I just, I just think it's very shameful. That's all. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Madam Clerk, are you sure we, we, I would think that we would have
to deal with the Rule 19.C. first, before we voted on this? Yes?
COUNTY CLERK: You, you don't have to waive if the amendment doesn't pass. It's only if
the amendment passes, then you'll need to waive, cause you're taking action at second
and final reading and doing an amendment at the same time.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It's too late in the day for me to argue that point. Alright. Let's get ready
to take the vote on this amendment, okay, which means we're going to increase the
cap of South Maui by one, right? Everybody got that. All those in favor of the motion,
raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: One. 1 see one, two, okay. One, two, three, four, five, six; six
"ayes".
And those who vote "no", please raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: So, the vote is six to two, one "excused": motion passes.
Alright. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, before proceeding, can you clarify who seconded that amendment?
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think it was Member Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: That was ten minutes ago. Who seconded that amendment? Was it Member
Johnson?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 181
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I think it was Shane.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Member Sinenci. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: This looks similar.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Thank you. So, yes, now, in order to pass it out on second
and final reading, you would have to waive your Rule 19.C.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C., THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to waive rule, Rule
19.C.
Any more discussion on that? If not, all those in favor to waive Rule 19.C., raise your
hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: I see one, two, three, four, five. Member Paltin, is your hand up? Okay. So
we're looking at six "ayes".
And then, those who vote "no", raise your hand now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 182
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Two "noes", six "ayes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Now, for the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: As amended.
COUNTY CLERK: As amended.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Main motion as amended. I just have one comment to make. I
understand what you're saying, Vice-Chair. And, however, there are times when
unforeseen circumstances come up. And 1 see this one as, this is unfortunate where
one person seemed to have been following the rules and then just missed, missed the
window and deadline, probably through no fault of his. So. it may be somewhat
inconsistent, but I just feel that sometimes, you know, we do have to bend a little.
Any other comments, before--
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yea,  Imean, you know, we had
opening remarks that spoke passionately about decreasing transient accommodations,
particularly because of climate change. And, and then we're going to increase it by
one, but we're still increasing it. So, what are we doing here? Are we pausing, or are
we increasing, or growing, not growing? So, yea.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to remind Member Rawlins-
Fernandez that the statements that were made, it was increasing construction of new
visitor accommodations. This is a house that's been there, has been there under this
person's ownership for five years. And that's why he missed the deadline, because he
was waiting for that five-year deadline. But it's not new construction. Let's not conflate
the issues.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 183
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Are we ready for the vote?
Oh, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I know this is a difficult one, and
one
as "with reservations". Thank you.
of those unfortunate set of circumstances. But i want my vote to go into the record
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you for my opportunity. 1 did have a discussion and it
sounded like Mr. Lara had his application ready to go. That’s why i asked him that
question, if he had submitted it. Only because he had already prepared it, and was
just waiting for that date . . . So, he could still apply for a conditional permit, but I will
support him today.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, well, this job was, nobody ever said this job is easy. Anybody else want
to say something?
Ready for the vote? All those in favor of the main motion as amended, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
one "no". MemberCHAIR LEE: Okay, now 1 see seven, eight "ayes". Seven "ayes'
Sugimura, are you a "no"?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Are we voting on the amendment?
CHAIR LEE: The main motion as amended.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. sorry. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Are you a "yes" or a "no"?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. I support my community. Eight "ayes", one
"excused". Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 184
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries. Alright.
Madam Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we have to go to back to--
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 65 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
AMENDING THE MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR
LIFEGUARD SERVICES BETWEEN THE STATE OF HAWAII AND
THE COUNTY OF MAUI FOR MAKENA BEACH PARK
CHAIR LEE: I thought it was 66? We, did we skip over 65 as well?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 65 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass
Bill 65 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you. Madam Chair. Bill 65 authorizes the Mayor to
enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the State relating to lifeguard services
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 185
at Makena Beach Park. The fourteenth written amendment to the Memorandum of
Agreement covers the period July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022. And funds to the
County, under this amendment, total $1,446,936, subject to the availability of funds.
Funds can be used solely for salaries for water safety officer positions. I ask for the
Members support of this bill. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye'
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
zero "noes": motion carries.CHAIR LEE; Okay. Eight "ayes", one "excused
Madam Clerk. Oh, this is the last one.
COUNTY CLERK: The last one.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 66 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I.
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
(HAZARD MITIGATION GRANT PROGRAM (HMGP))
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 66 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 186
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass Bill 66 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. The proposed bill would amend
Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix A, Part I. to add appropriation under the
Emergency Management Agency entitled "Hazard Mitigation Grant Program", in the
amount of $108,997, for the development of a standalone hazard mitigation interactive
website. I ask for the Councilmembers continued support of this. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused" no "noes"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have eight "ayes'
And that brings us to end of the calendar.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Good meeting. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: And so, it's been a long day. And anybody have any parting words? I mean
nice words now, nice words.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Goodbye.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha Friday. No work till Monday.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: (Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 6, 2021
Page 187
CHAIR LEE: Well, everybody, you have a wonderful, wonderful happy holiday, I mean, not
holiday, but weekend. And take care of yourselves and be safe, okay, my colleagues,
my dear colleagues. Take care.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Bye.
CHAIR LEE: This meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of August 6, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 5:25 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
210806/lks:jm
received
im WG -5 W 9'- 13
OFFICE OF THE
jNTY CLERK■  ■
HAWAIT HOTEL/\ L I. I A N C C
August 5, 2021
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins- Fernandez, Vice-Chair
Members for the Maui County Council
RE: CC 21-377- Veto of Bill No. 60 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE TO ADD CHAPTER 40 RELATING TO A MORATORIUM
ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS". Hearing date and time:
Friday, August 6, 2021 at 9:00 a.m.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Honorable members of the Maui County
Council,
I am writing on behalf of Hawai'i Hotel Alliance's ("HHA") member organizations on Maui and
across the state in OPPOSITION to Bill 60 which imposes a two- year moratorium on building
permits for visitor accommodations in South and West Maui.
HHA understands and shares the concerns voiced by those who want to manage the negative
impacts of tourism. We, too, have seen the changing trends in visitor behavior - primarily,
tourists shifting from hotels in resort areas to vacation rentals in residential neighborhoods -and
how it is impacting Maui residents. However, similar to comments voiced by Mayor Victorino,
HHA shares concerns that Bill 60 will not regulate vacation rentals. Accordingly, Bill 60 will have
severe economic impacts on Maui's recovering hotel industry without properly addressing the
fastest-growing segment within the visitor accommodations industry.
In our previous comments on Bill 60, and in response to the numerous other recent moratoria
proposals, HHA has offered our clear commitment to work with the Council to understand and
address the root causes of some residents' concerns about tourism. However, we cannot support
the Council's efforts to rapidly advance Bill 60 which is unlikely to accomplish it's intended
objectives.
Instead, we suggest reexamining the number of legal vacation rentals allowed by the County,
shutting down illegal rentals, and prioritizing responsible hotel development in areas intended
for tourism. New projects in resort areas, like parts of South and West Maui, fund new
infrastructure and initiatives that benefit the surrounding communities and the visitors they
serve - from workforce housing to new bike paths, roads, street lights, water and sewer lines,
and replenishing beloved beaches.
1
Furthermore, HHA shares Mayor Victorino's concerns regarding significant legal issues raised at
previous hearings. HHA respectfully asks the Council to carefullyconsiderthe legal flaws outlined
in the legal opinion submitted by HHA on May 25, 2021. Such legal issues include; 1) violation of
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as the bill fails to substantially advance a
legitimate state interest; and 2) lack of review by the Maui Planning Commission pursuant to
Maui County Charter Section 8-8.4. These legal issues raise the potential for costly litigation to
defend Bill 60 at taxpayers' expense.
In sum, HHA supports the Mayor's veto of Bill 60 and strongly opposes the measure. HHA
welcomes the opportunity to work together toward  amore sustainable tourism future for the
island. We believe that it is possible to manage the negative impacts of the tourism industry
without a moratorium that would jeopardize Maui's fragile economic recovery and hurt local
families who depend on a paycheck from a job in hospitality, construction, or a skilled trade.
Thank you for your time and consideration of these comments.
With Aloha,
Jerry Gibson, President
Hawaii Hotel Alliance
Jerry@hawaiihotelalliance.com
I am writing in strong support of the proposal for an Ordinance by the Maui County Council
August 6, 2021: Re: INTEGRATED PEST AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ON COUNTY
PROPERTY (CR21-56)
I have lived and worked on Kaua'i as a pediatrician since 1979 and served as the Wilcox Hospital
CEO. I also served for fourteen months in 2014-15 on a state-sponsored task force examining
possible health consequences of pesticide use on Kaua'i.
The evidence is rapidly growing that we as physicians, and our regulatory bodies, have greatly
underestimated the danger of pesticides. In 2012, the American Academy of Pediatrics published
an important policy statement. The opening lines stated that there is growing concern about the
adverse health effects of chronic low-level exposure to pesticides for the unborn, infants, and
children. This was an eye opener for pediatricians. We have all been trained about actual poisoning
from drinking or being sprayed with a pesticide, but most of us had little training or sufficient
concern about the low levels of exposure a person might get from the spraying in parks and yards
or the pesticides found in our food.
In the last five years there has been an alarming explosion of studies presenting strong evidence
that chronic low level pesticide exposure is associated with health problems including
developmental problems such as autism and ADHD, respiratory problems such as asthma, multiple
types of cancer, and adverse changes to the bacteria living in and on our bodies.
Although all pesticides are inherently toxic and should be avoided in areas that people congregate.
I am going to use Roundup as an example of the dangers. Roundup is one of the most commonly
used pesticides in the world and in most counties is also the most commonly used pesticide in the
maintenance of parks and roadways. Monsanto has stated for years that it is one of safest pesticides
available, that its safety has been proven by hundreds of studies, that it passes rapidly and
unchanged from the body and that it is also quickly broken down in the soil when sprayed.
A closer examination of these statements reveals that the vast majority of the studies showing
safety were done decades ago, were paid for by Monsanto, were based on technologies which are
not nearly as sophisticated as those currently in use, and most of these studies are not even available
for public review. The overwhelming evidence in hundreds of recent studies, many done in the
past five years, shows toxicity of Roundup to almost all life forms, including humans. Other studies
have shown that Roundup can persist in soil for up to a year. Roundup may pass quickly from the
body but our exposure to it from spraying and from the food we eat is almost constant so most
Americans have some Roundup in our bodies most of the time. The effects of Roundup on our
cells and genetic material is just coming to light as well as the effect of Roundup on the billions of
bacteria that colonize our bodies. Evidence that Roundup effects these bacteria (it is patented as
an antibiotic) is coming at the same time as we are learning that upsetting the ratios of those
bacteria can have serious health consequences.
We as physicians and our elected officials need to join forces and do our best to minimize pesticide
exposure whenever possible. Our public needs to feel confident that children playing in parks and
walking on roadways are not exposed to pesticides. Parks unfortunately have posed a particular
danger to small children as they get the pesticides on their hands and clothing, track it into their
houses, put their hands in their mouths and are much more susceptible to harm because of their
small size and developing brains and bodies.
The evidence of harm from pesticide exposure is becoming all too clear. Please help protect our
keiki.
Lee A. Evslin, MD
Fellow of The American Academy of Pediatrics
Kapaa, HI
levslin@gmail.com
OO
O-n 73mCT5
o2.0 Im mo< Oo -nr" rnm73X Oj=
UJ
Count^Clerk
David Dorn <daviddorn808@gmaii.com>
Friday, August 6, 2021 9;49 AM
County Clerk
Tamara A. Paltin; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King; Keani N. Rawlins;
yuki.lee@mauicounty.us; Yukilei Sugimura; Mike J. Molina; Alice L Lee
Testimony for County Meeting 8/6/2021 CC-21-377 OO
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
O *n
C"n
2;oH
73
ma
Testimony for County Meeting
8/6/2021
CC-21-377
oIm-< mCK
oo 3»-T1
mnn
ZJX
t: m a
Hello Councilpersons, my name is David Dorn,
And I support the moratorium and I am against the Mayor’s veto.
o*
The proposed Mayoral Veto of the Visitor Accommodation Moratorium goes against the will of the community.
And it undermines the Authority of the County Council.
The proposed veto undoes all the work of the rulemaking process. Including all of the public testimony and the
hard work of the various Committees.
This veto is a shameful waste of our time and resources.
Maui cannot support more hotels at this time.
There is no water for more hotels,
We already have water shortages and restrictions for local families while hotels continue to build more pools
and use enormous amounts of water on landscaping. They are unnecessarily wasting our precious and limited
drinking water.
We do not have the infrastructure for more hotels:
We do not have enough roads or amenities, inadequate sewerage facilities, not enough beach parking, and not
enough Lifeguards.
As we all know. Maui is drowning in tourism.
And unprecedented numbers of Tourists are drowning on our island as our island is drowning in tourists. We
have more ocean rescues and tourist rescues than ever before, heavily taxing our emergency services.
Over-tourism is no ioke. this is a crisis.
We need this moratorium so that we can catch our breath, and have a chance to strengthen our infrastructure,
and get our island back into balance.
Sustainable tourism will take time to develop.
It is the responsibility of vou the Council to protect our community from the harms of over-tourism. And you
are required by your own rules to set these limits.
And to stop the degradation of our island and protect our resident’s quality of life.
This moratorium is the legitimate tool for achieving this.
1
With this Moratorium:
No one is harmed, No jobs are lost, no hotels will close. There is no negative impact on any existing business.
But this moratorium will; Protect our future, and our fragile island, from more Hann, by regulating tourism-
related overdevelopment.
For 2 years. While we reset and regroup, and bring our island back into balance.
And help protect our island community.
*Even the Hotel lobbyist from HHA agreed that there are too many tourists on Maui, and there are problems
that we need to address, (we just have different ideas on how to fix the problem of over-tourism.
This moratorium, (Bill 60) is just the first step we need to take as we begin to deal with the problems and harms
of over-tourism, and we start the process of “managing tourism”, so that we can achieve our ultimate goal of
“sustainable tourism”.
Please reject the mayor’s Veto, and support this important moratorium.
Mahalo,
David Dorn
2
I HAWAII CROP IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION
TESTIMONY FROM THE HAWAII CROP IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION
In opposition to CR 21-56
(CARE-23) OO
Z)O-n
mCouncil of the County of Maui <n
50“im O\
mDate: Friday, August 6, 2021
Time: 9:00 am
Place: Via Video Conference
CO <It
mm -H
m
'<? O
szChair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers:
Thank you for allowing the Hawaii Crop Improvement Association (HCIA) the opportunity to
provide testimony in opposition to CR 21-56 (CARE-23) which establishes Chapter 2.50, Maui
County Code, determining the categories of pesticide and fertilizer allowed for use on County
property.
We understand the interest regarding pesticide and fertilizer use and embrace the opportunity to
engage in discussions to promote transparency and education. However, this measure will
establish undue burden and needless risk for County & State agencies, homeowners, farmers,
landscapers, pest control professionals, and the public, without substantive data necessitating the
need. Contemporaneously, the measure stands to circumvent State and Federal regulatory
authority without the necessary resources to accomplish the required results.
As in all professions, pest managers need the ability to use the correct tool for each situation, as
directed by the label. Casting unsubstantiated doubt on the necessary use of pesticides or
fertilizer not listed under Title 7 Code of Federal Regulations 205.601,205.603, 205.605, and
205.606 will severely impact Hawaii’s unique ecosystem by promoting breeding grounds for
invasive species and detrimental pests. Although Section 2.50.050 of this measure establishes a
waiver provision, the process is not only overly burdensome but dangerous due to the timeliness
and lack of resources to establish credible conclusions on complex chemistries.
For reference, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) evaluates and registers
pesticides against a standard of reasonable certainty that the use would cause no harm to human
health or the environment. To make this determination, the EPA considers how much product
residue is contributed to daily intake for users and then combines it with the amount of residue
consumed by other routes of exposure. These routes include food, drinking water, and residues
from pesticide use in residential and non-occupational environments. Relevant routes of
exposure are analyzed within aggregate exposure assessments, these include the oral, dermal
(absorption), and inhalation. Once calculated, the total consumption of residues is compared to
the acceptable daily intake (ADI). The ADI for each product is set by toxicity studies that look at
effects, such as acute toxicity, chronic effects, sub-chronic effects, carcinogenicity,
P.O. Box 11863 Honolulu HI 96828 - Info@beltercropshawaii.com - www.bettercropshawaii.com
Page 1
I HAWAII CROP IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION
developmental and reproductive abnormalities, and mutagenicity. The ADI is then set at a
minimum of 100 times lower than any dose level that presented harmful toxicity, ensuring the
safety of the product.
Notwithstanding the evidence demonstrating the safety of pesticide products when used as
directed by the label, cost projections provided by the City & County of Honolulu and the
County of Hawaii found that a shift from synthetic products to non-synthetic products would
result in an increase in spending unfeasible for either of their proposed budgets, especially
without evidence demonstrating the need to necessitate a change. Also, any replacement product
would yield subpar results; meaning, banning synthetic pesticides would not only be
unwarranted, but also financially reckless.
Aside from the practical, logistical, and regulatory concerns with this measure, the provisions
included are arguably preempted by the State law, specifically Chapter 149A, HRS. While
Section 2.50.060 states that '‘Nothing in this chapter will be interpreted or applied so as to create
any requirement or duly in conflict with any federal or state law.", if allowed to proceed, the
measure could jeopardize the cooperative agreement between the State and Federal government
under FIFRA. In addition, the language may manipulate both market allocation and free
commerce.
Mahalo for the opportunity to testify in opposition to CR 21 -56 (CARE-23). If you have any
questions, please feel free to contact me at your convenience.
Sincerely,
Emmanuel Zibakalam
Executive Director, Flawaii Crop Improvement Association
The Hawaii Crop Improvement Association is a Hawaii-based non-profit organization that
promotes modern agriculture to help farmers and communities succeed. Through education,
collaboration, and advocacy, we work to ensure a safe and sustainable food supply, support
responsible farming practices, and build a healthy economy.
P.O. Box 11863 Honolulu HI 96828 - Info@bettercropshawaii.com - www.bettercropshawaii.com
Page 2
Count^Clei^
From:
Sent:
Rowena Dagdag-Andaya <Rowena.Dagdag-Andaya@co.maui.hi.us>
Friday, August 6, 2021 10:49 AM
County Clerk
Jill-Anne Ono
DPW Testimony re CR 21-56 (August 6, 2021)
OO
O Tl
50
To: 733^
Cc: mcrCD
oSubject: I
moo 3s» <-n 3C
August 6, 2021
Aloha Chair Lee and members,
For the record, name is Rowena Dagdag-Andaya from the Department of Public Works.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify regarding CR21-56 relating to pesticide and fertilizer use on County
Property.
During the CARE Committee meeting on July 21, 2021, the department suggested revisingthe proposed bill for
an ordinance to clarify the definition of County property and asked if the proposed ordinance would have an
impact on property owners who are required to maintain County sidewalks and shoulder areas in accordance
with section 12. 02.020 of the code, or non-profit organizations who maintain or lease County property. I
understand from the discussion, that the proposed ordinance would not affect these groups.
The Department suggests the following revisions for greater clarity:
Revise the definition of County property to mean any real property owned or under the County of Maui including
any county highway, drainage way, sidewalk, right-of-way, park, building, community center or other facility.
Add the definition of sidewalk to mean that portion of a street between a curb line or the pavement of a road,
and the adjacent property line, including any setback area acquired by the county for road-widening purposes.
3. Add an Exclusions section. This would help clarify the type of conditions that this chapter of the code will not
apply to.
a. Use of pesticides or fertilizers on property subject to state executive order. County agricultural parks, or
County Property used for agricultural purposes. (This language is currently in the proposed ordinance.)
b. Use of pesticides or fertilizers on County property leased by non-profit organizations,
c. Use of pesticides or fertilizers by non-County employees on County sidewalks maintained in accordance
with section 12.02.020 of this code.
The Department of Public Works remains committed to reducing our use of pesticides and herbicides on our
County roadways. We have reduced our usage of herbicides from 111 gallons of concentrated herbicide in
2014 to 3.1 gallons 2020. We have also increased our use of mechanical cutting and have implemented the
use of weed steam equipment in our operations. We will also continue to work with the administration, other
departments, and with the County Council on how to improve our integrated pest and vegetation
management program.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
mm —i
73 X
Tv m Ox-nro
1.
2.
1
^OZI m -6 M 9: 38
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CC 21-377
Bill 60 Veto
Friday, August 6, 2021
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We have come before you many times to share our concerns on Bill 60 and we
appreciate that the Mayor shares our concerns.
We all agree that we need to better manage tourism, work on infrastructure
improvements, mitigate traffic, increase our stock of affordable housing and rentals and
more, but we strongly believe this moratorium is not the too! to solve these issues and
may negatively impact the industry.
The purpose of this bill began as an attempt to preserve the status quo in these two
areas while the community plan updates were completed, but shifted to blaming the
visitor industry for environmental impacts. It put a bad spin on the visitor industry and
pitted them against the environment. The Council should have worked with the industry
and created a TIG prior to considering a moratorium. We believe many of the concerns
could have been discussed and solutions proposed before jumping to extreme
measures.
Additionally, we and others have consistently shared our apprehension on this bill
because of the potential for legal challenges. The last thing the County needs is to
spend time, money, and resources on a legal battle that impacts residents and takes
away from the progress that could be made on critical issues. This concern was
heightened when we learned the final bill did not include a signature from Corporation
Counsel. We feel Corporation Counsel’s approval should be paramount, given the
issues brought up on this bill. Therefore, we strongly encourage you to let the Mayor’s
veto stand and protect our County.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislatk>n@MauiChamber.coiTi MauiChamber.com
TT
* *
'k
?. Av
Re 1 \
/EDi:
ZOZI AUG -6 AH 9: 38
Office of theCOUNTY CLERKJf;; MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Bill 69
Short-Term Rental Home Permits
Friday, August 6, 2021
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Members of the Maui County Council,
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony on the reduced caps for Short-Term
Rental Home permits. We appreciate that the Council ensured those who currently have
a permit are protected in this cap reduction bill and wanted to share some additional
thoughts.
We are hearing that some people are concerned that this process was arbitrary and that
while Councilmembers are having discussions with some of their constituents, they are
not necessarily engaging with the broader community and all impacted by this change.
We strongly believe a public hearing and/or community meetings specifically addressing
this and reaching all impacted individuals, as recommended by the Maui Planning
Commission, would help address these concerns, ensure industry voices are heard, and
reach those who intended to rent their property but were in the 5-year waiting period.
Lastly, we would like to again suggest that the Council allow for family members to will
their permit to their heirs, especially in areas like Hana and West Maui where the permit
cap is being significantly lowered. We know many local families who use their STRH as
a business and plan to pass it down to their loved ones to continue. We understand this
may not be an appropriate amendment for the section of the code in Bill 69 and
recommend the Council take swift action to address this elsewhere.
Sincerely
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
t '
ZOZI AUG -6 AH 9= 38
MAUIr? v5 OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKCHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 21-56
Determining Categories of Pesticide and Fertilizer
Allowed For Use on County Property
Friday, August 6, 2021
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on this matter. We are concerned
given the information shared by Director Rowena Dagdag-Andaya and Director Peters at
the July 21®^ Committee Meeting. It is clear that the County has been making concerted
efforts to phase out fertilizer and pesticide use as noted by Directors. Director Dagdag-
Andaya even shared some of the organic materials and new technology they have tried
to control weeds. However, it seemed from the discussion that the small amount of
fertilizers and pesticides they are currently using are necessary and organic alternatives
with a comparable efficacy do not exist at this time. Therefore, we feel this bill is
premature and unnecessary.
Given the lengths that the Departments of Public Works and Parks and Recreation are
going to try new products and reduce the use of fertilizers and pesticides, we feel this
should be a recommendation by resolution instead of legislation.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
1 ●  ■
■'r.
-LV = Drt- ■■ -m
2021 AUG -6 AH 9= 38
MAUI OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
i[ > CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CC 21-390 & CC 21-391
Acceptance of the Donation of Various School Supplies
Friday, August 6, 2021
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We strongly support the resolutions to accept school supplies from Ian Smith and the
Stable Road Foundation. We applaud groups and members of the community who go
above and beyond to help and appreciate this donation.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244^81 legislation@MauiChamber.c»in MauiChamber.com
i RETAIL
i MERCHANTS
j OF HAWAII
TESTIMONY OF TINA YAMAKl, PRESIDENT
RETAIL MERCHANTS OF HAWAII
August 6, 2021
Re: Bill 67 (2021) A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 20.18, MAUI COUNTY CODE. PROHIBITING
THE SALE, RENTAL, AND DISTRIBUTION OF DISPOSABLE BODYBOARDS
Good morning Chair Lee and members of the Maui County Council. I am Tina Yamaki, President of the Retail Merchants
of Hawaii and i appreciate this opportunity to testify.
The Retail Merchants of Hawaii was founded in 1901, RMH is a statewide, not for profit trade organization committed to
the growth and development of the retail industry in Hawaii. Our membership includes small mom & pop stores, large box
stores, resellers, luxury retail, department stores, shopping malls, local, national, and international retailers, chains, and
everyone in between.
We are OPPOSED to Bill 67 (2021) An Ordinance Amending Section 20.18, Maui County Code, Prohibiting The Sale,
Rental, And Distribution Of Disposable Bodyboards. Retailers continue to be concerned about our aina and have
supported many initiatives that preserve and protect our environment.
Bans are not the simple answer especially during  apandemic. Currently many local residents have been going to the
beach with their families during this pandemic. Many keiki learn water sports using these types of body boards as they
are easy to ride and are economically priced. Hawaii still has one of the larges unemployment rate in the nation and
many local families are looking for family friendly entertainment that is not too costly. The visitors who comes to the
islands and purchase these boards often leave them behind. The hotels recycle the boards by allowing other visitors to
use them or they are donated to non profit organizations or those less fortunate families who are not able to afford non
necessity items beyond food, shelter and clothing.
Retailers have been one of the hardest hit industries during this pandemic through no fault of their own. Government
mandates, closing of tourism and more has contributed to many stores not being able to remain stable. In the last year
with little or no income from customers, we have seen so many retail stores closing for good and many those that are
open have accumulated hundreds of thousands to millions of dollars in debt from being unable to pay for their commercial
lease rent, utilities, supplies and other operating expenses. While the customers are starting to come back, the sales are
no where near what is was pre-pandemic for many and will take years to recover.
Now is not the time. We should be looking at a coordinated comprehensive litter reduction program. Government,
business and the community should work together on the wise management of our resources by reducing, reusing and
recycling principles. We should be looking at litter control programs and education and not a ban.
Mahalo again for this opportunity to testify.
OO 73C-n m
^.o OIm .n< oo
mm
Owro
(808) 592-4200 “ tyamal<i@rmhawaii.org3610 Waialae Ave ● Honolulu, HI 96816 ●●
RECtfVED
M 4liG -5 q. ^2
RETAIL
MERCHANTS
OF HAWAII
OF TJ^BMONY OF TINA YAMAKI, PRESIDENT
COUNTY ri cdlI^ETAIL MERCHANTS OF HAWAII
Auguste, 2021
Re: Bill 68 (2021) A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.26, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RESTRICTING
THE USE AND SALE OF FOAM COOLERS
Good morning Chair Lee and members of the Maui County Council. I am Tina Yamaki, President of the Retail Merchants
of Hawaii and I appreciate this opportunity to testify.
The Retail Merchants of Hawaii was founded in 1901, RMH is a statewide, not for profit trade organization committed to
the growth and development of the retail industry in Hawaii. Our membership includes small mom & pop stores, large box
stores, resellers, luxury retail, department stores, shopping malls, local, national, and international retailers, chains, and
everyone in between.
We are OPPOSED to Bill 68 (2021) A Bill For An Ordinance Amending Chapter 20.26, Maui County Code, Restricting The
Use And Sale Of Foam Coolers. Retailers continue to be concerned about our aina and have supported many initiatives
that preserve and protect our environment.
We are unsure when this pandemic will end. As we have seen in the last couple of weeks, the numbers have significantly
increased to some of the highest since its inception. Covid-19 is not going away anytime soon. While we understand the
want by some organizations to get rid of all foam and plastic items, this is just not the time.
This pandemic has shown the need for disposable items in an effort not to spread Covid-19 and the various variants that
are coming into our community. Some of the alternative disposable coolers are not only more expensive, but they also
not as efficient in keeping products cool or hot. Some of the ones made of paper do not hold up well when used with ice
for cold items as the melted ice saturates the cooler and creates water leakage. Foam cooler are often recycled to be
used multiple times and inexpensive in comparison to Yeti, Coleman or others.
Retailers have been one of the hardest hit industries during this pandemic through no fault of their own. Government
mandates, closing of tourism and more has contributed to many stores not being able to remain stable. In the last year
with little or no income from customers, we have seen so many retail stores closing for good and many those that are
open have accumulated hundreds of thousands to millions of dollars in debt from being unable to pay for their commercial
lease rent, utilities, supplies and other operating expenses. While the customers are starting to come back, the sales are
no where near what is was pre-pandemic for many and will take years to recover.
Now is not the time. We need to really take a look at where the litter coming into Hawaii is actually originating from. We
have to take into consideration that much is coming from not Hawaii but being carried to our islands from currents. We
should be looking at a coordinated comprehensive litter reduction program. Government, business and the community
should work together on the wise management of our resources by reducing, reusing and recycling principles. We should
be looking at litter control programs and education and not a ban. And we should also take a look at the various opala
receptacles to ensure that the disposed rubbish in them are not easily able to be blown out,
Mahalo again for this opportunity to testify.
(808) 592-4200 ^ tyamaki@rmhawaii.org3610 Waialae Ave ● Honolulu, HI 96816
Count^Clerk
RECEIVED
im AUG -6 AH 9: 41
From:
Sent:
Madison McGain <madisonmcgain@gmail.com>
Friday, August 6, 2021 9:40 AM
County Clerk
Testimony for bill 60
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
If the reason for not passing bill 60 is because it won't solve our tourism
problem I’d like to say this: To say that the hotel moratorium doesn't solve
the tourism problem is a total cop out. Of course the tourism problem is
one that is very multifaceted, but a break from development, a break from
creating more places on an already overflowing island to house visitors
seems like a pretty rational solution to something that appears way out of
land and absolutely unsustainable. If there are not places for prospective
visitors to sleep, they cannot book travel here. It's fairly simple.
If we are feeling already overwhelmed, already very limited in resources,
already crowded out of our towns, public spaces, roadways and belovec
beaches, why on earth would we not stop building places for visitors to
stay?? We are seeing the ugly face of an economy that wasn't planned with
sustainably in mind and the public is asking you to take the steps
necessary towards a more sustainable future for Maui.
If the concern is our economy: we are already at ABOVE capacity for the
island. That means we’ve surpassed what has been determined Maui
needs for a prospering economy.
received
20Z! AUG -6 AH © 55
August 6, 2021
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice Lee, chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandea, Vice-Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
AMFwmw^ ~ (2021), entitled, "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
Ri III niM/- or ^ building code TO ADD CHAPTER 40 RELATING TO A MORATORIUM ON
building PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMODATIONS'
Councih^^''' ^‘^®'Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Honorable Members of the Maui County
_FFICE OF THc
COUNTY CLERK
r\
RE:
nprmit f '^ OPPOSITION to Bill 60 which imposes a two-year moratorium on building
permits for visitor accommodations in South and West Maui.
rrinnipH ^ P^^h that no one was well-prepared for. This global pandemic
econnmir experienced loss of loved ones, loss of jobs and a severe
tnnlf tho ^ P'*6paration of opening our islands doors, the tourism/visitors industry
to maintain*r°^r^r^ safely; keeping its rooms at the adjusted capacity
influx of visitor^ ^it '■estrictions. With that being said, due to the UNEXPECTED
pffnrtct t available and rampant. Just as prior comments
rnntfn, ^ ^o visitors, we have and
ro^r ° availability of rental cars through rental car agencies,
abZt t" out-of-state car owners, have found the
abdrty to fill and maximize that shortage by promoting their vehicles on TURO, on Craigslist
rnfr not done through acounty bill, a moratorium, a forced halt, that with the rental car shortage, there was a still a
way to accommodate visitors throughout their stay here on Maui.
Tying the car rental shortage into my reason for opposition, is that if we reduce the number of
hotel rooms, there is no guarantee that tourists and visitors will stop traveling to Maui
Unfortunately, I don't believe we can control the airlines who will continue to carry passengersto our islands, specifically Maui. In fact, with record setting numbers of visitors with a lack of
hotel room accommodations, the county will continue to see illegal STR's and TVR's I don’t
believe the county has the appropriate staffing to monitor illegal STR's and TVR's, which will
eventually result in having visitors/tourists staying in our local neighborhoods. VVe
currently hearing complaints regarding vehicle rentals in our local neighborhoods, I
number of complaints if there is an increase in illegal TVR's and STR's.
on
are
imagine the
I understand and hear the concerns of the community on the high number of tourists and th ■
negative behaviors. I believe that there are ways that this can be addressed. 1 don't beli tW
will be addressed adequately through Bill 60. The economic impact will be severe on our
4
recovering hotel industry. The focus should be on shutting down illegal rentals, maintaining the
south side and the west side, as it was designated, for tourism accommodations, and
prioritizing RESPONSIBLE hotel development in those areas. The funding that these
developments benefit its surrounding communities with
improvements, to workforce housing.
from new bike paths, roadvary
!
In closing, I support the Mayor's veto of Bill 60 and oppose the measure. As we tread through
these untouched, but unstill waters, I would be more than happy to engage in further
discussion on working together in finding a fair and equitable solution in resolving these issuesand concerns.
Mahalo for your time and consideration of my comments.
M^ lo nui.
August 6, 2021
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
RE: CC 21-390 - SUPPORT of a proposed resolution entitled, "AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF
THE DONATION OF VARIOUS SCHOOL SUPPLIES FROM IAN SMITH TO THE COUNTY OF MAUI,
PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.56, MAUI COUNTY CODE" and
CC 21-391 - SUPPORT of a proposed resolution entitled, "AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE
DONATION OF VARIOUS SCHOOL SUPPLIES FROM STABLE ROAD FOUNDATION TO THE
COUNTY OF MAUI, PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.56, MAUI COUNTY CODE
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Honorable Members of the Maui County
Council:
I am submitting testimony in SUPPORT of the above-cited resolutions authorizing acceptance of
the donation of various school supplies from Ian Smith and Stable Road Foundation to the
County of Maui. 1 believe this donation is to benefit those needing assistance with back to
school supplies and will help ease the financial burdens families may be feeling at this time.
Ma 0 nui,
< oo
c3]
50”1 m
73
^Lahe
mcr>
oI
rno
o <o -T3
ly -n ●sc.
mm:dx ahO
Count^Cleri<
Karri Ayasanonda <karrija@gmail.com>
Thursday, August 5, 2021 11:30 AM
County Clerk
Please pass the moratorium on building permits for visitor accommodations
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha,
I am writing to encourage and emphasize the need for a moratorium on the building of visitor accommodations. For the
last several years, with the exception of during closures during Covid, Maui has been receiving more visitors than can be
accommodated for with the visitor to resident ratio far above what it should be. Maui was once "no ka oi", the place
that valued family and health above all and a great place to live. On our days off of work we could relax at the beach, go
for a hike, maybe visit Hana for a weekend. This has changed drastically. Even the years before Covid we sat in
literal gridlock on some days trying to drive around Lahaina. On an average day 7-8 cars out of 10 on Honoapiiliani Road
through Lahaina are rental cars, many driving erratically. We have visitors walking with beach gear across traffic, groups
of moped riders swerving down busy roads while taking selfie pictures, there's no parking at the beach, Hana is off limits
due to overcrowding, we can't get reservations to go to Haleakala, eating out in a restaurant is impossible. There are
too many visitors and it's negatively affecting the lives of residents and the tourists' experience. Now we are told to
conserve water as there is not enough, again we are in a drought. Somehow there is enough water to keep
building. There is not proper sewage treatment and we don't have adequate roadways. The community plan needs
updating first. No building should take place without first completing proper environmental studies and each and every
developer should make improvements to infrastructure. My husband and I have been discussing for last few years that
we will move away from Maui as it is no longer a place for residents and the feeling of community is disappearing. My
husband is a healthcare provider and I am a former nurse. After 15 years it is simply not worth it to live here anymore if
we cannot even enjoy our lives on days off and the cost of living is becoming unsustainable. It has become unpleasant to
even go grocery shopping, let alone go for a hike or to the beach. Maui needs to do some serious management of
tourism and development. Please stop building any further visitor accommodations and decrease the amount of visitors
moving forward.
Mahalo,
Karri Ayasanonda
Lahaina
CS9
OO
0-T1 73
mcr>
aIm m-<
OO
m
c.
mOUi
1
RECEIVEDCount^CleiJ<
20?l AUG -5 AH 9: 13Sandra brissette <sandra_brissette@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, August 4, 2021 7:45 PM
County Clerk
Veto to override item CC 21-377
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
Dear Council,
It's to my disappointment that the Mayor has vetoed bill 60 after all us have submitted countless testimonies and have
shown our full support for bill 60, (pause on vacation type buildings permits). Not only did he say incorrect statements
of its legal ramifications but he also said he knew a faster way to stop the multiplying of tourist that our island simply
can not handle. To this day there has been no action, just talk.
Please override his veto. We have countless businesses that cannot find enough workers because the ratio of tourist to
residents is way off. It feels like an amusement park on our island. With long lines at restaurants, crowded beaches
covered with hotel lounge chairs, traffic jams, blocked roads due to tourist illegal parking to get to beaches and
waterfalls. With drought conditions currently all over the island how could we even think of building for vacationers,
when we can't even supply waterto those who live here now?!
We really need to pause this type of building and build for the children of our community and supply more buildings that
supply the community with what they need. I once again please plead with you to help our island heal and to override
the Mayor's veto on bill 60.
Sincerely Yours
Sandra Brissette
245 Mahie PI
Kihei, Hawaii
1
RECEIVEDHJ i}
ki
20?l AUG -5 AM 9U3FARM BUREAU
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
P.O. Box 253, Kunia, Hawai'i 96759
Phone: (808) 848-2074; Fax: (808) 848-1921
e-mail info@hfbf.org; www.hfbf.org
Submitted via email to: county.clerk@mauicounty.us
Friday, August 6, 2021
9:00 AM
County Council of Maui
Office of the County Clerk
200 S. High St.
Kalana 0 Maui Bldg, 7th fl.
Wailuku, HI 96793
RE: First reading of a bill establishing Chapter 2.50, Maui County Code, determining
the categories of pesticide and fertilizer allowed for use on County property; “A bill for
an ordinance establishing Chapter 2.50, Maui County Code, Relating to Pesticide and
Fertilizer Use on County Property
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins Fernandez, and Councilmembers
The Hawai'i Farm Bureau (HFB) is the state’s largest nonprofit general farm
organization representing the interests of thousands of farm families, small to large,
organic, conventional, and modern, throughout the Hawaiian Islands. Our farmer and
rancher members have become increasingly concerned about the continuous influx to
Hawai'i of noxious and invasive pest species that threaten not only the viability of the
islands’ agricultural industry, but also the health and welfare of Hawaii’s residents,
visitors, watersheds, and native species, including many that are endangered.
We have carefully reviewed the bill before you, and we are writing today to urge
you to consider the big picture while deliberating upon the measure, as it will severely
limit Maui County’s access to effective tools to control these threats to public welfare
and our environment.
For many years, we have worked with the Hawai'i Coordinating Group on Alien
Pest Species, the County Invasive Species Committees, the Hawai'i Department of
Agriculture, the University of Hawai'i College of Tropical Agriculture, and the Hawai'i
Department of Land and Natural Resources to support the work they do to stop the
introduction and proliferation of pests that are incompatible with our unique ecosystems
and a healthy human environment. Their work is extremely difficult, complicated, and
costly, but their mission is invaluable.
Without effective management of County lands to reduce pest populations and
their inevitable dispersal to surrounding properties, our farms and ranches will
experience a devasting impact. As you know, Hawaii farmers are working diligently to
reach the goal of doubling food production to help the state become more self-sufficient.
We cannot accomplish this if our lawmakers don’t understand and take seriously the
need to have access to safe, effective, and scientifically vetted methods of pest control,
regardless of whether they are considered “organic” or “non-organic”. We respectfully
suggest that rather than enact an arbitrary ban on non-organic products, the County
develop and implement an Integrated Pest Management plan to ensure that the most
effective and least risky methods of control are used.
Please send this measure back to Committee for further evaluation. Thank you
for your support of Hawaii’s farmers and ranchers.
Sincerely
Randy Cabral
President
2
RECEIVED
im WG -4 8: 08
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
niOLIndustry forSt Sound Enviro'vnOfH
August 4, 2021
Re: CR 21-56 Integrated Pest and Environmental Management on County Property
Dear Council Chair Lee and members of the Maui County Council,
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on CR 21 -56. As written the proposed county law
does not support the practice of Integrated Pest Management and will have a significant impact
on the safety, health, biodiversity and usability of county lands and facilities. For this reason, we
ask the Council for an unfavorable vote on CR 21-56.
Our industry supports an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) approach to pest control and
management. This approach recognizes four steps: set action thresholds, monitor and identify
pests, prevention and lastly control. Only when necessary are pesticides used. This balanced
approach to pest management is cost effective, responsible, supported by the University of
Hawaii Extension and is widely recognized and practiced. As you are aware there has been a
significant decrease in both the use of pesticides and the percentage of land pesticides are applied
in Maui County. We can attribute these reductions to IPM, which is adaptive to innovation and
new application methods.
The safe application of pesticides through IPM programs helps keep Hawaii’s public parks,
sports fields, roadsides, utility rights of way, sidewalks, trails, and public parks free of noxious,
poisonous, fire-fueling and invasive weeds, as well as free from rodents and insects that cause
allergic reactions and other health issues, compete with native species, destroy species habitats,
and degrade county infrastructure. Pesticides are utilized in controlling nuisance weeds on public
land, such as Pampas grass.
Pesticides are among the most highly regulated products in the United States. Here in Hawaii
products are regulated by the state’s Department of Agriculture through delegated authority from
the United States Environmental Protection Agency under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and
Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). This co-regulator relationship means residents of Maui County can
have confidence in the state’s robust and science-based regulation of pesticides that includes
product registration, scientific review and enforcement.
The negative impacts to people’s health and safety, county infrastructure and ecosystems will be
far reaching and costly under the proposed bill. In the Department of Parks and Recreation’s
correspondence, it noted the estimated cost to implement this law on while protecting public
property is more than $9.5 million for the first year of two project sites.
Turning to the bill’s proposed waiver process, we are concerned with the length of time it will
take to grant a waiver. When applicators identify  aproblem, it must be treated in a timely
manner. Further, plant health will be Jeopardized if judicious use of fertilizers is prohibited,
especially in recreation areas where grass and turf are important features of the facility and
landscape. As written, the waiver process would allow pest and plant health problems to grow,
threatening resident’s health, safety, and shared investment in county infrastructure.
The unique ecosystems located on county lands need to be effectively managed to reduce the
spread of invasive plants on Hawai'i and protect native species unique to the island. The
solutions available to Maui County should include all Hawaii Department of Agriculture
registered pesticides and fertilizers. To keep our native species safe, it’s important for the County
to have all tools available to manage plant growth in Hawaii, invasive and otherwise.
Thank you for your consideration and for the opportunity to share our perspective on this
legislation. At this time, we ask that the council withdraw this legislation and instead pursue a
renewed dialogue focusing on IPM and keeping pesticide and fertilizers products in the rotation
to manage county lands and facilities.
Sincerely,
Jon Gaeta
Director, State Affairs
RISE (Responsible Industry for a Sound Environment)
JGaeta@pestfacts.org
RISE (Responsible Industry for a Sound Environment) is the national trade association
representing manufacturers, formulators, distributors and other industry leaders engaged with
specialty pesticides and fertilizers used by professionals and consumers.
Count^CleH<
ZO?l AUG -6 AH 9: 38
From:
Sent:
Rita Goldman <inky@hawaii.rr.com>
Friday, August 6, 2021 9:14 AM
County Clerk
Maui the bell jar
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha,
I'm not able to attend today's meeting regarding the moratorium on new visitor accommodations, but hope I'm not too
late to submit my testimony. Here goes:
Some forty years ago, I attended a talk by Frank Blackwell, who started the Maui Visitors Bureau back when most folks
on the mainland didn't know that Maui was one of the Hawaiian Islands. I've never forgotten the chart he presented,
representing what happens to a tourism destination over time. The example he used was for Coney Island, but was just
as relevant for Maui. I'm sure this is nothing new to you, but it sure left an impression on me.
The chart Frank displayed was a bell curve: Tourism begins at the lower left side, when relatively few people visit the
destination—typically only wealthy and/or adventurous travelers who appreciate its authenticity. Over time, word
spreads, and more and more people come. The destination keeps adding activities and accommodations to attract and
serve the soaring numbers of visitors. By the time those numbers reach the top of the curve, the quality and authenticity
of the destination have started plummeting. To support those accommodations and activities, rates also decline, and
with them the revenue for upkeep. Lower costs, more people. More people, more degradation. By the time you reach
the lower right side of bell curve, the destination mostly attracts bargain-hunters; the higher-paying visitor has moved
on, and the cycle begins anew somewhere else.
Rita Goldman
Ha'iku
1
County Clerk
William Greenleaf <bgreenleaf.maui(a)yahoo.corn>  ^ .y 7:52
Monday,August2, 2021 10:03 PM OT  AUb
County Clerk
CR21-56 OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha Council Members...
I'm writing in support of Maui County Council unanimously passing CR 21-56
As our road systems grew in the 50's so did the challenges of maintaining safety. The USDA, in the
1950's, began promoting chemicals/poisons to control weeds and pests...Pesticides killed the
weeds and with the demand from population explosion, more roads and more schools, Ag
Chemicals became a very profitable industry.
Now, after decades, we know that chemical poisons are harmful to all
ife, especially to children. Developing solutions for roadside
maintenance is not going to be easy, but it is doable...it is doable...
Vote in support...it is for the people and the aina
Sincerely,
Bill Greenleaf
1
Count^£lerk
Molly Jacobson <molly@mollyjacobson.com>
Thursday, August 5, 2021 11;13AM
County Clerk
Kelly King; Tamara A. Paltin; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Gabe Johnson; Tasha A. Kama;
Mike J. Molina; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura
I Support Overriding Mayor’s Veto of Bill 60
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Dear Maui County Council Members,
I am writing to express my deep, heartfelt desire that you override Mayor Victorino's veto of Bill No. 60 (2021),
entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE TO ADD CHAPTER 40 RELATING TO A
MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS".
Please, override the Mayor's veto as provided for in Subsection 4-3.1 of the Revised Charter of the County of Maui
(1983), as amended.
The people of Maui have overwhelmingly spoken, and the Mayor's stated reasons for veto are misleading at
best. I support this bill, and similar bills, to give the county the break it needs.
As our elected representatives, I appreciate your work and efforts. Please continue to speak for us and
override the Mayor's veto of Bill No. 60 (2021).
Thank you for taking the time to read this testimony.
Molly Jacobson
Kihei
OCT
O *n
2;o
mc~i
oIm nioo 3S-
<~n ra:
mm -I
X X
m arv>
1
received
ZOZI AUG -5 m I|: 2:1
August 5, 2021
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTo Whom it may concern,
1 am writing this testimony today because I feel passionate about the beautiful Island of Maui. I have
lived on this island since August 31, 2015. I retired from my accounting job in Illinois and came here to
have a calmer, warmer and safer life. I have enjoyed meeting people that have lived here all their life
and am very interested in learning about the amazing culture here on Maui.
In the past 16 months I have watched as these people that have lived here and worked hard to take care
of their families. We went through the lock down and quiet time on this beautiful island, which was
good and bad, but it made us all appreciate the calm and beautiful empty beaches, roads and we heard
how the ocean was beginning to thrive again from not being abused. People waited in tong lines to just
get a box of food to feed their families, but I saw that the people here took care of each other and cared
about each other.
You opened up to some of the most ignorant, self serving, selfish people from the mainland in late fall.
And it has continued to grow to the point that we are staying in our home and trying to avoid tourists at
all costs.
We did what we were supposed to do and stayed home, wore masks when out, kept our distance from
people and GOT VACINNATED. We took my 95 year old mom out for the first time to airport beach on
Mothers Day. We watched where we sat, made plenty of room around us and we were trying to enjoy
sunset, which she really enjoys. We weren't there 15 minutes and two couples came, no masks and sat
down right in front of us and lit up cigars... We asked them to please move over and they refused and
said they could do what ever they wanted. They were staying at the Westin KOA and called themselves
residents and we all had the right to enjoy the beach area. They continued to smoke cigars the whole
time. I said it bothered my mom and they said then take her home.
My partner received a ticket for not having his seatbelt on, he was coming out of a private residence and
had taken his belt off to reach something on the seat. The police officer said sure, here is your ticket for
$102.00. I have been on the roads especially Honoapiilani and there are visitors in rental cars, doing u
turns, going through red lights, going in the left turn lane and pulling back into traffic just to get in front
of other cars, where are the police then. Oh that's right, we don't have enough to take care of the roads
that we have.
I clean vacation rentals, not as many as I used to because there are certain resorts that I won't go to
because there is no control of the rude unmasked people. 1 asked a person to put on their mask and he
looked at me and shouted in my face, "mind your own business".
! have friends that work at some of the major resorts here on Maui and they tell me that they have been
told by management to not question the guests and if they are not wearing a mask or behaving, tell
management or just ignore it.
My other concern is that the amount of people coming here and being allowed to buy up all the
properties and then renting out short term is disgusting. So many people that live here can not afford to
buy a home and now these people come here and turn it into a profit for themselves and raise the
prices of homes.
My point is, why the heck would we want to encourage more vacation lodging to an island that only has
limited roads, limited hospital care and limited water and should 1 mention the problem with the sewers
and wells on the West side. We really do not need or want anymore lodging growth. Please let's use
some common sense and show some care for our island and its real residents.
Thank you for your time.
Dorothy Jakubek
808-868-1552
Lahaina
Count^OeH<
From:
Sent:
Mark Joiner <joinertrust@hotmail.com>
Friday, August 6, 2021 11:03 AM
County Clerk
Testimony for County Council Meeting, 8/6/2021
To:
Subject:
Bonjour, Council Members
Just wanted to add my strong voice to those advocating an override of Mayor Victorino's veto.
There is no need to take this before the Planning Commission as erroneously stated in testimony this morning.
Please refer to the protocols of the Council.
Among many other reasons, a second strong point is the lessening of impact on resources and the
environment of our small island county.
Thanks so much for standing strong with the citizens of Maui County in overriding the veto. It means more
than even you guys can imagine. Mahalo nui loal
Malama Maui County,
Mark Joiner
Homeowner
Kihei
OO
0-T1
C'n
73
mGO
oH Im 1CN-< < i
oo <"n
mm “3
XX
Ttm aouu
1
RECEIVED
m\ AUG AH !l: 12
August 4, 2021
OFFiGE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKVIA EMAIL AND ONLINE SUBMISSION
Chair Alice Lee and Members of the Maui County Council
County of Maui
One Main Pla2a
2200 Main Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Re: Testimony in Support ofMayor Michael Victorino's July 19, 2021 Veto
of BUI 60 (MORA TORIUM ON VISITOR A CCOMMODA TIONS
DEVELOPMENT) (the ^^Veio^)
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony concerning the above-referenced Veto.
My name is Derek Kanoa, and I am Senior Vice President of Sales - Hawaii, for Hilton Grand
Vacations As members of the Council may know, HGV is the owner of the Maui Bay
Villas resort presently underway in Kihei, located on the site of the original “Maui Lu” resort. We
write to express our support of Mayor Victorino’s Veto, and to request that the Council does not
override the Veto.
Bill 60 asserts that its purpose is to stop the increase of carbon-emissions levels, mitigate
climate-change impacts, and limit the rate of global warming by pausing visitor accommodation
development and the related increase in tourism for a period of two years. While we applaud the
desire to preserve our environment, we do not believe that Bill 60 is an appropriate means to obtain
the desired protection. Bill 60 provides no documentation, scientific studies or other evidence that
would suggest a moratorium on visitor accommodations will actually lower carbon emissions,
mitigate climate change impacts, or improve quality of life for residents. Mayor Victorino’s Veto
message also highlighted a number of very serious legal and other practical problems with Bill 60.
In particular, we believe that Bill 60 has not followed the proper legal process because it was not
referred to the Planning Commission, and therefore has not gotten the required community input.
Finally, we believe Bill 60 would be hamiful to the visitor and construction industries, which are
just now beginning to recover from the impacts of the COVID-I9 pandemic.
Accordingly, we respectfully request that Mayor Victorino’s Veto of Bill 60 be sustained.
Maui County Council
August 4, 2021
Page 2 of2
Thank you for your consideration and the opportunity to provide this testimony.
Very truly yours,
Derek Kanoa
Count^Cleri<
From:
Sent:
Lii Kualaau <liikualaau@yahoo.com>
Friday, August 6, 2021 8:49 AM
County Clerk
Testimony for CR 21-56
To:
Subject:
I am writing the testimony in support of bill CR 21-56. We're getting close folksUI Please submit testimony in support of
CR 21-56, determining the categories of pesticide and fertilizers to be used in our public parks and road ways proposed
by Council Member Sinenci. I hope you will support it as well as it promotes the health of not only our island but the
community that uses the parks and road ways. Mahalo Lii Kualaau
Sent from my iPhone
ocO -n
din
-im
73
mCT5
oI
mo-<OO a=»»TJ
mm --I
73Xm Oo
1
RECEIVEDCountyClerk
20ZI AUG -5 AH 9: 13From:
Sent:
Cynthia <aktestkits@aol.com>
Thursday, August 5, 2021 4:45 AM
County Clerk
Petition to overturn veto
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLEF^KSubject:
My name is Cynthia Lebowitz and my husband and I moved from Oahu first to Haiku and now Makawao. After living on 4
islands Maui shows to have much growth and potential to be a shining light in self-preservation. Feeding the school
children local quality meat, the growth of local farmer’s markets and the new crops being planted show the potential Maui
has to produce.
During the last 2 years we have taken a pause in tourism and seen some positive effects such as locals being able to
leisurely travel to Hana and around the north coast, less soil erosion on trails, and according to ultimatewhalewatch.com
“the lack of tourism during the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, less boats have been on the water, and whale watching
tours have been postponed. Past research has shown that some noises from vessels may disturb whale behavior, so
fewer boats on the water may be giving them more opportunity to proceed with their daily activities. During tour
operations, our offering smaller boat charters is  abig part of our overall vision to minimize the size of vessels on the
water, their noise as well as creating that intimate experience with marine life. Also with fewer of us in the water, we have
sunscreens affecting the coral reefs.”
In 2018 Maui News Now wrote; “Overtourism results in long commutes, day and night shifts with unattended children,
multiple jobs, overcrowded schools, a shortage of doctors, dangerous intersections, wastewater finding its way into the
coral reefs, lost views, pesticides draining from golf courses, brown-water advisories, etc...Tourist industry salaries do not
keep up with housing costs; families have to co-habit residences....Maui now has a mature tourist industry that needs to
protect itself from overtourism.”
From skimming through The Maui Island Plan passed in 2012 in 1970, the ratio of tourists to residents was approximately
1 to 20. This number has risen dramatically; by 2000, the ratio was approximately 1 to 3.
When I read about Bill 60 and its 2yr pause on construction in the tourist sector I was saddened that it was overturned by
Mayor Victorino. I wrote a petition and sent it to various Facebook groups of which I was a member asking if they agreed
with the pause and would like to submit the petition along with those signatures including mine to support item CC 21-377
to overturn the veto.
Thank you for your consideration in this.
Cynthia Lebowitz
450 Hoopalua, Makawao, HI 96768
Here is the link for the said petition which has garnered, as of now 208 supporters http://chng.it/28SfrMny
Cynthia Lebowitz
AKTestKits@aoLcom
970 201-7406
1
received
Testimony to the Maui County Counci l 2fl?| AUG-4 AH 8^08
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
OPFCSITION TO BAN OF CHBVIICALS
August 3, 2021
My name is Matt Lyumand I oppose CR 21-56, the proposed bill which
wou Id ban fe rt i I izer and pest ic ide use on Mau i County land. I be I ieve
this legislation could jeopardize the health and safety of all Maui
County residents. Maui County residents deserve to have safe public
green spaces to enjoy, and our island’s native ecosystem is unique and
warrants protection from invasive species. I urge the Council to
consider adopting an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program for the
County.
I  am a member of the Landscape Industry Counci I of Hawaii, owner of
Performance Landscapes which 120 employees, and a national iy Landscape
Industry Certified Manager. I also am a Composting Consultant and own a
storm water po I iu t i on p revent ion company ca I led Eros ion Contro I
Specia 1is t s.
I  grew up in Hawaii and have spent my career working and supporting
sustainable operations and protecting the aina. My landscape company
recycles over 100 tons of green waste annually. My erosion control
company produces a recycled product to prevent pollution from running
off construction sites.
Compost and organics are an important part of integrated landscape
management. So are ferti I izers and pesticides. To those of us who are
trained and continually retraining with pesticides, we know the
precautions necessary to utilize them safely, effectively, and
economically. The County’s Parks Department has noted that there has
been a significant decrease in both the use of pesticides and the
percentage of land pesticides are used on.
Landscape professionals use chemicals along with other tools to protect
public health and the environment. Treatments to lawns and green spaces
reduce the pest transmission of dangerous and deadly diseases like
dengue fever, rat-1 ungworm disease, toxoplasmosis, and also control
invasive species. Unkempt fields and green spaces increase the chance
of injuries, allergic reactions and other health issues, and are fire
haza rds.
I  understand that this is scary, but as our elected officials, please
review the facts coming from Hawaii Department of Agr icu I tu re and
scientists who have spent their careers researching pesticides and the
environment. As others have testified, pesticides are already regulated
at the state and federal level by career scientists, and C0SA has strict
guidelines to ensure low exposure risks.
VVfeare seeing today the impact that misinformation has on science as
HaA/ai ’ i batt les COVID-19 and the var iants. I ask that the Counci I votes
to withdraw this legislation and focuses instead on an Integrated Pest
Management program, making all the tools available to manage plant
growth, and ensure there are safe green spaces for ail Maui residents to
enjoy.
Mahalo for the opportunity to submit testimony.
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Makawao Neighbors <makawaoneighbors@gmail.com>
Wednesday, August 4, 2021 9:09 PM
County Clerk
Written testimony CC 21-392
Baseyard Community Grievance Report March 2021.pdf
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha,
Attached you will find detailed information concerning CC 21-392 for the August 2, 2021 Maui Council meeting.
Thank you,
Makawao Baseyard Neighbors
OO
o-i-i 73s»-czz m<n
o"jfn I
moof-
n H
3C
m'●p
ox' S I I
w
1
MAKCH2021
MAUI UPCOUNTRYBASEYARD
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
2
 'f
y  ^ '
rl
.% / %Illl.v 4UA
- .-xTi P^ r|S
y  . *>V./ f
■A*
■ f ●. .Xv -_*T^ -t
*■ */
■< .
.)♦ .  # ;4(●  »
# -i# _--l I» ‘ .1’
I  ""I
a 1j-. r’*'-■
It A< t., ,
A
Ith ^ } . 4
r' p
●■‘i hi (J
rt i- ●:,
S.tiiP = ^ i I■  -i ,’^●6?
i|
illi 1
i f t  1
■ V %«» ■
>«V. ■'●►''' '.r%
Googk ●  ■*
Upcountry Baseyard
1285 Makawao Ave, Makawao, Hawaii
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
COMMUNITY
GRIEVANCE
REPORThis report and filed complaint has been compiled using gathered, observed, and
experiential data from years of County of Maui Upcountry Baseyard activity and
projects.TThis report will be submitted to the local leaders, county department heads, health
department, and other concerned parties on behalf of the long time neighbors of the
County of Maui Upcountry Baseyard, including residents bordering the property lines
with the Baseyard. The residents who have helped build this report have attached their
names to the bottom of this report.
Many activities of the County of Maui Upcountry Baseyard, hereafter referred to as
"Baseyard", violate the laws and statutes of the County, State, and Federal Government as
pertaining to:
ZONING / IMPROPER LAND USE
NOISE POLLUTION
AIR POLLUTION
ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION
The intent of this report is to make our leaders aware of the nuisance and damage
inflicted on the community by the Baseyard activities and demand immediate change to
the most egregious offenses and timely change and remediation of the other offenses.
The community recognizes that some time will be needed to amend the practices of the
Baseyard and relocate the unpermitted activity. But the community is prepared to take
legal action if steps are not taken soon and in full communication with the community.
4
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
BRIEF AND RECENT HISTORY
Tax Map of the Upcountry Baseyard from March 2021
This particular County Baseyard is unique in our islands because it is situated in the
middle of a residential neighborhood and shares property lines directly with 21 homes,
and the most noxious activities are within 200 feet of an additional 15 other homes. There
is no significant buffer to separate county activity from the neighborhood homes. Most
surrounding neighbors have lived in their homes for their lifetimes, and the few new
imports plan to do the same. This is an area with very little turnover, and mainly owner-
occupied homes. This list of concerns are not being brought forth because of affected
house values, but because of the diminishing quality of life and serious health concerns
of all of us who live here near to the Baseyard.
Very little has been done over the last fifty years to mitigate the impact of the Baseyard
on the surrounding neighborhoods, and activity has only steadily increased. In 1991, for
example, the county completed an environmental impact study on installing new fuel
tanks. No negative impacts were expected (!), and the study claimed that the county
would plant trees on the perimeter of the "new" baseyard to minimize the appearance
and impact of the industrial look of the baseyard^
http://oeqc2.doh.hawaii.gov/EA_EIS_Archive/1992-02-08-MA-FEA-Makawao*Public-Works-Baseyard.pdf
5
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
2017:
2017 Aerial Footage of Baseyard Activities Closest to Makawao Ave
Now:
2020 Footage of Baseyard Activities Closest to Makawao Ave
6
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Specifically in the last ten years, activity has significantly increased at the baseyard.
Where only a few trucks used to be parked at the Baseyard, now there are a few dozen.
Where there were trucks parked, now there are large asphalt piles that are dug into daily.
Where there was a grassy field for parking, now there are large piles of fill material and a
mini-crushing plant. For residents who have spent their life next door to the baseyard,
they can attest that things have gone out of control. The added activity, piles,
construction, and crushing means that the trucks that park at the baseyard are packed in
tight. It means that construction equipment and trucks are parked on the property lines,
and the exhaust fills neighboring homes and yards.
In addition, over two years ago, and according to employees at the Highways
Department, T. J. Gomes Trucking Co. leased the large grassy field just outside of the
Baseyard for a road construction project. Prior to this temporary land lease, the land
outside of the fenced-in county facilities was simply used for employee parking. T. J.
Gomes used it for at least one year as a staging area to dump debris, sift dirt/asphalt, and
tree stumps, and to store heavy equipment and construction material. The area became a
non-stop loud, dusty, dangerous mess. They did not use any dust containment for almost
18 months until they received enough complaints to erect a flimsy fabric dust barrier.
2019-2020 Dust Barrier Erected After Neighborhood Dust Complaints
7
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
which quickly fell apart (after about six weeks) and then collapsed during storms and was
left in a broken pile for months before repaired and re-erected.
After T. J. Gomes was done with the project, the area continued to be used in such a way
that it was an unceasing muddy, dusty mess where once a grassy field was. They also left
behind a massive mountain of torn-up asphalt that was only recently removed.
Unfortunately after T. J. Gomes finished and left, the County began using the land for the
same construction activity. The Baseyard has been constant construction activity for over
two years, with no end in sight.
There is no other baseyard in the county that is surrounded by a residential area like the
Upcountry Baseyard. In fact, Molokai just had their baseyard moved and enhanced. We
ask that the Makawao Baseyard be similarly seriously addressed.
Moloka'i Baseyard
Wailuku Baseyard
Lahaina Baseyard
8
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
DETAILED EXPLANATION OF OFFENSES
The offenses caused and comnnitted by the Baseyard's activities fail into these categories:
1. ZONING/ IMPROPER LAND USE
A. This Baseyard land is zoned P-1 Public/Quasi-public. According to General
Ordinances of Maui County 19.31.0202, the intended use for P-1 is for churches,
community centers, fire and police stations, schools, libraries, etc. Government
buildings and facilities, private parking lots and structures serving public
purposes are included in the list of uses, but no use of P-1 land should be
hazardous or a nuisance to the surrounding areas.
2 https://librarv.municQde.com/hi/cQunty of maui/codes/code of Qrdinances?nQdeld=TIT19ZQ
9
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
At the very least, the Baseyard activities fell outside of the "spirit of the law' in
regards to PI Zoning surrounded by Residential Zoning. It has allowed private
companies to lease or freely use the property to store materials, store machinery,
and do business. And the nuisance and health safety concerns brought about by
the Baseyard are antithetical to the surrounding zoning.
B.
Under local and state regulations, the said activities exceed the allowed time for
construction and transport, beginning in the very early morning hours on all
weekdays.3
C.
2. NOISE
A. Under local and state regulations, the construction, truck traffic, idling, material
moving, garbage trucks, and rock crushing exceed legal limits in duration and
decibel reading continually during all weekdays.^
3 https://mauinow.eom/2019/01/20/ask-the-mayor-is-there-an-ordinance-to-regulate-noise/
^ https://health.hawaii.gQv/irhb/files/2013/07/noiserefmaui.pdf
10
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Under local and state regulations, the said activities exceed the allowed time for
construction and transport, beginning in the very early morning hours on all
weekdays. (Hawaii Administrative Rules, Title 11, Chapter 46)s
B.
Little is done to limit noise pollution, and trucks are often left idling or in reverse
so that their reverse alarm sounds at above the allowed decibel level for longer
than three minutes.
C.
While noise has always been a concern of the neighbors of the baseyard, the
increased traffic and activities in the baseyard parking lot that has increased
dramatically over the last two years has made the noise incessant, meaning that
there is noise at or exceeding allowed decibel levels from 4:45 a.m. until mid
afternoon. Sometimes the noise begins as early as 3:15 a.m.
D.
With ail of the neighborhood children forced to stay home because of the
pandemic, their virtual school days are exceptionally disrupted by the noise that
enters their homes, regardless of closing the doors and windows. The reverse
beeping alarms are especially disruptive.
E.
3. EXHAUST AND IDLING
A. Trucks, heavy machinery, and personal vehicles continually idle longer than the
Federally-allowed three minutes, and always longer than the State allowed time,
which is only to allow an engine to briefly warm up or cool down. (Hawaii
Administrative Rules §11-60.1-34)^
B. The vast majority of parking areas for the large trucks, heavy machinery, and
personal and county vehicles is on the property boundary lines of the local
residents, and most of the parking areas are less than 20 feet from the actual
homes of these residences (which have been there in most cases for longer than
50 years). Therefore, the exhaust from driving and idling trucks enters the homes
of the residents throughout the day, every day of the week, usually starting
around 4:45 am, but recently starting as early as 3:30. Even on hot days, windows
5 https://health.hawaii.gov/Qpppd/files/2Q15/06/11-46.pdf
6 https://hfialth.hawati.gnv/Qpppd/filfis/?015/nfi/11-60.1.pdf
11
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
have to stay closed, but exhaust still enters. This is a major health concern, and at
least one normally healthy resident has fallen ill with a chronic lung disease since
moving next to the Baseyard (ERA Diesel Exhaust Reporf^
C. Machinery is often idle while the operators sit in the air conditioned cabs and fill
out their end-of-day reports, check their phones, or relax. This is also at cost to
the County in fuel and engine wear (Hawaii Administrative Rules §11-60.1-34)8.
htTpRr//rfpi]h.«apfl.gn\//nr:pa/risk/rpr:nrdisplav.cfm?df>id=29Q6n
https://health.hawaii.gQv/Qpppd/files/2Q15/Q6/13-6Q.1.pdf
12
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
4. FUMES
A. Fumes and smells from the garbage trucks waft into the neighboring yards and
homes, especially on the weekends.
B. Fumes from the asphalt piles located less than 30 feet from the residences of two
families, fill their homes with asphalt fumes throughout the day. Asphalt has been
proven to be extremely hazardous for health when airborne (Hawaii
Administrative Rules §11-58.1-03,-04,-199 )(CDC Asphalt Report’o)(EPA Asphalt
Report^"')
Typical Afternoon: Notice trucks parked and idling in close proximity to homes. This is only
half of the trucks that are stored in this area, and the comings and goings adds significant
fumes to the air.
9 https://health.hawaii.gQv/opppd/files/2Q15/Q6/11-58-1.pdf
https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2QQ1-110/pdfs/2Q0M1Q.Ddf?id=10.26616/NIOSHPUB2QQinQ10
https://www3.epa.gQv/ttnchie1/ap42/ch11/related/ea-reDQrLDdf
13
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Windows Facing Baseyard Windows Cleaned Every Other Week
5. SOOT AND DUST
The aforementioned asphalt pile, exhaust, and fumes added to the dust, grit, and
dirt from construction activities and movement continue to afflict the residences
of the baseyard's neighbors, despite the recently erected dust barrier. Asphalt
falls under Hawaii Administrative Rules, §11-58.1-01
A.
In the adjoining residences to the baseyard, the sides of the homes closest to the
asphalt and dirt piles are afflicted with enough soot and dust to require window
washing once or twice a week. Furthermore, the internal walls, exterior walls,
baseboards, and furniture inside the homes closest to the piles are regularly
coated with black silt and dust, whereas the walls on the other sides of the
homes are not. This is, again, despite the current dust barrier.
B.
Longtime residents have noted that their homes, even when freshly painted, are
becoming dingy and covered in black soot and dust more quickly than ever
before. We believe this is because of the increased activity over the last two
years.
C.
14
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Common Backyard Sight in Yards Surrounding the Upcountry Baseyard
6. GARBAGE AND LITTER
A. Neighbors to the baseyard are constantly combatting litter and garbage being
blown into their yards and structures from the Baseyard.
B. Litter blowing into yards is often greasy and stinks of raw meat and trash,
probably comes from the garbage trucks, and poses health risks to the neighbors
who have to pick it up out of their yards.
15
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
7. UNSECURED AREA ALLOWING ILLEGAL ACTIVITY
A. The Baseyard's parking area is unsecured and unpatroNed. There are police
reports and eyewitnesses to frequent illegal activity taking place there, including
drug sales, sex trafficing, violence, illegal dumping, theft of county materials, and
drag and off-road racing.
B. After closing hours, dirt bikes frequent the grassy area, making loops up and over
the large dirt piles that arrived in the Baseyard less than two years ago.
8. SAFETY OF COMMUNITY IN UNSECURED AREA
A, The unsecured parking area of the baseyard puts the community at risk, as there
are dangerously tall dirt piles left unguarded. Unknowing users of the parking
area could be buried by playing on or around the piles.
Unsecured Dirt and Gravel Piles are Common in the Baseyard Parking Area
16
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
B. There is no fence or guard when trucks are crushing boulders or screening
material, and even 300 yards away, there is grit in the air when crushing takes
place, even with the dust barrier. Homes and people close to the crushing plant
are at risk of flying or falling debris. The dust barrier only would protect
neighbors directly downwind from the crushing, but flying debris actually comes
closest to the upwind side of the crushing plant. Furthermore, grit and small
rocks have flown above where the current dust barrier is located.
C. There is no attempt to secure machinery or materials in the parking area, and the
rest of the baseyard is only protected by a single padlock and chainlink fence.
During theft events, which have happened in the baseyard in the past, a criminal
could startup and use machinery in a way that could seriously endanger the
surrounding households. But even without that nefarious outcome, the
unsecured Baseyard provides no barriers between the Baseyard's activities and
the residences, and most neighbors are concerned that it would only take one
distracted front-end loader driver, or one refuse truck parking a few feet back
further than usual to greatly endanger the adjoining neighbors, their properties,
and their homes.
9. ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS
Multiple environmental hazards have been observed over the years. For example,
recently sludge and sewage waste was cleaned out of a side-dump truck onto the
grass in the front parking area. Multiple similar truck washings have been
observed, and surely many more happen without the observance of the
neighbors.
A.
During at least two time periods in the last ten years, chickens and cats have
been poisoned on Baseyard property, and the animals then come and die on
neighbors' properties. Multiple neighbors on all sides of the Baseyard have
reported full grown chickens coming into their yards and dying gruesome,
digestive failure deaths. Cats have also died on neighbors' properties with
uncharacteristic and gruesome digestive failures. These are consistent with
antifreeze poisoning, which is done by leaving out a bowl of antifreeze which is
B.
17
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Trucks and Their Waste are Frequently Cleaned Onto the Dirt
Sometimes Smelling of Chemicals or Fecal Waste
enticing in aroma and sweet to the taste. Whether the poisonings were
intentional or accidental, the environmental damage is not just to the animals
that died, but also to the neighbors who have to dispose of the corpses, and to
the pets and children who might inadvertently come in contact with the sick or
dead animals.
10. TRAFFIC
A. Traffic driving in and out of the baseyard is  agreat nuisance to the surrounding
neighborhood and the Makawao Community. The baseyard uses Makawao and
Baldwin Avenue, which are both two-lane roads with excessive local traffic. The
trucks frequently short-cut through Brewer Road as well, which is a poor-visibility,
two-lane residential road without side medians. As this is the path for most of the
Baseyard's neighbors to walk to school, this report would like to draw attention to
18
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
the many instances where baseyard vehicles nearly caused accidents on Brewer
Road with their speed and taking the top corner very quickly.
County Trucks Add to the Heavy Makawao Morning Traffic
B. It is outrageous that the county is attempting to mitigate traffic, find ways to
decrease traffic in residential areas and has adopted the Net-Zero traffic
campaign, and allows their own operators to fill the middle of Makawao at one of
Upcountry's most used and traffic-congested intersections. This Baseyard should
be located where there is direct access to the highway, and it should be located
in a commercial or industrial zoned area so that it does not interfere with
residential and school traffic.
C. The part of Makawao Avenue that the Baseyard opens onto deals with constantly
worn out asphalt and line markings from the trucks and machinery quickly
peeling out of the parking lot. Also, the trucks do not enter the roadway at one
point along the Baseyard's parking lot, so it is very dangerous for passenger cars
to maneuver this part of Makawao Avenue if they are pulling into one of the
residential streets.
19
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Piles of Material Asphalt and Dirt Overflow the Historically Grassy Parking Area
11. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY
A. The construction activity that happens in the Baseyard falls outside the intended
use of a PI Public/Quasi-Public intended use. The worst construction activity is
the crushing plant that took residence on the grassy parking lot just over two
years ago, but other construction activity has come and gone.
20
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
12. BAD NEIGHBORS
A. While most of the Baseyard managers and office staff and even operators are very
friendly and attempt to be helpful, in general, nothing is ever improved. The
neighbors have to frequently remind Baseyard employees to keep their music
down, stop honking, stop yelling profanities at each other early in the morning
(4:30 am-7:30 am), turn off idling trucks, or wash out the refuse trucks to
decrease the bad odors.
County Green Waste Piles Up Near Makawao Ave
B. When major projects affect neighbors, the neighbors are never told ahead of time
or consulted. Trees have been removed by the Baseyard workers off of neighbors'
private property without permission. Changes are made to activities without
consultation. When neighbors make suggestions about how the Baseyard could
be less of a nuisance, the neighbors are mocked, called bad names, or told, "it's
always been done this way."
21
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
C. A shoddy dust barrier was erected when the huge asphalt pile was put in the
parking area, which then blew over and was left half up for months. This was a
safety hazard at the least. But also, the neighbors were told that it would be taken
care of, even though it took multiple calls and visits and months to get the dust
barrier taken down and replaced. But it was replaced with a looming and
unsightly 13 foot dust barrier. No usual residential neighbor would be given a
permit for a structure that tall on or near the property line.
The "new" dust barrier was put up, but not until the County, unannounced, removed a tree on the boundary
line that had historically blocked a neighbor's yard and home from the dust and fumes from the asphalt piles.
The further irony is that the dust barrier doesn't even block the dust from the worst parts of the Baseyard.
22
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
D. The poisoning mentioned above is the only attempt ever made to control the
chicken and cat population in the Baseyard. Neighbors will frequently trap cats to
have them spayed or neutered and returned to the Baseyard colony and this has
decreased the number of cats significantly, but it has basically been the time and
money of the neighbors who have got the Baseyard cats and chickens under
control after years of efforts. People also frequently come and dump cats and
chickens in the baseyard parking lot.
E. The Baseyard is a bad neighbor all day long, every day. The Baseyard activities
have started earlier and earlier over the years, so that the start time is now 4:30
a.m., and it starts even earlier some mornings. Then, there is never any regard for
noise, exhaust, idling, fumes, or traffic during the day. To top it off, at the end of
the day, the employees often have parties in the parking lot area, which then
adds more loud music, drinking, yelling, and impaired driving home afterwards.
The Baseyard has become everyone's worst nightmare neighbor. But it is more
than a nuisance. Our health, safety, and environment is being harmed in the
worst ways.
23
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
RECOMMENDED ACTIONS
The surrounding neighbors have continually asked the Baseyard managers, Departments,
and even the Mayor's office to change these practices. At one point about a year ago
(early 2020), the Baseyard Manager for the Highways Department said that the Mayor's
Office was concerned with the Baseyard and looking for solutions. However, the solution
they came up with was to fence off the grassy parking area. Period. There was no mention
in this solution of moving or stopping the illegal and non-permitted activities.
Furthermore, the temporary dust barrier that is fronting the worst of the big dirt piles
does not actually prevent dust and exhaust from entering and affecting neighboring
residences. In fact, dust and exhaust has become worse since the erection of the dust
barrier, as it seems the construction, dust moving, and screening activities have
increased now that the workers do not see how the dust hits the homes directly.
The dust barrier also does absolutely nothing for the other homes that are affected by the
fumes and asphalt pile, as the dust barrier only shields the dirt piles. The asphalt exhaust,
dust, and construction machinery fumes and exhaust, and garbage truck exhaust are not
in any way helped by the county's decision to fence or dust barrier the front parking area.
In other words, the very worst and most prevalent of the increased activity is not
addressed at all by the county's current plans.
The neighbors have worked together for many months to discuss solutions to the
Baseyard's nuisances, illegal, and unpermitted activities.
WHAT THE COMMUNITY WOULD LIKE TO BE DONE IMMEDIATELY
1. Move all dirt and asphalt piles and storage out of the Baseyard. The old Makawao
Dump off of Ahualani Road in Makawao, near to the Haleakala Highway, would be an
excellent site for this construction material storage, as it is not in a residential area
and is a large area currently underutilized by the County. Furthermore, because of its
24
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
history as a dump, there should be no further concern about ground pollution with
the advent of asphalt.
Organize parking in the Baseyard so that the most fume producing and frequently
used (large construction machinery) and smelly (garbage trucks) vehicles are parked
away from the downwind homes so that the residences do not fill every day with
exhaust and smells. Also, this should decrease the amount of soot on the homes.
Currently, they are parked as close as possible to downwind homes.
2.
Cease all rock crushing and material screening on the Baseyard Property3.
Remove the temporary dust barrier after the dirt piles are moved and maintain the
grass and landscaping that is currently overgrown and harboring large rats on the
other side of the dust barrier, which is still county property, but totally unmaintained.
4.
Consult and inform the community, especially the affected neighborhoods, before
making major changes or starting projects. Cease the assumption that the county has
carte blanche permission to do whatever it pleases, regardless of its own rules or the
state and federal rules.
5.
WHAT THE COMMUNITY WOULD LIKE TO HAPPEN IN THE NEAR
FUTURE
1. Fund an exploration of moving the Baseyard activities entirely. As this Baseyard
services Keokea, Kula, Pukalani, Makawao, Haiku, Hali'iMaile, and a part of Paia, the
larger majority of the population per capita served is actually southwest of the current
baseyard. A location closer to Haleakala Highway would save in gas and time for the
workers and the trucks. Furthermore, the traffic on Makawao Avenue and Baldwin
Avenue cannot continue to maintain the excessive and heavy machinery traffic from
the increased activities at the Baseyard.
25
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
2. Move the Baseyard to a better suited location that is not surrounded by residentially
zoned neighborhoods, such as the old Makawao Dump or near the intersection of the
Kula and Haleakala Highways. As the development continues in Pukalani and Kula, it
will be necessary to increase Baseyard operations to meet the growth demands, and it
simply will not fit or be legal in the current location. It also does not make sense
fiscally to maintain or renovate a Baseyard in a residential area that is not the
geographic or population center of the area it serves!
3. Allow the property to exist as its zoning dictates, and make it a safe and non-nuisance
community area. The surrounding oommunity would support a park and playground
(Makawao/Haiku/Haliimaile/Paia area has no county-funded playgrounds(!!!)), or
County Service and office area (as it was originally used). It could be a fire station or
police station or both. It could even continue to be used as a Baseyard, but its
operations need to be scaled back significantly so that it is not a nuisance to the
surrounding area, so that it stops breaking state laws pertaining to noise and air
pollution, and so the surrounding residents, neighbors, and families can once again
have peaceful and healthy use of their homes and yards.
26
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
APPENDIX
LETTERS FROM NEIGHBORS, MARCH 2021
Note: this is not an exhaustive list from concerned neighbors. A full list can be given if kept
in confidence for now: most neighbors feel concerned about retaliation based on previous
experiences with voiced concerns about the Baseyard. The neighbors who submitted
these letters are willing to attach their names publicly except where missing last names.
To Whom it may concern:
I live on Bums Place in Makawao, Maui County. I am writing today in hopes that the situation
is abided by within your own standards set in place regarding noise start/stop times. It is
supposed to be 7 am to 6 pm> but the baseyard definitely starts earlier than trash pick-up which
is about 4:30 am on some days. Maybe every day and I don’t notice it because I sleep with
earplugs some nights. Idling engines and then the fumes are the biggest complaint I have.
They’re busy at work, I get that, but it’s the constant coming and going. It would be great to not
have a baseyard so close to a residential street. What we’re breathing in and the noise decibel
issues addressed would be great for peace of mind and healthy conscience for quality of living
on Burns Place. Appreciate your time for considered changes.
Cheri & Jonathan Thurgood
Burns Place, Makawao
To Whom It May Concern:
I just moved into the corner unit of 3596 Burns PI. on January 1 st, 2021. Our landlady
lives on Oahu and did not allude to any noise we might hear from the baseyard before
we moved in. I'm already thinking of getting out of our year lease at 6 months because
between the baseyard and street noise I can’t handle! We moved from 5 corners in
Haiku so are not used to the “city noises”. I have been wondering how homeowners
on this street can put up with the constant beeping and truck noises 5 days a week
starting so early. The large gravel pile should not be so close to a residential area! I’m
even seeing/ hearing trucks puli in after 6 pm too. Not to mention the school buses
which are idling for up to 30 minutes at 5:30 a.m. On the weekends guys on
motorcycles are speeding up and down the entrance to the baseyard because the
gate is so far back. They think it’s a track. More than once I’ve gone out and asked
people to leave.
Surely there are restrictions on industrial practices in residential areas?
Sincerely,
Lisa Hotchkiss
3596 Burns PI.
27
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Dear Mr. Molina
My pride and joy is a little plantation home in Makawao town, designed and originally owned by
Hannibal Tavares In 1952. We’ve even framed the signed plans for the home and have them
hanging in the hallway. This house has original wood floors, windows and a big avocado tree in
the back yard that we generously share from. However, as much as I love this house, what
sold me was the neighborhood. I literally fell in love with this community the moment I turned
the corner on the narrow, one-lane, dead-end street.
Most of my neighbors have been here for decades. The couple across the street have lived
here all of their lives, and they’re in their mid-80s. Their yard is meticulously maintained. Two of
their kids live on the street, too. There’s a police officer on this street, A plumber. All hard
working people.
Every Christmas Eve, we exchange homemade baked goods and hand-written Christmas
cards. We lend tools. We share fruit. We know how everyone is doing because we talk to each
other often. Kids are always playing in the street, riding bikes or making up games and
pretending, as kids are supposed to do. We walked our rescue dog into Makawao town every
single day and know every employee at the Rodeo General Store.
We moved to Makawao from Kula in 2017, with the feeling of “we made it.” It’s the first home
we bought together. We purchased the house from a couple that lived here for 30 years and
raised three children here, one even getting married in the back yard. I love living in a home
and environment where so much joy has been had. It just feels right here. To us, it was perfect.
Unfortunately, one neighbor has been less than perfect. It’s a noisy, dirty, neighbor spewing
toxic exhaust into our bedrooms and breaking the law. It a neighbor that is being a nuisance to
us and disturbing the community greatly. We simply are at a loss as to what to do.
Who is this neighbor? The Makawao County Baseyard.
The Makawao County Baseyard shares a property line for those of us that reside on Burns PI.
Frankly, it's right smack dab in the middle of a residential neighborhood, stretching from
Makawao Ave. back to Puaina PI.
Having the baseyard behind our house really wasn’t too much of an issue at first. Sure,
sometimes the garbage trucks would start up at 4AM (instead of 7AM) and idle putting exhaust
into our bedroom, and the asphalt pile located just fifty feet from our bedroom window would
spread fumes into our home (and home office) so we’d have to shut our windows... but we
simply put up with it. We were trying to be good neighbors by not complaining, and it was a
small price to pay to stay in the community that we loved so much. Plus, on a typical day, work
started at 7AM. ended at 3:3QPM. and after that we just had a grassy field behind our house.
Then, the land was leased to TJ Gomes. It was a nightmare of dust and noise and trucks.
Later, after the lease was up, the Highways Division lost a storage area near the dump, and so
28
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
the nightmare continued. To be honest, it’s been  asoul crushing experience, especially having
experienced this during 2020, a year that has been already so ruthless to all of us.
Mr. Molina, I won’t go into ail of the zoning violations, the noise ordinances, or possible health
risks that go into being so close to what turned into a construction zone. I know that some of
my neighbors will be offering you the details on that and you can review that in depth with their
reports. Instead of going into the data, let me explain to you how it feels to lose that deep love
that I once felt for this neighborhood.
I work from home. I depend on a reasonable amount of peace and quiet to do this. I have a
creative job and prefer to work with the windows open, as it's warm here in Makawao. Trying to
work while truck exhaust is pouring through your window is not easy. Trying to work while
asphalt fumes are filling up your office isn’t easy. Trying to work while boulders are being
crushed, while beeping trucks are constant...isn’t easy.
Mr. Molina, kids are trying to do their virtual classes. Kids are trying to learn, under these
extremely unique pandemic-era circumstances, and parents are trying to set up an
environment void of distractions. It is impossible with the activity in the baseyard. I have
neighbors with lung issues that are exasperated by the fumes and dust and exhaust.
Neighbors that are elderly and trying to live their best retired lives at home that cannot rest in
the afternoon due to all of the nuisance. In addition, the neighborhood children have been just
walking into the unsecured baseyard and playing on the huge piles gravel {so dangerous!),
plus there has been documented illegal activity (like drug use), and I myself have heard a
woman screaming for her life one night in the darkness (yes, the police were called.)
Truthfully, and this is the hardest thing to admit: I am falling out of love with this neighborhood.
The place I'd often brag to my friends about...my little ‘‘Mayberry’’ kind of neighborhood. There
is no longer peace, no longer that feeling of nostalgia and warm and fuzzies. This is my home,
and because it also the place that I work, the environment within this home directly related
to my livelihood. The loss of these feelings, my creative energy, and my ability to be
productive in my own home makes me incredibly sad.
I have done research and have found that this baseyard is the only baseyard with garbage
trucks, asphalt and this kind of activity right next to people’s homes! Why? And how can we
possibly tell the county that they need to follow their own rules? We've tried. We can’t. Our
hands are literally tied. The county isn’t going to police itself, so Mr. Molina, you are our only
hope.
I am not asking for the county to get into trouble or pay fines. Please, please move the
baseyard to an industrial-zoned area, away from residential homes, away from people
trying to live a normal life.
There's a county-owned lot near the Haleakala Highway that would be perfect for staging road
work materials, smelly garbage trucks, and the like. Would it be too much to ask to just move
the disruptive activity there? I am not asking to move It all, just the activity that impacts us all
29
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
SO much. I would love to keep the county offices as neighbors, as we have never had any
problem with them. This would literally involve moving the trucks and piles of asphalt and rocks
to an area that is not only in a non-residential neighborhood, but would be an easier access
point for the trucks to go to the dump, etc. It is a truly a win-win!
Maybe the empty lot could become a simple playground for the dozens of children on the
streets flanking the baseyard. Makawao does not have a single playground! I know there’s that
one near Giggle Hill but I think that was funded by a private group or something. This
playground would be blessing in so many ways! Plus, there are areas upcountry that are more
conducive to the construction activity that has been taking place. Plus, the roads in Makawao
really could use a break from all of the heavy trucks coming through.
You are the only one that can really help us bring back the magic of this perfect little
neighborhood, and make it even better. Mr.Molina,  Ireally want to love living here again. So
many of us do. Please help us.
Sincerely,
Darlene Lesiak
Burns Place, Makawao
Dear Mr. or Ms. Baseyard person,
Let me tell you about the Baseyard. It is in my backyard. It has trucks. It has cats.
It has people. It has a big, ugly fence around it.
The trucks are super annoying and loud. This year  Ihave to do school at home
and so you guys have to move somewhere else because I can't hear my teacher
on Zoom.
The Baseyard looks like a junkpile and dustpile. Also the Baseyard has a very bad
name to it. I have to walk to my cousins' house sometimes and there are lots of
trucks driving out of the Baseyard, and it is very scary.
Can you leave this place and go somewhere where there are not any houses?
Please put your trucks where there are not any kids because it is very loud.
My name is Ezra, and I just turned seven years old. I go to Makawao School, but
not actually at school every day because of Covid. Mostly I have to do Zoom.
Thank you,
Ezra, Age 7
30
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Dear Baseyard President,
I would like to complain about my backyard. It Is very noisy at like 3 am, and I am
not growing because I don't get enough sleep. I am only like 3'4". By the way, I
am ten.
Whenever I am playing outside with my friends, I can hear you guys in the
backyard yelling to each other, like, "Hey bruddah!" But also sometimes bad
words. But also I wake up a lot of mornings to the talking and yelling.
There is also a lot of dust. One time there was so much dust, my friends and I had
to go inside. It just smells like dust, and like trucks, like exhaust. It also smells
like a trash can in the backyard. Are you keeping trash in the Baseyard? Because It
smells really bad, especially on Mondays and Saturdays.
Can you also please stop poisoning chickens? Sometimes a lot of chickens die in
our yard all at once. And there are a lot of cats in the Baseyard.
The big dust barrier fence is really ugly. The old one was better. And besides I can
still hear beeping ail day long even with the fence there. Usually when I unmute
my speaker on zoom class, the teacher cannot hear me because of the Baseyard
trucks.
Please ask the trucks to not be so noisy, smelly, and early in the morning.
Thank you,
Poem, Age 10
Dear Baseyard person,
Let me set the scene: you are having a wonderful dream, interrupted by, "beep
beep beep beep!" Is that your alarm clock? No. Your alarm clock is not supposed
to go off at 4:20 am in the morning.
I have lived here in this house since I was four, but I feel like I am a vampire,
because I don't like going outside because of the smelly smells of trash trucks, the
loud noises, and the lung burning exhaust. I have to clean the windows, that is
one of my chores. And the windows by the Baseyard get so black and dusty very
fast. And sometimes when I go outside, I get dust in my eyes. I really only like
going out in the late afternoon or night when the Baseyard is closed.
31
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Even inside the house with all the windows closed, it is very noisy and annoying.
On multiple occasions, I have heard the Baseyard workers swearing very loudly to
the point where I am sure everyone in the neighborhood, which is full of small
children, can hear It.
I used to walk to Makawao School when I was younger, and It was very scary
because the big Baseyard trucks would drive by very fast on my way to school,
especially as they took the shortcut on Brewer road. My mom would never let us
walk alone on Brewer because of the construction trucks from the Baseyard.
Don't even get me started on the dust barrier fence. It is the ugliest fence in the
history of the world. Why are you using it as a permanent fence? Those types are
supposed to be temporary, especially when they are that ugly. It really makes our
cute street kind of gross.
I have some ways I think you can fix the problems, but I really think a lot of these
trucks just need to be moved. Please contact me if you want more information.
Mahalo,
Elsie, Age 14
To whom it may concern.
My husband and I bought our home here on Burns Place nearly ten years ago. We
moved here from Kula. This home had previously been in the same family since it
was moved here in the 1950s, and prior to that it was a county tax office, and
prior to that it was a plantation home in Pu'unene. We love our home and plan on
living here for the rest of our lives.
Our back property line is shared with the county baseyard. We are the ONLY
property on the street that has a barrier between us and the baseyard, which is a
mock orange hedge that we spend considerable time maintaining. The hedge is 15
feet from the back of our house, and directly on the other side is where the
baseyard parks about 12 trucks. So basically, the baseyard trucks are at a
minimum of 15 feet from our home's back wall. Other neighbors have trucks as
close or closer, without the benefit of the hedge. However, we are directly
downwind from the majority of idling trucks, so we probably have it the worst of
anyone, or at least we are tied, if it is a competition of awfulness.
Before we bought this home, we did extensive research on the Baseyard. My
husband even got permission to camp out in this home’s yard to make sure the
trucks wouldn't be so loud before we bought the house. We talked to ALL of the
32
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
neighbors. Everyone said it was a nuisance, but not that bad, and that the roosters
were iouder than the trucks. Most of the neighbors here on Burns had lived here
their whole lives. But back then, the three or four garbage trucks left around 6:30
am, and came back around 2pm. That was the extent of the noise. There was also
a dump truck parked at the eastern end of our property that would rattle and bang
when the wind blew. The noise was doable.
However, over the years that we lived here, the activity, noise, and nuisance
increased. The county added to the small asphalt pile at the eastern end of our
yard until it was two massive piles, and our windows started getting black with
soot. Trucks started idling longer and longer. I actually have a log of egregious
idling over the last seven years, because I would call and talk to the Highways
Department about it periodically. I also had to make a complaint to the mayor's
office and Clean Air Maui because trucks were commonly idling for 30 minutes or
longer, filling my home with exhaust. I have five kids, two of whom were babies in
this house, so I was necessarily protective of the air quality. Idling got really bad
about five years ago, and the reverse beeping noise also increased. I didn't know
why until I saw drone footage of the baseyard recently and compared it to the
photos I have of the baseyard from when we first bought the house: there are AT
LEAST twice as many trucks as there were ten years ago.
I love my neighbors and my street. I love this street so much, as do my neighbors.
We are all invested in keeping this the best street on Maul. We help each other
out, get together, our kids play together, and most if not all of us plan on being
here until we die. So, I have had to put my neck out there for my neighbors when
the Baseyard has been especially horrible, and especially over the last few years. I
am the one who calls when a truck has been idling for an hour, when a horn is
blasted over and over for almost ninety minutes, or when the garbage trucks reek
of rotten meat and trash. I am the neighbor that yells at the workers to stop
swearing on the property line of my elderly neighbor's home. I help clean up all
the trash on the street from the baseyard after a wind storm. The neighbors call or
text me when something bad is happening, asking me to use the baseyard phone
numbers I have taped inside of my kitchen cabinets. I'm sort of the point-lady for
concerns and complaints.
Most of the neighbors are actually AFRAID of complaining. Some of the neighbors
have submitted grievances about exhaust, soot, and smells over the last thirty
years, and then have had bad things happen, or there trash doesn't get picked up,
or their cat goes missing. They believe they will be retaliated against if they stand
up to the baseyard. Further complicating the issue is that some neighbors get
favors from the baseyard, in exchange for putting up with the bad stuff: one
neighbor was pumping his septic refuse over Into the county's septic. Another
33
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
neighbor was allowed to throw his yard waste over into the baseyard for looking
the other way when the county employees had parties.
I actually SHOULD be afraid of complaining. I have twice been brought to tears
from my experiences with talking to the managers at the baseyard. Usually people
are nice, even if they don't change their bad behavior, and the workers in the
baseyard often invite me to their pau hanas in the grassy field on Friday
afternoons. But one time, about four years ago, I went over to speak to the refuse
manager about how disgustingly gross the trash trucks had been smelling, and
inviting him to come to Burns Place to smell what the neighbors had been
complaining about. He said to me, and I quote (the County Refuse Manager had
me write the exchange down), "You stupid haole! Why do you think we should
change just because you moved here?!" (I had lived here in this house for six
years at this point). He then actually yelled at me (I was at least ten years his
senior, and had not raised my voice at all) for awhile and closed with, "This is
where the trash trucks have ALWAYS parked, and if you don't like it, you should
just move." (Not true, the trash trucks only started parking there a few years
before we bought our house). Through tears, I got the County director's name
(George) and number, and he assured me that he would make sure the workers
cleaned out the fancy new catches on the brand new garbage trucks (which is why
they were smelling all of a sudden). That was great, but now I have to text or call
George every time the trucks reek (which is about every other weekend) to ask
him to ask the workers to clean the trucks. This has been going on for about four
years.
The second time I was brought to tears was last year, 2020, at the start of the
pandemic when the truck activity and construction significantly increased for the
second time in three years. My recently painted house was COVERED in black soot.
My elderly neighbors across the street, one of them a retired Marine with the
cleanest house and yard in Makawao, said he was sad at how dirty his house had
become all of a sudden (and he's lived here for fifty years). Neighbors started
coming outside aghast at the dust and soot in the air, even with the dust barrier
up. My kids began complaining that they didn't want to go outside anymore
because it was too dusty. The neighborhood kids were pouring into my house
because our large grassy yard was uninhabitable and unplayable during the day.
And this was all at the start of the pandemic when my teenagers still needed to do
their schoolwork online, but couldn't find anywhere in the house quiet enough to
work because of the non-stop truck and construction noise. I made a written
complaint in the office at the baseyard. The office assistants were nice, but
basically said that the baseyard was going to do what they want to do, they didn't
have anywhere to move the new construction and dirt piles, and the community
couldn't do anything about it. I asked them to please consider what it would be
34
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
like to live next door to the constant construction and trucks idling. They said
sorry, but the neighbors didn't really have any control or say over what they were
doing. That made me cry, right then and there. I'm not a cryer, but that is a
depressing thing to hear when your whole life and peaceful home is being turned
upside down. When they realized how upset I was, they promised that the director
would contact me so we could discuss all that was happening and the timeline for
it changing, which never happened. Within a week after I made the complaint,
they also cut down trees on the boundary lines of my neighbors and put up a dust
barrier up the street without talking to us. It felt like a direct attack.
I would like to bring up one more very personal concern. My husband was
diagnosed with a very serious and life threatening chronic lung condition just four
and a half years ago, which coincides with the increase of truck/machinery storage
and truck idling. The doctors don't know what caused his lungs to start acting like
they were 85, even though he is only in his early 40s. I don't want to blame the 12
hours a day of exhaust and asphalt fumes being blown into our property and
home, but it is tempting. At the very least, the exhaust and asphalt fumes
exacerbate his condition, and my once vibrant and energetic husband fights daily
for every breath. We do not have healthy use of our own home.
Put another way, we married the baseyard when we moved here. But I want a
separation. The baseyard has become unruly and illegal .I am prepared to do
whatever it takes to support my family, my neighbors, and my community to make
sure we have peaceful and normal usage of our homes, yards, and neighborhood.
The County's actions as the Upcountry Baseyard is concerned is deplorable.
Please contact me with further questions. I'm sure the report that the
neighborhood has prepared covers many of my other concerns, which are many. I
also know of at least five other households who are willing to make reports, if they
are not included in this initial report. We were told we will have other opportunities
to plead our case if we didn't get a letter In for this one.
Thank you for your time,
Aja Eyre
Burns Place, Makawao, HI
35
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Aloha Mr. Molina,
First let me thank you for your time and attention to this serious issue.
Our once quiet and safe neighborhood has become a never-ending nightmare. Imagine every day
beginning as early as 3:30am when you are woken up by garbage trucks that weighs 20 tons idling less
than 100 feet from your bedroom window. Idling that is loud enough to rattle your windows and
furniture. This is just the beginning to a long and loud day.
If you manage to fall back to sleep you will be awoken again by a 20 ton tractor only 20 feet from your
bedroom scooping and dropping a pile of asphalt repeatedly, for the purpose of stirring it. The toxic
asphalt fumes are so overwhelming you can literally taste them, even with the windows closed.
You spend the rest of the day trying to work from home, or worse yet watching your kids trying to learn
remotely, with the constant sound of reverse warning beeping. You have to keep your windows closed
all day, no matter how hot it is, but the windows are no match for industrial beeping, massive truck
engines, exhaust and thick dust.
24 hours a day an ugly 13 foot "temporary" dust barrier (that does not stop dust) looms over your house.
This is the short version of what the county has done to our neighborhood for over two years now. If I
took the time to tell you everything it would take 10 pages, so I will spare you.
Ifs important to note that this activity is illegal, as our report will show, but more importantly it’s just
wrong. It was not like this prior to the county leasing land to T. J. Gomes Trucking for a road
construction job. Once they finished the county continued with the illegal activity and there is no end it
sight. Enough is enough.
Our neighborhood is home to elderly people who have lived here for decades, some their entire lives.
There are over 20 young children who live in homes that share a property line with the baseyard. They
are subjected to the same constant noise, garbage smells, asphalt fumes and dangerous conditions. This
alone is just shameful.
1 am writing this letter to implore you to help end this 2+ year nightmare for our community. Would you
allow this in your back yard? Would you allow this in your family's back yard? This is an excellent
chance for you to do something truly amazing for hundreds of people. We need your help!
By the way, the entire time I was writing this multiple trucks are beeping only a few feet from my desk.
I feel like I'm losing my mind.
Thank you,
Kent Rayhill
36
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
To whom it may concern:
As we live very close to the upcountry base yard, we’d like to express some concerns. We
have three small children and the cars constantly going in and out of the baseyard (some
quite loud) from 7-3:30 every day is difficult as we try to leave our driveway and walk towards
Makawao town.
The exhaust and dust drummed up from the massive vehicles constantly going in and
out, the beeping when the trucks are in reverse, the engine breaks are ail noticeable. I think
the exhaust and dust is very frustrating for our neighbors and something they shouldn’t have
to deal with (especially those on Burns Place) as the trucks are right by their houses.
The baseyard put up a big black dust barrier but it is an eye sore and looks really bad.
It doesn’t fit in the community surroundings (church, residential houses, a cemetery and a
church). I guess the question is, why is the baseyard right in the middle of a residential
community?
There is so much empty land on this island and upcountry. I understand there is an
unused county dump lot right by the highway - why not move the operations there and let
everyone who lives in the proximity of the existing baseyard a sigh of relief. Put our tax dollars
to use with a nice park or playground (where are the playgrounds in Makawao?!).
I understand these trucks in the baseyard serve an important purpose, but please
house them somewhere else that isn’t in the middle of our community.
Thanks for you consideration
Eli and Julie
1305 Makawao Ave
To whom it may concern,
I grew up here on a property bordering the Upcountry Baseboard. There has been a major
increase in activity at the baseboard that negatively effects my peaceful enjoyment of my
home and property, and the home and property of my large family. Some of the worst aspects
are the following: Garbage trucks routinely wake me at around 4 am. There is a build up of
rock and pavement work, which has made the Baseyard very loud. I also do not appreciate
the workers sitting along my property line way before 3:30 pm, talking stories on our tax
dollars.
Thank you so much for your time, and I look forward to the community discussions about
what can be done to improve this area and our neighborhoods.
Thank you, Anonymous
37
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
To the County fo Maui Elected Officials and Employees,
Before we bought our house here on Burns place back in 2009 I got permission from the realtor to
come stay in the property overnight to assess how the base yard effects the property and the street. 1
remember waking in the morning and standing outside at 630 am and waiting for the noise and
commotion that was bound to come from a county run yard that houses county operations. I
remember hearing the gate open as some commotion started and hearing the horn at the beginning of
the work day at 7am. Our purchase of this house for our young family hinged on the impact of the
piece of land known as the “base yard”.
My report back to my wife was exactly what I had experienced and we determined that the house was
for us. We have poured our hope and love into this house and street with its great community and
careful care of yards and homes.
As the years have passed the base yard grass where we picnicked in the afternoon and flew kites with
the kids after closing time became first a hang out spot after work then a gravel pit, then a staging
area for repaving that benefitted a private company that was contracted to repave Kaupakalua.
Somehow that staging area has become something of  apermanent fixture smack dab in the middle of
a quiet residential neighborhood.
The ghastly twelve foot dust barrier is such an eyesore and the movement of mountains of asphalt has
created exponentially more dust than has ever been encountered on this street in it’s known
existence. Our good friends the Rego family who live in three houses on our street with two
generations have numerous times commented how dirty their houses now get. The meticulous care of
their great vintage houses require four times more cleaning than they did before. The black grime that
collects on the sides of houses and windows is undoubtedly entering our lungs and lives.
This is a street where if a neighbor goes into the hospital someone tells someone and their lawn gets
mowed and their house gets looked after. We have created an ideal community where if there is a
need and an older couple needs groceries someone on the street makes sure their pantries are
stocked.
Ten years later from our perspective, the operations of the base yard have changed markedly:
The work day begins at 330 or 4am marked with lots of loud talking and steering of diesel trucks that
are idled for far too long. A holdover from the old days when it was important to idle a diesel engine
before pulling out.
The backhoe moves asphalt less than twenty feet from our lanai.
The garbage trucks which are sometimes cleaned out and sometimes it seems not even dumped stink
enough to penetrate the walls of our 1921 plantation house.
I would suggest a rethink of the operations at this base yard. Perhaps finding a place to park the
trucks that are not so close to a residential neighborhood. Perhaps relocations the yard to another
locale that will put operations in a more convenient location to their largest responsibility. The old
Makawao landfill is a suggestion that has been made. The operations that are now taking place are
really intolerable and not within your own county regulations.
Your exasperated neighbor,
Jonah Eyre, Burns Place, Makawao
38
UPCOUNTRY BASEYARD REPORT
Dear Elected Person in charge of taking care of us citizens and listening to our concerns,
The base yard has caused heaps of problems here on Burns PI. I'm Camden Eyre and I'm 17
and am subject to the downgraded living conditions due to the county base yard being right
next to my house.
The base yard generates a ton of sound. On a street that is very quiet and relaxing during the
afternoons, it sure is a circus until 3:30 pm. A lot of the time my family and I have to talk really
loudly to hear each other, and when I'm in calls or online classes, I am afraid to unmute
because ! fear the people in the call will have their ears blasted out by the sound.
My family says that they are often woken up early due to the loud noise early in the morning.
Personally, I have never noticed this sound early in the morning because I'm a pretty deep
sleeper. I have, however, noticed an increase in grumpiness from the people in my family
when they say the trucks start up early in the morning.
I am always really annoyed because the guys always leave their trucks idling for like 30-40
minutes at a time. I don't understand why they do this. It is really annoying and seems like it
would be a waste of fuel and county money.
The second biggest problem in my opinion is the dust that it generates. We have to clean our
house (especially our windows) far more frequently than we should have to, and my very
extensive LEGO collection is always covered in dust. I also always have really bad allergies
when I'm home, and not when I'm away, which is probably an effect of all the dust in the air all
the time.
I wish you guys would move the baseyard or at least greatly tone down the procedures that
happen there. I don't understand why they are doing these fairly large scale operations in
such an urban area. There are houses on both sides of it and a church across from it. Plenty
of people have to deal with all the crap that goes on in there. That land is in a really good spot
for a bunch of other things, and I don’t see why we're wasting it on a baseyard that would be
much better off somewhere else.
Thanks for Listening,
Camden, Burns Place
39
RECEIVED
m\ AUG -5 AH 9: I qAugust 4, 2021
ChFIOE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Name: David Marts
Address: Piilani Villages, Kihei
I am a full-year resident of Maui, tax payer and voter, and I submit this testimony urging the Maui
County Council to reconsider the vote upon Bill No. 60 and override the Mayor's veto.
Bill No. 60 represents an opportunity for Maui government to act responsibly to protect the Aina for
Maui residents by restricting new commercial development of visitor lodgings.
How will Bill No. 60 protect the Aina?
● Limit the number of people who can reserve commercial lodging on Maui and it will bring relief
to the congestion and damage to our streets, beaches and parks. It will also slow the rapid
consumption of vital resources like water, power and emergency services.
● Restrict new commercial development of visitor lodgings and it will save the Aina from
urbanized blight where businesses abandon older, existing buildings for newer, more modern
properties developed on virgin land.
Through the simple principle of supply and demand, Maui can control the number of visitors arriving to
its shores. When the existing inventory of commercial hotels, resorts, time-shares and legally permitted
vacation rentals does not expand, there will be a natural restriction of visitors traveling to our island
home.
A limited inventory will drive up prices and yield higher tax revenues for the County while forcing
existing commercial enterprises to:
invest in their properties through renovation and modernization, which could provide
local construction jobs;
compete for the loyalty of its employees who best demonstrate Aloha by paying realistic
wages and offering liberal benefits;
engage in other best business practices to ensure preservation of visitor market share;
or
sell to entities more interested in the privilege of doing business on Maui.
I urge the Council to override the Mayor's veto on Bill No. 60.
County Clerk
Thomas Mellin <tmellin@yahoo.com>
Thursday, August 5, 2021 3:31 PM
County Clerk
CC 21-377, Bill No. 60 (2021)
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha,
Please override the Mayor's veto. There are too many tourists already, and if we are going to solve this problem, the
first thing we have to do is stop making it worse.
Mahalo,
Tom Mellin
40 Halili Ln., Kihei
200*T!
C TI
hO^ m
m
oI
V./1 moo *TJ <Z3S
m -H
;gx
xm
mw
O\-nO
1
7)m^.O“! m
c=August 5. 2021 CD
oI
mVI-<TO: Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins- Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members for the Maui County Council
O <O -n
mm 'i? O:;:3X
AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaiir*FR: w
RE: CC 21-377- Veto of Bill No. 60 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE TO ADD CHAPTER 40 RELATING TO A
MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS '
Hearing Date: August 6,2021 at 9:00AM
(Sent via e-mail to county.clerk@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing ARDA-Hawaii to submit testimony in STRONG OPPOSITION to Bill 60-
AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE TO ADD CHAPTER 40 RELATING TO A MORATORIUM
ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS.
Bill 60 establishes a two-year moratorium on building permits for visitor accommodations in South
and West Maui. The stated purpose of Bill 60 is to reduce Maui’s effect on climate change. However,
Bill 60 does not adequately address the issues created by the visitor industry and raises significant legal
concerns in the establishment of the moratorium.
Primarily, ARDA-Hawaii echoes Mayor Victorino's concerns pertaining to the lack of review by the
Maui Planning Commission and constitutional issues raised at previous hearings. Bill 60 has not been
reviewed by the Maui Planning Commission as required under Maui County Charter Section 8-8.4.
ARDA Hawaii believes that there is other similar legislation which follows the correct procedural steps
allowing for proper review by the Maui County Planning Commission and facilitating greater
community feedback. Further, Bill 60 raises multiple legal issue including: 1) violation of Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as the bill fails to substantially advance a legitimate state interest;
2) lack of rational basis to end the moratorium; 3) violation of vested rights; and 4) violation of Equal
Protection Clause as the bill treats similarly situated persons differently. Due to the Council and
County's potential liability, the aforementioned legal issues raise significant concerns and could place
an unnecessary burden upon Maui taxpayers.
Further, how will stopping the development of transient accommodations keep visitors from coming
to Maui? It won’t. The proposed moratorium will not abate Co2 emissions or significantly reduce the
impacts of climate change as visitors will continue to come. In addition, limiting the growth of hotel
units will force them to seek accommodations elsewhere including Maui's residential neighborhoods.
1
Today the fastest-growing segment within the visitor accommodations industry is short term rental
units. As drafted. Bill 60 only addresses the building permits which have no effect on short term rentals
in existing buildings. Bill 60 attacks the wrong targets at the worst possible time. If the purpose of the
bill is to ultimately decrease the visitor count, perhaps further regulation is needed on the number of
legal short term rental units that are allowed. Halting the issuance of permits for short term rental units
in residential neighborhoods will prevent an increase in visitors per year and would eliminate
tourism.”
over
In addition, there is no data to suggest that stopping the development of transient accommodations will
decrease the number of visitors to Maui, mitigate environmental impacts or improve residents’ quality
of life, all of which are stated goals. A moratorium is also not needed to adequately study the impacts
of tourism as the county works toward resiliency  -this can be done while the industry continues to
operate.
As (a member of/chair) of ARDA-Hawaii, which represents the vacation ownership and resort
development industries in Hawaii, I’m surprised that the County would want to stop timeshare visitors
from coming to Maui. The timeshare visitor has the exact profile of the type of visitor that we should
welcome with higher income levels, more spending off property in restaurants and local stores, and are
more likely to take care of their property, which for most is a home away from home, as they are
owners, not transients. We should be mindful that the timeshare industry could be part of the solution.
Furthermore, the timing of the moratorium is illogical from an economic perspective. It is concerning
that the County would deter capital investment in  atime where it is still recovering from the impacts
of pandemic. The County would risk forgoing substantial amounts of investment from being injected
into the economy creating jobs and vital tax revenue. The industry is a strong contributor to Maui’s
economy, providing more than $73 million per year in state and local taxes in addition to employment
of and income to Maui residents. Additionally, ARDA-Hawaii and the hotel industry supports the
community through charitable donations to on-island organizations, such as Maui Food Bank, Maui
Memorial Medical Center Foundation and Boys and Girls Club of Maui, among others.
Moreover, adding a layer of government bureaucracy on the permit system with restrictions will cause
expensive delays and increase the price of everything constructed here on Maui. When hotels undergo
reconstruction, units are already taken out of inventory for up to 2 years. In conjunction. Bill 60 would
make less units available during the moratorium further discouraging redevelopment of hotels to
maintain their competitiveness and allow them to retreat from sea level rise.
In sum, ARDA-Hawaii supports the Mayor's veto of Bill 60 and strongly opposes the measure. Due
consideration should be given to the potential legal ramifications and broader economic impacts of the
proposed measure. ARDA- Hawaii respectfully ask that you defer this measure and uphold the veto of
Bill 60. Thank you for your consideration of my comments.
Respectfully submitted.
Ryan Nobriga
Maui Task Force Chair
ARDA Hawaii
2
RECEIVED
m\ ftUG -5 AH 9= 13
HAWAIIFARM BUREAU
MOLOKAI CHAPTER .mCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
'A
Post office Box 544
Hoolehua, Hawaii 96729
The Molokai Farm Bureau serves as Molokai's voice of agriculture to protect, advocate and advance the social, economic and
educational interest of our diverse agricultural community. We ore also an arm of the Hawaii Form Bureau Federation, organized in
1948 and comprised of 1800 farm families statewide.
Council of the County of Maui
First reading of CR 21-56 {CARE-23)
August 6, 2021
9:00am
Online hearing via BlueJeans link: https//maui.bluejeans.com/295235670
Date:
Time:
Place:
Written Testimony in OPPOSITION to CR 21-56 (CARE-23)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins Fernandez, and Councilmembers:
Thank you for allowing the Molokai Farm Bureau to submit testimony in opposition to CR 21-56 (CARE-23).
The Molokai Farm Bureau's purpose is to represent, protect and advance the social, economic and educational interest of the
farmers of Molokai; and although this bill is not currently directed at agricultural use on County lands, casting unsubstantiated
doubt on EPA federally approved pesticides and fertilizers brings no benefit to Maui County residents.
We live in a tropical climate and the County should have the ability to utilize all reasonable pesticide and fertilizer tools to
effectively and efficiently prevent hazards and liabilities, to maintain a quality of life for all Molokai, Lanai and Maui residents.
The Molokai Farm Bureau would like to submit the following items to the Council for consideration:
ARE "ALLOWED" PESTICIDES AND FERTILIZERS LABELED APPROVED FOR HAWAII USE?
Of all the pesticides and fertilizers listed as "allowed" on the National List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances, listed
in title 7 Code of Federal Regulations 205.601, 205.603, 205.605, and 205.606 - how many labels are actually approved
for use in Hawaii?
We ask this information be provided to the Council and any impacted County departments prior to any decisions.
Application scenarios and needs constantly vary, having limited labels approved for Hawaii use may considerably impact
the County's management of vegetative overgrowth and insect pressures-causing important safety and liability issues.
The waiver provision provided in this bill may only prove to obfuscate the approved for Hawaii use label requirement.
To successfully address any onslaught of detrimental pests or invasive species, the County would not only need the
ability to react quickly to contain further spread, the waiver provision would not alleviate the County's responsibility
from having to apply for a Special Local Needs Permit from the State, if needed, let alone identify the most
effective/least impactful product in a timely fashion.
Page 1 I 2
HAWAIIFARM BUREAU
MOLOKAI CHAPTER
Post Office Box 544
Hoolehua, Hawaii 96729
DESTROYING NON-TARGETED BUT BENEFICIAL VEGETATION AND INSECTS
Organic herbicides are mostly non-selective, meaning they will also destroy non-targeted vegetation and Insects that
may be beneficial to the environment (vegetation and insects not intended to be destroyed). This can lead to an
unbalanced or off-balanced eco-system and can negatively impact important native vegetative and insect species.
As farmers we recognize the importance of beneficial insects to maintain the intricate balance in our fields to prevent
damage and disease, and for pollination to occur.
IS THIS THE BEST USE OF COUNTY MONIES DURING A GLOBAL PANDEMIC?
To live and do business in Maui County we all understand being fiscally responsible. We respectfully question if this is
the best use for County money when the pandemic is in fact, resurging?
Needed recovery for your longtime Maui, Molokai and Lanai residents and businesses can far outweigh a bill that will
cost tax paying residents (approximately $10 million for the first year for only just the Parks and Rec department).
Looking around one can see these monies are very likely needed elsewhere.
More BALANCED EDUCATION is needed.
We all consistently use inherently harmful things in some shape or form on a daily basis. We have learned how to be
comfortable with the associated risk because we understand the dosage and/or how to mitigate harm -think electricity,
gas, medication, sanitization, travel.
Those of us involved in agriculture understand the apprehension of pesticide use, we also understand that responsible
use has positively contributed to an overall better quality of life in Maui County. And as users, we are committed to
engaging others about who we are, what we do, and how responsible use of pesticides - like other inherently harmful
things - can be an important tool and an asset to our lives.
On behalf of the Molokai Farm Bureau, thank you for your time. We hope you consider not passing this bill.
Sincerely,
Nate Oswald, President
Molokai Farm Bureau
Page 212
0)
o>
RECEIVED
ZOZI AUG -6 AH iO-- 04
c O 'r-CO O (/} C
£  > £X? ocu o
o
o ^
For Maui County
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKCounty of Maui Council Members
200 S. High Street
Kalana O Maui Bldg 8th Floor
Waiiuku. HI 96793
CC: Honorable Michael Victorino
Augusts, 2021
Aloha Maui Council Members;
My name is Darla Palmer Ellison, and I am submitting this testimony on behalf of the Climate Action Advisory Committee,
or CAAC in support of overriding the veto on Bill 60. The Climate Action Advisory Committee (CAAC) provides community
input and proposals to the Maui County Council and Administration on issues related to the effects of the climate crisis on
Maui County and actions to mitigate and adapt to them.
There is a plain and simple fact that Bill 60 addresses. If you build more visitor accommodations, more visitors will come.
Maui Hotel and Lodging Association Executive Director Rod Antone was quoted in Maui Now saying, “The industry,
government and the community must work together to come up with legislation that helps us better manage tourism."
Over Tourism, including overcrowding and overtaxing of natural resources and diminishing the island way of life, was
already out of control before the pandemic, but nothing was done during that time, or since to make a better plan. Bill 60 is
legislation that does that.
Regarding our economic recovery, Bill 60 does not affect any projects already approved. It does give us a future pause to
make better tourism plans, including more closely aligning with community plans.
Our post pandemic economic recovery has exceeded expectations. We are back to pre-pandemic levels. Over tourism is
killing the environment and our way of life, and is going to kill tourism without action. Tourism should be a healthy and
appropriate mix of our economy. It is not, as evidenced by how far it is exceeding community plans. We are at a tipping
point, facing diminishing returns where Maui is no longer be "No Kai Oi". If you keep allowing more visitor
accommodations to be built, more visitors will come.
The effects of increased tourism in worsening the climate crisis and eventually making Hawai'i unable to support human
life are even more profound. The Hawaii State Legislature recognizes this urgency, declaring a climate crisis for the state.
An increase in visitor lodging will inevitably result in an increase in visitor traffic and other environmental impacts. We
therefore ask that this item be under the purview of the County of Maui Climate Action Resiliency and Environment
(CARE) committee.
A 2010 study at UH Manoa, published in Energy Economics, writes that "emission rates generated by visitor demand are
estimated to be higher than that of residents by  afactor of 4.3 for carbon, 3.2 for methane, and 4.8 for nitrous oxide.” That
is mostly due to the huge amounts of greenhouse gas emissions from trans-pacific flights and from intense use of rental
ground transportation. 18M tons of C02 equivalent emissions were generated by air travel in 2019 to and from Hawai'i.
That can be compared to a total of 7.8M tons from all power plants and refineries, and 4M tons from all ground
transportation. Do you want to continue to increase these climate killing emissions? This data does not begin to address
the impacts of tourism once visitors are on island, where tourist far outnumber residents and exceed community plans.
Maui does not need more visitor accommodations and more visitor traffic. On the contrary, we desperately need to reduce
them for climate change reasons and to increase resident housing.
The CAAC urges the County Council to consider preserving our island culture, support resident housing and embrace
potential climate crisis benefits by supporting an override of the Mayor’s veto, and create a MORATORIUM ON BUILDING
PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS.
Respectfully,
Darla Palmer-Ellingson
Climate Action Advisory Committee
808-280-0949
360socialbiz@Qmail.com
RECEIVED
ZOZI AUG -5 PH q: 13A r .
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
August 5, 2021
Council of the County of Maui
RE: MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS {Bill 60), item CC 21-377
Hearing date and time: Friday, August 6, 2021 at 9:00 a.m.
Aloha Chair and Council Members,
I am Co-Founder of the Hawaii chapter of 350.org, the largest international organization dedicated to
fighting climate change. 350Hawaii.org strongly supports Bill 60, the proposed moratorium on
building permits for visitor accommodations, and is also in strong support of overriding the Mayor's
veto. We also wish to thank those councilmembers who have voted in support of this important
measure and encourage you to continue this support.
This proposed bill would amend the building code to place a moratorium on visitor accommodations
development in West and South Maui, an action which would help ensure the County stays on track to
implement critical plan action items relating to the visitor-industry impact on the County's
environment. By doing so, this bill would help preserve the County's environment and efforts towards
climate change mitigation and resilience-building.
Earlier this year the State Legislature followed Maui County's lead and officially declared a Climate
Emergency for Hawaii. But it is not enough to acknowledge the crisis we face, meaningful actions to
address the climate crisis must be taken. This moratorium would do just that by providing the County
with dear policy direction to mitigate climate change and work toward resilience.
Mahalo for the opportunity to testify in support of overriding the Mayor's veto for the proposed
moratorium on building permits for visitor accommodations.
Sherry Pollack, Co-Founder, 350Hawaii.org
Count^Cler^ pcr;ri\/rrn
Dariene Rayhill <darlene@ohanafilms.com>
Friday, August 6, 2021 11:13 AM
County Clerk
Yukilei Sugimura
Darlene Lesiak's Written Testimony for CC 21 -392
From:
Sent: 2021 AUG-6 AH l|: 16
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Cc:
Subject:
Aloha to all of the Councilmembers, and thank you so much for listening to my testimony today.
Councilmember Sugimura requested that I submit a written testimony, and what I said during the meeting today is
below in blue.
The links to the referenced Post Closure Plans for the Makani and Central Maui Landfills are linked below my testimony
as well as some data on the emissions of the landfills (Makani Landfill is currently emitting 0!) and a link to the Makani
Landfill Remediation funding plans which seems to cut off funding of the Makani Landfill as of 2017 (maybe this is why
the Department of Highways and Transportation lost it's staging area?)
Thank you, thank you, thank you for reviewing all of this and I look forward to working together to find a lasting
solution! Whether it be at the Makani Landfill or wherever it is as long as it Is not an environmental and health hazard to
residents, we will all be very happy.
Finally, I thought you might like to listen to the song about the Old Makawao Dump/Makani Landfill while reading
though everything:)
Throw the record on and enjoy:
Bottles & Cans
8/6/21 Darlene Lesiak on CC 21-392
Aloha and good morning everyone! First off, thank you to Councilmember Molina and his office for meeting
with us the past several months, listening to us, and for making this meeting happen. We are beyond grateful
to testify on CC 21-392.
I am sure you have heard about the problems of the activities of the baseyard from the community report
we've submitted plus from the other people testifying, so I am going to use my couple of minutes talking
about the solution:
We were told that the increase of activity behind our house was due to "losing another staging area" which we
have come to find out was the Old Makawao Landfill. The increase of activities include the use of heavy
machinery, so much so that it shakes our houses and fills our homes with exhaust.
Now, back to the Old Makawao Landfill, also known as the Makani Landfill. We were told that due to the "post
closure plan" that the county could no longer use that site as a staging area for this heavy machinery and piles
of gravel, asphault, storm debris, etc.
As a resident, my research is limited to the internet, but I was able to find copies of the post closure plan for
the Makani Landfill as well as the post closure plan for the Central Maui Landfill.
1
The Central Maui LandfilTs post closure plan, last amended in 2019, prepared by A-Mehr, Inc., reads as this:
"Portions of the closed landfill areas may be developed for permissible activities associated with the County's
solid waste management program, including equipment storage, or use as a maintenance and vehicle storage
yard for refuse collection vehicles"
The Makani Landfill post closure plan, prepared by Parametrix, Inc. in August of 1991, which has no
amendments, reads as this:
"final land use will be natural open space, with the inclusion of passive recreational facilities possible in the
future"
My request is simple: for County Council to vote to amend the Makani Landfill post closure plan to include
verbiage of the Central Maui Landfill's post closure plan:
equipment storage, or use as a maintenance and vehicle storage yard for refuse collection vehicles
That way, the heavy equipment and staging can move back to Makani Landfill as soon as the amendment is
made. Storage of garbage trucks can move there, too. It would be a win-win for everyone.
Perhaps the existing baseyard remains a place for some county activity - the current offices can stay, but
perhaps other county office activity could be there as well, which is much more appropriate for a residential
neighborhood. Or best yet, it could provide a much needed place for children, like a playground.
Again, I am begging you to vote to amend the Makani Landfill Post Closure Plan and to move the heavy
machinery back there. If the space has been used before it seems like this is an easy solution for everyone.
We've tried ail other avenues, we have prepared reports and letters and although some amazing changes have
been made big ones still need to take place. Please work your County Council magic to make this happen.
Thank you for your time.
Reference links:
Makani Landfill Post Closure Plan
Central Maui Post Closure Plan - Jump to Section 6.4
Makani Landfill Remediation - Page 9
Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Landfills in Maui County
Lots of aloha,
Darlene
Darlene Rayhill
Ghana Films
808.446.6442
ohanafilms.com
2
Count^Clerk
evan ryan <evnryan@hotmai!.com>
Wednesday, August 4, 2021 7;15AM
County Clerk
Support of CR21-56
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I am writing in my support of CR21-56. Synthetic pesticides and fertilizers do not belong anywhere on the earth. They
are poisons for our natural environment and all of us living on this land. They poison our reefs and our drinking water
and make us sick. We have to find other solutions. As an organic farmer of 25 years producing tens of thousands of
pounds of food per year, 1 can tell you there are other solutions.
Mahalo-
Evan Ryan
www.hawaiihomegardens.com
www.ponogrown.org
Sent from my iPhone
OC
Oti
C2]
~i m
:x)5a-
m
oi
ni-<
Oo>n
mm—i
m ao00
1
PHYLLIS SHIMABUKURO-GEISER
Chairperson. Board of Agriculture
DAVID Y. IGE
Governor
MORRIS M. ATTA
Deputy to the Chairperson
JOSH GREEN
Lt- Governor
State of Hawaii
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
1428 South King Street
Honolulu. Hawaii 96814-2512
Phone; (808)973-9600 FAX; (808) 973-9613
ooO "n
CH
50"i m<
73mc=TESTIMONY OF PHYLLIS SHIMABUKURO-GEISER
CHAIRPERSON, BOARD OF AGRICULTURE
«r>
oI
mO <oBEFORE THE MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL -n
mrn
POX
7; n'»
●o
OAUGUSTS, 2021
9:00 A.M. j=
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-56
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 2, ARTICLE 50,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO CATEGORIES OF PESTICIDE
AND FERTILIZER USE ON COUNTY PROPERTY
Chairperson Lee and Councilmembers:
Thank you for the opportunity to testify on Committee Report 21-56, that would establish
a bill determining the categories of pesticide and fertilizer allowed for use on County property.
The Hawaii Department of Agriculture (the "Department”) recognizes the challenges the County
has with maintaining County owned property and offers the following comments with concerns
for the Council to consider.
The “List of allowed and Prohibited Substances" (Title 7 CFR 205.601,205.603,
205.605, 205.606) are lists of products which are synthetic and non-organic products allowed
for organic crop and livestock production, organic processing, and as additives. It is not a
comprehensive list of organic pesticide products and is only intended to be used for crop
production or crop processing, not for landscaping, maintenance, golf courses, nurseries, etc.
The Department has concerns with the List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances rather than
using a third-party list of approved organic products.
In reference to 2.50.040 A.3.b., insect repellents are a wide-ranging category of
pesticides. The Department comments that the County needs to define which insect repellents
are allowable, such as mosquito repellent or other more specific insect repellents.
In reference to 2.50.040 B.3. the Department comments with an amendment to
proposed language; “Invasive species that are likely to cause economic or environmental harm
or harm to human health". The original language may be interpreted as focusing on only newly
introduced invasive species.
0^^ I!
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 21-56
August 6, 2021
Page 2
The Department is also concerned with the final section of 2.50.060. The rule
implementation and enforcement by the Director of Public Works contemplated by this bill may
conflict with the Department’s federally mandated duties. Although these rules and ordinances
may be more restrictive than federal or state law, overlapping duties may jeopardize the
Department’s funding from our cooperative agreement with the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify on this measure.
RF^FiVEDCount^Clerk
David Simonson <advertisingdave@yahoo.com> Ajjg „5 9** I 3
Thursday, August 5, 2021 7:57 AM
County Clerk
County Communication 21-392 ffice of the
From:
Sent:
To:
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
To the honorable members of Maui County Council,
I am writing this, in regards to the County Baseyard in Makawao (Maui County Highway Division Garage -
1295 Makawao Ave, Makawao, HI 96768). I was a resident of 3500 Burns Place, for seven years (2011-
2018). During the time I resided there, I experienced numerous incidents and issues with the County
Baseyard. The worst issues and incidents that I experienced were as follows;
a.) Excessive Machinery Noise: Large air tools being used, honking of truck horns, back-up beepers,
testing of garbage truck equipment/mechanisms, generai heavy equipment machinery, and the moving-
around of heavy loads.
b.) Excessive Human Noise: On a DAILY basis I would hear the employees calling to (more like yelling
to) each other. This was a result of their wearing ear protection or trying to talk over the general loud
noises of their work. Unfortunately, I also heard on a DAILY basis, an ARRAY OF PROFANITY (especially F-
Bombs) being used amongst workers. This resulted in my making dozens of phone calls to the office and
also calling over the fence to the workers asking them to stop swearing. During this time, my neighbor
had just given birth and also had a 3 year old son at home. It was not language that a mother and young
children should be subjected to. Despite the best attempts of the office in talking to the workers to keep
their voices down and NOT use profanity, this would sadly occur the next day and every day after.
c.) Personal Use On Weekends and After-Hours: I heard and observed County Employees bringing in
their personal trucks, horse trailers and other equipment to use County facilities to work on their personal
vehicles. I used to look forward to the whistle that would indicate closing time of the Baseyard. After
enduring the loud and annoying noises of the Baseyard, it was after hours and weekends that could at
least provide some respite and peace for me. So it was incredibly annoying to have those times
interrupted by County Employees who were using the facility for their own personal use. This occurred on
an almost abusive level. It was shocking to me that this facility could be used for "personal use" when it
was a County-funded facility and the workers could bring in their trailers and vehicles to work on them.
d.) Excessive Idling of Vehicles; On a daily basis, there were vehicles being left idling for long periods
of time. Especially in the early-morning hours. The trash/garbage trucks were typically the worst
culprits. However, even heavy equipment vehicles were left idling in some cases for close to an
hour. This also resulted in my calling the office to complain. Both the noise and the diesel fumes would
carry directly into the windows of my house. I would often have to shut all the windows that faced
towards the Baseyard just to make life tolerable.
During my seven years on Burns Place I became very good friends with neighbors. When I moved to
Kula, I was very sad to leave them. However, I was not one bit sad to leave the noise and chaos of the
Baseyard! When I go back to visit these friends,  Iam really shocked at how this noise level has only
increased and gotten worse. Even more shocked to see just how much larger the baseyard use has
grown-out towards Makawao Avenue. I used to be able to walk my dogs in what I used to call "the park'
(in front of the gates of the Baseyard). It used to be a lovely open, grassy area, but now it looks like an
eye-sore. It appears that it is being used for added Baseyard storage for dirt, gravel and other
materials. It is shocking to see how this County Baseyard growth is encroaching upon the homes on the
upper-side of Burns Place.
Having a facility like this, located so close to residential homes, is simply not a sensible long-term
plan. Something should be done to relocate this facility or enact much stricter guidance and limitations
1
that could be put in place to have some level of harmony between the facility and the residents that have
to live next to it.
Respectfully yours,
David Simonson
(808) 276-8289
This email contains client-specific, confidential and/or proprietary information intended only for the
individual(s), or company, named above. If you have received this message in error, we ask that you
immediately destroy/delete this original message and all copies. If you would please take a minute to
contact the sender, and advise them of this incident. It would be greatly appreciated.
2
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Stillys <stil[ys@hawaii.rr.com>
Thursday, August 5, 2021 9:20 AM
County Clerk
Testimony Aug 6, Agenda Item 21-377, Bill 60 (2021)
To:
Subject:
Aloha esteemed council members, I encourage the council to override the mayor’s veto of Bill 60 (2021). The
county needs to take immediate action to stem the potential development of more visitor accommodations until
the community plans are updated and implementation plans are in place. This is a 2 year moratorium at best,
not a forever stay on building. The mayor’s idea of waiting for something different will likely take more time than
that to be enacted, meanwhile nothing changes. Resort hotels are nowhere near 100% capacity, so where is
the need for more at this time? Let’s get started on something constructive now.
Thank you for your service.
Patricia Stillwell
227 Kamakoi PI, Kihei 96753
This email has been checked for viruses by Avast antivirus software.
www.avast.coma
GO
C
hO<
73mc=cn
of
\-n
oo <T1
mm H "i?
X m aJS
1
RECEIVED
im AUG -5 AH 9= 13Via email to e-mail: county.derk@mauicounty.us
Office of the County Clerk
200 S. High St
Kalana 0 Maui Bldg, 7th fl.
Wailuku, HI 96793
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
n/iAuiicouKrrvK
FAR
August 6, 2021
M Testimony for CR 21-56; Recommending first reading of a bill
establishing Chapter 2.50, Maui County Code, determining the categories
of pesticide and fertilizer allowed for use on County property;
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 2.50, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO PESTICIDE AND FERTILIZER USE ON
COUNTY PROPERTY
OQ
PO Box 148, Kula, H! 96790
mauicountyfarmbureau.org
Executive Director
Warren K. Watanabe Aloha Chair Lee and Councilmembers,
Board of Directors: Thank you for the opportunity to review and comment on the proposed
ordinance to ban non-organic pesticides and fertilizers on County
property. Because the bill has implications far beyond County properties,
it should be thoroughly and carefully deliberated since its effects will be
widespread. And although the ban is purportedly not intended to impact
farming in Maui County, we believe this proposal will harm our farmer's
ability to grow food and other crops. Taking effective tools away from
the County of Maui departments tasked with managing county lands will
severely hamper their ability to combat weeds, insects, and species that
transmit diseases, and that in turn will affect farms near county roads
throughout the Maui county.
The Maui County Farm Bureau supports reducing risk to people and the
environment through science and evidence-based policies and
regulations that provide well-considered solutions to tangible problems.
We are concerned that this bill is not based on those principles. The
following are some of our concerns.
President
Kyle Caires
Vice President
Joshua Shyloh Staffordjones
Secretary
Heidi Watanabe
Treasurer
Tim Stevens
Directors:
Rodrigo Balala
Brendan Balthazar
Lack of scientific rationale The bill is not based on health and
safety considerations. It bans synthetic pesticides and fertilizers
without examining the comparative toxicity and safety of the
proposed allowable products. Just because something is natural does
not mean it is safe. Similarly, just because a product is not organic,
this does not mean it is unsafe.
Usurps federal and State regulatory authority The bill does not
take into account and is inconsistent with the rigorous, science-based
State and federal laws and regulations governing pesticide and
fertilizer use. It usurps the regulatory authority of the State
James “Kimo'' Falconer
Mario Gaggero
Teena Rasmussen
Carver Wilson
Department of Agriculture regarding pesticide use. How does the
Council intend to reconcile the inconsistencies of this proposed
ordinance with the existing laws?
● Road safety As County motorists, pedestrians, and taxpayers,
are concerned that the Department of Public Works, under this
proposal, may be unable to adequately maintain the more than 1,000
miles of Maui County roads and shoulders to control overgrown
brush and prevent weeds from impacting drivers' views. Using steam
machines for weed control brings its own set of safety problems and
ignores the fact that these machines emit additional C02 into the
atmosphere, the very thing that the Climate Action Committee is
trying to curtail.
● Limited efficacy ofallowed products and methods The Director of
Public Works expressed concerns about the effectiveness of the
allowed pesticides and fertilizers in hard-to-reach areas, cracks in
roads, and under guardrails. Overgrown vegetation can impede
mobility on pedestrian paths and bikeways, hinder visibility
roadways, and block drainage corridors causing backups and
flooding in drainage structures. Vegetation growing in cracks along
sidewalks, curbs, and gutters can damage asphalt and concrete, at
great expense to taxpayers. The Department has reasonably asked to
be allowed to use minimal applications of conventional products
[banned if this law is enacted] in hard to reach
where mechanical control of vegetation is difficult to accomplish. The
Highways Division has already committed to using the bare
minimum of herbicides [10 to 15 gallons annually] to
roadways and intersections remain safe and passable with clear
visibility of signs, markings, guardrails and intersections. This bill
appears to be unnecessary and is too inflexible to be workable.
● Road worker safety Dr. Joe DeFrank, a well-respected University of
Hawaii College of Tropical Agriculture weed scientist, stated in no
uncertain terms that the bill will take away the ability to maintain
safe roads. Because effective herbicides will be banned, weeds will
proliferate under guard rails, below signs, and within line of sight
around turns. He predicted that deaths and injuries will occur due to
the failure to control weeds and maintain safe roads. He explained
that the proposed allowable pesticides only bum down .small weeds,
allowing for the perennial grasses and weeds to rebound rapidly. Dr.
DeFrank cautions that the bill will require roadway workers to spend
more time near traffic, dangerously mowing and spraying weeds that
would otherwise be controlled with safe conventional herbicides.
The pesticide prohibitions of this bill, he warns, will lead to increased
risks of death and serious injury to County workers and residents.
● Cost/benefit No funding was allocated to produce a cost/benefit
analysis for this new law. Without such an analysis, the Council will
we
on
areas or in areas
ensure
be unable to determine the cost of this ordinance both to the
Departments and to the taxpayers of Maui County. It will also make it
impossible for Councilmembers and the public to know whether
there is any benefit or disadvantage of the proposal. The
Departments expressed significant concerns regarding the cost of
implementing the proposed law, noting that limiting their use of
effective products would necessitate additional equipment and
staffing that would double or triple their current budget needs. They
warned that if their budgets were not increased, the playing fields
would become unsafe. The Department of Parks and Recreation
estimated that it would cost approximately $6 million extra for the
first year of implementation if this bill is enacted.
● Public Rlght-to-Know, Transparency The outcome of the
demonstration projects sponsored by the Beyond Pesticides group to
reduce or eliminate pesticide use by the Parks and Public Works
departments was never made public. Since the bill appears to be
based substantially on the claims of this group and its experiments,
the results of them are germane to the Council's deliberation on this
bill and could provide a dearer picture of the projected costs to
implement this measure. We urge the Council to publicize the results
of these projects in advance of Council deliberations on this matter.
● Experts ignored The testimonies from the UH CTAHR weed
scientist, the County Departments of Parks and Recreation and Public
Works seem to have been ignored. The Parks Department testified
that it is no longer using any pesticides or fertilizers at County beach
parks and most passive parks. Out of over 3,000 acres of land that the
Department is responsible for, pesticides or fertilizers are used on
less than ten percent of the properties, when necessary. Importantly,
the Department testified that there are currently no proven or
effective "Organic or Natural" pesticides to control the major grassy
weed species in the parks and that the Department is continuously
trying new and potentially safer products as the science and
technology becomes available. This strategy would no longer be
practical or timely under the bill since new tools would be
unavailable for use by the County, unless the Council [non-experts)
grants a waiver for a specific product based on very limited criteria.
The 180-day process would allow fungal, bacterial, and pest
outbreaks to jeopardize the safety and use of fields and surrounding
areas.
● Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is a realistic alternative
MCFB echoes the Department's request that any new legislation
provide enough flexibility and tools to manage vegetation in order to
keep our roadways safe. Along with the Department, we also
respectfully request that as an alternative to a ban, the Council
consider development and implementation of an Integrated Pest and
Vegetation Management Plan, as used successfully in other
municipalities to manage vegetation at acceptable levels to provide
healthy public recreational opportunities with the minimum use of
fertilizers and pesticides.
● Establishment of weed seed banks and impact to agriculture The
Departments warn that in Hawaii, unlike on the mainland, our typical
warm weather conditions allow weeds to flourish and germinate
seeds year-round. This results in the continuous production of weed
seeds that create a huge weed seed "bank” that is nearly impossible
to control and prevent from spreading into residential and
agricultural lands. Even if the proposed measure does not directly
apply to agriculture lands, it will negatively impact farming on Maui
as farmers and ranchers battle to prevent the take-over of productive
lands by weeds, insects, and diseases.
● Justification for tlie bill We respectfully question the justification
for this bill. Non-organic pesticides and fertilizers can be used safely
and they are being used safely in Maui County. The Departments
noted that no environmental study has been done showing that the
pesticide and fertilizer use at the Waiehu Golf Course or County
playing fields is causing adverse effects to the environment on the
property or adjacent properties. There has been no ecological study
performed on or around Waiehu Golf Course showing that the
pesticide and fertilizer usage has impacted living organisms or their
environment. If the County Departments' staff requires
pesticide use education and training, the State Department of
Agriculture provides that service. It also provides enforcement for
any improper use of pesticides. This proposal attempts to create a
solution for a problem that does not exist
MCFB hopes that our concerns will be addressed. We note that
Councilmember Sinenci, the introducer of this bill, stated during the
Committee meeting on July 21» that the bill is not intended to apply to
agriculture. Due to the above-mentioned concerns, however, we believe
that this bill will in fact negatively affect farming and ranching on Maui.
Thank you for your thoughtful consideration of our concerns and
comments. We urge you to send this matter back to Committee for
further study.
Sincerely,
new
more
Warren K. Watanabe
Executive Director
Count^Cerk
From:
Sent:
Madolin Wells <wellsmadolin@gmail.com>
Thursday, August 5, 2021 3:24 PM
County Clerk
PLEASE OVERRIDE THE MAYOR'S VETO OF BILL 60
To:
Subject:
Greetings Council members,
Many thanks to all of you working so hard for the needs of the community! The pause in new building and necessary
limitations on extending leases is critical if we are to save our way of life here and of Maui's future economically as well
as environmentally and in terms of quality of life.
Preventing Mayor Victorino's veto of Bill 60 is critically important. He must be held to his word that he too is concerned
about over-tourism. With expert legal support and overwhelming community as well as council support for pausing new
vacation building, now it the time to enable re-thinking how we go about planning for the future - and for managing the
sagging infrastructure for what is already burdening Maui.
Mahalo nui loa.
Madolin Wells
Kihei
SOO “n
c *n
H
mG->
oIm-< v-n moo -n <m H mw73:L
X m aNO
1
RECEIVED
?0?l AUG -2 PM 4: 16
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSTATE OF HAWAII
STATE CAPITOL
HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813
August 02, 2021
Council Chair Alice L Lee
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama
Councilmember Gabe Johnson
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
Councilmember Mike Molina
CouncilmemberTamara Paltin
Councilmember Shane Sinenci
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura
Re: Agenda item CR 21-56, FIRST READING of bill establishing Chapter 2.50, Maui County Code,
determining the categories of pesticide and fertilizer allowed for use on
County property.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Honorable Councilmembers,
Thank you to CARE Committee Chair King for scheduling & passing this critically important bill.
Over the last few years, the vast majority of my constituents have emphasized to me how
important it is for their family to breathe clean air, drink clean water, and enjoy a dean &
healthy environment.
1 appreciate that this bill requires a detailed application for any agency applying for a waiver for
use of restricted pesticides or fertilizers on County property. For the sake of transparency and
to facilitate future scientific studies, this minimum standard should be instituted statewide for
ali pesticide use on public and private property.
The people of Maui County have been very vocal about their support for transitioning away
from using toxic chemicals altogether, especially in close proximity to our communities and
shorelines. Here at home, chemical runoff is a major threat to our delicate nearshore
ecosystem. Nationwide, neonicotinoids and pesticides are largely credited for bringing our
invaluable insect pollinator populations to the brink of extinction.
A myriad of alternative technologies exist to manage pests in a less harmful way, from
heat/steam, to neem oil, citric acid, and so much more. I commend and appreciate
organizations like Beyond Pesticides which have offered their expertise to work collaboratively
with county departments to find creative solutions that fit the needs for each particular
location.
Maui County Council
Testimony in support of CR 21-56
Page 2 of 2
As the Maui Island representative for the Hawaii Invasive Species Committee (HISC), 1 recognize
that the exemption for controlling harmful invasive species allows HISC to continue their
important work uninterrupted. I have faith that the hardworking invasive species teams will
exercise every safety precaution and do their best to minimize the use of toxic substances in
the course of their duties.
With our oath-bound kuleana to protect our public trust resources in mind,! respectfully
implore you to pass this measure.
Mahalo,
Representative Tina Wildberger
House District 11 - South Maui
Kihei ● Wailea ● Makena
Office of Representative Tina Wildberger
Proudly serving the 11"' House District
415 S. Beretania St. Honolulu, HI 96813, Room 327
Phone: 808.586.8525 | Fax: 808.586.8529 | email: repwildberger@capitol.hawaii.gov