MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-06-18
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1298,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
June 18. 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS. ON FRIDAY, JUNE18, 2021,
BEGINNING AT 9:04 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L. LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of June 18, please
come to order.
Before we begin Members, just wanted to say please look at the, In the chat, and the
morning greeting is in there so just for your information, when you go to Saigon Cafe
in the morning, and you say, to Jennifer, the owner, xin chao, xin chao.
Okay, roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call.
ROLL CALL
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, KELLY T. KING, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, NATALIE A. KAMA. VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
COUNCILMEMBER YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
(Councilmember Sugimura was not present when the roll was called; however,
she arrived at 9:09 a.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Xin chao, everyone. Good morning and yes, I look forward to a very productive
meeting. Thank you.
Everyone, we have eight present and one excused for now. Deputy Clerk, correct?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 2
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the
Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey.
CHAIR LEE: Opening remarks, may we call on Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
(Councilmember Sugimura arrived at the meeting at 9:09 am.)
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Enlightening words, beautiful. Clerk, Mr. Clerk.
Oh, yes. Now, may I ask everyone to join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Members, at this time we will set, oh, before I mention that, before we proceed
with today's agenda, may I please request that everyone keep their microphones
muted unless it's your time to speak. Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
So, at this time, we will set the Consent Calendar. For the first time, it's maiden voyage.
Are there any requests to add or remove items from the Consent Calendar?
Okay, are there any objections? Oh, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: In the Consent Calendar, is there 21-272, the contracts?
Just asking.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 3
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Cause actions on the Consent Calendar. 21-272 is listed
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Urn, yes. It's part of the exercise.
So, because this is our maiden voyage, if Member Sugimura, if you would like to
272, because you would like to request a grant or contract from it, then youremove
may request its removal from the Consent Calendar now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I do not have that request, but I know that our fellow
Members often do, and I was wondering why it was in the Consent Calendar, so?
CHAIR LEE: Well, do others have a request to remove that item from the Consent Calendar?
Now is the time.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Sorry, I was trying to find my cursor. Urn, I don't have a need to
remove it, but can we still remove items from the grants and contracts, or we cannot?
Okay, then maybe, yeah, maybe we should remove it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Any objections to removing that item from the Consent Calendar.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered. Okay, that one is out.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Urn, so, Member Sugimura asked
why it was in the Consent Calendar? And I explained. But I'll explain one more time.
We're doing this for the first time, and so I wanted to go through this exercise, so that
Members have a feel for how easy it is to remove something from the Consent
Calendar. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions. Members?
Member Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 4
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. So. urn, Vice-Chair, it was a very easy ask to
remove something from the Consent Calendar, is it just as easy to add something to
the Consent Calendar?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Very good, so far. The voyage is okay.
Any other questions, or proposals to add or remove anything? If not, we will proceed
with the Consent Calendar.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I'll explain. Clerk, Deputy Clerk. So,
this part of the agenda, we set the calendar, the Consent Calendar and then we
proceed with public testimony. After the meeting minutes, then we'll take action-
CHAIR LEE; Oh, that's right, that's right.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; -on the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE; Exactly. I’m sorry. Okay. We'll come back to the Consent Calendar after we're
done with testimony and the minutes.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them back on when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 5
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Channel 53 or on
mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at
any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person we have signed up to testify is Keisa Liu, to be followed by Nick
Drance.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, and then after Mr. Drance, maybe you can let us know how many people
in total have signed up, okay?
Ms. Liu, good morning.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. KEISA LIU (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-39):
Good morning. Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, Councilmembers,
and members of the public. My name is Keisa Liu, and I am here to testify on
CR 21 [sic], first reading on the visitor accommodation moratorium bill. As I've stated
in previous testimony, I am in full support of this bill. I believe we the community are in
a toxic relationship with the tourism industry. It is time for us to set boundaries, so we
can establish a healthy relationship. We need time to evaluate our situation, and ask
ourselves, is it balanced? Are we the people reaping the same benefits? Do we feel
like equal partners? Or do we feel used and abused?
I said this once and I will say it again, our quality of life, our environment, and our
resources
protect the residents of Maui County. And I'm going to ask again, please take the time
during the moratorium to investigate how we can regulate the amount of tourist that
come to our islands by plane? I understand this is a Federal level request, but our
Congressman Kaiali'i Kahele is a Hawaiian Airlines pilot and on the Committee for
Transportation and Infrastructure, surely he can give us some type of guidance.
Cause here’s what I see. airlines have been increasing their flights to Maui at an
unregulated and alarming rate. And I believe this was done to justify . . . increase the
size of our airport and build more visitor accommodations. I believe the goal was to
are at the mercy of the tourism industry and it's time for us to do more to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 6
keep us so busy and stressed and distracted that we would not have been able to
mobilize, mobilize against the expansion until it was too late. But then COVID
happened, and we were reminded what our life was like before the traffic and the smell
of banana boat. We were reminded that the quality of our lives mattered.
Now the airlines are attempting to pick up that momentum again by offering cheap
flights to Maui. The destruction of our quality of life is not worth the money. We need
this bill. And thank you, Councilmembers for taking action to put the people ahead of
profits. Mahalo for your time and for allowing me to voice my thoughts and suggestions
on this matter.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions for the testifier. Members? If not, thank you Keisa,
Ms. Liu.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next testifier is Nick Drance, to be followed by Darla
Palmer-Ellingson.
Chair, after Mr. Drance, there are nine more testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Drance.
MR. NICK DRANCE [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-278 & 21-280; Committ^
Report Nos 21-38. 21-39. & 21-44: and Bill Nos. 56 (2021), 57 (2021), & 58 (2021J1:
There we go Okay. Alright. Thank you. Good morning, Chair. Council. I would like
to testify on six agenda items, 21-39, 21-280, 21-38, 21-278 and 21-44. My written
testimony I sent in two days ago is generally what I was going to say. I changed my
mind. I was going to read what I thought. I'm going to read what I thought about all
night long and what woke me up in the middle of the night.
Regarding 21-39, the more I think about my testimony on these items today, mull it
over in my head, I realize something, I think these measures really, merely indicate
respect for our land and the water. I expect will pass. What makes me angry and what
woke me up at 4:00 a.m. this morning is why the heck isn’t this unanimously passed
as quickly as possible, as quickly as we can find  away to put teeth in it?
Why should we grovel, hat in hand like orphans asking for another bowl of porridge?
Why should we have to fight about getting more and more commercial buildings and
mainland stores and hotels all built by and for people who don’t live here. They do
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 7
nothing for us but destroy our way of life and treat a tiny special place like this, as if it
is the mainland.
What's going on here? You're going to hear plenty of testimony explaining why this
moratorium is so desperately needed and yet we already know these things from prior
testimony. That means we're trying to convince you to watch over our interests, so 1
wonder, are we represented or are we ruled over? Is it your job to protect us and our
island from outside threats? Don't the people that live here come first before those
who do not? This should be unanimous.
The Planning Commissions from all three of the islands voted to add climate mitigation
wording to the Countywide plan in CR 21-38. Not only do they vote for it unanimously,
but they also added even stronger wording. If they were voting on this, as you are
asked to do, it would surely be unanimous, so why isn’t it? It should be with you.
Whomever this historic moment is lost on will need to explain to their children,
grandchildren, and future generations. It’s impossible for a Hawaiian or anyone else
to vote against this if they love and respect the land that god has blessed us with and
put in our care. Why should there be so much urgency in building hotels that it couldn’t
wait two years until the south and westside communities have had a chance to say,
have their say in the matter?
Again, do the people who don't live here take priority over the people who do? I really
hope that Michelle is holding off on the issuance of permits until this is decided. It's
only a matter of weeks. Everyone else does in situations where policy like this is being
debated. I'd like to ask my representative to tell us the answer, and if there's a rush on
permit reguests, then we'll all know that people think the system is rigged against
residents. Packing in stores, and hotels, and condos we can’t afford on both sides of
Piikea between Azeka and Safeway has already been approved. You guys let the
Maui Coast expansion happen despite the public outrage. Am I at three minutes?
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Could you go on to your next item?
MR. DRANCE; Okay. Alright. Just in 10 seconds. I wish, I ask Councilmembers to come to
South Kihei, and sit in the traffic and look at the beaches and see what it's like already,
before the Maui Coast expansion.
CR [sic] 21-280, relating to the expeditious submission of proposed hotel moratorium
with the planning commission. Some of us see the urgency about the welfare of this
island more than others, as 1 said, as you know, as you can see. As one of them, I
urge the Council to approve 21 -280 without delay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 8
Regarding 21-38, unanimous vote by the islands, Maui County to include wording
related to climate change in the . . . countywide plan. As I've mentioned, after
embracing the original request by the CARE Committee that the countywide plan be
revised, the Maui, Moloka'i, and Lana'i Planning Commissions built on that by
suggesting additional wording that strengthened the original request. Let us support
their wishes with the same sense of urgency that their unanimity demonstrates.
Obviously, there is widespread support for addressing the conditions we see right
before us, right now, today and into the future.
Climate change jeopardizes our way of life. The entire western third of the mainland
is in drought conditions. Hoover Dam reservoir is at its lowest level since it was built
in 1931. Water levels are down as much as the Statue of Liberty is tall. Their hydro
generators cut production 15 percent and in a couple of months it'll be 20. They
stopped giving water to the farmers.
Drought has been a problem for so many years, that's what we see today. Do we think
that the island of Maui is immune from something that's obviously happening around
the globe? According to the Maui News yesterday, once again we ourselves find
ourselves in drought conditions. The clock is ticking. Let's get moving on this, please.
CC 21-278, relates to the establishment of agricultural land designation. So much of
our island has been rezoned to urban from agricultural without the approval of
residents. Switching it back sounds refreshing. Some of you may be tired of hearing
me talk about the Maui Island Plan that demands that we maintain a small town, rural
nature of our island. That's per residents, as I've said time and again. That plan was
approved at every level of government and established by ordinance. Not following it
is essentially against the law. No one is above the law. Changing land designated as
ag, then changing it back to urban, now back to ag is right, particularly since the first
change occurred since after the plan was approved. Let's make things right and do
this every where you can, until all community plans are updated. It's too late in some
places. The builders have already had their way with the land.
Regarding CR 21-44, the establishment of conditional permits for zipline and bungee
jumping. Council, time and again residents who reside on properties adjacent to these
businesses have asked for their right to live in peace on their own properties be
respected. Effective permitting requirements will protect those rights and ensure that
we don't have traffic jams in pastures and the like. They deserve respect.
Very quickly, section "M. Ordinances". These bills relate to capital improvements
related to Waiale land acquisition. They look great. I don't know about the other things
included in this item to comment on. The ability of the Mayor to engage the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 9
U.S. Department of Agriculture relating to the Lahaina Watershed, we need help in the
South Maui Watershed, as of five years ago. That’s important.
Limited exclusions related to excavations associated with cesspools. Cesspools are a
major issue according to the State of Hawaii, on our island. So anything happening to,
watching over excavations with regard to them is important.
The other item about the effect of drainage on adjacent properties. The problem with
the Maui Lu property, in fact, this is exactly what it is, they took care of what's in front
of them and the wastewater, rainwater, so forth, is draining off on either side of them,
so that's kind of a loophole there. Last, lastly, issues of excavation relating to the
County Archaeologist, actually this is a legitimate problem in the proposed luxury
22-acre Wailea resort area. This is something that we really, really need to pay
attention to.
So, Council, in summary, all of my testimony today and every time you've heard from
me is about respecting the land and the people. I'm at a point where it's time to say the
people like me, the Sierra Club and other organizations ask only for that and we
shouldn't have to come to you with hat in hand.
Councilmembers, thank you so much for all the good work that you do. I appreciate it.
As I've said many times before, we have never seen a Council that works as hard and
does such landmark wonderful things that you do. Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Paltin has a question.
MR. DRANCE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Drance for your testimony.
My question was for 21-278.
Dm, we had about five hearings on this matter and we couldn't come to a consensus
to change it back to agricultural and the reason was, they wanted to have urn, an ag
subdivision, which kind of was like gentleman estates.
MR. DRANCE; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Just to clarify, you're asking for this to be changed back to
agriculture?
MR. DRANCE; Well, the last-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 10
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: ... but I couldn’t get-
MR. DRANCE; Well, the last thing, the last thing we want is gentleman estates. 1 can't say
that if I had millions of dollars, I wouldn't do it myself, although I probably would grow
things, well let's, you know. 1 mean, I’m, I tell the truth, I totally would grow things that I
could take to farmers market and, and all that stuff, but 1 wouldn't make a lousy
dishonest excuse of pretending like I'm treating it as ag land, and meanwhile, it's, you
know, my estate. So, let's get this thing converted to ag land and do it properly without
gentleman estates, and I'm sorry, but you can tell by the tone of my testimony this
morning. And 1 want to be nice about it.
Your job, Councilmembers is to protect us, the residents, and to protect this island. No
fooling around, no games. The people that live here now come first before the people
that don't live here. So, gentleman estates is not what the people of this island want.
We want agricultural land. We want the Maui Island Plan adhered to and I'm tired of
griping about this, and nobody else pays attention to core vision statement, and mission
We want small town rural atmosphere preserved. Focus Maui Nui
documented that. The same goes for this land, put it back to ag and no games. Sorry
for yelling.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, you want it back to ag. Got it. Thank you.
statement.
MR. DRANCE: I'm sorry for yelling.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. Urn, aloha Nick. I just wanted to follow-up on
that issue of the Maalaea Mauka land. You know, that was the original request from
the developer to put it back to ag, so they could develop it into an ag subdivision.
MR. DRANCE; Oh. Ag subdivision or~
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes. So, the, at which we would not have any control over it if it
was converted to ag. So, the, the budget includes a, you know, a proviso in the Open
Space Funds to purchase that land and keep it in open space.
MR. DRANCE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's what, that's what the budget, this current budget coming
up starting July 1, has in it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 11
MR. DRANCE: And that's what 1 thought as I read this, that was my understanding about the
County allocating funds to-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: To convert it to ag, then the current owner may just hang on to it
and develop it. So, just to let you know, that s what you re asking.
MR DRANCE: Sorry. Yeah, sorry. 1 got that confused with the Waiale property capital
provements and purchase of lands. I got the two mixed up. But you see the intent
of what I'm trying to say.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, you would support it staying in open space?
MR DRANCE- Absolutely. And this is the point, Councilmember, this is the point that I’m
trying to make. I feel like I'd like to see a list of all the land that was converted from ag
and open land to urban since community plans were established. So, we talk about
exceptions to SMA permits and stuff like that, look, you know, why have the rules if
people can make exceptions carte blanche? Why establish a community plan, if people
can change the land use designations that were established at the time? I don't mean
to be on a rant this morning, but you can see. you know, people are angry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. Ijust-
MR. DRANCE: I'm passionate. I'm so sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Drance.
MR. DRANCE: Alright.
CHAIR LEE: You're only our second testifier.
MR. DRANCE: I'm so sorry.
CHAIR LEE: No.no. Thank you.
MR. DRANCE: Mahalo.
im
Thank you very much. Any more questions from other Councilmembers?
Alright, thank you. And now we'll go to our third testifier.
MR. DRANCE: Thank you so much. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 12
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next testifier is Darla Palmer-Ellingson, to be followed
by Mike Moran.
MS. DARLA PALMER-ELLINGSON. CLIMATE ACTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE (testifyina
on Committee Report No. 21-39):
Good morning. Xin chao, County of Maui Councilmembers. My name is Darla Palmer-
Ellingson and I'm submitting this testimony on behalf of the Climate Action Advisory
Committee, or CAAC in support of CR 21-39.
Climate Action Advisory Committee provides community input and proposals to Maui
County Council and Administration on issues related to the effects of the climate crisis
of Maui County and actions to mitigate and adapt them.
The proposed moratorium on building permits for visitor accommodations is just a small
pause to consider our future. It does not affect current projects including those that
have approval but have not yet started construction. Construction will still continue.
Some say that this does not go far enough. Overtourism is killing the environment and
our way of life and is going to kill tourism without action.
Our post pandemic economic recovery has exceeded expectations. Domestic travel
to Maui in April 2021 was 178,000, this is already almost up to pre-pandemic levels
with April 2019 at 209,000. Before the pandemic, our mood, traffic, and whole way of
life was at risk from overtourism. Tourism should be a healthy and appropriate mix of
our economy; it is not as evidenced by how far it's exceeding our community plans.
We are at a tipping point, facing diminishing returns where Maui is no longer no ka oi.
If you keep allowing more visitor accommodations to be built, more visitors will come.
The effects of increased tourism and worsening the climate crisis and eventually
making Hawaii unable to support human life is even more profound. As the Hawaii
Legislature, as you know, declared a climate crisis for the State, an increase in visitor
lodging will result in an increase in visitor traffic and other environmental impacts. We
therefore ask that this item continue to be addressed under the CARE Committee as it
moves forward.
In a 2010 study, UH Manoa published an energy economics emissions rates generated
by visitor demand are estimated to be higher than that of residents by a factor of 4.3 for
carbon, 3.2 for methane and 4.8 for nitrous oxide. That’s mostly due to the huge
amounts of greenhouse gas emissions from trans-pacific flights and from the intense
of rental ground transportation. 18 million tons of C02 equivalent emissions wereuse
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 13
generated by air travel in 2019, to and from Hawaii. That can be compared to a total
of 7.8 million tons from all power plants and refineries, and 4 million tons from all ground
transportation. Do you want to continue . . . emissions? Almost done. If I could just
wrap up.
CHAIR LEE: Sure. Go right ahead.
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON: This data does not begin to address the impacts of tourism once
they're on island, where tourists far outnumber residents and exceed our community
plans. Maui does not need more visitor accommodations and more visitor traffic. On
the contrary, we desperately need to reduce them for climate change reasons, and to
increase resident housing. The CAAC urges the County Council to consider preserving
our island culture, support resident housing, embrace potential climate crisis benefits,
and pass CR 21-39, creating a moratorium on building permits for visitor
accommodations. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you, Ms. Ellingson. Questions?
Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you for your informative testimony, Ms. Ellingson. I
just wanted to clarify your question, your data,  Iwas trying to write it down. Can you
tell me again what is the amount of carbon spent per visitor coming here or the total
tonnage?
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON: Sure. Urn, 18 million tons of C02 equivalent emissions were
generated by air travel in 2019, to and from Hawaii.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: And then do we have a formula for carbon budget, like per
person? Or is there, do you know that? Did you mention that?
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON: I have some factors for emissions that when you add in tourism,
those emissions are greatly increased. So, the tourism numbers for carbon are
4.3 times greater for carbon, 3.2 times greater for methane, and 4.8 times greater for
nitrous oxide. And I also wanted to offer within the CAAC, we've got some great climate
scientist and engineers and really fabulous people, so if you want any additional
information. I'd be happy to provide that to you.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Alright, thank you so much, Ms. Ellingson. t have no
further questions. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other questions? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Ellingson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 14
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I have a question.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. You have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; 1 do, yeah. Thank you. Nice seeing you, Darla.
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON; Hi.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Hi, the, the impacts that you're, the data that you gave us,
thank you very much. It's caused by air travel, is that what you said?
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON; It's air travel and ground transportation and other environmental
impacts just by having, you know, the sheer volume of additional people on the island.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So. for air travel, um. the, those are the number of flights
coming in and related to this year, visitors.
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON: Right. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; And the ground transportation that your scientist have
gathered, where did that data come from?
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON; Um-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; What is the date?
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON: This is from a study from UH Manoa.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That you can, you can then connect the number of visitors
on the ground renting cars or something that is causing this ground transportation,
correct?
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON: Yes. There's a study on energy economics that I can send you.
I can see if there's any more updated data that's been collected since then. 1 would be
happy to do that as well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 15
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, air travel, the only, I've been saying, and I'm not sure
if it's clear, but the only person, or only group that can stop air travel here, \A/hich are
bringing visitors to Maui, Lana'i, Moloka'i, or Maui County is the Federal government.
So how do you anticipate stopping or maybe your group has a theory about how we
can stop air travel, and create, you know, better climate or, you know, not have this
climate impacts. Does your group have a, have a suggestion?
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON; I'm so glad that you asked me that. You're entirely correct. I
think that there's very, very little impact we can have legally as far as stopping air travel.
How you can stop it is to stop building vacation rental rooms. If there's not rooms for
people to stay in, they won't come here.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's interesting, cause they're still coming here. But
thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more questions.
MS. PALMER-ELLINGSON: If you stop it right now, they're only going to fill up the rooms that
are, that are existing right now. And there's other strategies that you can employ, like
you know, creating more resident housing rather than visitor accommodations from
some of those existing units.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Ellingson. No more questions? Appreciate
you coming to testify.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Mike
Moran, to be followed by Christopher Delauney.
(testifying on CountyMR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION
Communication No. 21-280 and Committee Report No. 21-39):
Aloha, Chair Lee and xin chao to you and to the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MR. MORAN: Mike Moran, speaking for the Kihei Community Association and unpaid
speaker. We are not paid.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 16
We're testifying this morning on two items, 21-280 and 21-39. We'il try to keep it brief
and not repeat the things that you've heard so much before. But on 21-39, we ask you
to approve it at its first reading. And one new piece of information, related information,
is what we feel the community is asking for and those Councilmembers that are
supporting are asking for, is a pause here. We’re asking to take a break and figure out
what we can do?
And I thought that was an interesting editorial in Civil Beat this morning, where a
business group based on Honolulu was looking at many other places that are facing
similar situations with, we can call it overtourism, and they looked at many other places
to see what they are doing? They're not talking, they're already taking actions and that
was the gist of it is like, well yes, we understand Hawaii is different from other places,
it doesn't mean that we can't look at other locations and maybe get a bit from column
A and column B and see what they are suggesting to change the parameters of the
tourism. So, in your spare time, if you guys have spare time, you might take a glance
at that pretty short editorial in Civil Beat, this morning.
And of course, that relates, that also relates to the second item which is 21-280, and
as just we speak for South Maui, that's our by-laws, to say we speak for our district, we
had just given general approval that we heard from the community, but in the last few
weeks we have had so much input in South Maui from our community saying we want
to support this as well, even though this is going beyond our district, but they felt this
was worthwhile because yes, it is one island, it is one County. So, what happens in
one part of the island certainly affects all of the others.
So, we do ask you to please expedite that and get it onto the planning commission.
We know that that's going to take quite some time. If you send it on Immediately, they
still have to find time to get it on the agenda, go through that process. So, it will, it
won't be happening immediately, or not near as quickly as the other, 21-39. So, please
do send that on, and we just refer back in conclusion to that old expression, if you keep
doing the same thing over and over, and expect to change, some call that insanity. So,
we have to do something. Other places are doing something to address the similar
problem, we have to take action, too.
So, we commend the Council for taking these actions today and as you have been all
along. I'm watching, as much as I can. It's a lot easier to sit home and watch on TV,
but that you are ramming through that West Maui Plan, and we thank you for the good
work that you're doing overall. Aloha, everyone and mahalo for the opportunity.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 17
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Any questions, Members? If not, Mike, thank you very much for coming
by, and always appreciate your suggestions, or solutions, and resources. Thank you
very much.
MR. MORAN: A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Christopher Delauney, to be followed
by Raymond Michaels.
MR. CHRISTOPHEY DELAUNEY. PACIFIC RESOURCE PARTNERSHIP (testifying on
County Communication No. 21-280):
Aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. Chris Delauney with Pacific Resource Partnership
and I'm a registered lobbyist. So, we’re in opposition of any moratoriums related to
Specifically, in our testimony, we oppose 21-280, but it
sounds like, from hearing the testimony, that we may have missed another one. But if
there's anything else, we oppose that as well.
You know, I think the bottom line too is that this proposed bill lacks data showing that
a moratorium on visitor accommodations will limit the amount of tourists visiting Maui.
And it does not provide data showing the impacts that tourism is having on the County's
environment and residents' quality of life. Instead, the bill specifically states that the
moratorium will remain in effect and maintain the number of current transient
accommodation units until the Council enacts legislation addressing the findings and
recommendations presented by the Budget, Finance, and Economic Development
Committee-established Tourism Management Temporary Investigative Group. So,
shouldn't you have the findings and recommendations first before passing any type of
legislation, especially something that’s extreme as a moratorium?
visitor accommodations.
And, you know, 1 think you're not going to stop tourists from coming here, you know
as we've heard, the County doesn't have control over flights coming in. That's a
Federal jurisdiction. And people are going to find creative ways and what is going to
happen is they're going to be outside of the hotel zoned areas and they re going to
eventually go into the residential. So more of this will be pushed in the residential. You
know, people are going to find creative ways to capitalize and make some money. And
I think what we want to do is keep them more in the hotel area, you know, so it's
managed that way.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 18
But anyway, I also think that a moratorium is just going to hurt the real property tax
revenues, you know the visitor accommodations pay  ahigher real property tax than
residential and so forth, and in order for Maui to have funds to, you know, build
infrastructure, and maybe even more affordable housing, and so forth. It could actually
utilize that real property tax to do that, so, ! don't really see any benefit for Maui with
this moratorium, cause like I said, I don't think it's going to stop tourist from coming to
Maui. And I think you have to have the studies done first, before you impose a
moratorium bill. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Delauney. Any questions. Members?
Ah, yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thankyou, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Delauney for your testimony.
I just wanted to clarify the part about when you were speaking about data, where do
live on Maui County?
MR. DELAUNEY: I actually live on Oahu, but I have family in Maui
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, and-
MR. DELAUNEY: We represent the construction industry, so we have a lot of our members
are from Maui, too.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, I just, I mean, when you say data, do you also take into
effect citizen kilo science, in the data that our citizens are collecting that they see on
the streets every day, that they see already. I mean, there's not just one sort of data,
and like you said, the testimony that we've been hearing is a form of data in and of
itself. And oftentimes when you talk about economic data, the quality of life is not
something that is measured in terms of that numbers of science, it's a feeling that our
residents are feeling, so, is that being taken into account in the data that you speak of?
MR. DELAUNEY: Well, what I'm saying is that there's nothing linked, there's no data
supporting this moratorium that I have seen--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thankyou. You answered my question.
MR. DELAUNEY: And to clarify too-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Okay, thank you, Mr. Delauney.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 19
MR. DELAUNEY: Oh, okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, 1 do want to remind you, your questions are supposed to
be clarifying questions, right?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, I just wanted to clarify with
Mr. Delauney, have you ever asked for data before  anew hotel or hotel expansion was
approved? Because, you know, you're saying to, we should get all this data before we
stop it, but meanwhile, we're marching forward expanding, expanding beyond our
maintaining capacity, and no one ever looked, has anyone ever looked at data, that
kind of tourism data before they do those approvals?
MR. DELAUNEY: Well, I thought, I thought the plans had special areas designated for hotel
development. It has to be zoned that way and for visitor accommodations.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But it doesn't demand, it doesn’t demand that they be built. It
might allow for them, but it doesn't say they have to be built.
MR. DELAUNEY: Well, I think it's in the plans-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The other question 1 have for you is. have you looked at the data
as far as the construction industry, because you're talking about construction jobs. And
the data from DBEDT shows that, "construction industry performed the best and full
recovery by April 2021 at 101.9 percent of the January 2021 level", so construction is
at the top of industries for success, it never really faltered during the pandemic and
now it's actually higher than it was pre-pandemic. So, have you looked at that data
when you were talking about new construction jobs?
MR. DELAUNEY: Yeah, well. I'm also concerned about small businesses, too. How does
this impact businesses?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 1 just asked you if you looked at that data-
MR. DELAUNEY: No.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -because you're talking about-
MR. DELAUNEY: No.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -getting data-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 20
MR, DELAUNEY: If you could provide yeah, I don't, yeah, if you could provide that, if you
can make it public, that would be great. So we can-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's public, it's in the DBEDT report. It's actually dated, 2021.
MR. DELAUNEY: Okay. So, we'll take a look. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members. I think, Member King, you got your answer.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I did. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Delauney, you hit some sensitive points, I guess, and the Members are
somewhat reacting. Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Delauney.
MR. DELAUNEY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Raymond
Michaels, to be followed by Jordan Hocker.
MR. RAYMOND MICHAELS (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280):
Good morning. Council. My name is Raymond Michaels, I'm here representing the
Construction Industry on Maui.
We're aware of the two moratoriums currently being discussed by the County Council,
which proposed immediate halt on new development servicing the visitor industry. Its
our understanding that new developments, which do not have an active and issued
building permit would immediately be ceased if this moratorium passes. The CIM
understands the good intent of this moratorium, and in some instances, we agree with
the goals of the moratorium proposals. However, the sequencing of the moratorium
proposal is reckless and poorly planned.
As the impacts of COVID-19 demonstrated, the danger of the local community relying
heavily on a tourism industry, we agree that our community has grown too largely
reliant on tourism. The CIM also agrees that our community and beaches have
become too overcrowded with visitors. The CIM also agrees that Maui s ecosystem is
fragile and in decline. One of the contributors being too many visitors slathered in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 21
sunscreen that harm our reefs and marine life. On the contrary side, the proposed
sequencing of these moratoriums will negatively impact our economy further.
For the County to troubleshoot and develop plans after the moratorium is dangerously
backwards. We also have little faith in the County's ability to plan and execute
community plans and create economic diversity. To date, the performance on this
matter has been non-existent and the performance, quite honestly, worthy of being
fired for in the private sector. If we are to diversify our economy to reduce the visitor
population, then that plan should be made, invested in, and rolled out prior to impacting
visitor and building industries, the only two economic drivers in our community. Without
these two sectors, we all fail.
The ripple effect of government intervention reaches far beyond the well intent source
actions. Following basic supply and demand, if there’s a greater scarcity of visitor
lodging, then pricing will become attainable only for the elite, taking another step into
Maui’s unattainable status. If lodging prices becomes to egregious, inevitably there'll
be an influx of residential investors willing to gamble with illegal TVR accommodations
which will only compound the rising prices of the scarce housing supply.
There will also be legal ramifications from landowners and developers. Substantial
capital is extended to entitlement and design efforts, all which predicate a building
permit. If developments are cancelled after millions have been invested into these
programming and design phases, the County will be at legal risk.
The CIM ultimately wishes to see our economy diversify and believes that
environmental protections will be a result, attracting new economy sectors,
incentivizing these new sectors is the job of public leaders and obviously, our public
leaders have failed. As a result of this failure, our public leaders are arbitrarily taking
the offensive in the only manner they know how. Attacking our building and visitor
industries. We find it offensive that public leaders who receive their livelihood from
taxpayers, I’m almost done.
CHAIR LEE: Can you conclude?
And
MR. MICHAELS: Yeah. I'm almost done.
We do find it offensive that public leaders who receive their livelihood from taxpayers
consistently attack the economic sectors that fund public budgets. Following the
example of leadership, of public leadership, perhaps proposed legislation should be
introduced to reduce public officials' salaries in proportion to these decree driven
economic moratoriums, which would be fairly justified.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 22
The CIM is adamantly against this moratorium. We see this moratorium as a one-sided
decree to push Maui one step further to becoming an island for the elite, and our people
will continue to be jobless, poor, and homeless. Only after there's a successful
ity plan in place, then should there be talk of limiting visitor population. Thankcommun
you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members. I mean, thank you, Mr. Michaels. Members, please only
clarifying questions. 1 know you don't agree with him, but clarifying questions. None.
Thank you, Mr. Michaels.
MR. MICHAELS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is Jordan Hocker,
to be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last
four digits, 9537.
MS. JORDAN HOCKER (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280 and Committee
Report No. 21-39):
Aloha, Councilmembers. Thank you so much for your time today. Its nice to see
everyone again. I feel like we just get to see so much of each other lately. So, yeah,
so I'm here to testify on agenda item CR 21-9 [sic] and 21-280.
Obviously, 1 think you know this already, I couldn't support this moratorium more. And
part of that is because overtourism is such a systemic issue and it reaches all of these
different areas of our life. One of the previous testifiers talked about data. There are
two types of data, there's quantitative, which is numbers and there's qualitive, which is
harder to measure. In a recent poll that was taken, I believe by the Star Advertiser
about how residents, Hawaii's residents feel about tourism, it's something like 60 to
70 percent of us, that it's on a runaway train. And what my problem is, is that paid
lobbyist also often, people who are making quite  abit of money off of the tourism
industry, illustrate this dooms day scenario that like quite frankly, we're living already.
When it comes to the data, the data is out there. The State actually, and I've given
testimony on even just the amount of money it takes to live here. The State has put all
of that out and if you have those questions, those numbers are out there. And while
the numbers do get listened to, and we do have data scientists who are breaking all of
this down, reality is that what we go through every single day, the fact that 1 am not at
the DMV yet. I'm literally sitting in the parking lot of the new DMV building because this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 23
is so important to me. I'm taking time out of my day, that ! don’t get paid for to say,
hey. something got to give.
A moratorium is not the end of the world. It's obviously, like based on the things I
heard, not going to cripple the construction industry. It's not going to cripple the tourism
industry, which is obviously bouncing back. So, one of the things that I keep hearing
from lobbyists is, okay, great, so you don't give um places to stay, they are going to
stay in illegal short-term rentals, right. I personally volunteer to police my community
of illegal vacations. And I'm pretty sure that the community, or the County at least,
already has enforcement. If we anticipant this being a thing that could possibly happen,
then it looks like we'll... to focus on it, but it's not a reason to say, let's just trash this
entire thing. It's saying, okay-
CHAIR LEE: You're frozen, Ms. Hocker. You want to turn off your video? Try again. Say
something.
Mr. Clerk, we can come back to her, if she comes back on.
(See pages 25 and 26 for completion of testimony.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Okay, Chair. Then, proceeding with the next testifier in the
meantime, the next person signed up to testify is the person calling in from the phone
number ending with the last four digits, 9537, to be followed by Pamela Tumpap. 9537,
it's your time to testify. You're unmuted, please begin testifying.
MR. FREDERICK STEINECK (testifying on Countv Communication No. 21-2^:
Yes, hi. this is Frederick Steineck. I wasn’t aware that I was scheduled to testify. So.
forgive me for not being prepared here. I'm a local resident here, and an employer of
a local staff, around 50 employees in the construction industry. And again, I really, my
intent was to listen in, to learn a little bit more about this issue.
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me. You don't have to testify. You can continue listening, if you want
to.
MR. STEINECK: Well, it, I haven't heard anything on this point yet. So maybe I'll just bring it
up and it can be taken into consideration or into the discussion, if it isn't already part of
it. But I haven't heard anything about it, yet.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, proceed, please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 24
MR. STEINECK: Thank you. So, my only, the only thought I really had that 1 thought would
add some value to this discussion is, I remember many years ago, well not that many
really, maybe five, ten years ago, the community plan was a big topic of discussion and
the fact that the community plan was, was stalemated and had not been updated as it
should have been. And 1 guess my question is, is, has there, are the two, is that related
to the problem that we're having today where they seem to be building outside of the
intent of the community? And is that the root cause of the issue? Or has there been
any work done to get to the root cause of the issue?
Because my understanding is the County's, the County's kind of dictates the directions
for the community based on the local residents, and the purpose and values
established for the community. And it seems like with that plan, there should be a
roadmap for, for development. And without that plan, it seems like we're grasping at
straws for some ad hoc solutions that, that may not really resolve the issue. Actually,
I think it's known that it won't resolve the issue, it's a temporary stop gap, but it might
have a whole another set of cause and effect circumstances . . . consequences that
are unintended and may not be, may not serve the community well.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. STEINECK: So, if 1 could summarize, I guess the question I have is, what's been done
to identify the cause for the delay in the community plan? And what is the, what is the,
what is the solution that's been adopted to get that on track so that, you know, the
enterprises, and residents have a roadmap for, you know, their enterprises?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, well thank you very much for your testimony. What is your name?
MR. STEINECK: My name is Frederick Steineck.
CHAIR LEE: Can you spell your last name, please?
MR. STEINECK: Sure. It's S-T-E-l-N-E-C-K.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
MR. STEINECK: I apologize. I think my assistant may have put me down to testify, i may
have asked her to do that and then forgot.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. That's fine. That's fine. Thank you. Are there any questions. Members?
If not, thank you, Mr. Steineck. Mr. Clerk, may we have the next testifier, please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18. 2021
Page 25
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, I believe Jordan Hocker has connected once more.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, fine.
Ms. Hocker.
MS. HOCKER: Okay, thank you, Councilmembers. Sorry about that. Luckily there's free
Wi-Fi at the DMV. So, thank you all for that at this new building.
So, where I was essentially is what I hear a lot coming from people who, you know,
probably stand to lose the most, but also gain the most, while the rest of us are left
here in the lurch, is that there's this whole doomsday scenario proposed around this
moratorium and the reality is the doomsday scenario is literally happening right now.
There's no way around that. So, when it comes to specifically, like, okay, what about
illegal lodgings? I think that there's ways around that. 1 think that the community
at-large, doesn't want illegal short-term vacation rentals in their neighborhoods to begin
with, so why don't we call on them?
I mean It's us that you should be listening to in the first place, and I do feel that many
of you are. But what it comes down to is that yes, quantitative data is really important,
but right now, it is a quality-of-life issue. And it has been a quality-of-life issue. And as
I've stated in my last testimony, the tourism industry right now is not even really paying
a living wage to a majority of their employees. And so, when they come forward with
a doomsday scenario, when they're already actively not taking care of our community,
that is a huge issue for me.
And so, from where I sit, this moratorium is simply a pause, it's not a doomsday
scenario. The industry has well bounced back. Personally, I want to see more
affordable houses being built than anything else, and we have a limited amount of
space here so why don't we use it wisely?
I guess I'll just end to say that sure, we can't stop people from flying here, but as a little
bit of qualitative data, if I'm trying to go to a place for a vacation and I can't find a place
to stay and 1 cannot find a car, I'm probably going to say, shit, I mean shucks, we
cannot. I'm sorry. I'm a bit of a sailor and this is the second time I've done it, 1 promise,
I won't do it again. I, I guess we can't take that vacation right now. Okay. So, that's
the aim on that.
I will personally volunteer my time as you see me volunteering my time to follow
allegations of illegal vacation rentals. I'm happy to do that. I'm literally happy to donate
my time to the County to do that, and I know many other testifiers who are like, yeah, I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 26
would follow this call. So, maybe there’s a hotline already? I don't actually know how
that’s handled? But I don't think it's a reason to throw the baby out with the bath water,
and I think that this is forward thinking. I think that we can’t delay any, any longer and
just urge you, urge you to hear us. 1 urge you to hear the people who are working hard
with their volunteering, every single day, and 1 thank you for-
CHAIRLEE; Thank you, Ms. Mocker. Are there any questions. Members?
MS. MOCKER: I’m sorry, can I add one last thing? Urn, this moratorium needs to apply to
the entire island, okay? Cause if it doesn't, then you're right, we’re going to be popping
up with a . . . hotel permits in areas that are not resort areas and we would need to
keep . . . sorry.
CMAIRLEE: Thank you. Thank you very much for coming. Mr. Clerk, may we have the next
testifier, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Pamela
Tumpap, to be followed by Ariella Upton.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP PRESIDENT. MAU CMAMBER OF COMMERCE, (testifying on
County Communication No. 21-280 and Committee Report No. 21-3.^:
Aloha and xin chao, Mappy Juneteenth, and Mappy Father’s Day for all the father's this
Sunday. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Maui County
Council.
I'm Pamela Tumpap, President of the Maui Chamber of Commerce, and advocacy is
one of my many activities. We would really like to share our strong concerns on
Committee Report 21-39. I would like to testify on both bills, but on 21-39, on the
moratorium and new visitor accommodations in South and West Maui.
We support green initiatives to help preserve the environment, visitor education
and sustainability for our island community. Visitorresponsible tourism,
accommodations are some of the top leaders addressing green initiatives, including
educating visitors about sunscreen and our ocean life, reducing waste, switching early
on to compostable food ware, phasing out water bottles and so much more.
Before a moratorium is put in place, we'd like to see more significant data released on
the purpose of the moratorium, what environmental outcomes are expected to be
achieved, balanced with what the visitor industry is already doing? And considered
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 27
along with the impacts of stopping new visitor accommodations construction in the
planned resort areas of South and West Maui?
We think we should be seeing a holistic picture before a moratorium is instituted.
Sustainable solutions include balancing environment, economy, social well-being, and
culture. While this bill was rewritten from an environmental standpoint, it is also
important to recognize economic impacts.
The visitor industry is generating significant revenue. $73 million in real property tax
revenue in FY21, which provides the County with resources to invest in economic
diversification, which is desperately needed, while also raising revenue for other
programs like affordable housing and rentals, social services, infrastructure and more.
They employ thousands of Maui residents hoping to provide for them and their families,
accounting for approximately 75 percent of all private sector jobs. We have heard from
businesses and individuals not familiar with this moratorium who question whymany
the process is being rushed, They feel it's not the right time and feel that a moratorium
is very inflexible, and we need the most flexibility during this period of economic
recovery.
Hearing those concerns, we just sent you this morning, a letter, it was published
yesterday with many of the concerns heard, and by this morning before this meeting
received 78 signatures asking that you not put the moratorium in place.we
Further, we are concerned that if passed, this bill may face legal challenges, thats
something we've heard, and that creates a burden to the County and cost for taxpayers.
This is not the time to fight and settle a case and take up so much time when there is
And it seems like there is amany important impacts that we need to work on.
chance of potential legal challenges with this bill.
so
Therefore, in addition to the Chamber’s . . . I'll just finish this sentence and then move
on. We oppose this measure and ask that it be deferred and appreciate the opportunity
to provide testimony. And if I may move on to 21-280?
CHAIR LEE: Pam, could you hold up one second?
MS. TUMPAP: Sure.
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Paltin, did you want to ask a question, first?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yeah, 1 just wanted to clarify when, I think you said 73 million
is generated by the visitor industry through real property taxes?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 28
MS. TUMPAP: Uh huh, real property, we have 73 million in real property tax revenue from
hotels and timeshares in FY 21.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just hotels and timeshares, not short-term rentals?
MS. TUMPAP: Not the entire visitor industry.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay.
MS. TUMPAP; Not the trickle-down effect.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering if at all you would consider that generated
from the environment also being that these are shoreline properties and it could be
said that, you know, when you’re looking at our real property tax revenue, the majority
of the revenue is generated by shoreline properties and so, it could be interpreted that
the environment is generating this revenue.
MS. TUMPAP; Are you asking me for clarification on my testimony or asking me to respond
to that suggestion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Clarification. If it's not-
MS. TUMPAP; So, so, this, this is currently based on what the hotel and timeshare properties
are generating. And so, yes, are they, many of them on the shorelines, yes, they are.
And, you know, we do understand that we do want to look at, you know, this bill is
based on impacts to our environment, but this number is based on the data on real
property tax, which I don't believe in generating the real property tax classifications,
there's any language on impact to the environment.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And you don't have the data about shoreline real property tax,
how much is generated?
MS. TUMPAP: I guess the question would be, no I don’t, does the County? I haven't seen
any data like that from specific, I'm sorry, I hadn't seen any specific breakdown from
county real property tax that looks at just the units that are shoreline versus some of
them that might be more inland. And I'm not sure what you mean by shoreline in terms
as how far in from the shore you are looking at?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess as-
MS. TUMPAP: Yeah, so I'm sorry, I don't have that data, but if you folks have it, we'd love to
have it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 29
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, thank you.
MS. TUMPAP: Yeah. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Pam, and everybody else, if a Member asks you a question that you think is not
pertinent to your testimony, or if you don't know the answer, can you just say, "I don't
know". Okay. Easier, easier that way, okay? Cause, otherwise, you go around and
around and around. And yes, I'm sure that kind of data, the County should have. Real
Property Division would have that information.
So, thank you for your testimony. Did you have another item that you wanted to speak
on?
MS. TUMPAP: Yes. Thank you, Chair Lee. We wanted to also speak on CR 21-280. You
know, we are alarmed by the potential negative impacts of this bill, as well as the other
moratorium on new, we know its new visitor accommodations on Maui and the creation
of the TIG. We understand the resolution today is to send the bill to the Maui Planning
Commission and wanted to share our thoughts on that.
We agree that issues like affordable housing and rentals, infrastructure, traffic, and
ways to improve our resident qualify of life for all things that must be urgently
addressed. What we disagree on is the methodology of simultaneously placing a
moratorium on new visitor accommodations and creating a TIG after the fact. We
believe that a TIG should be created now with broad participation, including industry
leaders from every impacted industry, and that the TIG should address these issues.
And if legislation is needed to address the strong community concerns, that that
happen right now before the need for a moratorium.
We consistently share that the Chamber of Commerce opposes all moratoriums, and
it's because they are inflexible. We've heard Councilmembers say that the moratorium
will only last two years, but two years is significant when looking at growth. According
to a leading, to leading State Economist Paul Brewbaker, Maui would forego about
$200 million per year in associated jobs and incomes because of the moratorium. This
will directly impact Maui's residents.
Lastly, data shows that the majority of new visitor accommodations in last 25 years,
20 to 25 years have been from vacation rentals, not conventional lodging.
Conventional lodging like hotels, condos-tells, and timeshares are built in appropriately
zoned areas, typically where other lodging and visitor attractions are. Many have said
cannot stop visitors from traveling to Maui and if they cannot find a place to stay in
legal accommodations are too expensive due to demand, they may knowingly or
we
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18. 2021
Page 30
unknowingly stay in illegal vacation rentals. Instead of a moratorium, let's start with a
TIG and truly address residents' concerns and tackle the illegal vacation rental problem
we have now.
I'd be happy to speak on some other data on that subject later on. We also appreciate
the opportunity to share other concerns on the moratorium today and ask that you defer
this measure while looking at the letter that was sent to you this morning. The visitor
industry is our economic driver. It supports many other industries, activities, retail,
restaurants, transportation, agriculture, manufacturing, and non-profit organizations.
With this support, other industries can grow and help to further diversify our economy.
We are the most dependent County in the State on the visitor industry.
Accommodations provide employment to thousands of Maui County residents.
And again, we ask that you review that letter this morning with 78 signatories that feel
this moratorium is problematic and not the right thing to do at this time for the reasons
noted. The quality of life of those employed by the industry depends on a vibrant visitor
industry. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, thank you, Ms. Tumpap. Members, questions? First, first, from
Member Paltin and then Member Molina.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Tumpap for your testimony.
It seemed that this testimony was focused on the TIG and you said that it should include
leaders from the visitor industry. I was wondering if you could clarify like what you
envision that TIG? Like is it just leaders from the visitor industry?
MS. TUMPAP; Thank you for asking the question. Actually. 1 mentioned all industries
affected, and by that, I mean not just the direct visitor industry, but we're talking, not
just the hotels and resorts, we're talking about the broader industry, restaurants, retail,
activities, agriculture. You know, we saw the devastation with COVID, when the visitor
industry was highly challenged. That devastation trickled down throughout our
community to every, basically to every industry, and I can tell stories all the way down
to hair salons.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; So, basically everyone connected to tourism, and were you
Councilmembers or others, just living in the public that weren't connectedenvisioning
to the visitor industry.
MS. TUMPAP: Oh, absolutely. I mean, of course, we want community groups, environmental
Councilmembers. What we often have in testimony is we have three minutesgroups
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 31
to share. And even between community members, we don't really get to have dialogue
on the different ideas, which is what TIGs are for, right? To, to allow people not to just
share for three minutes, but interaction.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. And, and then, I just, my follow-up question, this
TIG that you had described with all of these folks on it, is it significantly different than
the Mayor's working group on tourism?
MS. TUMPAP: I couldn’t tell you. I know that the Mayor has a working group on tourism, but
I don't believe the Mayor's working group is specifically focused on the moratorium.
And I understand this TIG will be focused on a moratorium proposal so to me that would
be significantly different.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo for the opportunity.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina, then Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good morning,
Ms. Tumpap. 1 just wanted to clarify your testimony, you mentioned the legal
challenges and that expressed in that letter. Can you elaborate on that as to why the
visitor industry and building industry would sue the County of Maui over this type of
legislation, which has been supported by a lot of our citizens out there in the
community. Could you further expound on that?
MS. TUMPAP: Not really, other than to say, 1 understand that some of the concerns relate to
it being a zoning issue and being handled in an appropriate way. And this would not,
this would not be for CR [sic] 21-280, but in fact, my understanding is that concern
comes
could not say I’ve heard of anybody specifically saying that they would do that, what
I'm saying is there have been other locations, and other challenges where that's
occurred.
around with CR 21-39. So, I would leave that to the lawyers, and I could not, I
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Good morning, Ms. Tumpap. Just a
quick clarifying question.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 32
MS. TUMPAP: Yes. Good morning.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Does the Maui Chamber of Commerce track job openings
in the hotel industry?
MS. TUMPAP; So, we do not specifically do that right now, but we actually are launching a
software where we can help do that. We've got a few online job postings-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, you don’t, you don't know, so you don't know presently
like how many openings there are in the industry that you are advocating to have more
jobs for?
new
MS. TUMPAP: I do not.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; So I'll give you specific, on, on Lanai, we have 100-
MS. TUMPAP: But the MHLA might.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Okay, well, on Lanai we have a 100 job openings for our
resort, we can't even fill them. So, it's kind of hard for me to hear the, the talking point
that we need more rooms and more, and it's going to create more jobs when we don't,
can’t fill the ones that we have already. So, I just wanted to know if you guys are
tracking that and if you're not, that's okay. Thank you. Chair. I have no further
questions.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Any, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. And to follow-up. maybe Pam, maybe you can
contact your sister organization, the Chamber Commerce of Hawaii that just did a
survey that showed nearly . . . member companies found a vast majority had difficulty
filling open positions. That's from the Hawaii Chamber. But what I wanted to ask you.
we
MS. TUMPAP: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -when you, when you, that was in-
MS. TUMPAP: Was the question that, on my testimony that you’re asking me to contact the
Chamber of Commerce of Hawaii?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 33
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I'm asking if you would because you said you don't have
the data and they seem to have data, so, if just to clarify your statements, maybe you
could back it up with some data.
MS. TUMPAP; But their data would be different from Maui County. Their collecting other
data.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Right. . . done it, maybe you can follow that same process and
try to figure that information out? Because you are saying a lot about data. Do you
have any data on, I mean. I'm assuming that you understand we're not going to lose
any RPT revenue, because whatever we have right now, we'll still have, so the real
property taxes.
So, do you have any data on what the lost revenue RPT is projected if we do this
moratorium?
MS. TUMPAP: Yes. The data that I have is actually based on data that comes from Paul
Brewbaker and that data, I think I just shared with you. Urn, but let me pull that number
up, so that I have it at hand.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Does Paul Brewbaker work with our RPT office in our County?
MS. TUMPAP: Work with. I'm sorry, what office?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; With our real property tax office? I mean-
MS. TUMPAP: I can't tell you how Paul Brewbaker came by the data, but he's been doing
research on the data. And so, let me pull that up for you really quickly. Because it's a
significant amount of data. I mean, it's significant, he's projecting over just the two-
year moratorium, we would lose $200 million per year, so that would be $400 million.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Based on what? Based on lost-
MS. TUMPAP: I can't answer that. I can let Paul Brewbaker explain how he comes to that
factor, but he's got significant details on that and he's working on the report which hasn't
yet been fully released.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. I'm just Interested in that data because, you know, I know
he did come to the IT Committee and talk about things like renovations and remodels
which are not in the moratorium. So those are not banned.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 34
MS. TUMPAP: I will absolutely ask that he share with you. I believe he shared; I believe he
shared a memo with you right after his presentation. And I thought he had included
some of that information in the memo that he sent to all Councilmembers.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I haven't seen that, I just heard reports because I was in
another meeting and 1 heard reports from my staff who attended it, not only was he not
addressing the bill per se, but he was calling in from a car dealership to make this
presentation. So, I'm not sure how organized that presentation was? And I just think
this data, if you are trying to base your testimony on data, then you should have data,
you know, prepared for, and this is another thing, is like, can the Chamber start
preparing data, what's going to happen with every new increased hotel? What is the.
MS. TUMPAP: So the Chamber doesn't have the financial wherewithal to hire all these
consultants, because that's not a key part of what our mission is, so we try and work
with partners who work in that realm. But what I can do is ask that Paul reshare his
email that was sent to the Council, and if we have a copy of it, we'll be happy to forward
it to you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. My last question to you is, because you're talking about
the top two industries, is, do you see Maui as always being dependent on tourism first,
or do you, does the Chamber see a potential for diversifying our economy to the point
where the other opportunities can be equal? Other opportunities for other industries
like the health industry, the film industry, the technology industry, the agriculture
industry? Do you foresee and do you support a diversified economy?
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you so much for asking that question. Yes. As we shared with you
after our last testimony, we sent out everybody, our legislative proposal from last
January again, and you'll see in that, yes, we want to support great diversification. We
want to support industries that also leverage what we've accomplished with the visitor
industry. We do see that there's a need to sustain the visitor industry, and that industry
with the support it provides now, helps us further diversify.
But it's critical that we diversify our economy, and you know, we all strongly support
agriculture, technology industry, we can do a lot more in the tech industry, whether film
is in there as well. Medical tourism is in there, as well, and in some areas, by not doing
that diversification, there are pop-up things happening that are underground. There
are some medical tourism things happening out of private homes, for example. So,
what we want to see is the allowance of those things to maximize the benefit and create
additional higher paying jobs.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 35
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you very much, testifier, Ms. Tumpap.
Appreciate you coming by.
MS. TUMPAP; Thank you. My pleasure. Thank you. Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Mr. Clerk, next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Ariella Upton, to be followed by the individual.
CHAIR LEE: Let us know how many more, so we can plan on taking a break?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -okay. After Ariella Upton is the individual calling in from the
phone number ending with these last four digits, 3493, and then after that individual,
there's four more testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We'll take the break after Ms. Upton.
Ms. Upton?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ms. Upton, your, we see, but you appear to be muted.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I see Ms. Upton is unmuted on both
our end and her end, either something is going on with your device. You may need to
restart and then perhaps we can call on her after the next testifier, while she logs off
BlueJeans and then logs back on?
CHAIR LEE; Oh, good. She got it. Mr. Clerk, who's the next one?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is the individual calling in from the phone
number ending with the last four digits, 3493.
MS. ASHLEY MCGUIRE (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-39):
Aloha everybody. My name is Ashley McGuire, I'm a resident of Maui. 1 grew up in
Kihei and I now live in Keokea. I would like to start just by saying that I support this
moratorium, and anyone who is hearing me coming in saying I'm a resident and that I
grew up in South Maui, probably understands why I am in support of this moratorium.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 36
1 watched my hometown change beyond recognition and 1 attribute it personally and 1
think many others will agree, whether we have sufficient data, numbers, quantitative
data to prove that or not, we are feeling that the tourism industry is responsible for that
stark change. When you look at the way hotels and condos have gone up, the way
places like the Maui Lu took out entire coconut groves to put in more buildings, those
are things that are irreparable. And those were spaces that people could have utilized
for. . . for community gatherings, and instead they are prioritized to visitors.
And whether those places were zoned for visitor accommodating or not, we, 1 think as
a community understand that this industry is out of control and that we import oyer 90
percent of our food when we have a ridiculous amount of available land. And I think
that we also haven’t discussed much in, I agree with all of the other points that the
other supporters of this bill have made. I second all of those things, that was so many
things, that I completely agree with. I'm not going to reiterate.
But one thing that we missed out on talking about was resource usage. We have finite
resources on this island and the majority of the water comes from the Pu'u Kukui
Watershed in the westside or the . . . mountains on the eastside, neither of which are
benefitting from tourism. These are places where kalo farmers have water stoleri from
them on a regular basis, to support these golf courses, and condominiums, and new
tourism development that are using our water, our energy, and our people.
The resources that we could be, human beings are resources that could be utilized in
other ways than devoting their lives to slave industry of tourism, where we are forced
to feel as if we have no other choice, but to succumb to the tourism industry because,
like previous testimony said, sorry, a testifier said, that they're presenting the
doomsday situation and manipulating and forcing us into feeling like we have no other
choice. And I think that we as a species are a lot more creative than that, and I think
community are a lot more creative than that.
So, I'm just going to end here,
supporters, and they said I think more than enough to solidify the passing of this bill. I
think that it's clear to see that those who came to speak in opposition of it were those
who were going to benefit from it not passing. And those of us who are desperately
pleading for this regulation of this out-of-control tourism industry are those who are
being every single day negatively impacted by it. This is me sitting for an hour and a
half, unpaid with a toddler waiting to say this testimony because 1 desperately want a
better future and better opportunity for my daughter on this island.
we as a
because like 1 said, I agree with all of the other
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 37
Again, I completely support thisThank you so much, everyone for listening,
moratorium and I am only one representative of a very large community who feels the
same way. Aloha and mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Paltin, question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thankyou, Ms. McGuire for your testimony.
And 1 just wanted to clarify your statement that Pu‘u Kukui Watershed Preserve doesn't
benefit from visitors. That's contrary to my knowledge because they do have a lot of
partnerships with the hotel and just wondering what you were basing that statement
on?
MS. MCGUIRE: Yeah. I'm basing that mostly on people 1 know who farm kalo on the westside
in Waihee, in Waiehu where, and out in Kahakuloa where they are reporting low stream
levels, in times, when yes, we are in a drought, but even over winter, when there is
plenty of water, the same is seen on the eastside. And 1 think that there's an unfair
diversion of water away from traditional farming practices. And while, yes, the water is
still flowing and many kalo farmers are still able to farm, not everyone is able to, there's
not water in all of the crown lands that were designated for Hawaiians to farm upon.
And I think that needs to be addressed before we can start talking about putting more
water in places that it doesn't naturally flow to sea anymore because of all these
diversions. And many parts were put in for, you know, the cane industry, the sugarcane
industry but are now being utilized in ways that many of us in the community feel are
not appropriate to what we're looking to do with this island as a community, which is to
be sustainable.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thankyou. And, and, just to clarify, it's not only the visitor
industry, a lot of our residents in West Maui get water from those diversions, but yes, i
agree that it does happen but it's not only. Thank you.
MS. MCGUIRE: Yes, and I agree with that too, it's not only, of course. Never just one
problem, but it's definitely a contributing factor for sure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thankyou.
MS. MCGUIRE: Thankyou. Thankyou.
CHAIR LEE: I think that does it for questions. Members, it's, I have no idea what time it is.
It's like 10:35, could be 10:36, but let's come back at 10:50. 10:50, Okay?
Recess. This meeting is in recess until 10:50.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 38
AND WAS(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10;35 A.M.
RECONVENED AT 10:52 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of June 18, please reconvene? May we
have the next testifier, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Junya
Nakoa, to be followed by Dave Jorgensen. I believe Mr. Nakoa called in. I'm not quite
sure--
MR. JUNYA NAKOA. [testifying on County Communication No. 21-264. Committee Report
No. 21-39, and Bill No. 57 (2021)1:
Hea. I stay.
CHAIR LEE: I hear him. I hear him.
MR. NAKOA: Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. NAKOA: Yea, you cannot miss this voice.
CHAIR LEE: I know. It's impossible.
MR. NAKOA: Yea, yea, yea, yea. Okay. Howzit you guys? Sorry, but my wife trying to work
over here. Get too much haoles on the island, sorry, my bad. But, um, what you call,
the first one I like talk about is 21-264, that's the slippahs for the lifeguards. Give those
buggahs slippahs, cause they, they over there, they protect the Kaanapali like that.
Some plenty times yea they gotta jump in the water go get 'em. Cause they dunno
what the heck they doing. Cause the hotels, I guess they not educating their, their
tourist on where to swim and how to swim and all that kind stuff, so yea, go take care
the lifeguards so they can get nice slippah. Okay, that one pau. Um, what you call,
where the other one?
Oh, yea, yea, yea, okay, Bill 57, as the one for the flood prevention one yea, for the
kine. Just to let you guys know, my Nakoa ohana we get land yea, right here in Kahana
and get the Kahana flood zone, flood the kine, the dam. My braddah, he take care that
buggah, yea. The buggah stay in the middle of our land, so we like try, kind of, I'm
trying to call the Planning Department and Public Works on how we can make this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 39
situation settled, yea. And even the Maui Land and Pine, ! cal! those buggahs up and
trying to kind, so just wanted to let you guys know about that buggah too. Okay, pau
that one.
The next one going be da kine, 21-39, the one everybody talking about, the tourist,
yea. You know what, brah, locals first, tourist after. Urn, you know, Yuki, I think one
of her questions that wasn't clarifying earlier, when ask is how we going stop them guys
from coming? Yea, I agree, no build the vacation rentals and then urn, you know, and
then tell the Planning Department no approve short-term rentals, like that. That's where
they going if they not going in the hotels. You know, cause, you know, the hotels is
already built, let em go over there, cause we cannot do nothing with that, you know,
just let em go over there, let em stay inside the hotel zone like everybody was talking
about, yea so they no go all over the place, go stay.
So, you know, following the Facebook thing the Maui Bound, they all checking if they
get openings, you know, they booking their stuff like four, five months ahead. You
know, if get hotel opening, get the rental car place like that, you know what I mean.
So, eh brah, it’s their fault if they no more place for stay when they come cause . . .
they the dummies. You know what I mean.
When 1 go Vegas, I make sure i get one room, so I can crawl in after I pau lose all my
money, you know what I mean. So, 1 know what I doing? But, you know, so these
guys gotta stop, you know what I mean, and you know what, as a, 1 am a Maui resident
long time, long time, I live over here. You know, get the other guy from the Pacific
Resource, he calling in from Honolulu, heck brah, who is he for say kuleana over here
when he live Honolulu. Leave us alone, you just stay in Honolulu, gun funit.
And then, you know, all these hotels, yea, you know, they no pay the workers, brah,
enough that they only can have only one job, brah. I know, I was one union rep, and
I, you know what, I talk to all the, the union members of ILWU. I know the last time had
the one representative from ILWU, he no talk to his members, I going tell you straight
up. 1 talk to em every damn time. I go, 1 go Napili Market, I go anywhere, they all
grumbling to me, eh Junya, how come this, how come that. And I'm going talk to them,
cause it’s just me, yea, you know what I mean. But the ILWU, the officers inside there,
they like stand there, sit behind their desks, and I know cause I use to work for them
and then, um, you know what I mean. They want, I neva ride their wave, so they when
get rid of me. So, yea, the hotels not taking care their workers, and all that kine stuff,
so nuff already. Locals first.
Last night, I go, my daughters go take me go eat dinner for Father's Day cause my
oldest daughter going be Honolulu. Ho brah, brah. Hula Grill, but da kine, ah, I going
finish up, I going finish up.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 40
But urn the the, had like four sailboats came in all at once, brah, and each of urn get
100 people each, that's like 500, 400 people, you know what I mean, coming off of that
boat. And so, they accommodated, and you know, and the thing is, we the locals not
accommodated.
Today, right now, as we speak, get one Little League Baseball All-Star Tournament
happening on Maui. But only get hundred people can go, that's the players, coaches,
the league officials, and the kine. so, brah, hundred people for two teams. That, these
kids when work hard for, for, for be able to play all-stars, they buss their okoles for do
'em and then here we telling only hundred people can go. And then the tourist come
here, oh my god, oh 1 was so sick, I was all bum out. But that's all I get for say to
you guys, and have a good weekend cause I am right after this.
over
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Junya. Are there, yeah, we have questions for you.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Nakoa for your testimony^ 1
wondering if you could clarify the Kahana flood control, which item that was on thewas
agenda?
da Bill 57, I think, I think. Is that the one? TheMR. NAKOA; Oh. that was da kine one
Lahaina, Lahaina, da Lahaina water-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh. oh. okay. Thank you. Thank you.
MR. NAKOA: 1 just wanted for bring em up cause that's . . . going to Planning, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions
Day, okay.
MR. NAKOA: Yessah . . . Alrighhht!
CHAIR LEE: Next, next testifier. Ah, you're muted. You're muted.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. Our next testifier is Dave Jorgensen, to be followed
by Debra Greene.
Members? If not, Junya you have a wonderful Father's
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18,2021
Page 41
MR. DAVE JORGENSEN (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280 and Committee
Report No. 21-39):
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
MR. JORGENSEN; Aloha. Can you hear me? Can you see me?
CHAIR LEE; You're not, urn, the connection is a little weak?
MR. JORGENSEN; I'm having, you guys are freezing up a lot. I'm ... am I being?
CHAIR LEE; Dave, where are you calling from? Can you try again?
MR. JORGENSEN; Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MR. JORGENSEN; Hello?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MR. JORGENSEN; Is that better? I've been-
CHAIR LEE; And now it's getting weak again, Dave. You want to jump off the call and come
back on in a minute or so? Can we have our next testifier.
Mr. Clerk.
(See pages 42 through 47 for completion of testimony.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Debra Greene.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
MS. DEBRA GREENE (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-39);
Good morning. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 42
MS. GREENE; Excellent. Thank you. Good morning, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. It's
Debra Greene. I cannot get my camera to work with BlueJeans. It works on the other
platforms, but I'm not trying to hide.
I'm testifying in support of CR 21-39, the moratorium on visitor accommodations bill.
This bill is about respect for people who live here. It's about respect for the land,
respect for the water, respect for the creatures, large and small. Respect for, respect
for and protection of the scarce resources of this precious place that we call home.
And because we are an island with scarce resources, we need to protect them. This
bill is desperately needed.
Waiting for two years before approving more visitor accommodations is not an extreme
measure by any stretch. It's an important pause button. It's all it is, it's a pause button.
Regarding stopping air travel, if we build it, they will come. If we don't build it, they will
There are very few people who will come to Maui if they don't have
accommodations. People don't spend money on airfare and rental cars and engage in
a long flight across the ocean for hours and hours to land on a remote island without
having a place to stay. They plan in advance. They're not going to risk having no place
to stay.
not.
We can beef up enforcement of illegal vacation rentals, if need be. I really like the idea
of citizen volunteers policing the illegal vacation rentals and establishing a hotline. We
do have some control over visitor numbers and this bill is an important way that we can
exert some control and curb overtourism and the damage that it causes. Thank you
so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Greene. Do we have questions. Members? If not, thank you
Ms. Greene.
MS. GREENE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: May we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Dave Jorgensen has returned.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. JORGENSEN: Good morning and xin chao. Chair Lee, Councilmembers, and staff. My
name is Dave Jorgensen. I’m an attorney in Wailuku and I'm testifying on behalf of the
American Resort Development Association of Hawaii or ARDA Hawaii. 1 am a
registered lobbyist. I'm here today to testify on two items, CR 21-39 and CC 21-280.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18,2021
Page 43
And I’m testifying against the proposed moratorium on visitor accommodations. ARDA
Hav^aii believes there are inherent flav^s in both bills. We're heartened that several of
the problems with the bill initially proposed in CR 21-39, have been addressed to some
extent. However, the fact that the first proposal from the CARE Committee is still
advancing, notwithstanding the fact that the modified bill in CC 21-280 confirms the
proposed amendments are to go to the Planning Commission is problematic.
ARDA suggests that the bill in CR 21-39, to amend Chapter 40 also be sent to the
commission for further study and public input, and that a tourism management
temporary investigating group be formed before any moratorium is enacted. We also
hope that the concerns of Corporation Counsel have been taken into account, and if
not, that they will be heard and addressed before any measure proceeds. I note that
neither proposal has been approved as to form and legality by Corp. Counsel.
Implementing these moratoria for visitor accommodations will have far reaching and
long-term impacts on real estate, construction, tourism, and the whole island economy.
And there will be many unintended consequences of this action which must be
considered, including serious negative impacts on employment in general, and on the
hundreds of businesses and many thousands of employees that support the industry.
From restaurants, to retail stores, to activity providers, to suppliers of all the products
that support these businesses. We ask that you also keep in mind that the visitor
industry in general and the time industries, timeshare industries specifically, contribute
much to Maui, its people, and its economy. From paying taxes, to supporting the
Charity Walk, to contributing greatly to many non-profits, and to providing jobs.
While the timeshare industry certainly cares about the environment, and has a vested
interest in protecting it, and we recognize the need for responsible tourism and better
management of Maui's precious resources, doing careful consideration must be given
to a broader impacts of these moratoria. We simply ask that this not be rushed into,
and that ail legal concerns be addressed, and all positions be fully considered, and we
strongly urge that both of these bills be referred to the Maui Planning Commission for
vetting, after careful consideration and public comment.
If 1 may. Chair Lee, I'd like to turn to the proposal to amend Chapters 19 and 20 of the
code, as reflected in CC 21-280. It's interesting that the exact same language is being
ggested to amend two separate chapters in the code. I’m assuming Corp. Counsel
will have an opinion on that. An opinion letter from the Cades Shuttes Law Firm, was
submitted to the Council by ARDA Hawaii, I'll try to briefly and quickly summarize that
letter.
su
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 44
Even though the current resolution has been revised, we believe it remains
fundamentally flawed. The resolution fails to advance a  legitimate government,
government interest in several ways. For example, an increase in hotel rooms and
other transient accommodations has not caused an increase in the daily visitor
population. On the contrary, hotel rooms on Maui have declined from 8577 units in
2000 to 7251 units in 2020. Only a handful of hotels have been built during the last
25 years, yet the daily visitor count has continued to increase. Thus, there's no factual
basis to conclude that the moratorium would cause the daily visitor count to stabilize
or decrease. No data or study has been presented in support of this conclusion.
Contrary to the findings on the transient accommodations under regulated hotels and
certain other transient accommodations such as timeshares are heavily regulated. For
example, hotels and timeshares may only be developed in areas that are designated
for hotel use, not in residential neighborhoods, consistent with existing zoning laws. In
this way the development of hotel and timeshare units voids the potentially adverse
effects on neighborhood character, area infrastructure, and the availability of on-street
parking.
Finally, the assertion that the prohibition on the development of transient
accommodations is intended to address negative impacts on the environment, and
purportedly overwhelmed infrastructure does not withstand scrutiny. No rational review
leads to the conclusion that developing transient accommodations over a period that
would exceed, may exceed two years, has any effect on carbon emission levels,
climate change, or global warming. Nor has any data or study been presented to
support such conclusion or the conclusion that the County's infrastructure is
overwhelmed due to the continued development of transient accommodations.
The resolution calls for an investigation and recommendations regarding the carrying
capacity for the island of, the island, in the Maui Island Plan and for heavily visited
traversed locations addressing infrastructure loads, roadways, wastewater facilities,
water use and other County facilities, and environmental impacts. Resting the
resolution on demonstrably flawed and unsupported factual premises severs the
connection between the purported purposes of the reso and the actual effects of the
resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Dave, can you conclude, please?
MR. JORGENSEN: Yes. The Cades Schutte letter also explains why the resolution is
unconstitutionally vague and that it violates equal protection clause, but I will just end
by saying ARDA opposes both moratorium and suggest that a TIG be created for both
before any moratorium is enacted. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 45
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Yes, we have a question.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Good morning, Mr. Jorgensen. Just a
quick clarifying question, does the Maui, is it Art of Maui, track job openings in the resort
industry?
MR. JORGENSEN: There are statistics that are created by ARDA Hawaii, that are gathered.
1 don't have those with me, but I can get them to you.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. I would love that, because that's the kind of point that
1 made earlier, is that we have two hotels on the island of Lanai and there's a hundred
job openings we can't even fill. So 1 wanted to find out if your organization tracks the
because if it does and it does find that there are a lot of openings that theyopenings,
unable to fill, how can I follow the logic that we need more homes, or more houses,
or. I'm sorry, more hotels? So, that's my clarifying question and I would love to get that
data from you, when you can. Mahalo.
are
MR. JORGENSEN: Yes, sir. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? If not, thank you, Mr. Jorgensen.
MR. JORGENSEN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, oh wait. We have, do have a question.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, Mr. Jorgensen, you mentioned the equal
protection clause, what does that refer to? Sounds like a constitutional something,
what does that refer to?
MR. JORGENSEN: Essentially, it involves government decision-makers treating different
people in, all relevant respects in similar fashions. So here in this case, going through
the various iterations of these proposals, there's been references to bed and breakfast
homes, for instance, now that's not included is my understanding. There's no rational
basis for treating transient accommodations differently from other businesses that
service visitors, and so that's an issue that, you know, we're also pointing out, that was
also pointed out by, in the Cades Schutte opinion letter.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 46
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Jorgensen. I just wanted to
clarify that last part, that you were saying about the equal protection clause, about bed
and breakfast and then not bed and breakfast. I wasn't clear if you meant it would be
constitutional to take bed and breakfast out. and not allow any more bed andmore
breakfasts? Or it would be, I wasn't clear.
MR. JORGENSEN: No, I'm sorry. Thank you for the question and I'm sorry for the, any
confusion I created. The point is that these proposals treat transient accommodations
different than other industries that serve the visitor industry, and in theory could
carbon emission levels and the use of roadways and infrastructure. My pointincrease
about the bed and breakfast was prior versions of the bill had bed and breakfast
included and now it's not included as I understand it in the current version. So, but I
didn't mean to imply that the equal protection clause only would apply to the bed and
breakfast being included or not. It has to do with the bill not applying to all other
industries that might affect this, this issue as well.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. That clarified it well for me. Thanks.
MR. JORGENSEN: Thank you for the question.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha. Dave. Thanks for your testimony. So,
your, your position is that all industries should be treated equally? I'm not clear on
what. I'm assuming that ARDA recognizes that the Council has the authority to treat
different sectors within the industry differently, because we do that in our real property
tax, we have different tax rates for different categories. So, I'm not sure why you're,
what your issue of constitutionality and how different industries or even different sectors
within an industry can be treated differently.
MR. JORGENSEN: Well, again, the people who are, the purpose of these bills and the intent
of these bills as stated, is to protect the environment and decrease tourism. Other
industries do the same thing. Other industries can impact positive or negative on the
tourism industry and according to the logic of the bills affect the environment. What
I'm saying is under the equal protection clause, all industries should be, similarly
situated should be treated in similar ways.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 47
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so if you-
MR. JORGENSEN: So, the real property tax issue is  alittle bit in opposite to, to the issue
but I understand what your question is saying.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, and we've had, we've had moratoriums that have passed
before and not held up to challenges in court. So they're not specifically on the building
industry, so, you're saying that, that, that doesn't hold up anymore? I'm not sure what
you're saying? Why you're saying this?
MR. JORGENSEN: Well, number one, the challenges such as they were. I'm not intimately
familiar with prior challenges to moratorium issued on Maui. But what I'm saying,
there's still equal protection issues that concern ARDA and others on these bills. And
again, I'm assuming that Corp. Counsel will weigh-in on those and advise the Council
accordingly.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, we've had, we've had good research into these bills by
attorneys in OCS, who assured us they're pretty airtight. They follow a pattern of other
such moratoriums across the country that have stood up to challenges.
MR. JORGENSEN: Well, my concern with the prior testimony of the counsel for OCS was
that they were only doing the minimum to just get over the hurdle. And I would,! would
suggest that it should be more than just doing the minimum, but I understand that they
have advised the Council on these matters.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm not sure what that means, but I'll let it go. Not sure what you're
talking about but, this, you know, this is not meant to, again, this is not meant to solve
all the problems. It's meant to put a pause, to stop the bleeding while we work on
solutions. So I'll just reiterate that. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Jorgensen.
MR. JORGENSEN: You're welcome. Thank you and thank you for your hard work.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Next individual we have signed up to testify is Nathaniel Kinney
to be followed by Kenny Barr.
CHAIR LEE: Nathaniel Kinney.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 48
MR. NATHANIEL KINNEY. HAWAI I REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS (testifying on
County Communication No. 21-280 and Committee Report No. 21-39):
Hello, Chair and Members. Nathaniel Kinney, Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenters
in opposition to 21-280 and 21-39.
We are extremely worried about the consequences of these moratorium bills, and as
I'm sitting here listening to some of the other testifiers, like specifically the testifier
before us, now there is constitutional issues involved, we are wondering if this is really
the best way to achieve any sort of preservation of the environment. Particularly
concerning to us though is the more, the more economic arguments of the $400 million
in lost economic activity that is going to result of these moratoriums.
To Counciimember Johnson's points about, like, you have a hundred job openings, and
you can't find any workers. There's a number of reasons why that could be, like, I
mean, when you, what happened with the pandemic is, you basically stopped an entire,
several entire industries and people have been severed from their jobs. And to try to
like, restart up everything on a dime, just businesses don't work like that, that's, that's
just the nature of things. You know, the airlines are having trouble bringing back
people, doesn't mean that people are able to go back to work or even remain in the
islands, because again, there is a lack of affordable housing, people lost their jobs and
may have left. And you know, there's, there's several, there's several reasons why
there could be job openings and people that can't fill them.
I've been in close contact with the ILWU, they're telling us that their members, the
hotels are not at capacity and they have not hired back. They are probably about 50
percent of their labor capacity and there's a lot of people on their bench. Now, when
you add in the moratorium on building, we already, the carpenters' union already has
a 40 percent unemployment on Maui, adding in these types of moratoriums would only
lengthen the time that people are on the bench and perhaps put them in destitution
economically.
So, I would suggest, and I do, do have concerns about the fact that, you know, why,
why, why is it now we're going to set up the hotlines to crackdown on the illegal bed
and breakfast? Why wasn't that done before? There's been a lot of lip service, about
cracking down on the illegal transient vacation units that are in the community, that are,
that are taking away vital affordable housing units from the citizens. And then we're
going to do this after the moratorium passes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 49
The unfortunate consequence of these moratoriums is that we're not going to see how
badly it affects the citizens of Maui and their employment opportunities until well after
those two years or perhaps even longer. And then to come back and try to repair that
damage, again it just does not work like that, like people move away, people will get
pushed into poverty, people will get pushed into Section 8, and that's why we would
urge much more caution when putting in such a radical idea, not just on one part of the
island, but now the entire island.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Kinney. Mr. Kinney, could you please conclude, please?
MR. KINNEY: Yes. Thank you. That's it.
CHAIR LEE: That's it? Oh, okay.
MR. KINNEY: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Kinney. When you brought
up, 1 wanted to address when you brought up that we're only now just addressing
illegal, non-permitted rentals, short-term rentals. And so, how long have you been in
your position with the union?
MR. KINNEY: I just recently started.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, you were not around when, four years ago when we started
the effort to crackdown on illegal, unpermitted short-term rentals, and we actually, the
Council put money into the budget to hire extra people to enforce so that the Planning
Department is now telling us that we have less than, somewhere around 150 at the
most of illegal rentals, right now. We've actually done a good job of cracking down in
the last years.
MR. KINNEY: Well, I, I, I'm still just again, it's all of the counties. The issue is not unfamiliar
to everybody, it’s been, it's been front page news for a, for a long time.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -new effort to do this and we've actually been working on this for
this is my third term and we've been working on this ever since I got on the Council.
MR. KINNEY: Right.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 50
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, it's not something we just started because of the moratorium,
we've been working on it and it's been successful. We've been able to crackdown on
the illegals. So, I would just ask you if you could maybe get a little more familiar with
where we're at and I’m happy to talk to you offline to tell you what, you know, efforts
we have done. But the other question I have for you is the Carpenters’ Union
considered part of the construction industry?
MR. KINNEY: Urn, yes. Definitely, they are part of the construction industry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The DBEDT report that says construction industry has never
really gone under during the pandemic and that they are, as of April, that the whole
construction industry is up 101.9 percent of what they were before the pandemic, so
actually doing better even than before the pandemic. So you're saying that doesn't
apply to your union folks, your workers?
MR. KINNEY: I, I, we found, we found something actually different. What we found is that
year over year since 2016, you've actually seen a decrease every year in building
permits and economic activity related to construction. And then the bench, the bench
that we have on Maui suggests that there is a significant, we went, we've been going
through a significant softening and it is continuing to extend. Now it wasn’t as if COVID
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You answered my question, but if you could send that information,
because the DBED report that came out in May, just last month, shows that private
building permits increased 2.3 percent during the first quarter of 2021, so building
permits are actually increasing according to the State data. If you have different
information, could you send it to us?
MR. KINNEY: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kinney. Thank you. Are there any other questions
for Mr. Kinney? If not, let’s move forward.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Kenny Barr, to
be followed by Dick Mayer.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Barr.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 51
MR. KENNY BARR (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280 and Committee Report
No. 21-39):
Good morning, Council. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. BARR: That's a question you hear from everybody who calls in, isn't it? Anyway, Kenny
Barr from Kihei, I've been a resident for a while, and I would like to testify in favor of
21-39, and also make a few comments on 21-280.
I'm in favor of your bill. I, first time testifying on this. I've listened to many, many
meeting on the TV and I wanted to testify and put my two cents in. I really appreciated
the lady who spoke before the break that you took. She summed it up for everybody
who’s in favor for this, the Kihei woman who cares about her kids and how it is to grow
up in Kihei.
So, I wanted to touch on the Maui Coast Hotel which you've heard plenty about, and I
think that's a perfect example of, of what's been going on here. Because that hotel,
when they held their. Planning Commission held their meetings, and was brought into
question about the SMA right, so the SMA having been there for five years has to do
with basically with mitigating environmental concerns, but it has to take traffic into
account. And your testifier for the traffic was talking about like there was no significant
impact. And I don't know if that was a State guy, or it was the developers? But that
was like the most absurd comment because, if you live in Kihei, you know that between
3:00 in the afternoon and 8:00 at night, the traffic is completely stopped from Foodland
by Life's a Beach, all the way down past Kam 111. It's stop and go for five hours all
because of the crosswalks and the, the traffic lights. So, to say there's no traffic impact
was just, I think that really ticked off a lot of people, because that's not the case here.
Um, I do respect the construction workers who have been talking, the heads of unions
and everything, and you gotta see their point of view. On the other hand, if you
remember and Alice brought this up in one of the meetings that in, through the '70s
and '80s, and into the '90s, the working population here that built Kihei and everywhere
else, it went along pretty smoothly. But then in the early 2000's, when they were going
to build the three hotels in Wailea, plus the airport terminal, I believe the union brought
in. I'm going to just say, hundreds, could have been thousands of workers from the
mainland to do all this work at the same time. So, a lot of them decided to stay,
obviously, because it's Maui, and then, so now, you know, they are in a position to have
to keep trying to present more jobs for all of these workers that are here now. And
that's really nobody's fault, but it's not a, it's not a valid point, and to continue building
now as far as the way of life here on Maui. So, on that item, that is about it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 52
Pam mentioned something about the businesses that need to have a continued growth
to keep making more money. Well, when we’re at 100 percent, they're going to still
make the same amount of money that they were making before COVID, so what she's
talking about is bringing in more business and more traffic and more people and it's not
really going to help the island. And the people who are servicing, those farmers are
going to still make, still provide the same amount of, of product to the hotels that are in
existence. So I'll wrap it up here on 38, on 21-39.
On 21-280, I just, I just want to say, because I've never testified on this before, but the
only reason I’m saying this is because, listening to the Molokai Planning Commission
about the short-term rentals and bed and breakfasts, they were highly supportive of
doing away with all of them in residential areas. And I'm suggesting also that, I know
there's so many, so many different variations of this bill to satisfy everybody, but
basically, 1 would love to see if it, if it was no short-term rentals or bed and breakfast in
R-1, R-2, and R-3, that's in all the neighborhoods. And if those people, of course, the
ones who do complain are not making a lot of money, they could rent to long-term
renters and that would solve a big problem on this island. And the other thing is they
could also go buy a condo on Kihei Road in the visitor area and rent their condo and
make all the money they want. So, that's my suggestion on 21-281.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
MR. BARR: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Barr, we have a question for you from Member Paltin,
MR. BARR: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Barr for your testimony. If I
may, I just wanted to clarify if your perspective was coming, are you still in the taxi
business, and would you consider that visitor industry related?
MR. BARR: I am still in the taxi business and I would consider it related. But as far as I can
see, the taxi business is doing pretty well, and um, at least now, of course, there's no
rental cars. But anyway, in answer to your question, yes. I'm in the business and i do
consider it, but then again, like that lady that called in before the break. I'm just saying
that even if I could work 17 hours a day driving  acab . . . and making lots of money,
your, your quality-of-life matters. And I'm getting older, so I know for me, I don't have
much time is left for the quality of life. But for that lady and for a lot of other people, it
matters, you know, and that's why a lot of people moved here, that's why the people
were lucky enough to grow up here, it matters.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18. 2021
Page 53
And anything that you can do, the five of you can see through this, anything you can
do to protect that quality of life \Ne have and of course \A/e also \A/ork for those eight
months, there's no getting a\A/ay from it, that Maui could be the most perfect place in
the world to live and still make a living when things come back to normal here without,
without eroding the quality of life and do more and more business. I hope that answers
that question from the heart.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes. Thank you so much, Mr. Barr and here’s to hoping that
you have many more years of quality of life and best wishes. Thank you for your time
and your testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina
MR. BARR: So far. So good. Thanks Alice. Thanks to all of you for doing your job. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Hey, Kenny. This is Mike Molina, if you're still on the call?
MR. BARR: Hey. Mike. Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Hi, Kenny. You mentioned you've operated a taxi business
for many years in South Maui and you bring an interesting perspective with regards to
the log jam of traffic at certain points, certain times of the day in Kihei. Are you seeing
a lot of potential road rage and maybe it's partially caused by the visitors or influx of
visitors? From your perspective as a taxi operator are you sensing a lot of frustration
and potential road rage?
MR. BARR: Maybe not so much road rage, I mean, it's still Maui and people still have aloha,
at least the local people that live here. You know, we're used to letting people out and
we know what it's like to try and make a left turn on Kihei. So you always try to go out
of your way to do it. And visitors, let's face it, I mean, I don't what to make it sound
terrible, but their way of life is always to get ahead. If it's a merge, it's to go to the very
end and force yourway in. If you're going on Kihei Road, and there's somebody waiting
on the collector, they're not going to let you in because it's not their way of life. How
can you blame them, because they don't know the difference? You know, they don't
know the feeling of letting somebody in and have them wave to you. So, but anyway,
to your question, I don't really see anybody yelling, fighting anybody down here. It's
just a lack of courtesy and a lack of aloha. That's it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 54
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thanks for your perspective, Kenny. I think that's another
good reason why we need to really look at how we manage tourism in itself and
educating our visitors. Thank you very much, Kenny. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
MR. BARR; You're welcome. Thank you. Thanks, Mike. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Hey, Kenny,  Igot one more question for you.
MR. BARR: Yes. Yep.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; It's Kelly. Thanks for testifying. And I hope you, I know you were
saying this is your first time, I hope it's not the last time because you've been around a
long time and 1 do really value and respect your opinion. But I just wanted to clarify
that you, from your testimony. I'm ascertaining that you see, you as a taxi driver, who
is out and about ail the time, you see the full return of tourism to South Maui, because
that's what's being reported, you know, that we have the same pre-pandemic numbers
now. Do you see that?
MR. BARR: Definitely. I don't see any, to me, it looks like Christmas and New Year's week.
It just never changes and the same on the highway. I know they lowered the highway
speed to 35, and a lot of people aren't happy about it. I, I'm not happy about it. I mean
how fast can you go over here, there's so much traffic, there's a traffic light just waiting
for you to stop for the red light. So, urn, I, you know, I, I, I just think the traffic is just
really getting terrible here.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. Okay. Well, I think, 1 really appreciate your perspective,
you know, most of us are stuck in these meetings ail day long. So, we're not out and
about like you and wanted to clarify if that is what you are seeing. Thank you and have
a great weekend.
MR. BARR: Thanks for the compliment about calling in and caring. That's a very nice
compliment. Thank you. I appreciate that. Okay. Aloha. Have a good day.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Are there any further questions? No?
Okay, Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 55
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next testifier is Dick Mayer, to followed by Johann Lall.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Mayer. You're muted. James, can you help him?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: He appears to be unmuted on our end, now.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay, I see it. Dick, you can start talking.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-278 and 21-280, and
Committee Report Nos. 21-38 and 21-39):
Okay, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. MAYER: Okay. Thank you. I'm not sure, what happened, but okay. I have four items
that I'm going to comment on, two of them very briefly.
The first one is Maalaea land purchase, Maalaea Mauka. I’m concerned that switching
it from a project district, which it is now, to a agriculture may raise the cost of that land.
And 1 don't know the stage of negotiations between the County and the landowner? I
know there's State funds involved, surprise, surprise. County funds, etc., and I would
hate to see the price of that land go up because of a redesignation which would allow
the gentlemen estates on that land. I think what the County really wants to do is to
purchase that land and make it into open space, and that's really where it should be
put, not necessarily into agricultural subdivisions that would be very expensive.
I could imagine 25 estates properties on there, that would be very expensive and create
the, up the assessed valuation and create a windfall profit for the landowner. And 1
don't think that's really what you intend to do, so please check with the attorneys, find
out the status of those negotiations. If they are already completed, and there's an
agreement to purchase it. . . put it into ag or anything else, it's probably not important,
but if the negotiations are ongoing, you certainly don't want to increase the value of
that land.
The second item, with regards to the climate statements being put into the Countywide
Policy Plan, I strongly endorse doing that 1 believe that it goes along with what, to me
is a very important motto, and that is to think locally and act locally. We cannot change
the climate situation of the whole planet for everybody, but we can do our part here on
Maui. And putting that into the Countywide Policy Plan indicates our steps here on this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 56
island, in this County to begin implementing measures that we can take to reduce the
effects of climate change worldwide. And I hope every community will do something
comparable to that and I think we'd all be better off as a result So, please pass that
into the Countywide Policy Plan.
The other two items are the moratorium. The two of them. I strongly endorse but I have
some concerns. First, I'd like to respond to Councilmember Yugimura's [sic],
Sugimura's statement that the Federal government is the one that regulates airplane
flights. I think it should be made very clear that that is exactly the reason we do need
this moratorium because we do not have control of the airplane flights or even ships
coming into our harbors. We cannot affect tourism that way, but what we can do is
make it more difficult for tourists that might want to come here to get accommodations,
and that is exactly what this moratorium is asking for. So, I agree with the,
Councilmember Yukimura's [sic] concern with the airplane flights, but I think that's the
justification for having the moratorium.
I would hope that we would utilize the two-year moratorium period to get a better grasp
on diversifying our economy. And one of the institutions that you fund and help and
support that's been on Maui now for several decades is the Maui Economic
Development Board. I would urge that you put a little fire under their institution and get
them to really begin thinking about diversifying our economy.
There are other industries and activities. I'll give one example, I could well imagine
establishing in the R&T Park in Kihei, an upper division and graduate level university
program, maybe in conjunction with the University of Oregon or UCLA or someone else
on the mainland that would love to have a branch here on Maui that would invite
students to come here and study some of the things that we have, oceanography, our
hotel industry and restaurant industry, astronomy, all of these things are programs that
would make for an excellent upper division and graduate level university. Those are
the types of, they, they're in the R&T Park, they, they sponsored a larger R&T Park,
but I've seen them do nothing to really put industries and activities in there and that's
just one example.
Most importantly though, I think we need as a moratorium and then during the
moratorium, not before it, that we establish a TIG committee, that will look how we can
get a better handle on the taxes being paid by the visitor industry. I believe the property
values of the various hotels are lower than is in order. One the possibilities would be
to get away from the value of the buildings to an income approach. The hotels on Maui
are right now raking in very, very large profits on their operations, they are taking all
that money out of the island and we are not able with our tax system that we have now,
on the value of buildings, to assess and tax those profits that are being made. We
have some of the highest rates ever charged for hotels on Maui, etc., and I would hope
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 57
that that would be one thing, and to do that, I think what we need to do is work with the
State Tax Office. There's been very little cooperation by the State Tax Office and the
County of Maui.
There are two items on the moratorium. Let me continue with that, they go together.
CHAIR LEE; Go ahead, Dick.
MR. MAYER: Thank you. What we need to do is work with the State Tax Office to make sure
that they are aware of all the visitor accommodations on the island. I don't think, all the
Minatoya condos, for example, they're aware of it. If someone living in Illinois owns a
condo here, gets his income paid out of state, we're . . . getting any of the income tax
off of that property, the transient accommodation tax, the GET tax, and I think that the
State is losing out on getting money. And I think we would be able to get better property
tax values by working together with them and coordinating our, our efforts. What you
could do with our State Legislators to put pressure on Hawaii property tax. Department
of Taxation would be a great benefit, 1 think, to the County.
Mr. Jorgensen mentioned that the number of hotel units are declining. He represents
the timeshare industry which has seen an increase over the same period that the hotel
industry was declining. So, he's the last person that should be talking about the fact
that we have fewer accommodations, in fact, more accommodations now than we had
before. And some of them have increased the size of their units, so instead a two-
beds, they might be three-beds. Those kind of things are happening. And 1 think what
we need to do is really count beds in Maui County, not just hotel rooms and hotel units,
or hotel buildings. So, all put together, and I could go on for a number of other points,
but I think the moratorium is needed at this point. It will give us a break from the rapid
growth of the tourist industry.
And lastly, we should recognize what the Hawaiian Tourism Authority itself says, is
declining appreciation of the visitor industry by the residents of Maui. They do a survey
of Maui residents every year and in their survey they've shown a steady decline in the
appreciation of the visitor industry. So, 1 think as much as a few people may say get
more jobs, I think the jobs will come in the tourist industry, I mean the construction
industry, we're going to be building five or six solar farms, there'll be a lot of jobs out
there over the next decade, and in the near future that will fill-in. And the construction,
the carpenters' union will be hopefully upgrading. The Westin Hotel in West Maui just
put in, like I said, a $125 million renovation. All the hotels that are now, that are
30-years old could probably be doing the same thing. So I think, there's lots of rooms,
adding rooms to just upgrading the quality of our visitor industry. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 58
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions for Mr. Mayer? If not, thank you, Dick.
Happy Father's Day.
MR. MAYER; Thank you. And Happy Juneteenth and Happy Father's Day to those who are
fathers.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is Johann Lall, to
be followed by Spencer Hyde.
MR. JOHANN LALL (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280):
Hi. I am speaking strictly on my own behalf, in support of 21-280. So, I think, urn, one
thing that, that is not making sense to me is that a lot of the testimony by the lobbyist
is about how great the tourism industry is for our economy, and it is. It's, you know, it
brings in a lot of revenue and creates jobs and stuff. But to me, that’s actually an
argument for restricting any further, tourism, like it's not an argument that we need
more. If it wasn't doing great, maybe that would be an argument that we need more
hotels, but it's the other way around, I think.
And then another thing is that overtourism in itself is bad for tourism. Pretty much,
every weekend I stand up paddle at Wailea Beach, and that beach is more crowded
than it has ever been. Obviously, it's more crowded than it was during COVID, but it's
also more crowded than it was years ago, or you know, a couple of years ago. And I
would think that those resorts would see that as  anegative impact. Because, you
know, they're charging up to a thousand dollars or even many thousands of dollars for
hotel rooms and they are trying to sell, you know, an exclusive experience. If you look
at their, their ads, they show, you know, pristine empty beaches, that kind of thing, and
so these people show up and they're on a beach where they're, the next umbrella is
like three feet away. Like, that seems like it's not a, it's not something you want to
spend that much money for.
So, ah, yeah, that's, it's, all of these things just don't make sense to me in the, the
context that we are seeing from, you know, the testimony. I can understand why the
construction industry would want to be building more, more hotels, but I would also
argue that they would benefit from building more affordable housing, or you know, any
number of other things. So, it seems like they shouldn't even specifically be that
motivated to have more, more hotels and it, I think this has also been addressed, is, is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 59
they bring in workers, they don't necessarily hire locals. Usually on days that I work
from home, I get lunch at the gourmet market in, in Wailea and it's pretty easy to tell.
Well so, it gets a lot of, 1 just want to say that there's a lot of folks who get lunch there
who are in that industry and 1 would say that most of them are not locals, so.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Thank you. Any questions for the testifier? If not. thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk, we're going to take a twelve o’clock lunch break, so kind of move
it along if you can.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next testifier is Spencer Hyde, to be followed by Travis
Liggett.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. No matter what, twelve o'clock we're taking a break. Lunch break.
MR. SPENCER HYDE (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280):
Aloha, Maui County Councilmembers. Thanks for listening to our testimony today. I
wanted to just voice my support for the moratorium on further hotel development. I
think that should expand across all of Maui, first of all. And the reason why I'm really,
I really support this moratorium is because I'm really concerned about the lack of
diversification in our economy. And if we continue to build and expand the hotel
industry, that's actually the opposite of economic diversification. That's doing more of
the same thing. And as a young person here, living on Maui, you know, I really care
about my home, but I'm just concerned that many of my peers and I will not be able to
have good economic opportunities here to, you know, for instance, afford a home, in
our own homes.
So what this moratorium does is it, it's making one, a statement that our leadership
here in Maui County is taking our overdependence on tourism seriously and saying
okay, you know what, we're going to, we're going to actually start to change this and
’ going to take that first step. And, yeah, I just you know, I'm trying to, I work for
the DOE and I'm trying to. I'm working on a project to inspire, you know, our high school
graduates to find good careers here on Maui and I've been doing a lot of research
coming out of the Maui County Office of Economic Development, and it's really
disheartening. If you look right now what jobs are hiring, it's mostly low-wage service
industry jobs and that's. I'm sorry, but like, I feel bad, kids that, that really love this
place, like they have to leave to find a decent job. And it's, it has to change, and I think
it starts here with this moratorium. This is the first step, to say okay, we're not going to
keep doing the same thing that we've been doing, cause it's not working for the kids.
we re
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 60
So, thanks, thanks for your, thanks for listening and I really hope that you all show
some courage and, and pass this moratorium. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair and thank you, Mr. Hyde for your testimony,
i really get excited when I see this age group paying attention and testifying. When
you said first step, I was wondering just, if you had a second step in mind?
MR. HYDE: Yeah. That's a, that's a great question. You know, I heard, urn, was it, um, who
just testified before me? Dick Mayer was talking about MEDB. Yeah, I'm, I'm actually,
that's what I, you know, it's going to take, um, well okay, I would say that right now, if
there's ever a time to take that second step it's now because we're seeing a huge shift
in—
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hyde. Mr. Hyde, she’s asking you, you what is the second step, I believe?
MR. HYDE: Yeah. Well, I'm sorry, but, yeah. Okay.  Imean, I understand your question, to
be frank, I don't have the answer for you. Like that's a very big question. Um—
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I didn't mean to put you on the spot, if you didn't
have the answer. I just, for some reason I assumed that you were coming out of South
Maui and I would like to encourage you and your students to participate in the South
Maui Community Plan process as part of the step, if you do.
MR. HYDE: Yeah, no. I'm sorry, I wish I had an answer for you, but-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's okay.
I agree. It's a tough question and I'm trying to work on it as someone that is
working in the DOE, how can we create, yeah better opportunities? It's um, you know,
I would just say, to give one quick answer, we can now, like remote work is a, is a new
thing that's happening right now, and we can take advantage of that right now. But if
we just let this opportunity pass, then you know, we're not trying, we're not trying.
MR. HYDE:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Hyde. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Hyde.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 61
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Travis
Legette, to be followed by Christina Goodness.
CHAIR LEE: And how many more after that?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Just one more after Christina Goodness.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we’ll go take one more after. Alright
MR. TRAVIS LIGGETT (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280 and Committee
Report No. 21-39):
Aloha, I hope everyone is having a great day and  Iwill keep my testimony very brief.
I'm here just to reiterate the findings of my calculations that I did for the CARE testimony
which took a slide from the Department of Environmental Management presentation
on 3/17. And using that slide, you can calculate exactly how much of the injected
wastewater at the Lahaina and Kihei municipal facilities is attributable to activities that
were happening in 2019, but not in March 2020. So, it's not all tourism, but a big chunk
of it is.
So, what we see in Lahaina, is that the reduction in millions of gallons injected per day
is 67 percent, so, two-thirds of the injected wastewater in Lahaina is attributable to
activities that were happening before the pandemic, but not in March 2020. In Kihei,
it’s 58 percent. So, when people say that there is no data to back-up, you know, the
idea that our infrastructure is stressed, the data says that, in fact, a lot of this tourism
activity gives rise to the majority of the injected wastewater.
So, my suggestion is we take this two-year pause to do two things. Take these
passionate construction workers and direct their effort to affordable housing; and also,
during the pause, go to 100 percent reuse as quickly as possible, as the Mayor’s Office
said they are committed to doing in that March 17 presentation. So that is ail.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions for the testifier?
Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thanks for being here Travis. Did, did you
say that you sent those, those data points that you just talked about to the Council?
MR. LIGGETT: Yes, I sent that to the CARE Committee. I will resend it to the full Council.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 62
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well, the Council can send, the CARE Committee can send
it out, but there are two Members who aren't on the Committee, so if you send it to the
full Council, that would be helpful.
MR. LIGGETT: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
Alright, Mr. Clerk.
Thank you, Mr. Liggett.
MR. LIGGETT: You're welcome.
DEPUTY COUNTY COUNCIL: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Christina
Goodness, to be followed by Albert Perez.
Christina Goodness.
MS. CHRISTINA GOODNESS (testifying on Committee Report No. 21-39 and County
Communication No. 21-280):
Okay. Can you hear me? Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. GOODNESS: Okay. Thank you so much. Aloha, I support the moratorium on building
permits for visitor accommodations as expressed in CR 21-39 and CC 21-280. I'm a
Maui resident, a graduate of Haiku, Kula, and Baldwin High School. I'm a voter and a
taxpayer. I grew up here and have deep roots here. I also have family in construction,
the visitor industry, schools, farming, and social services, and we talk about this issue
a lot, by the way. You guys really started something.
While, and maybe just one little note, I mean I have my brother and others that are in
construction, and just to note, that actually during the last year, they weren't really out
of work, because they were considered critical workers. So, just kind of a note, I don't
think it's just such a simple story.
I'm in favor of a moratorium because I think we are at a tipping point here honestly.
The status quo is not working for my family. I'm genuinely asking for your help and
action as I see this flood of visitors, that I'm going to see right now when I drive home
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 63
to Kaupo. Because besides the developed zones like Kihei and West Maui, the impact
on remote, fragile, and kanaka communities is just really directly . .. \with the rise of the
visitors over the years.
The economic benefits of more visitors are real, but so is the not-so-good. You know,
the rubbish, the unsafe behaviors, it's just not. If one percent of visitors drive on the
backside and throw rubbish, that’s just one percent, we can clean that up, we pay taxes.
But if it's a hundred, if there's a thousand people and one percent throw rubbish, that's
hundreds and etc., it's just not But anyway, I hope this moratorium just gives us some
breathing space to do more analysis, to do more, incorporate more data, and propose
solutions that work for more of us, so that we're not putting people out of work, but go
forward in a more conscience way.
So, for example, I really reject the premise that because no data can be found on
carbon impact, that it's not an issue. We just have more work to do. We have more
interesting and advanced analysis to do for good policy for our kids. 1 hope this two-
year breathing space will help my kids and yours inherent an island where they can
ride their bikes safely, they can know their neighbors, and they have a stake in the
economy and the future of the island.
I also urge you to evaluate the rapid expansion of some other new kinds, that 1 see a
lot when driving back and forth, like these mobile camping vehicles and the negative
impact on the County,
frameworks, but it's a problem right now for me and my family. 1 just also want to thank
you, Council for flagging this issue and watching out cause it's so future oriented. All
of my comments are submitted in the spirit of perpetuating local community and the
health of lahui. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Goodness. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you. Next
testifier.
I don't even know how these fit into current planning
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify Is Albert Perez, to
be followed by Joe McDermott.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Perez.
MR. ALBERT PEREZ (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280 and Committee
Report No. 21-39):
Aloha, Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 64
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. PEREZ; Okay. Good morning. It's still morning, I think. I’m testifying on two items
today, County Communications 21-280, this is the second moratorium bill that's been
submitted.
I support that and I'd like to ask you to expedite it. There was a comment about having
the TIG created first, but if we do that, then we'll have a rush of new hotel and other
visitor accommodations being developed, which would defeat the purpose of a
moratorium. So, we need to press pause while we take a breath and determine the
best way forward.
Any now I will move on to CR 21-39, this is the, the first moratorium bill. You know,
most visitors are back already, and we’re supposed to surpass pre-pandemic levels by
20 percent in July. The Hawaiian Airlines reservation system has crashed. Southwest
has more than doubled their flights and now United is adding direct flights from Newark,
New Jersey for $491. Those who say that we need to keep building more hotels to
keep visitors from staying in illegal short-term rentals are ignoring the fact that visitors,
especially return visitors are sharing information online about how to spend as little as
possible. That's exactly the opposite of what we need, assuming a lack of enforcement
against illegal short-term rentals would be bad public policy. So, let’s stop building
more visitor accommodations and continue to crackdown on the illegal rentals. And
please, let's stop talking about a moratorium reducing the visitor industry, the existing
visitor accommodations will remain, supporting the existing jobs.
You know the goal of corporations is to maximize the return to their shareholders, and
they don't really care about our quality of life. The concept of limits is foreign to them.
Maui Tomorrow use to warn about overdevelopment of tourism, killing the goose that
lays the golden egg. Well, it turns out that the goose didn’t die, the nest has been
fouled. The unspoiled beauty of Maui that attracted tourist back then has been, excuse
severely compromised. The tourists that come here now, don’t care about the
crowding or the lack of fish in the ocean. Many have a very entitled attitude and have
been committing violence against local residents who ask them to wear masks or follow
cultural norms. I personally have been told to get out of our sunset by tourist at
Haieakala, and this process will continue.
The people who still want to come to a super crowded Maui with a degraded
environment won't care about the impacts that continue to increase and our inflation
adjusted revenue will decrease. I'm surprised that anyone would say there’s no
evidence that tourism is a major factor in environmental issues. We have a carbon
footprint that's five times the global average, our water quality is affected.
me
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 65
We heard . . . who were able to harvest salt during the pandemic, but when tourism
opened back up, the salt pans had an oily sheen, so they had to stop. The available
beach area per person is shrinking as sea level rises and visitor numbers increase.
Fish in the ocean have declined, traffic levels have increased. It's obvious that our
environment is impacted by the visitor industry and it would be nice if that industry
would do more to help us in protecting the aina that their visitors come to see.
As the OCS presentation showed, the County has a strong legal basis to pass a
moratorium as long as the parameters that OCS outlined are followed. So, I urge you
to pass CR 21-39. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? if not, thank you, Mr. Perez. And may we have the last
testifier, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next testifier is Joe McDermott. One other individual
did sign up after him and that is Darri Alvarez.
MR. JOE MCDERMOTT (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280 and Committee
Report No. 21-39):
Aloha and thank you for letting me speak today. I've been participating in a number of
these public forums for a while now, and what I've come to the conclusion is I doubt
very much there's going to be any one thing said that is going to change the mind of
someone for it or someone against it. I'm personally for the moratorium and what 1 am
trying to do is step back, because I think there's good points on each side. What 1 don't
hear either side really doing is working with one another and saying, I get you, you are
right. I'm opposed to it but there is a problem with tourism. We need to do something.
There is no alternative plan for that and that concerns me, about working together.
But mostly, what I’m asking you as Council people to do, is you're in this position of
leadership, in my opinion to think not just short-term today. What's best for Maui today?
It's what's best for Maui years from now and generations from now. Two years is
nothing compared to the long-term look of this island, and we can see what's happening
with the short-term philosophy of jobs, jobs, money, money, money. Two years will give
us a chance to step back, and it will be nothing economically, long-term. All these dire
world things, $200 million lost. How do they know that? There's not that much that's
going to go up beginning construction tomorrow if it was, there was no moratorium.
But what will happen if we don't step back and look at a long-term perspective, which I
think is your jobs, it's not about you guys, it's about Maui, it's about families tomorrow,
the kids that are here and their kids. And I'm asking you to instead of listening to the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 66
pros and cons, just think what's wrong with taking a breather for two-years for a long
term look at this island. And some people may get mad at me that support it, but I think
we do need from a long-term perspective to at least sit back and re-evaluate and plan
and do this right. That's what leadership is all about. That's what a lot of great countries
and counties and cities around this country, who think long-term are so successful.
Maui is not going to be Maui, if we continue on the way we're going at the rate we're
going. And building every vacant parcel in sight will create jobs, but it's not going to
create a quality of life for even those that come here, who I guarantee you, many are
coming here now, not enjoying their trip because it’s insane out there and the cost. So,
I Implore you to think long-term and as leaders of this County right now, to think about,
not what's best for today, but for tomorrow. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions for the testifier? If not, thank you, Mr. McDermott.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the last individual we have signed up to testify is Darri
Alvarez. If there's anyone else in the meeting who has not testified, but wishes to do
so, please indicate so in the meeting chat now.
Darri Alvarez.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Alvarez.
MS. DARRI ALVAREZ (testifying on County Communication No. 21-280 and Committee
Report No. 21-39):
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. ALVAREZ: My name is, yes, Darri Alvarez and I'm in support of Bill 21-39. As someone
who has worked in the tourist industry for half of my life, I can attest that this notion of
presenting tourism as the savior is a complete farce. According to data reported by
the Economic Research Organization at the University of Hawaii, more tourism, more
tourist does not equal jobs. In 2020, March of 2020, the tourist to job ratio was one to
one, now in March 2021, that ratio is now two to one.
For myself. I've seen it firsthand, I was actually let go after the pandemic, and they're
still hiring for my position, so, I, I've been impacted already. Also, on top of that, excuse
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 67
I have like a bunch of notes, but tourists are spending less, there's cheap travel
which makes it worse. The hotels are planning to phase out many of the services
offered by pre, offered pre-pandemic, like in-person-
CHAIRLEE; Ms. Alvarez. Ms. Alvarez, can you turn off your video? Turn off your video.
me
MS. ALVAREZ: Oh, sure. Sorry about that. Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Then we can hear you better.
MS. ALVAREZ: Okay. Thank you. So, while tourist are cheapened in a way, corporations
also capitalizing on the retraining of travelers' expectations while leaving their loyal
employees in the dust. The very employees that will speak up for the industry, they
have been indoctrinated to believe they could not survive without.
I have a quote from a post, Washington Post article, "Business is rebounding quickly
the country at hotels, restaurants and airlines, but millions of employees have
been left behind as companies seek to lock in pandemic changes to their models and
slash labor costs in the future,
argument to say that tourism does not, is not the savior for us, the local community.
And we don't have the proper infrastructure to sustain visitors and residents now. So,
what 1 would suggest is to implement that, before supporting more development on our
island.
CHAIR LEE; Just in time. Thank you. Are there any questions, Members?
Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
are
across
Dm, so, I just want, that was just to support my
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Alvarez. Mahalo for your
testimony.
MS. ALVAREZ: Aloha.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Did you email your testimony to Council? Or to the
Clerk's Office?
MS. ALVAREZ: I haven't. But I can.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, please. Thank you.
MS. ALVAREZ: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 68
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
MS. ALVAREZ; Thank you. Mahalo.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? if not, thank you, Ms. Alvarez for coming by and testifying.
Mr. Clerk, ask for any more testifiers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. There’s no one else currently signed up to testify.
If there is anyone in the meeting who has not testified yet, but wishes to do so, please
identify yourself now. This is our last call.
(testifying on Countv Communication No. 21-280 andMR. JOHN BLUMER-BUELL
Committee Report No. 21-39):
Yeah. Hello. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can, Jon.
MR. BLUMER-BUELL: Yeah, thank you, Alice. I'll be very brief, and I know you're going to
lunch and I'm hungry too. I wanted to counter one thing I heard which was very
disturbing and that is that we're somehow rushing into this moratorium. And I do want
to say aloha to all the testifiers, even the paid lobbyists. But the information is on
record, the Hana Community Association identified overtourism in the late 1980's and
it's on record.
I got this information from Superintendent Don Reeser, we're friends. We were friends
and I met with him a lot, I was a founder of the Kipahulu Ghana, one of them. And so,
in those days, tourism built up to about a thousand cars a day, or a thousand people.
The accurate information is still with the park.  Italked to a park employee a few days
ago, I said, how's it at the park? The numbers that day, without the campground being
open, were about 675 cars, over a thousand people. So, there's no rush into this at
all. This is a long-standing problem and Hana has been impacted way, way over the
amount that other people have all along, because all the tourists that have been coming
here from day one, always visit Hana. So, it's worse ever now. There's areas that I'm
sickened by areas, like Waioka have been overrun,  Ithink people who died there.
And last thing, 1 totally support the TIG idea, and our Chamber of Commerce should
have their TIG, that's a temporary investigative committee for those who don't speak
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18. 2021
Page 69
acronym. And so should the visitor, you know, the whole visitor industry should have
a TIG, and so should the Council. But the fact is they are using the TIG idea to delay
the moratorium, and nothing else. And the TIG process is a good one, it should be
done after the moratorium. I was a member of your General Plan Advisory Committee,
we had a number of TIGs, and they were very useful and very helpful to get to the
bottom, with all the TIGs, please invite members or appoint members from the
communities to be on the, the TIGs, not just have them be Councilmembers.
And finally in your, the committee for the Council, I would urge you, as a long, possible
long-term solution, to please get the best, hire the best attorney or attorneys you can
and have them look into the legal aspects of challenging the Federal laws. I don't buy
. . . start with Senator Schatz, we have power at the Federal level, we can get thing
changed. And mahalo, and have a nice lunch. Thanks so much.
CFIAIR LEE: Thanks, John. Questions, Members? If not. thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we did not receive any other requests to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We have received written testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections to receiving written testimony into the record and to
closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Nick Drance, The Maui Miracle;
Pacific Resource Partnership;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Ashlie McGuire;
Spencer Hyde;
Jen Bal;
Hannah Bernard, Hawaii Wildlife Fund;
Sandra Brissette;
Kathy Cuddihy;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18. 2021
Page 70
10. Kai Duponte;
Jerry Gibson, Hawaii Hotel Alliance;
Valerie Guarini;
Wayne N. Hedani, Kaanapali Operations Association, Inc.;
Jason Higa, FCH Enterprises dba Zippy’s Restaurants;
Kanani Higbee;
Sarah Hofstadter;
Mitchell Imanaka, ARDA Hawaii;
Molly Jacobson;
Paul Janes-Brown;
Buck Joiner;
Joy Kaaz;
John Kevan and Angela Leone, Maui PRMA;
Wendy McCracken;
Richard Moss;
Bonnie Newman;
Ryan Nobriga, ARDA Hawaii;
Andrea Reiser Perkins;
Judy Pokipala;
Sherry Pollack, 350Hawaii.org;
Carole Sarra;
Robert B. Smith;
Matthew Sparks;
Larry Stevens;
Sara Tekula;
Paul and Pamela Van Horn-Beagle;
Madolin Wells;
Tina Wildberger, State Representative; and
Jasper Yun, Fairmont Kea Lani Maui.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27,
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, next up would be minutes. Should I proceed?
CHAIR LEE: Nope. Okay, Members, it's 12:15, you want to take a lunch break to 1:15?
How's that? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Lunch until 1:30?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 1:30, any of you have to go someplace in the afternoon?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 71
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I had something at 3:30, but I can try go move 'em.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Yeah, 3:30 is cutting it close.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I have an eye doctor's appointment in Kihei at 3:30.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Let's make it 1:15 and then let's try and get through it. That's going to be
kind of tight, but let's see what\we can do, okay? Meeting in recess until 1:15.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:15 P.M. ,AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:18 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER
SUGIMURA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the meeting of June 18, Council meeting of June 18 please reconvene.
Hello again, everybody.
Mr. Clerk, let's go.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meetings of April 6, 2021 and
April 16, 2021 were presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ, READ BY
THE DEPUTY CLERK.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 72
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King
to approve the minutes as read by the County Clerk.
Any discussion? If not, all those in favor, raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see one, two. three, four, five, six, seven. Eight "ayes", one "excused";
motion carries. Excused is Member Sugimura.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- ANDREW H. MARTIN, PROSECUTING ATTORNEYNO. 21-270
(dated May 27, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement from the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation, for the Maui Prosecutor’s Office Impaired Driving project in the amount
of $33,365.
- ERIC A. NAKAGAWA, DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT, (dated June 2, 2021)
NO. 21-271
Transmitting a copy of the Contract Modification Order No. 2 from the State of Hawaii
Department of Health in the amount of $99,000 for Electronic Waste Collection.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 73
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1  MOVE TO FILE THE TWO ITEMS ON THE CONSENT
CALENDAR.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SlNENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to file
the items in the Consent Calendar.
Discussion, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No discussion on the Consent Calendar. Mahalo
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: All those in-
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, 1 don't, I don’t have a concern with filing, but 1 just wanted to
clarify the, cause 1 thought the Consent Calendar was to put stuff on there that needs
to be referred that wasn't going to have action taken. But is it a combination of referrals
and filing actions? That’s what we're calling, okay, I just wanted to verify that. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, today is a combination because of the contracts.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But, I mean, those are the kinds of things that can go on the
Consent Calendar?
CHAIR LEE: Yea. Right.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It’s for filing or for referral? That’s, just wanted to clarify that.
CHAIR LEE: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 74
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion or questions? If not, ail those in favor of the motion
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries. Excused is Member Sugimura.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding \A/ith county communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE,NO. 21-272
(dated June 3, 2021)
Transmitting 103 contracts/grants for the month of May 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-272, EXCEPT
FOR THOSE CONTRACTS OR GRANTS THAT MEMBERS
WOULD LIKE TO PULL OUT.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
WITH MS. KAMA'S PERMISSION, I WOULD LIKE TO PULL
C7390, PULELEHUA DUE DILIGENCE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 75
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Point of order. Do we need a second first, before we?
I'LL SECOND THE MOTION-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't see. Okay, seconded by Member King.
Discussion? Go ahead Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay thanks.
AND C7405, CORA BEACH PARK STUDY, TO THE HUMAN
CONCERNS AND PARK COMMITTEE, IF POSSIBLE.
CHAIR LEE: Any problem, Member Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No objections. Chair. It's been so long, Member Paltin. You
couldn't remember the Committee name.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But 1 pulled through.
CHAIR LEE: Between Budget and West Maui Plan, oh my goodness, hard to get other things
done. Okay. Any more discussion on these items? If not, ail those in favor, say "aye",
raise your-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I don't know if you can see my hand.
SO, YEA, IF THERE ARE NO OBJECTIONS, I'D LIKE TO PULL
OUT CONTRACT C6968-2 AND REFER IT TO THE CARE
COMMITTEE. THIS IS HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We're just adding that to the original motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, 1, yea, to refer it to the CARE Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 76
CHAIR LEE; Cause we really didn't vote on the other one.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No, I think it's an open motion, but some of us are pulling items
out of it, and then we can vote on--
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, we're just adding to the original motion, okay.
Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; If I may, if it's the appropriate time.
I’D LIKE TO PULL OUT C7362, THE EMERGENCY RENTAL
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR THE AMOUNT OF $39,700,000
TO BE REFERRED TO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright. Ordinarily, it would go to the Vice-Chair's Committee, yea? The
CARE funding. I mean the recovery funds, right? But if no objections, no problem.
Member King, can you tell me the number of that contract again?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, it's C6968-2. Description is household hazardous waste
collection and disposal.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. And then. Member Paltin, can you repeat your first two contract
numbers?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Sure thing, it was C7390 and C7405.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, now, so far, we have four. Anybody else? Sure? Okay, so you
heard the numbers. Okay, all those in favor of the motion of sending these contracts
to the identified, to the standing Committee identified, raise your hand, say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18,2021
Page 77
The excused is MemberCHAIR LEE; Okay, eight "ayes", one "excused", zero "noes".
Sugimura.
So. that's C7390, C7405, C6968-2, and C7362. Okay. Mr. Clerk, that takes care of
all the contracts, right?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Just to confirm that that vote was also on the filing
of, of that main communication, correct?
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Perfect.
. JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 21-273
(dated May 28, 2021)
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
reports for March 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.use
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. May I please ask the Clerk also call up
County Communication 21-274?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON, DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 21-274
(dated June 2, 2021)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source Report and
Groundwater Use Report for the month ending May 2021.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 78
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-273 AND
21-274, AS THESE COMMUNICATIONS AND PURELY
INFORMATIONAL AND NO FURTHER ACTION IS REQUIRED
BY THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; It's been moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to file County Communications 21-273 and 21-274.
Discussion, Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; None, Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; No, no further discussion? Okay. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye
raise your hand. This is to file these two communications.
(Councilmember Sugimura returned to the meeting at 1 ;26 p.m.)
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Oh, Member Sugimura, did you vote
on that one? Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 79
- TAMARA PALTIN, CHAIR. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND
USE COMMITTEE, (dated June 8, 2021)
NO. 21-275
Transmitting County Communication No. 15-152, from the Planning Director
transmitting the Planning Director's Report and Recommendations related to Council
Resolution No. 14-114, "REFERRING TO THE LANAI, MAUI, AND MOLOKAI
PLANNING COMMISSIONS A PROPOSED BILL TO ALLOW FOR THE CREATION
OF AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION LOTS".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Krueger. May I request the
Clerk to also call up, or to call up not only CC 21-275, but also to, CC 21-276 through
278?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. Mr. Clerk.
- TAMARA PALTIN. CHAIR, PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAHD
USE COMMITTEE, (dated June 7, 2021)
NO. 21-276
Transmitting County Communication 18-351, from the Planning Director, transmitting
a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING FROM
D-2 DUPLEX AND R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO A-2 APARTMENT DISTRICT
FOR PROPERTY IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEYS (2) 4-6-011:011 AND
(2)6-011:028, LOCATED AT THE CORNER OF HONOAPI ILANI HIGHWAY AND
266 DICKENSON STREET, LAHAINA, MAUI, HAWAII", and related documents.
- TAMARA PALTIN. CHAIR. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND
USE COMMITTEE, (dated June 7, 2021)
NO. 21-277
Transmitting County Communication No. 18-285, from the Planning Director,
transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE GRANTING
HO'OMOANA FOUNDATION, A HAWAII NONPROFIT CORPORATION, A
CONDITIONAL PERMIT TO ALLOW THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE HO'OMOANA
OVERNIGHT CAMPGROUND FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT HOKIOKIO PLACE
AND LAHAINA BYPASS ROAD AND IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY
NO (2) 4-7-003:031 (POR), LAHAINA, MAUI, HAWAII", and related documents.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 80
- TAMARA PALTIN. CHAIR. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND
USE COMMITTEE, (datedJune 7, 2021)
NO. 21-278
Transmitting the following:
County Communication No. 19-347, from the Planning Director, transmitting
copies of documents and the following proposed bills entitled:
1.
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE KIHEI-MAKENA
COMMUNITY PLAN AND LAND USE MAP FROM PROJECT
DISTRICT 12 TO AGRICULTURE FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT
MAALAEA, WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-6-001:018";
and
(a)
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING FROM OPEN
SPACE ZONE. R-3 RESIDENTIAL AND ROAD/STREET RESERVE
ZONE TO AGRICULTURE FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT MAALAEA,
WAILUKU. MAUI, HAWAII. BEING PORTIONS OF TAX MAP
KEY (2) 3-6-001:018"; and
(b)
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee Report 20-9 (Recommitted).2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-275
THROUGH 21-278 FROM THE PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE
LAND USE COMMITTEE IN ORDER FOR THE COUNCIL TO
CONSIDER FILING OF THESE ITEMS TODAY.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to discharge
the Committee of these one, two, three, four items.
Discussion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 81
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess I'd just like to discharge it so that we can file it. Cause
I can't auto file because it’s been through Planning Commission review. And ! believe
we discussed this during the Chair's meeting. You know--
CHAIR LEE; This is just to discharge.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea.
CHAIR LEE; Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Because I can’t auto file.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Any other discussions or questions? Okay. All those in
favor of the discharge, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE COUNCIL RULE 7.G. RELATING TO
REFERRAL OF COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 21-275
THROUGH 21-278 TO COMMITTEE.
REQUIRED TO CONSIDER FILING OF THESE ITEMS TODAY.
THIS MOTION IS
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Kama, to waive the Rule of the
Council, okay, as explained by Member Paltin.
Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor say-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 82
CHAIR LEE: Is that a question, Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, I have a question. So, one of the items, which is
Dickenson, right, 21-276. I just have a general question, I don't know if it's for OCS or
Corp. Counsel. So, if you file this, this is the item that I think is going through budget
for possible consideration to purchase with the open. Affordable Housing Fund. So,
what would happen to that item?
CHAIR LEE: I don't-
Ms. Paltin?
I'll, 1 can get into thatWe’re, we're just on the waiver.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
discussion-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -when we're on the filing part. 1 didn't want to, I wanted to-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -speak at it the correct time.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'll just answer her question, lean
make it real quick. So, this is a change in zoning bill. And the bill that you're talking
about is in BFED Committee, so they're not the same. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: That was quick. Okay. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", to waive the
Rule.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18. 2021
Page 83
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
1 MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 2. 21-275
THROUGH 21-278.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to file the communications
as mentioned by Member Paltin.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I'll wait till after Mr. Krueger.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Mr. Krueger.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. 1,1 just wanted to clarify that this filing motion,
it's filing the main communications on the agenda. But I wanted to know if that motion
is also supposed to encapture the communications that the body also discharged, that
which is 15-152, 18-351, 18-285, 19-347, and CR 20-9.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Discussion?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 84
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Mr. Krueger. Thank you, Chair. Per
Section 8-8.6.(4) of the Charter, "Revisions to zoning and land use ordinances
proposed by the Planning Director shall be revie\A/ed and acted upon by the Council
no later than 180 days after receipt of the transmittal from the Planning Director."
These county communications are well over the 180-day timeframe. By filing these
items today, we can start from a clean slate. These items can also receive Planning
Commission review again with new information, analysis, and community input.
For CC 21-275, relating to agricultural conservation lots, the item was heard five times
by the previous Land Use Committee in 2018, without success in creating a community
supported bill. In the current version, the value of agricultural lands for housing would
be increased without adequate legitimate farming requirements.
For CC 21-276, relating to the change in zoning for Dickenson Street Apartments. It
has come to my attention that the County is poised to purchase the property. We did
hear this item once in Lahaina and we deferred it. The recommendation from
Mr. Molina was for the landowner to meet with the PTA and other members of the
community. And as of yet, I don't believe that has happened. So, filing this item will
allow consideration of new information and better options for the property. As Member
Rawlins-Fernandez said, the option of purchasing it by the County is currently in her
Committee.
For CC 21-277, the Ho'omoana Foundation conditional permit for an overnight
campground is in ongoing litigation on the project's entitlements. In my first term, in
the first year, I met with Mr. Frampton about hearing this item because it was to address
homeless issues. And he informed me they weren't prepared for me to put, agendize
this and that he would let me know if they were prepared. And it's been about three
years and well over the 180-day timeframe. So, filing this item will allow time for the
litigation to be resolved and the applicant can then reapply for a conditional permit.
For CC 21-278, relating to the change in zoning for the Maalaea Agricultural
Subdivision, we also heard this item about five times. The County budget may support
purchasing the property from the current owner. And filing the item today will prevent
the property from subdivision and allow the Council to consider keeping the property
in open space, pending any future change in zoning.
I kindly ask the Council's support of my motion to file CC 21-275 through 21-278.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Very succinct. Members, any questions?
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 85
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. And then, I'll just reiterate what
Deputy Clerk said in the closing of Member Paltin's comments. She just said
CC 21-275 through 21-278. But the motion also includes CC 15-152, CC 18-351,
CC 18-285, CC 19-347, and CR 20-9. And I support this motion with all of those in
attempt to help Member Paltin clear the PSLU master agenda. And to, 1 think this is a
great policy that I would love to work with the Planning Department on in keeping items
fresh. Cause once it becomes stale, a lot of the data, the studies, the traffic reports,
the EIS, the environmental impact statements, all of these, they don't really have an
expiration date. And so, we've seen items come back up like zombie items. And
they’re using, you know, 10, 20-year-old reports that say there's no impact. But that
was 20 years ago, and times are different. And so, I think this is a great first step in
creating a policy of that type that I think no other County, or the State has right now.
So, we can be trailblazers in that way as well. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Good. Thank you. Just wanted to add onto that is like I am encouraging all of
you to look at your master agendas. And you do have zombie related items on them.
So, let's move out the cobwebs and get rid of, you know, file these items. You can
always bring them back, so that at the end of the year we don't have, you know, to deal
with this, this mounds of items that I, a lot of you tend to keep for sentimental reasons.
Okay?
So, all those in favor of the I, the motion. Oh no. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry, for my second and final. I just wanted to share, you
know, I'm not just doing this because I want to clear my master agenda. That's a side
benefit. But the reality is, you know, for example, the Hanzawa Store when we tried to
take it up in Committee, it took so long to get everyone up to speed to what was
happening like 10 years ago. And then, ultimately, we decided to file it. And same
thing with the Kaunakakai issue that Member Rawlins-Fernandez said. So, this was a
great suggestion on how to address these issues, because by the time we get up to
speed on what happened 20 years ago, 10 years ago, even 5 or 2 years ago, the
meeting's over already because we only got three hours, you know? And 1 got, every
time I have like new things being referred to the Committee and, and the 180 deadline
is just not even possible with these years old item.
So, it's, it's the move that my Committee is going to make to the, to commit to the
County to try and, and get up to speed. It might take a little while, but we're working in
that direction so that, you know, when we point the fingers at Planning or so and so
when the public is mad at us for how long things take, we're also pointing four fingers
back at ourselves, and this is my attempt to address those fingers at myself. Thank
you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18,2021
Page 86
CHAIR LEE: Well, I don't know about you, but I don't think we’re ever at fault. I'm just kidding
of course.
Now, speaking of second and final, in the few moments, we'll be coming up to the
moratorium bills. So, Members, we do have a deadline today. Two Members need to
leave at 3:30. So, if without objections, how about the first round is two minutes for
everybody and the second round is one minute? Because you know what, we have
heard it all. Okay. Very good. Thank you. Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, will that time limit be only for
those items or for all the items?
CHAIR LEE: Those items, because the others are going by fairly quickly. I, I, okay, very
good. Thank you, you guys. Alright, next is-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, did we take the vote on the filing?
CHAIR LEE: I thought we did?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I don't think we took the vote. Everyone started talking after
the motion and the second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. If, in case we didn’t, all those in favor, signify by saying "aye" and raise
your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Okay. Very good. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Members. You're the best.
CHAIR LEE: I want to hear you say that at 3:30.
Okay. Mr. Clerk. Oh, not, wait, before you. Mr. Clerk, is Vice-Chair Rawlins
Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 87
1  thought I heard our twoVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Real quick. ^ ^ t
Councilmembers say that they, their appointment was at 3:30. Or do they have to
leave at 3:30? The appointment is at 3:30?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: My appointment is-
CHAIRLEE: Member Paltin. Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: My appointment is at 3-
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. My appointment is at 3:30 but 1 need to leave at 3
to get to Kihei from here.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm going to try be mobile on the phone as best I can.
CHAIR LEE: You know what, why don't we just move up those items?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No objection.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Okay. Very good. Thank you. Okay, the first one would be 21-280.
Mr. Clerk, we're going to take the moratorium bills out of order and bring urn up.
_ KEANI RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-280
(dated June 9, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "REFERRING TO
COMMISSION A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTERS 19_98
AND 20.41, MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI",
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18. 2021
Page 88
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND TO
REFER COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-280 TO YOUR
PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE TO
ALLOW FOR DIRECT REFERRAL OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION REPORT.
CHAIR LEE: And there's a second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
CC 21-280, which is the referral to the Planning Commission. Oh,
it would be adopting the resolution attached.
Alright. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. Members, the under-regulated
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Johnson, to approve
so
growth of transient accommodations has caused an excessive increase in tourism,
which negatively impacts the environment, overwhelms County infrastructure, and
diminishes residents' quality of life. Transient arrivals are quickly returning to or have
exceeded pre-pandemic numbers. The transient to resident ratio is out of proportion
to establish a policy, to establish the policy.
after extensive communityThe Maui Island Plan approved nine years ago
engagement, calls for a daily visitor count of no more than .... According to DBED,
Maui daily visitor count grew from over 46,000 in 2010 to nearly 70,000 in 2019. Over
the same period, the resident population remains steady at around 150,000.
Maui exceeded the visitor-resident ratio cap established byAs of two years ago.
Ordinance 4004 (2012). In response, the Council has recently deliberated on two
proposals to temporarily pause the increase of visitor accommodation by enacting one
or more moratorium ordinances.
I have initiated the necessary steps to form a temporary investigative group, or TIG,
on tourism management within the Budget, Finance, and Economic Development
Main focus of this TIG will be aCommittee, as referenced in the attached bill,
substantial reduction of vacation rentals, including the approximately 11,000 units on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 89
the short-term occupancy list and aggressive enforcement of illegal transient
accommodations. Steering tourism back into the hotel and resort area is of high
priority. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, and then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MOVE TO AMEND THE PROPOSED
TRANSMITTED BY COUNTY
I'D LIKE TO
RESOLUTION
COMMUNICATION 21-280 BY AMENDING THE ATTACHED
PROPOSED BILL TO ADD THE FOLLOWING EXCEPTION.
DISPLAYED IN ITALICS, TO PROPOSED MAUI COUNTY
CODE SECTION 19.98.040, AND IT WOULD READ:
ANY DEVELOPMENT THAT INCLUDES HOUSING
UNITS, IN AN EQUAL NUMBER TO THE NEW
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS THAT ARE:
E.
AFFORDABLE TO VERY LOW INCOME OR LOW
INCOME RESIDENTS, AS DEFINED IN THE
RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING POLICY,
FOR AT LEAST THIRTY YEARS;
1.
MADE AVAILABLE FOR OCCUPANCY PRIOR TO
OR CONCURRENT WITH THE NEW TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS; AND
2.
LOCATED IN THE SAME COMMUNITY PLAN
AREA."
3.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SlNENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the
to propose this amendment to the main motion.
Any further discussion, Ms. Paltin? Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 90
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. The proposed exception will reinforce the
County's, Council's desire to encourage affordable housing options for our residents.
This amendment is also proposed for the additional bill proposing a moratorium on
building permits for transient accommodations, because we should maintain
consistency in both bills.
Historically, hotels built housing for their workers as they constructed their properties.
The hotel industry will have no one to employ if residents are continually pushed off
island due to lack of housing options. Creating a one-to-one match of transient and
affordable housing units benefits all parties. The proposed exception also allows those
in the construction industry the opportunity to continue working during the moratorium.
And I think as we went over yesterday, 73 percent of the jobs in West Maui earn
$44,000 annually. And I think the Star Advertiser in 2019 said 54, 53 or $54,000 was
considered low income. And so, that's the reasoning why those AMI were selected,
low income and very low income. I would respectfully request the Council's
consideration of this amendment.
Oh, and I might need to make the disclosure that  Idid get a hearing before the Board
of Ethics on June, June 9. And although their written ruling I don't think has come out
yet, or it may have, I got an email that I'm cleared to participate in this discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk, can you ask whomever is timing the speakers, two minutes
on the first round and one minute on the second, with regard only to the two moratorium
bills?
Okay. So, the seconder. Mr. Sinenci, do you have anything to add to the motion to
amend?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. No. Just clarification, so basically, with
every new transient accommodation, there, there must also include the equal amount
of housing units. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea. So, if you were to build 100-unit, 100 room unit hotel,
you'd need to provide 100 of very low income and low income housing split evenly.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo. And historically, during the plantation times,
plantation also provided. So, we do have that precedence in our Maui history. So,
thank you. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 91
CHAIR LEE; Yea. Before I call on you, Mr. Molina, were you going to talk about 2.96,
Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No. I was going to talk about the proposed amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. In Chapter 2.96, there is a requirement for hotels. So, the requirement
to, for them is 25 percent, yea, right now is codified. So, are you saying, during the
moratorium any new hotel rooms developed would have to provide 100 percent and
then after the moratorium, it goes back to 25 percent?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yes. This is an exception for the moratorium. If they're, I guess
depending on how badly they want to build during those two years, if they can be willing
to be a community contributor to our, our housing crisis, then let's, let's work something
out.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you very much. Madam Chair. I, I commend
Member Paltin for this proposed amendment. Because one, it reaffirms this Council's
commitment towards addressing the affordable housing crisis. And it is a crisis. And
two, it prioritizes the need for housing for our residents, especially for those who are in
the visitor industry and the construction industry. So, in my opinion, it will help to allay
the fears that a moratorium will, you know, destroy the economy and the visitor industry
and so forth. So, I think this is a very good compromise and an amendment that I can
support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments?
Member King, and then Member Sugimura. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, 1 hope I didn't use up my minute. 1 thought I heard Member
Rawlins-Fernandez say we were, she was proposing to, for this to PSLU, but are we,
are we voting on-
CHAIR LEE: No, this is, this is going to the Planning Commission.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: This is, we're voting to send this to the Planning Commission, is
that right?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 92
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. That's what I was hoping. Okay. And then, the other thing
I was going to ask about was I thought there was already an exemption for where there
already has a discretionary permit. So, if you look in the bill that was provided by
Rawlins-Fernandez, 19.98.040, that, the first one says, ’’Exception . The first
transient accommodation that has received its last
So, that's already
Member
"A." under "Exceptions" is "Any new
discretionary approval prior to the effective date of the ordinance,
in the bill.
CHAIR LEE: Yea. She's just adding "E." and, yea, "E.". She’s adding "E.".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Cause in the ASF, all of that is underlined. Butwhatwere
talking about adding is just "E."?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The italicized. Italicized.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. I didn't catch that. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: That's okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, so, we would be, oh, I guess what this is saying is we
could negotiate during the moratorium for a permit if housing was provided, is going to
be provided. And is that, isn't that something that is being put into the West Maui
Community Plan? Okay, so that-
CHAIR LEE: It doesn't look like there's room for negotiation. This is a requirement.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I know, but it's in the, this, this policy is also in the West
then, for the West Maui region, this is anMaui Community Plan. So, if that passes
ongoing requirement.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: To clarify, the West Maui region requirement didn’t specify very
It just. I think said affordable housing or workforce orlow income or low income,
something. This one is specific to very low income and low income.
. . rentals. OrCOUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. okay. So. and it doesn't, it's not. it's basically .
it could be rentals or for sale?
It didn't specify, but it would need to remain affordable forCOUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
30 years.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 93
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Oh, so. Ms. Sugimura. Did you have your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Just question. So, what is the historical data
that, what, what number of units have been built? Affordable housing that's tied to
hotels? Does anybody have that data?
CHAIR LEE: Yea, 25 percent.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Well, how many units, actual units were built with this?
CHAIR LEE: Well, we would have to, we would have to take some time to retrieve that kind
of information.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I guess my question is, is I'm wondering taking it from
25 to 100 percent, what is the impact of that for this amendment?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The impact would be a lot more housing for our local people
that are--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I understand, yea. 1 mean, 1 understand the sentiment, but
what is the actual number of units that have been built? I mean, if we're going to say,
okay, you're going to build, you know, hotel rooms during this moratorium period, but
what you have to do is instead of building 25 percent of what you're building, now we're
taking it to 100 percent. What is the actual impact of that? Are we going to actually
get more houses or is it just a rhetoric, you know?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 1 guess it depends on how badly they want to build their hotel.
I tried to book a room at the Hana Hotel for a funeral on July 11 and the cheapest was
1,900 and, $1,951 or so. So, you know, they can make up the money on that end.
And that's Hana. Like, what if it's raining the whole time you're there? Four Seasons,
1 think the cheapest was 2,900 and the most expensive was 26,000. The one available
9,000 something. So, the impact would probably be higher room rates. I'm
guessing, which I mean 1 don't know how much higher you can get than those room
rates. But it's already pretty high and people are still coming in droves. So, 1 think it's
a pass-on the buck to benefit our community in West Maui.
was
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 94
I believe the, v\/hat is now the Aina Nalu Hotel, used to be the affordable housing
component right across from Pizza Hut. That used to be the affordable housing
component, but it's all either termed out or become not affordable housing anymore.
So, people have this memory in their mind of hotels providing these housing, but
they've since termed out or found more profitable ways to become and, and thus the
reason for the 30-year requirement.
But I mean. I'm sure the number is available if somebody wanted to do the research of
how many have been provided. But it was a standard practice, I believe, in Elmer
Cravalho's time. And I'm not sure who else. I, I used to live on County of Hawaii, so
that was a little bit before my time in Maui County, and probably my life too.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. If I may make a comment here. 1 am not going to support this
amendment, but 1 am going to support adopting the resolution because I think this is
not final. This is not a policy that’s going to be initiated tomorrow. What it basically
does is sends this bill to the Planning Commission so that we can get more input. So,
and which 1 am grateful for that, so I'm going to vote "yes" on the resolution and "no"
on this.
Because some of us feel that, obviously, some of us feel that that this new requirement
is excessive. But, but it's very clear that it has full support of others. So, we all have
to be realistic, and we all are up against time constraints. Any more comments?
Member Kama, then Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Chair, so I just want to make sure that I understand the
conversation that we're having. So, in this amendment. Member Paltin, we're saying
that, that if during the moratorium, if developers want to build and they want to expand,
whatever the amount of units that they're expanding, they must build units one to one,
right? So, are we talking about new homes? Are we talking about rentals? Or it does
not matter? And on the-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's, it's open ended. Either one.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: As long as it's affordable for 30 years.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: And then, the other question  1have was 2.96 says that, that if
they're going to build, they have to build at least 25 percent of whatever the units are.
So, in my mind I'm thinking, well, if they only had to do 25 percent, how many did we
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 95
already build? And would this amendment increase that, or not. would it not increase
it? Or would it just be I going wait till the two years is over and then I might go ahead
and do it? Cause that's what the options that they are being given with this
amendment, is that correct?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; That's correct.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. And if they decide to go ahead and build it, they must be
built within that same site or anywhere as long as they can find the land--
CHAIR LEE: Same community plan.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Same community plan area.
CHAIR LEE: Okay?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair, did you have your hand up? No? Oh, you did.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I just have a few questions and then my
comments. My first question for Member Paltin, yes/no, did you get your, this proposed
amendment passed legal scrutiny, our attorneys?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think so. They, Wilton Leauanae helped with the PAF. And
so, there's that. And then, yea, I don't know.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I'm just wondering if it-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The OCS process.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay. Okay. And then, my feeling is that this
amendment would make it more cumbersome. When we had this in, this discussion
in the CARE Committee, both the Public Works Director and Planning Director asked
to have it as black and white as possible to, to make the administration of this
moratorium easier for them.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 96
I do plan to expedite the TIG process, so that the work of the TIG is done before next
budget session in about eight or so months, six months. Anyway, so, you know, for,
for the moratorium, it won't necessarily last for two years. And so, I don't know if any
houses would be built during that time that I would try to expedite the work of the TIG.
If, I, I, I don't, 1 don't know if I support the amendment ultimately. But I would be okay
with letting it go to the Planning Commission for feedback, because it, this isn't the end.
We're just sending it to the Commission. So, in my last few seconds, I just, I guess I
just wanted to get Corporation Counsel's feedback on the legality.
CHAIR LEE: You mean, your last few seconds that ended five minutes ago?
Corp. Counsel.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Just cause it's-
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -it's inconsistent with 2.96, so that's all.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel. Are you on the call?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Hi, Chair Lee. It's
Richelle. 1 don't know if you can see me.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, hi, Richelle. I'm sorry. We have a question for you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. Was it whether we had the
opportunity to review this amendment and how it would-
VtCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, no. Member Paltin already answered me. I was
just wondering, you know. Chair Lee brought up how the moratorium would then create
a different rule that would be inconsistent with 2.96. So, I know a moratorium is already
inconsistent with other parts of the Code, because that's what a moratorium would do.
But as far as creating the exceptions, if that would be okay?
CHAIR LEE: Richelle.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. I think that as this goes through,
under review process with the Maui Planning Commission, we would need to take a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 97
And there are other parts in 2.96, including thelook specifically at that issue,
opportunity for the application of credits. So, there are some nuances that I think we
would really want to make sure we're not creating, you know, as you said, you know,
areas where it's gray and open to many different interpretations. So, it, we would need
to take a very close look at this issue as it goes through.
ViCE-CHAlR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Thomson.
Cause I, I support the intent, Member Paltin. Mahalo for, you know, really thinking
about our goal about getting affordable housing. But, yea.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Member King, did you have your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So, I had, kind of, one of same concerns I
think was touched on, and that's that the way this is worded, does that preclude
anybody using credits to put towards that housing? Cause 1, there's no, like, anything
specific about building housing units. It just says includes housing units. And
sometimes they, you know, they buy those credits and then they say they're including.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, you're, you're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I'm open to a friendly amendment if that's what will
help the bill get, or the amendment get passed.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Yea, maybe just putting the word "includes new housing
units be built" or something like that. But I just wanted to, I, I think Member Rawlins-
Fernandez mentioned to us earlier that it might be good to put this in so that the
Planning Commission can then deliberate on it, get the opinions from Corp. Counsel
at that point. And, because I, anything that moves, moves the moratorium along, I
think is good.
Moratoria are responses to emergency situations. And so, you know, the quicker we
can get them done, the better, in my opinion because we have an emergency situation.
We need to put a plug in it before it continues to get worse. So, that might help move
things along as far as looking at that, whether we want to keep it in when it comes back
to the Council.
CHAIR LEE: So, are you going to add additional-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 98
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So. ! just wanted, my request for a friendly amendment would be
to put in, under 1, affordable to very low in, oh no, I'm sorry.
UNDER "E.
HOUSING UNITS BUILT, IN AN EQUAL NUMBER TO THE NEW
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS.".
So, just that it specifies that the units have to be new units that are built, and it can t be
replaced with credits.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It looks like she-
ANY DEVELOPMENT THAT INCLUDES NEW
CHAIR LEE: So. that-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -accepted the friendly amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that's the friendly amendment and that is what the vote is going to be on,
alright, on the amendment. All those in favor of the amendment, raise your hand, say
"aye".’
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see six "ayes" and three "noes"; right? Motion carries. The "noes are
Sugimura, Kama, and Lee.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL SO THAT WE CAN TAKE FINAL ACTION ON THIS
TODAY.
AYES:
NOES;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 99
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Wait. Shouldn’t that have been done already?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No. Well, we had to wait until the amendment, to
see if the amendment was going to pass. Because we've now amending it to take final
action, we need to waive Rule-
Okay. Alright. So, seconded by, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
seconded by Member King, to waive the Rules of the Council.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Anything else?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE;
CHAIR LEE; Anything else?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh, yep. It just, we, we need to vote for it in order
for the amended reso, so that we can take, so we can vote on the main motion on the
floor.
CHAIR LEE; All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES;
motion carries. The three "noes" areM.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, 1 see six "ayes", three noes
Sugimura, Kama, and Lee.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Motion as amended.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Anything else?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 100
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Alright. So, 1-
CHAIR LEE: This one was supposed to be the short one.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. It's just there’s, you know, there's the different
Rules. And I didn't propose the amendment. It wasn't me.
CHAIR LEE: I know. I know.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 1, I just, okay, so  1didn't make a motion to waive
Rule 7.G., Deputy Clerk, because this is a resolution that doesn't have the force and
effect of law. It's just sending it to the Planning Commission for their feedback. And
so, I just wanted to point that out, cause I intentionally didn't do it because I don't
believe that it falls within 7.G. But I don't want to mess up our procedure. So, I wanted
to give our Deputy Clerk an opportunity to dispute my understanding of the Rules.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, do you have any comments to that, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No comment. Chair. If the body agrees with that interpretation,
then the body should proceed as it sees fit.
CHAIR LEE: Well, any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; If not. so, so ordered.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, for that clarification. Chair and Deputy Clerk.
Yea, I think 1 made all my comments during the amendments that, and 1 ask forthe-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we're ready for the main motion as amended. Okay. Main motion
amended, all in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN
FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND SUGIMURA.
as
AYES:
SINENCI. VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
NOES;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18. 2021
Page 101
CHAIR LEE: This time there are seven "ayes" and two "noes". The "noes" are Ms. Sugimura
and Member Kama. Okay. Motion carries. That takes care of that one.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with Committee Report 21-39.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-39NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
(2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCERecommending that Bill
AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE TO ADD CHAPTER 40 RELATING TO A
MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS," be
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
60
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And, Chair, the resolution that the body just adopted, that's
RESOLUTION 21-98.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-39.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member King, seconded by Member Johnson, to pass the
proposed bill in Committee Report 21-39.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. On February 5, 2021, the Council unanimously
adopted Resolution 20-18 [sic], "EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR SUSTAINABLE
TOURISM, EMPHASIZING QUALITY OVER QUANTITY", resolving that "it values
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 102
sustainable and strategically managed tourism - rather than an increasing quantify of
tourists - to promote economic well-being, enhanced quality of life for residents,
preservation of natural and cultural resources, and high-quality experiences for
visitors". The Council also agreed to "continue to build upon policies and create
incentives to ensure the County's natural and cultural resources will be protected and
enjoyed for generations to come".
And I hope to help us do this with this proposed bill. The bill serves more than one
purpose. As a Council, we declared climate emergency in 2019. And this year. State
Concurrent Resolution 44 further emphasized the importance of an immediate just
transition and emergency mobilization effort to restore a safe climate. The effects of
the built environment on climate change are well-documented. And one purpose of
this bill is to begin to follow through on our commitment and do what is necessary to
restore a safe climate.
However, the primary purpose of this bill is also to temporarily, temporarily maintain
the status quo in the development of hotels and other visitor accommodations in South
Maui and West Maui until the respective community plans for the areas are updated or
two years have passed, whichever is sooner,
comprehensive plan is completed has been a valid purpose for moratoria that has
withstood legal challenges across the country.
The Maui Island Plan includes a policy calling for daily visitor population not to exceed
one-third of the resident population. And in 2019, as we've heard repeatedly, Maui
island greatly exceeded the desired visitor to resident ratio. Exceeding that number
has had a dramatic impact on the environment and quality of life for residents, which
is coming to a head with a recent surge in tourism following last year’s period of rest
from high visitor numbers.
Recently, on June 2, 2021, the Star Advertiser said that a new survey of State residents
finds support for better regulation of tourism, including more government controls that
could lead to limiting numbers at popular destinations around the State and charging
higher use fees to offset tourist impact across the islands. Residents don't trust the
tourism industry to manage itself. And 52 percent would prefer to limit the number of
visitors. That was in the article.
According to Hawaii Tourism Authority's 2020 Resident Sentiment Survey, Maui is
especially feeling impacts from the visitor industry. When asked whether "tourism has
brought more benefit than problems?" Maui residents' responses showed the lowest
level of agreement with that statement in the State of Hawaii. Now is the time to act
toward a new vision of tourism with the health of our fragile island ecosystem to
address the climate emergency and to protect the quality of life for residents.
Maintaining the status quo while a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 103
I have heard the concerns from industry residents, from representatives and lobbyists
about the need for well-paying jobs for our residents and young people. I am also
concerned about the future of our families and community. That is why my office has
reached out to the ILWU and even taken the step of hosting college-bound high school
interns who come from low-income or first-generation families. As yet, I have not
received a response from the ILWU explaining how they define a living wage despite
their stated commitment to providing adequately paying jobs.
This week, my staff interviewed our
"what is your vision for Maui?"
witnessed the changes of recent years and have dreams to go to college for law and
political science all stated that they wanted to see tourism on Maui managed and
controlled, and wanted stronger protections to prevent further degradation to the
environment. All of these students had strong connections and family in the tourism
industry And one student even had a parent who was forced to work two jobs at the
hotel. These students explained that even their family members who depend on the
industry for a living have concluded that tourism has become excessive. If we want to
prevent the brain-drain of our young people living, leaving Maui, we should listen to
these young people about the kind of Maui and opportunities they would like to see for
their future.
This moratorium is not meant to be the ultimate solution. It's meant to give us a chance
to stop the bleeding where we can and to use this pause to work on solutions. If you
get a, if someone slashes your arm, you're not going to amble down to the hospital and
to try’to figure out what to do. You're going to first slap a band-aid on it and then go
down to the hospital and have them come up with a plan for healing. That's what we re
talking about.
Voting yes is a vote for smart development. And the majority of this Council ran on a
platform of smart development. The moratorium allows us to pause when we make
that longer-term plan for smart development. I'm hoping to send a message that this
Council supports our residents. And let's pass this measure and support the people
who call Maui home. The people who voted for us to make these types of changes
and take action.
Your Committee voted 4-2 to recommend passage of the revised proposed bill on first
reading Colleagues, please support the measure and give us a chance to realign our
policies with the Maui Island Plan. I ask for the Members support of your Committee s
recommendations. Mahalo, Chair.
interns and asked them the question.
These students who have grown up on Maui and
our new
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 104
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair, to-
CHAIRLEE: You're muted. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you. Chair.
I’D LIKE TO PROPOSE A, MOVE TO AMEND THE PROPOSED
BILL ATTACHED TO COMMITTEE REPORT 21-39, BY
ADDING A SUBSECTION TO PROPOSED MAUI COUNTY
CODE SECTION 4000.5 TO READ AS FOLLOWS, AND I'M
GOING TO FRIENDLY AMENDMENT THIS ONE ON MYSELF
BASED ON WHAT IS PRINTED IN THE ASF. SO, IT SHOULD
SAY, THIS;
D. THIS CHAPTER DOES NOT APPLY TO ANY
DEVELOPMENT THAT INCLUDES NEW HOUSING
UNITS BUILT, IN AN EQUAL NUMBER TO THE NEW
VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS THAT ARE:
AFFORDABLE TO VERY LOW INCOME OR LOW
INCOME RESIDENTS, AS DEFINED IN THE
RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING POLICY,
FOR AT LEAST THIRTY YEARS;
1.
MADE AVAILABLE FOR OCCUPANCY PRIOR TO
OR CONCURRENT WITH THE NEW VISITOR
ACCOMMODATIONS; AND
2.
LOCATED IN THE SAME COMMUNITY PLAN
AREA."
3.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to make this
amendment. More discussion, anybody else?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 105
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. The proposed exception will reinforce the Council’s
desire to encourage affordable housing for our residents.
A similar amendment is proposed for the legislation attached to County
Communication 21-280, proposing a moratorium on new transient accommodations on
Maui. We should maintain consistency in both bills.
And the rest is pretty much the same as the last amendment. I just wanted to add,
since this one is more focused on climate emergency, it lessens the amount. You
know, people usually build so many luxury homes and provide 25 percent affordable
housing. With this one-to-one match, it lessens the amount of luxury homes or market-
value homes that we need to get to our goal of the greatest need for the very low-
income and low-income. So, in that way, we're not expending so much of our natural
for these second, or luxury, or market-value homes to get what we need inresources
terms of very low-income and low-income. And so, that's how I'm relating it to also
helping the climate emergency. Because instead of building 75 percent more of
something, we’re doing the 100 percent like you had said. And I would respectfully
request the Council's consideration of this amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, yea, and, you know,  Ican understand that we want to
go ahead and mirror the same verbiage as the previous bill. When we're, we're looking
at our Department of Planning and processing the permitting, different permits for,
permits particularly for luxury homes and hotels, in some ways, the County is
subsidizing the industry. We’re spending a lot of our, our time at the County, you know,
processing these permits. So, I think by, by having an equal share of, of work time
dedicated to ... affordable housing projects this, this further supports that. Thank you.
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
Member Rawlins-Fernandez, and then Member Sugimura.
So, this amendment wasn'tMahalo, Chair,
discussed in Committee. I know this is unorthodox, which is probably my middle name.
I would, I, I would like to go into executive session with our attorneys so that I can make
a decision on this amendment. Previous to, to, you know, on, on the first CC, the
resolution to send it to the Commission, it was to receive feedback from the
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 106
Commission. If we put it in this, this will become law. And, and 1,1 have reservations
about the amendment. And I would like to go into executive session to hear from our
attorney's legal advice.
I MOVE TO GO INTO EXECUTIVE SESSION.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, sec, moved by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member Sugimura, to go into executive session.
Okay, we heard from Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I, I appreciate this because I would like to actually discuss
in executive session the entire bill, not only this amendment. So, and I, and it’s not
signed by Corp. Counsel, the bill. So, I just want to hear from Corp. Counsel about the
bill and if there are any legal liabilities that we need to be aware of. So, thank you. 1
support going into executive session.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else on this matter?
Oh, yes, Mr. Molina. And then Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, Madam Chair, what are the parameters with this request
from Member Sugimura now to take this beyond the proposal from Member Rawlins-
Fernandez if we should go into executive session to discuss the whole bill rather than
just the proposed amendment?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: As I said because the bill is not signed by Corp. Counsel.
And so, I want to know if there's anything that we need to be concerned about. So, I
appreciate going into executive session so that we can know the parameters of the bill.
If there's anything that should be in executive session, I hope Corp. Counsel will tell it
to us in case there's any-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 107
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yea, I'd like to hear from Corp., I'd like to hear, Madam Chair,
what is your parameters for Corporation Counsel?  Iappreciate your reexplaining your
rationale, Member Sugimura. But again, if the motion, the request has been made by
Member Rawlins-Fernandez to go into executive session based on just her reasons,
now if we're going to expand that, does Member Sugimura have to make
amendment to request or what?
CHAIR LEE; No.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; 1 think it's just more of a procedural question.
CHAIR LEE; ! don’t think so, ! don't think so, Mr. Molina. Because in order, the reason why
we go into executive session is to discuss sensitive matters or matters of liability,
possible liability to the County. Whether a bill, discussing the pros and cons of a bill is
not a reason to go into executive session because those items can be discussed in
open session. So, whenever, whenever we go into executive session, it’s because of
some kind of liability to the County, or it's a personnel issue, or it's a very sensitive
issue.
So, Ms. Sugimura, we wouldn't be talking about the merits of requiring 100 percent
affordable units. We wouldn't be talking about those kinds of things. We'l! be talking
about only issues that we would not speak about in open session.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Right. Right.
CHAIR LEE; And that generally whittles down to liability to the County.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Right. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. I'm, I don't think we need to go into executive
session. 1 would like to hear from David Raatz on this issue, as far as the, the proposed
amendment and then, also, why this is a policy issue. Because we’ve had extensive
conversations about this being a policy issue. This isn't, we're not in litigation. Its not
a legal issue at this point. And so, maybe just on the proposal to go into executive
session to talk about this amendment, can we ask Mr. Raatz to comment on?
ask him, Mr. Raatz. But I, but 1 do, for myself.
an
CHAIR LEE; Of course, we can
Mr. Raatz, are you on the call?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 108
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY DAVID RAATZ: Yes, thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. What I would be, I would like to discuss in executive session is not so
much, like I said, the merits of whether this is  agood amendment or not. I want to
know’about the liability to the County, and if there are, for instance, any particular
developers, any developers right now in, in the process, in the building permit process.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, can I have my question answered first since I had the floor?
And then we can move onto yours?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But I just wanted him to include everything. So, that's-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, Mr. Raatz, my, my concern is that, you know, weve gone
through this bill as a very clean and defensible bill. And so, my only concern about the
would be that, that changes that, the bill, the defense, you know, if the,
know, the clean and defensible bill that
amendment
gives us any additional pause in the, the, you
we created?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, real quick. Discussing the defensibility of the
bill is kind of why we go into executive session.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I don't think so, because yea, I talked to Mr. Raatz about
this, and he felt like it was something we could talk about in open session.
CHAIR LEE: Well, not if somebody is about to sue us.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Nobody’s suing.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz. They might be. Mr. Raatz.
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY: Thank you. Chair. I'll try to be bnef. First,
Chair Lee, I, I think it was important that you recognize executive session isnt for policy
deliberations The Sunshine Law, which governs your proceedings, states that
formation and conduct of policy shall be conducted as openly as possible. So, when
you qo into executive session, that's in contrast to that value. But it is based on the
Sunshine Law if you go in for one of the eight specific exemptions that are listed in the
Sunshine Law.
VICE-CHAIR
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 109
And it sounds like the Vice-Chair's motion in this case would be in reference to the
section of the Sunshine Law that's noted as 92-5(a){4), to consult with the board's
attorney on questions and issues pertaining to the board's powers, duties, privileges,
immunities, and liabilities. So, consulting with an attorney, specifically, is one of the
recognized exceptions.
But I don't, you need to be careful according to State Supreme Court precedent, to
make sure can you limit the discussion to items, as you alluded to Chair Lee, that need
to be discussed in executive session. If you're getting into territory that could be
discussed in open session, then you should reserve that for when you return to open
session.
And I'll just briefly read a statement from the Supreme Court in that case. From 2019,
Civil Beat Law Center versus City and County of Honolulu. The decision to close a
meeting is discretionary. So, board members should thoughtfully weigh the interest at
stake before voting to go into executive session. If board members misconstrue the
Sunshine Law and take action contrary to the Sunshine Law, the, the conduct could
undermine the purpose of the law and impair the public's right to know.
So, there, the factors of openness versus the need to consult with legal counsel should
be considered by the body, but you ultimately will have that authority by a two-thirds
vote if you choose to exercise it. Thank you. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: He answered your question, but he didn't answer my question.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member, Member King's question, Mr. Raatz.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, my question, David, is, as far as the amendment, is this not
something we could discuss in open session as far as whether it changes the
defensibility of the bill.
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY: Thank you. Chair, if I may? Councilmember
King, 1 think the body does have the ability to choose to have that discussion in open
if you'd like. As I just mentioned from the Supreme Court decision, it's always
discretionary on whether you go into executive session. You, you have the right, if you
want to consult with your attorney, to do it either in executive session or open session.
Thank you. Chair.
session
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 110
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yea, I, I don’t think that that discussion should be had in open
And you know, we've had, we had a lot of opinions being given yesterday in
PSLU by Corp. Counsel on the floor, even unsolicited. And so, they're not shy about
giving their opinions apparently. But we don't have any litigation or investigation
involved in this. And you know, just, in my repeated meetings with DCS on this bill, it
you know, I was told that legally this is a policy issue, it's not a litigation issue.
And I've had. I've seen, had a lot of people request from me, you know, this, to keep,
try to keep it as open as possible because this, this concerns everybody on the island
and folks should hear what the conversation is. So, I'm not in favor of going into
executive session in a, on this issue. I do want to know, you know, it, I didn't hear from
Mr. Raatz that this, that this amendment would change the, the scope or, or reality of
the bill as they see it. So, I, I just would encourage us to, to deliberate in open session
on this one.
session.
was
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I had a question for Mr. Raatz. Mr. Raatz,
my question is, would OCS draft an ASF that was not okay as to form and legality? Is
that happened before?
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY: Chair, if I may?
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead.
SUPERVISING LEG1SU\TIVE ATTORNEY: We, we don't, in OCS, have a process where
formally approve legislation as to form and legality. I think part of our standards in
the office is to always do our best to ensure that any legislation we're working on for a
Councilmember would be legally defensible, and we'd advise Councilmembers of any
flaws that we saw. But I can't say that that we signed off on it just because that's not
a formal part of our process. Thank you, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: David, I have one last question. My reason for going into executive session is
the concern that we may be sued by two different applicants who are already in the
pipeline. So, would that be justified in your case, in this, in your opinion, to go into
executive session?
we
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 111
SUPERVISING LEGISUMIVE ATTORNEY; Thank you, Chair, if it's framed as consulting
with your attorney based on HRS Section 92-5(a)(4), and the discussion is limited to
that consultation, yes, you’d have the right to enter executive session.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright. Because that's where i am.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, you have any other thoughts?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. So, basically, if, if we can't go into
executive session to discuss the legal defensibility of the amendment, then I'm just
going to have to vote against the amendment.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Is there another motion to go into executive session by anybody else,
having to do with the, with the bill itself, the subject matter and bill it, itself?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Were we going to vote or, I mean, isn't there a motion already?
CHAIR LEE; Well, it sounded like she was, were you going to withdraw your motion,
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I can.
CHAIR LEE; Well, it sounds like, to me, that the way David is interpreting you, the request to
go into executive session is based on the amendment, yea, the amendment. The
legality, legal issues related to the amendment.
My reason is because my understanding is that we are liable with at least two people,
and they, who could and will, my understanding, will sue us. So, I, those are the, that's
where I was going. So, do you want to, do you want to withdraw your, your motion so
that we can go onto something that is actually really, you know, a real liability issue?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay.
I’LL WITHDRAW MY MOTION,
CHAIR LEE; Who's the second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; You're muted.
CHAIR LEE; Member. Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 112
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, you withdraw.
Okay, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I just wanted to say that, you know, I, I wouldn’t have any, I
wouldn't have as much reservation going into executive session if you were just
discussing the amendment.
But, you know, there were things that were, that were written to us by Corp. Counsel
that didn’t make sense when I had discussions about, brought up with our other legal
advisors in OCS. They didn't felt, feel like those concerns held water, because we're
not addressing Chapter 19. And they encouraged me to just keep, you know, just to
approach this as a policy issue, which it is. It's a policy issue. We either see ourselves
in an emergency or we don't. And we're, they're going to try to take these steps to try
to stop the harm that's being done or we're not.
I under, 1, 1, I would be willing to go into executive session just to discuss the
amendment because I don't know how the amendment, you know, that s kind of a new
thing. But I don't want to go rehash all the other conversations we've had. And I saw
that happen when we go into executive session on the injection well case where we,
there for four hours. We talked about everything under the sun that should
not have been talked about.
So, you, you know, so if, if Member Rawlins-Fernandez wants to make her motion
again, just specifically about the amendment, I would support that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You want to make your-
Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I’m sorry. Chair. Just for clarification, it's, it looks like under
the purpose of the bill it says that "building permits for new hotels, resorts, timeshares,
short-term rental homes, bed and breakfast, transient vacation rentals must be limited
for an interim period". So, it does say just for new permits for new hotels and resorts.
But I wasn't sure if you said that if, if there were developers that were already in the
pipe that this would apply to them.
we were
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 113
CHAIR LEE: Yea, they would, I believe it applies to new hotel rooms, not necessarily new
hotels.
Member Molina.
I'm open to going into
executive session, provided that we keep the conversation only to that amendment
and the legal defensibility. Because if we start going into other areas of where we have
legal concerns, we're going to be stuck in executive session. And I want to respect
what you told us earlier today. We're going to lose two or three Members and they're
not going to be around to vote if we go into executive session and start talking about
anything and everything else about what's defensible or not. So, that's why I'm
supportive of going into executive session and keeping the conversation or Q & A
limited to what Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez wants. So, that's where I'm at. Cause
I certainly want everybody to be here to vote on this matter, ultimately. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, you want to make the motion again?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO GO INTO EXECUTIVE SESSION TO DISCUSS
THE, UNDER WAS IT 92-A, 92, ANYWAY, TO GO INTO
EXECUTIVE
ATTORNEYS,
AMENDMENT.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair.
SESSION TO CONSULT WITH OUR
ANY LIABLIITIES ON THE PROPOSED
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member King. Okay, we all know why.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Would it be okay if we have our, our Council attorney in the
executive session with us?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can. We can ask. You mean, Mr. Raatz?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 114
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, Members. Any more discussion? All those in favor of going into
executive session.
You shaking your head. What, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No more questions.
CHAIR LEE; Oh. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Those opposed say "no".
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: It's unanimous. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay, I'm going to recess this meeting to go into executive session.
David, where are you? We need to go into another site? David?
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY: Thank you. Chair. Mr. Forrest will be emailing
the executive session link to the Councilmembers and Corp. Counsel.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Meeting in recess.
(THE CHAIR DECLARED THE OPEN SESSION IN RECESS AT 2:41 P.M., AND
CONVENED IN EXECUTIVE SESSION. THE OPEN SESSION WAS RECONVENED AT
3:19 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KAMA. EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of June 18 please reconvene. Thank you
everybody. Sorry, I had to restart my device. So, we're back in session.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 115
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the body is just reconvening. Now the, what's before the
body is the motion, is Counciimember Paltin's ASF, amending the motion to adopt the
recommendations of Committee Report 21-39.
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Paltin. I.doyou-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. What I've decided to do was to withdraw
the ASF and post it on the agenda for second reading so that we have adequate notice
for Sunshine Law purposes, not because I don't think it's a good amendment. I think
it's a great amendment and I, I did hear many of the testifiers mention they wanted us
to focus on affordable housing and so, I think this does that. And, you know, with the
focus being on affordable housing, we would also be cutting greenhouse gas
emissions because we're lessening the ratio.
SO, TO COMPLY WITH THE SUNSHINE LAW, I’M GOING TO
WITHDRAW THE AMENDMENT FOR TODAY AND POST IT ON
THE NEXT COUNCIL AGENDA SO WE CAN PASS IT WITH
THE SECOND READING OF THE BILL.
CHAIR LEE: Who was the seconder? Take a stab at it. Who was the seconder? Okay, let's
say-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Counciimember Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Sinenci withdrawing your second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Ms., Member Paltin, it's a, it's  agood amendment if you do say so
yourself. Alright, so we're back to the, the initial motion.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I, I gave my remarks, Chair. Now, ! think, I think we've
exhausted all to testimony-
CHAIR LEE; No, i didn't mean for you to explain it once again. I just wanted to, like you say,
you made the, a motion and so and so seconded it, and we're ready to vote.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 116
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I'd like to make a comment on the main motion as not
amended.
CHAIR LEE: Sure, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. I just wanted to make a couple disclosures. I went
before the Board of Ethics on June 9. And I think, I'm not sure if they had the written
statement, but they sent me an email that they made a decision that I'm cleared to vote
this matter. And I've got someone to cover my 3:30 commitment, so I'll be able toon
stay.
But as to the bill, I haven't really spoken to it in Committee because I recused myself.
And what I wanted to say is when we pick and choose which parts of the United States
Constitution we want to follow, this is the problem that we find ourselves in. I agree
with Member Sugimura, that under the U.S. Constitution we're not given the authority
to limit the people coming into Hawaii, to limit the air traffic coming into Hawaii. But if
to follow the entirety of the U.S. Constitution, we could control the tourism
industry like Palau, like New Zealand, and other countries where they run the show.
In its current form, a lot of aspects of the hotel industry is just a transformation of the
plantation industry, where we don't get to control how many people come in. We don't
get to say a carrying capacity of cars, or that we don't have the infrastructure to meet
the demand, that we don't get to set the wages to  aliving wage. And I think that's the
problem here. Not, and so, when we have to comply with working or living with one
foot in two worlds, we have to come up with these types of solutions, which are kind
of, it doesn't address the root of the problem, which is being able to control our own
borders.
we were
And so, I don't think this is the right way to go about it, but it's the only two we're given
in this capacity. And so, if that's what we're given to deal with, that’s what we have to
do. And that's, that's my comments on the situation. I'd much rather control our own
borders. I'd much rather follow the examples of nations that control their own destiny.
But this is the opportunity that we're given and so we have to work within the framework
that we're given. Although, we all know the truth. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, really quickly. We've heard from Mr. Blumer-Buell
from, a Hana resident, and he's been dealing with overtourism, for us, in East Maui,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 117
since the early 1980’s. And 1 do give credence to our past Councils and our past
commissions. They did put in the Maui Island Plan the ratio of visitor to resident And
you know, past Councils have also put moratoriums on military bases for Maui. It put
at one time, universities just because we didn't have some of the resources at tha
time. And so, this moratorium is, you kno\A/, is in line with past actions of, of the Council.
For us in rural Hana, we are at capacity. We don't have public parking, so we're seeing
illeqal parking to the point where emergency personnel cannot go through small roads
or on one-lane bridges. We don't have police, enough police coverage because of our
small rural community numbers. We lack crosswalks and we lack sidewalks. So, a lot
of our visitors are in the middle of the streets walking.
And so, I'd just like to say, for Maui, we're not the only one in this, in this situation.
Croatia, 539 cruise ships bringing in almost 800,000 passengers. Machu Picchu has
lumped from less than 400,000 tourists a year to over 1.4 million visitors. Santorini
jumping from 15 million in 2010 to 33 million in 2018, and they're also an island country.
Barcelona, Spain, 32 million tourists, with the city's population 1.6 million. So, other
municipalities around the globe has, has been forced to do this types of actions to, to
address their overtourism. So, thank you for the opportunity. Chair. I speak in support.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Anybody else?
Yes, Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. I just want to take this one chance to talk
about something, some of the talking points that  Iheard this morning during testimony.
And I don't like being gaslighted and I don't like people telling me to not believe my
lying eyes. Because we all can see that there is  amajor problem.
I'll point out some statistics because if I take  atalking point from the right-wing, facts
don't care about your feelings. 80 percent of Hawaii employees struggle to find workers
to fill open positions. 70 percent of employers say that this is a burden on its current
workers. And 60 percent of employers had to change shifts and pay for overtime when
it comes to filling out their human resources needs. There's 27,000 empty positions iri
the in the State of Hawaii. And this is from the State Chamber of Commerce. So
don't I don't see why people are fading death over us trying to regulate the industry
locals, folks. So, that's my two cents on it, I stand in strongthat's crushing our, our
support. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? Okay, I just want to say-
Yes, Ms. Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 118
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I'm going to vote against this measure, as
1 believe a moratorium and 1 think we've all talked about and heard the many reasons.
But I believe that the basis for the moratorium, about the Maui Island Plan, and I'm
going to get stuck on this because of what we just did with Kaanapali 2020 where the
Maui Island Plan gave recommendations for urban growth and directed growth. And
the Kaanapali 2020, which followed that and had community input for the last 20 years,
and yet, we as a Council, changed it or disregarded it, and so 1 think that we're being,
you know, selecting or, or selective about what we're going to do in terms of following
the Maui Island Plan. And I'm going to vote against this, because I think what I've been
hearing is that a lot of the testimony, or a lot of the rationale was because overtourlsm,
because what was designated in the Maui Island Plan, which was done nine years
not like, you know, many, many years ago. But it is not going to be somethingago, so
that I'm going to rely on for what is going to be the data to, to do this.
And so, I am going to be voting against this particular measure as it is presented and
as, as it is written. And the reasons that I believe more needs to be done to justify why
we need a moratorium and that by doing this, that we're going to stop the number of
visitors coming to Maui. Cause 1 don't believe that this is going to be the solution.
Greater discussion may need to be had by those who are in control of it. And I do not
think that we have control over it, but we can have discussion. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and then Member King.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'll make it quick because 1 did
pport your two-minute rule. 1 just, 1 just wanted to quickly stand in support of the, the
bill, the motion. And mahalo to all the individuals that came out to testify on, on both
sides of this issue. But I particularly want to, you know, extend my gratitude to all those
who aren't paid to come and be involved, and take time out of their day, you know, to,
to share with us their, their manao, the impacts they've experienced, cause it means a
lot. And this is why we're, we're doing this. This is the purpose of the moratorium, is
because our residents have been crying out. And we are a very responsive Council.
And 1 love that about our Council, that we really listen to our constituents and our
residents. And we simultaneously try to work with everyone to try to, you know,
address everyone's concerns.
And so, as I said before, that I've already started the process with the TIG. I plan to,
you know, carry it out as quickly as possible so that we can get, our hairs on fire, as
Member Johnson always says. And so, it's urgent. So, you know, and 1, and I think
Member King agrees that, you know, we're not, we don't plan to necessarily take up
su
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 119
the two years. That we're going to quickly get this done because our hair is on fire and
need to address these impacts immediately. Mahalo, Chair.we
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, thank you, Chair. And thanks for speaking for me, Member
Rawlins-Fernandez. I'm for whatever gets us to these solutions as quick as possible.
1 do think we're in an emergency, like Mr. Johnson said,
emergency, you figure out a way to stop the harm. You know, it's the first do no harm.
This is what we're doing with this moratorium, is trying to stop the harm, as Member
Paltin said, where we can, where we have the authority. We don't have the authority
in the airports or the airlines, but we do have the authority with building permits.
And 1 also want to say that I'm a, I'm a little bit, I guess, frazzled by the fact that we're
not respecting our, our residents when they say there's overtourism. It doesn't even
have to be written in the Maui Island Plan for people to know that we have too many
people on this island at any one given time. And more, more people, more tourists and
residents means that more people who aren't worried about their quality of life,
because they're going to leave in two weeks or a week.
So, you know, but having said that, I think that the, the Maui Island Plan is very
important. It's the law. It’s ordinance. It's in our Maui County Code. You don't get to
pick and choose which laws you want to follow. It's like saying, you know, if there s, if,
if there's a law against stealing, it's okay if you steal bread but you can't steal a towel,
something like that. I mean, this is, this is part of our County Code. So, we're trying
to actually catch up to something we probably should have done a couple years ago.
But I, I frankly thought that the pandemic was putting a stop to everything. And I
believed the pundits that said it's going to take two to six years for tourism to come
back. It was frightening the way it came back on day one. It was frightening and it's
still frightening, because it's growing, because people can't go anywhere else. They
t go to another country, so they're coming here. And are, we have to protect our
residents. We have to listen to the people, we. the young people even. I personally
don't believe that the brain-drain is just because people can't find housing. 1 think it's
because they don't want to stay here in $12 an hour jobs. They're looking for careers.
They're looking for pathways to their future.
And we're not going to get there if we continue to put all our money and keep tourism
open. We have to start putting our efforts into the other parts of the economy if we
want to diversify it. So, this is a first step of saying that we're doing that. We're going
And when you're in an
can
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 120
to come up with solutions, so we're not overrun by tourism. And in that, and 1, and I
have spoken to Member Rawlins-Fernandez. You know, part of, part of the TIG should
be looking at economic opportunities. Like how are we going to diversify so we give
people other chances for real family wage earning jobs? You know, that's, you know,
that, 1 just think there's so many reasons to do this. And the reasons that we're hearing
to not to do it have to do with personal interests or, you know, associations who want
to grow their associations.
So, let's listen to our residents. Let's respect our people here on the island. Let's help
them. Let's help ourselves. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, then Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair, second and final. I had a request to clarify
my statement. And it was in reference to Article 6, Clause 2 of the United States
Constitution, the, the Supremacy Clause, which is the cornerstone of the whole U.S.
political structure. And it established that the Constitution, Federal laws made pursuant
to it and treaties made under its authority constitute the Supreme Law of the land. And
just a reminder that nobody ever found the treaty. And so, we're, we're operating under
an illegal occupation. And so, really, we should have control over our own borders.
But since we do not, this is the next way to address it.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, you know, in all my years on the Council,
honestly. I've never been a fan of moratoriums. But, you know, things, your outlook
changes. And as you see how this island has evolved, you know, you and I and others
who were born and raised here, we've seen how Maui has evolved. And never in our
dreams we would have involved as Maui becoming a world destination and being
inundated with a lot of visitors. And of course, the skyrocketing cost of living and the
inability for our kama'aina, next generations of kama'aina to even afford a home.
They're going to be displaced.
And while the visitor has been a blessing, but it's also been a curse. On one hand,
yes, it's brought in a lot of revenue, which is good. But at the same time, our quality of
life has been affected. I guess 1 recall that old economics term, opportunity cost. There
is a cost to everything and a consequence.
So, and 1 hear on the street a lot. Madam Chair, people say, you know what, it seems
like it's always the needs of the visitors that come first, you know, allowing expansion
to build more hotels. Well, what about houses for the, the very people especially that
work in the visitor industry that are not being paid, in many cases, a real livable wage.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 121
More of a supplemental wage, so you gotta have two or three other jobs just to survive.
And is it enough to get a house, a simple need of having a house? No. And in some
cases, not enough to even afford rent.
So, it's been just a combination of things that have just converged all at once that, for
me in my mind, that maybe we need to take this pause right now to reassess how we're
going to address tourism and how we're going to address these other things which
have just contributed to people's frustration and feeling disenfranchised. So, that's
where I'm coming from, my support of this moratorium, cause we need to stop.
And this is something that historically has happened before, the 1990 moratorium, and
we survived. And of course, there were, and as Mr. Brewbaker told us recently, yea,
it was due to other factors. But the point is, were we going to recover from that? Well,
we certainly did. And as a matter of fact, we even recovered after the 2008 national
economic recession. So, it's not the end all. And again, this is just related to
expansion, so people are still going to have their jobs, a majority of them.
And you know, let's, to me, let's redirect our focus. If we're going to build something,
let's build housing first, and then let's talk about the hotels later, if anything. But right
now, I just don't think it’s the right thing on the majority of our citizens minds. And of
course, when they see the hotels getting built, you and I know most of that money not
going to stay here. It goes up, goes elsewhere. But what stays here is the impacts of
the visitor industry, the quality of life. I used to like to go to the beach in my favorite
little spots. 1 don't go anymore because it's not the same, you know. A lot more people.
[ see suntan lotion in the water. And it just, just has a totally different feel to it. So, that
is why I'll support this.
And I'm hoping that both sides, people on both sides of this issue can come together
with the TIG. And I appreciate Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez initiating the TIG where
we can all come, come together, and find some solutions and redirect our economic
priorities and provide opportunities in the future for our younger generations to stay
here and hopefully afford the simple need of a home or shelter. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? Cause I'm going to say a few words and then that's it. Anybody
else?
Okay. Mr., Mr. Molina, since you were like trapsing down memory lane. You can
always tell a local person at the beach, because they're, they kapu all the trees, right?
Everybody wants to sit in the shade. Okay. But, and now it's hard to do that.
But 1 just want to say, yea, we did pass a moratorium 30 years ago. But that was
because there was this surge in hotel construction, much more, much more than the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 122
gradual increases over the last 20 years. In the first 10 years, too many came up at
one time. And so, that affected our sewer capacity, that affected our water. And we
didn't actually have a pandemic which shredded the economy. And so, the
circumstances are different.
But what's, what I like about this Council is we all agree on the same thing. We agree
that there's a over-reliance on the visitor industry, without question. We disagree on
how to approach addressing those issues and impacts. And that's why I have a difficult
time supporting this moratorium, because 1 don’t think it's the right tool to fix this
situation. But I certainly want to be a major part of finding other solutions, cause there
are out there and it's time we go out and find them.
So, again, even though I'm not supporting this moratorium, know that 1 am supporting
all of your efforts to find solutions. You know, to diversify our economy, find different
businesses, find different industries, find different opportunities. So, with that, I want
to close discussion.
And are we ready to vote on the motion? Ready? All those in favor of the motion to
pass this matter on first reading, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: So, I see one, two, three, four, five, six "ayes" and two "noes". Two "noes".
Okay? Six "ayes", two "noes", one "excused" and that is Member Kama.
Next, Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We don’t get to go home now?
CHAIR LEE: I wish.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 123
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; For the record, that is BILL 60 (2021). Going back to county
communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 21-279 - ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR
(dated June 9, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE
DONATION OF 185 PAIRS OF FOOTWEAR TO THE OCEAN SAFETY BUREAU OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY".
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Paltin, to waive the Rules of
the Council.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. Approval of this motion by a two-
thirds of the Council will enable us to take action on this proposed resolution today.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? If not, all those, ready to vote? No?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Sorry, real quick, is it the same as CC 21-264?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 124
CHAIR LEE: Oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Or are you gonna, you gonna talk about that later?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Aye. Seven "ayes". I mean, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Member
Kama.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much. Madam Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-279 AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-279.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Paltin, to adopt the resolution
in County Communication 21-279.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. OluKai is donating 185 pairs of
protective footwear, or three pairs to each employee in the Ocean Safety Bureau of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 125
Department of Fire and Public Safety. Total value of the donation is approximately
$15,340.
And as you know, Members, at the previous Council meeting on this matter, there were
concerns with regards to the first letter that was submitted to us by Mr. Kalepa from
OluKai with regards to language about the potential, 1  guess, partnership and
conditions upon accepting this donation. The resolution before us now specifically
provides for the Department to allow photos of ocean safety officers wearing the
donated footwear on a voluntary basis and on non-work time. And we did receive a
revised letter from Mr. Kalepa, which removed the language, the conditional language
that was in the first letter. So, I believe this will satisfy the concern regarding OluKai's
request to use photos and videos of ocean safety officers who use the OluKai products
while in their official capacity.
And in response to Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez' question, when we do get to that
point, 21-264, my intent is, I guess depending on what happens with this, is to file
21-264. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I'D LIKE TO AMEND. I MOVE TO AMEND THE MAIN MOTION
TO INCLUDE THE FILING OF COUNTY COMMUNICATION
21-264.
- DAVID C. THYNE. FIRE CHIEF
(dated May 17, 2021)
NO. 21-264
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled, "AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE
DONATION OF 185 PAIRS OF FOOTWEAR TO THE OCEAN SAFETY BUREAU OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY, PURSUANT TO
CHAPTER 3.56, MAUI COUNTY CODE".
CHAIR LEE: Is that okay, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No problem.
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 126
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I think that's self-explanatory. Okay. All, ready to vote? All those in
favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Motion to amend.
CHAIR LEE; I thought it was just included in the motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh. It was an amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, I, 1 thought it was to adopt CC 21-279 and file that other
communication?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair, I think it was a separate. I guess, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you want to, do you want to handle it as an amendment? Okay. Fine.
All those in favor of the amendment, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Motion passes. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Member
Kama.
The motion as amended. Anybody else want to talk? No. Okay, all those in favor,
say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 127
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All "ayes". So, that would be eight "ayes", zero "noes", and one
"excused": Member Kama.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-99.
The following countyChair, proceeding with communications for referral,
communications are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
- KEAN I RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, COUNCILMEMBERNO. 21-281
(dated June 7, 2021)
Relating to the Department of Fire and Public Safety helicopter contract.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-281 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- KEANI RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-282
(dated June 9, 2021)
Relating to economic development and tourism management.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-281 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- LANCE T. TAGUCHI, COUNTY AUDITOR,NO. 21-283
(dated June 8, 2021)
Transmitting the County of Maui Single Audit Report for the Fiscal Year Ended
June 30, 2020, submitted by N&K CPAs, Inc.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-283 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 128
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTORNO. 21-284
(dated June 10, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
ORDINANCE NO. 5101, BILL NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE, SALE
AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE  -ACQUISITION
OF 100 MAHALANI STREET BUILDING AND PROPERTY)".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-284 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(THE PROPOSED BILL ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-284 WAS PASSED ON FIRST
READING LATER IN THE MEETING AND ASSIGNED BILL
NO. 61 (2021). COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-284
WAS THEN FILED. See pages 130 and 131 for discussion and
action.)
- SHANE M. SINENCI. COUNCILMEMBER.NO. 21-285
(dated June 9, 2021)
Relating to an audit for Maui County roadways, including surfacing schedule.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-285 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE: What happened? We can't hear you. I think you're frozen, James.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Froze.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Building.
CHAIR LEE: Try again, James. What happened?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The County Building. Not safe.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, why don't you, why don't you, since you're the monitor, why don't you, the
moderator, why don't you finish?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 129
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sure. Okay. I think we're on-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Planning, to your Planning-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, oh, oh. There's Deputy Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. I'm using the staff computer. I'll sort out my, I'll sort
out my connectivity issues shortly. But just to finish.
CHAIR LEE: Yup.
- MICHELE MCLEAN, PLANNING DIRECTORNO. 21-286
(dated May 27,2021)
Relating to the Molokai Education Center, Kaunakakai, Molokai, transmitting copies of
documents and the following proposed bills entitled:
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE STATE LAND USE DISTRICT
CLASSIFICATION FROM AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT TO URBAN DISTRICT
FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KAUNAKAKAI , MOLOKAI, HAWAII, TAX
MAP KEY NOS. (2) 5-3-003:013 AND (2) 5-3-003:014"; and
1.
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING FROM INTERIM
DISTRICT TO P-1 PUBLIC/QUASl-PUBLIC DISTRICT FOR PROPERTY
SITUATED AT KAUNAKAKAI, MOLOKAI. HAWAII, TAX MAP
KEYS (2) 5-3-003:013 AND (2) 5-3-003:014".
2.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-286 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 130
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 21-284
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Oh, Mr. Krueger, you got to mute.
Okay.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL ON COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 21-284.
CHAIR LEE: Only one? Okay. Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Moved by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member Paltin, to waive the Rule, Rules of the Council for County Communication
21-284.
Any more discussion? Okay. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. One "excused": Kama.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS THE PROPOSED BILL ON FIRST READING
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-284.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 131
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin, to move
the bill in County Communication 21-284 on first reading.
And. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the. the proposed bill
corrects an inadvertent error in Ordinance 5209, Bill 38 (2021) by incorporating the
amendment approved by Ordinance 5203, Bill 20 (2021). The FY 2021 Operating
Budget amounts were correct and do not need to be updated. But the Bond Bill
amounts do need to be amended.
And Budget Director Michele Yoshimura is on the line if any of the Members have
questions.
And my apologies. I, 1 forgot to explain the urgency of this when I, when I moved to
waive. And so, the urgency is, is to correct the Bond Bill.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any questions for the Director, the Budget Director?
Apparently not, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Anything else?
Okay, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused": motion carries. Excused, Member
Kama.
Okay. Anything else? Otherwise, if there are no objections to the referrals as read by
the Clerk, any objections?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 132
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, apologies for my connectivity issues. Proceeding-
CHAIRLEE: That's okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-38NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That a PUBLIC HEARING ON LANA‘1 be HELD on the proposed bill, entitled
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.80B, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, TO ADD 'MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE AND WORK TOWARD
RESILIENCE' AS A GOAL OF THE COUNTYWIDE POLICY PLAN";
1.
That a PUBLIC HEARING ON MAUI be HELD on the proposed bill, entitled
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.80B, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, TO ADD 'MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE AND WORK TOWARD
RESILIENCE' AS A GOAL OF THE COUNTYWIDE POLICY PLAN";
2.
That a PUBLIC HEARING ON MOLOKA'I be HELD on the proposed bill, entitled
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.806, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, TO ADD 'MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE AND WORK TOWARD
RESILIENCE' AS A GOAL OF THE COUNTYWIDE POLICY PLAN";
3.
That the proposed bill, entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 2.SOB, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ADD 'MITIGATE CLIMATE
CHANGE AND WORK TOWARD RESILIENCE' AS A GOAL OF THE
COUNTYWIDE POLICY PLAN," be SCHEDULED FOR FIRST READING,
following the public hearings; and
4.
That County Communication 21-190, from the Planning Director, be FILED.5.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 133
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Mr. Clerk, we are going to take up 1,2, 3, but not 4, right? Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; So, Chair, if, if the body is going to adopt the recommendations,
if the body chooses to adopt all of the recommendations in the committee report,
number 4 just means that it wouldn't be first reading today. If the body adopts that
recommendation, that just means once the public hearings are complete, then the bill
will be rescheduled on the agenda-
CHAIRLEE; Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; -and then they can do first reading then.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Very good. Thank you.
Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-38.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SlNENCi;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, I see a second. Moved by Member Sinenci. ! mean, moved by Member
King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the Committee Report 21-38.
Discussion, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. The purpose of the proposed bill is to
incorporate the amended Section IV, attached as Exhibit "1
Climate Change and Work Toward Resilience" as a theme and goal of the Countywide
Policy Plan.
In its deliberations, your Committee noted the Lana'i, Maui, and Moloka'i Planning
Commissions unanimously recommended approval of the proposed bill. The Planning
Department also recommended approval and sent the bill, the original bill back for
approval.
by adding "Mitigate
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 134
Your Committee also discussed the need to recognize climate change more
prominently in the Countywide Policy Plan. The Countywide Policy Plan hasn't been
amended in this way, and this is a step forward in the process and opening the door
for future Councils to possibly update this living document.
Your Committee voted 6-0 that public hearings be held on Lana'i, Maui, and Molokai
on the proposed bill, scheduling of it passing on first reading the proposed bill after the
public hearings, and filing of the communication.  Iask for Members for your full support
of these recommendations. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anyque-
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just had a clarifying question. Are we going to
Moloka'i and Lana'i in person, or is-
CHAIR LEE; No.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; We’re not?
CHAIR LEE: After we voted on, after we vote on this, 1 was going to ask Lana'i, Moloka'i, and
I guess Maui, which would be good days and times for you? And we'll work it around
then. It'll be virtual.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, virtual? Okay. I guess same thing for the West Maui
Community Plan then. Okay, cool.
CHAIR LEE: So, all those in favor, did we just vote or not?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, not yet.
CHAIR LEE: Say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 135
CHAIR LEE: Everybody "aye"?
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused"; Member Kama. Motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: So, Member Johnson and Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, can you let
the Clerk know when's, when's a good day for the, the folks on your islands? And then,
from that, you can figure out Maui, Mr. Clerk. Okay? The days and the times now,
you know? Okay.
Alright, shall we go, go ahead? Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-40NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THERecommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF KAULANA MOSSMAN TO THE LIQUOR CONTROL
21-100
ADJUDICATION BOARD FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION OF COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-40.
CHAIR LEE: Only one? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Any, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Discussion, Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 136
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee rriet on
June 1, 2021, to consider the Mayor's nomination of Kaulana Mossman to the Liquor
Control Adjudication Board for a term expiring on March 31,2023, to fill a vacancy due
to the resignation of Herman Nascimento. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend
his nomination for approval. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye , raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NONE.NOES:
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-99 [sic]. And just
to backtrack, oh, 21-100, apologies.
And just to backtrack, the bill that v^as attached to County Communication 21-284, that
is BILL 61 (2021).
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
excused": Member Kama. Motion carries.one
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-41NO. - GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution  21-101 ,
APPOINTMENT OF EDWARD ROMSON TO THE COUNCIL ON AGING
ADOPTED.
be
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
RECOMMENDATIONS OFMOVE TO ADOPT THE
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-41.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 137
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt the
recommend, approve Committee Report 21-41.
Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
June 1, 2021, to consider the Mayor's nomination of Edward Romson to the Council
on Aging, for a term expiring on March 31,2023, to fill a vacancy due to the resignation
of Susan Lussier. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend Mr. Romson's approval
to this Commission. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Further discussion? If not, ail those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
zero "noes", one "excused": Motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eighfayes'
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; For the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-101.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-42NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "RELATING TO THERecommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF ERIC CUOMO TO THE COST OF GOVERNMENT
21-102
COMMISSION," be ADOPTED.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 138
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-42.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve the
Committee Report 21-42.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
June 1, 2021, to consider the Mayor's nomination of Eric Cuomo to the Cost of
Government Commission, for a term expiring on March 31, 2023, to fill a vacancy due
to the resignation of Hannah Werth. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend his
nomination be approved. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. One "excused": Member Kama.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: For the record, that is RESOLUTION 21-102.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 139
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-43 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that County Communication 21-225, from Council Chair Alice L. Lee
relating to a downloadable application for reporting illegal fireworks, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION OF COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-43.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve
Committee Report 21-43.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
June 1, 2021, to discuss taking a proactive and multi-pronged approach to curb the
use of illegal fireworks. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend filing of County
Communication 21-225, relating to a downloadable application for reporting illegal
fireworks. And we, we look forward to future legislation on this.
And Madam Chair, 1 want to thank you for bringing illegal fireworks to the Committee,
or shall I say the subject of illegal fireworks to the Committee. 1 ask for the Members
full support of this. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion? No? Okay. Did we vote on this? You really
distracted me. Did we vote on this?
All those in favor of the motion, say "aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 140
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-44NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE RELATING TO ZIPLINE,
CANOPY, AND BUNGEE JUMPING TOUR OPERATIONS," be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1. That Bill
That County Communication 20-618, from the Planning Director, be FILED.2.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-44 AND UPDATE THE REVISED
BILL TITLE SIGNED TO FORM AND LEGALITY BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF CORPORATION COUNSEL ADDING THE
WORD "RAPPELLING", TO READ "A BILL FOR ZONING
ORDINANCE", OH, SORRY, I SKIPPED A LINE. "A BILL FOR
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO ZIPLINE, CANOPY,
RAPPELLING, AND BUNGEE JUMPING COMMERCIAL
OPERATIONS IN THE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT".
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 141
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve
Committee Report 21-44. Discussion?
Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. The Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee discussed the impacts of bungee jumping, canopy tours, rappelling, and
zipline operations throughout the County. Supporters of the bill stated that the negative
impacts of the recreational activities cause a significant burden to surrounding
properties permitted uses including livestock raising and farm dwellings.
The Committee also discussed the environmental and safety concerns of rappelling in
and around waterfalls, which is now buffered by a 500-foot radius for special use
permits.
Input from the existing recreational activity operators pertaining to ziplines was also
taken into consideration to create reasonable legacy provisions and a pathway to
compliance for existing businesses. Therefore, the Planning and Sustainable Land
Use Committee recommended first reading of the proposed bill.
And just to clarify, this was one of the bill's where we heard, before sending it to the
Planning Commission to clarify exactly what we wanted in the bill. And then it was
sent to the Planning Commission, and then they added their input. Then it came back
to us and we added our input, and this is the result. I respectfully ask the Members
support for my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I, I support the motion on the floor.
Mahalo, Member Paltin and Member Sugimura, for your work on this, and Member
Molina. Mahalo all of you for your work on this.
I have a process question. So, I don't know, I guess Mr. Raatz or Deputy Clerk? When
made the, when Member Paltin made the main motion, she amended something.
But don't, don't we make the main motion with the recommendations of the committee
report, and then amend it?
we
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 142
CHAIR LEE; Sure.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, right. 1 admittedly, I am a bit unfamiliar with, with the motion.
Like, I understand that it was to adopt the recommendations as well as to update the
bill title. I think that may stem from that the bill that, that is before the body actually
has that word inside the title already. Coundlmember Paltin, if you can correct me if
I’m wrong. And so, 1 think that might just be to recognize that the bill title was updated.
But if the body would prefer to do it as a main motion and then an amendment to the
main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let’s hear from Member Paltin first.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Mr. Krueger, I can’t correct you because I'm just reading
the words on the paper.
CHAIR LEE: So, what, can you read the words on the paper again?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure. 1 can do that. I move to adopt the recommendations in
Committee Report 21-44 and update the revised bill title signed to form and legality by
the Department of the Corporation Counsel adding the word "rappelling", to read;
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO ZIPLINE, CANOPY, RAPPELLING, AND BUNGEE
JUMPING COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS IN THE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT".
CHAIR LEE: So, she made it into one motion.
So, David, are you on the call? David Raatz?
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY: Thank, thank you. Chair. Sorry for the
confusion. My understanding is the, the reference in the motion to the revised bill title
is to note an error in the committee report that has an outdated bill title. The word
"rappelling" as Councilmember Paltin mentioned, is actually in the bill that's attached
to the committee report. But the recommendation clause of the committee report
doesn’t include that word in its reference to the bill title.
CHAIR LEE: So, procedurally, was Member Paltin correct with her motion which included
that updated word?
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY: 1 believe so, unless the County Clerk has any
problems with that. We, we think it's fine.
CHAIR LEE: Well, he doesn't know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 143
SUPERVISING LEGISU\TIVE ATTORNEY: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We asking you. Okay?
Yes. Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, we, we're fine with that interpretation as long as the body is
too; that it's just to note that difference, but that the bill before the body now that the
body is considering has that new word "rappelling" in it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I, I don't have any problems with that,
I guess. But I do have a question. Can we correct the committee report? We, we've
done it in past. Should we also do that?
CHAIR LEE: Mr, Raatz.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'd iike-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz.
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY: Thank you, Chair. I, I believe errors of this
nature can be corrected administratively in accordance with the Council Rules. So,
we can work with the County Clerk on that if the body would like.we
CHAIR LEE: Yea. The body would like.
SUPERVISING LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. Mahalo, Mr. Raatz.
SUPERVISING LEGISU\TIVE ATTORNEY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we got that set. Moving on.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, I believe the body has not yet voted on the motion
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 144
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we have. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All "ayes". Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Member Kama.
Motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 62 (2021).
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 21-45 PLANN1NG AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 63 (2021), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTERS 19.64 AND 19.69, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE
URBAN RESERVE DISTRICT," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT;
1.
That County Communication 20-422, from the Planning Director, be FILED; and2.
That County Communication 21-157, from the Planning Director, be FILED.3.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 21-45.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 145
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It's been moved and seconded by. moved by Member Paltin, seconded
by Member Sinenci, to approve Committee Report 21-45.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. The Planning and Sustainable Use,
Sustainable Land Use Committee discussed this proposed bill for the Urban Reserve
District and agreed that although the district is purposefully restricted, it unnecessarily
prohibits benign uses, such as recycling facilities and other government structures, and
accessory dwellings on small lots.
Your Committee further amended the bill to limit the government structures to County
and not State and Federal. And I would like to give kudos to the Committee for staying
longer than intended so that Haiku could have its recycling continue, cause they love
it. Your Committee and recommend first reading. I respectfully ask the Members
support for my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Wow. Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say
"aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. One "excused": Member Kama.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, for the record, that is BILL 63 (2021).
Chair, proceeding with or-
CHAIR LEE: You're muted.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. For the record, that is BILL 63 (2021).
Proceeding with ordinances for second and final reading.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 146
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 56 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
WAIALE LAND ACQUISITION
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 56 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to pass
Bill 56 on second and final reading.
Any discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Oh.
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Bill 56 amends Fiscal Year 2021
Budget, Appendix C - Capital Improvement Project, from Finance to remove language
stating that this land is to be used for affordable housing.
It also requires the formation of an advisory committee, including Malama Kakanilua,
to advise on the use of this property. The purchase of the property will not move
forward until your Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee authorizes
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 147
the use of Bond Funds for this purchase, which will be discussed at a future meeting.
Mahalo, Chair.
CFIAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Yes. Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. And 1, I think this is a very timely and
important subject, given the discussion we had yesterday morning in PSLU, and in
ways that we choose to not desecrate. So, I’m very thankful to the Administration for
bringing this forward. I'm very thankful to Member Sinenci in his first year, in his first
term for creating the County Archaeologist position. Because it makes such the
difference that we're not just talking about, while I'm not trying to discount oral history,
but we're backing up that oral history with data and, and known issues and, and relied
upon science in the field of archaeology. So, thank you very much to Member Sinenci
for his foresight in creating that. And thank you very much to the Administration for
taking that ball and running it to, running with it to its fullest extent. And thank you to
Member Rawlins-Fernandez for pushing this forward in a timely manner so that we
make it.
CHAIR LEE: Oh you didn't thank the rest of us.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank the rest of you for voting in support as well.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We're all along for the ride.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused"; motion carries. Excused is MemberCHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Kama.
Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 148
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 57 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE NATURAL RESOURCES
CONSERVATION SERVICE
RELATED TO THE LAHAINA WATERSHED FLOOD PROTECTION PROJECT
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura,
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 57 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Paltin, to pass Bill 57 on
second and final reading.
Discussion, Ms. Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. Bill 57 (2021) authorizes the Mayor to
enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the Natural Resource Conservation
Service, which will provide $1,229,230 in grant funding to the County of Maui for the
development of supplemental watershed plan-environmental document
("Supplemental Plan-ED") for Lahaina water. Watershed Flood Protection Project. The
County will provide in-kind assistance equivalents $149,980, bringing the total cost of
the agreement to $1,379,210. The end date is September 30, 2024. I ask for the
Members full support.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye",
raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 149
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. One "excused": Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 58 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 20.08.031, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, REGARDING LIMITED EXCLUSIONS FOR GRADING AND GRUBBING
PERMITS AND AMENDING THE CATEGORICAL EXCLUSION FOR TRENCHING
FOR UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 58 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member King, to pass Bill 58 on
second and final reading.
Mr. Sinenci, discussion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 150
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Chair, this matter was deeply discussed at our May 18
Agricultural and Public Trust Committee meeting. After receiving input from the public,
from the Administration, and from our resources, the proposed bill had the support of
all seven of the Committee members.
(Councilmember Sugimura was excused from the meeting at 4:18 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: At first reading, this Council unanimously voted to substitute
the bill with one that clarified what we consider sensitive areas, but still keeping the
same intent, and signed as to form and legality. All week. Members, we've talked about
adding protections for known burials and cemeteries, and in anticipation of the creation
of a cultural overlay. And this ordinance is one of those measures to further protect
our historic sites and ensure that our past is .. ..  1 ask for the Members continued
support for this bill. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: More discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
zero "noes"; motion carries. One "excused"; Member Kama.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes'
Mr. Clerk, did you say something?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, apologies. I only saw seven Members during that vote.
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Sugimura wasn't, I don't see her.
CHAIR LEE: Yuki, are you there? Okay, if not, we'll revise that number to seven "ayes" and
two "excused". Motion carries. Excused would be Kama and Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 151
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 59 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE COMMISSION ON HEALING
SOLUTIONS FOR HOMELESSNESS.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 59 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, to pass
Bill 59 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you very much. Madam Chair. Bill 59 amends
Chapter 2.31.020 of the Maui County Code, by requiring each of the Council's nine
appointees to demonstrate experience relevant to the Commission in one of the
Councilmember residency areas. Based on the passage of this bill, your Chair intends
to discuss the nominees to fill the West Maui seat to the Commission on Healing
Solutions for Homelessness at an upcoming GREAT Committee meeting. And I want
to thank Vice-Chair, Council Vice-Chair and Committee Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
for all of her work on this legislation. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any further discussion? Anybody? If not, all those in favor of the
motion say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 152
two "excused"; motion carries. The two excused are MembersCHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes",
Kama and Sugimura.
Mr. Clerk, it looks like we're done.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, any parting remarks? Happy Father's Day to all of you. And
Happy Mother's Day for taking care of the fathers. I want to thank you.
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I just wanted to mention that I am holding a town hall on
Monday evening on sustainable tourism. So, we're going to have a panel, and
speaking about some of the solution .... So, if any Councilmembers choose to,
choose to join our town hall, let me know, so I can introduce you. Okay. That’s all.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Yea, I just wanted to announce that the
APT Committee had canceled our special meeting on next Tuesday. We lost a couple
of our, our resources and we wanted to make sure that Committee members had Q & A
time. So, we'll look at rescheduling at a later date. Thank you. Enjoy the day off.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We need it. We need it. Anybody else? I'm in the process of
putting together a survey that I hope you will share at some point. And it's to solicit
ideas on new businesses and industries. I, we understand that UHERO has
information, stats on this. And I’m particularly interested in hearing back from the public
on green businesses and green industries. So, please help me share those surveys if
it gets to your Facebook pages.
Thank you so much everyone. I really appreciate how we handled today. It could've,
could've been ugly but it wasn’t.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I would just ask you, I think that's great what you're doing
on the diversified economy. 1 would ask you to really touch base with the Climate
Change Office in the Mayor's Office, because they're going to be working on the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 18, 2021
Page 153
circular economy this, starting this summer. So, it would be great to get them involved.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. I, I'll, I'll give you a hint. Believe it or not, men, dad's, one of the trends
right now is grooming for men. Like men spend a tremendous amount of money on
haircuts, hairstyling. Now they're into facial products and all kinds of things. So, that's
a heck of a great business for somebody. Just letting you know.
Okay, everybody, all set? This meeting of June 18 of the Maui County Council is now
adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of June 18, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 4:23 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
210618/lks;jm
received
m\ JUN 17 AH OMIRACLE
OFFICE OF THE
county clerkCounty Council Meeting, 9AM June 18, 2021
Testimony provided by Nick Drance; www.TheMauiMiracle.org
Online Only via BlueJeans link https://maui.blueieans.com/29523567Q
Meeting will be televised on Akaku: Maui Community Media, Channel 53
Email testimony to: county.clerk@mauicounty.us
e-comment by the public remains unavailable approx
TESTIMONY
Aloha Chair Lee and Council,
Here is my Testimony on 7 key topics of discussion today. My testimony is well under 9
minutes.
As usual, each of you has worked so hard for us. This meeting agenda, like so many others, has a
great number of items for you to consider. 32 in all. It’s too many. I don’t know how you and
your staff do this week and day, in and out. I am grateful for your stamina.
CR 21-39
Hotel building moratorium
Recommending FIRST READING of bill to temporarily maintain the status quo in the
development ofhotels and other visitor accommodations in South Maui and West Maid until the
respective community plans for the areas are updated or two years have passed, whichever is
sooner, because of environmental and other impacts.
TESTIMONY
Let me preface my additional comments with this. Council Members, before you vote on this,
you should visit South Maui and spend time there, during different times of day. See the massive
number of surfers in the Cove trying to catch the right wave. God Bless them but they are
already crowded on top of one another. That is not what surfing is about and it’s not fair to
crowd them even more. They are nice people looking to break loose and explore. Let them be.
Come, spend some time with in little Kihei and see the mile long lines on S. Kihei Rd. See the
unbelievably long lines of tourists outside the restaurants in the Triangle. We and they are
absolutely overwhelmed. The Maui Coast expansion will likely push us over the edge there and
on Kam I Beach. How many more people can we cram onto that beach? Spend a day there and
see for yourself.
Beyond that, I do not agree with the two-year expiration date. If this initiative is to have
meaning, there should be no time expiration. The welfare of residents in their own communities,
Community Plans as they see it, comes first. Some people forget. The wishes of residents must
be held sacred, above all else. No government official has the right to rule over us.
Overall
I wish that the Council was able to schedule this agenda item by itself. Given its historic
significance, the fact that it sets a precedent of average Americans having an equal voice with
giant corporations in determining their own future is quite significant. Americans desire the
ability to maintain a quality of life not subjugated to an insatiable thirst for the shareholder return
enjoyed by others. In broad terms, isn't that what building more hotels is really about? Isn’t that
why Honolulu looks like Miami Beach.
Our children deserve to grow up in a world at least as good as ours. Maui isn’t Miami Beach yet.
We have a responsibility to make that world better for them than the one we came into. We are a
land of immigrants. Our nation was built on the desire to improve the lives of individuals and
perhaps even more, improve the future for our children. Will more hotels improve the quality of
life for us or our children?
Hawaiians have a unique opportunity to make a tiny step forward in slowing down this onslaught
of the white man. This is not our land. We took it. At least we should care for it. My Sista Tasha,
this is your moment to take a stand for your land. Please.
For all of us, this legislation speaks to that most sacred tenant of what it means to be an
American; the very thing that sets us apart from any nation in the history of our planet. Freedom.
In this case, it is literally, our right, as Americans, to give our children the ability to enjoy a
better life than our own. Can we call ourselves free if we must first be made to accept the cost of
financial gain for others? Particularly people that don’t even live here. Is that freedom? This
legislation is so important, it deserves not to be one of 32 number of agenda items. It deserves its
own special meeting.
Chair Lee, I ask you to take that into account. I ask the Council to go into Executive Session and
candidly, privately discuss this among yourselves. Chair, please ask for a vote on this. No one
has anything to lose.
I think this initiative will pass. However, I’d like to see it pass unanimously, just as the three
islands of Maui County have done with CR 21-38. Support for the spirit of this Bill is unanimous
among them. Let it also be so, with you. Council members, take advantage of the relationships
you’ve nurtured among you. Build on that honestly and in good faith and go into Executive
Session on this or any other topic you think you should and really talk this over before you cast
your final votes.
CR 21-280
Relating to the expeditious submission of the proposed hotel moratorium to the Planning
Commission
REFERRING TO THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING CHAPTERS 19.98 AND 20.41, MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A
MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI".
TESTIMONY
Some of us see a sense of urgency about the welfare of our island more than some others. As one
of them, I urge the Council to approve CR 21-280 without delay.
CR 21-38
Unanimous vote by the islands of Maui County to include wording related to Climate
Change in the lawful Countywide Plan
Recommending the required public hearings for enactment ofthe various Planning Commission
resolutions on the subject.
The Climate Action, Resilience and Environmental Committee has recommended support for
public hearings for residents ofLana ’i, Maui and Moloka 7 to comment on a bill to amend
the Counlywide Policy Plan to incorporate the amended Section IV by adding “Mitigate Climate
Change and Work Toward Resilience ” as a goal of the Countywide Policy Plan.
TESTIMONY
After embracing the original request by this Committee that the County wide Plan be revised, the
Maui, Molokai and Lanai Planning Commissions, built on that by suggesting additional wording,
that strengthened the original request. Let us support their wishes with the same sense of
urgency, that their unanimity demonstrates.
Obviously, there is widespread support for addressing the conditions we see before us, right now
today and into the future. Along with the entire western third of the mainland, we are in drought
conditions once again, https://www.mauinews.eom/news/local-news/2021/06/after-relief-
drought-returns-to-maui/
Let this proceed swiftly and without delay.
CC 21-278
Relating to the establishment of Agricultural land use designation
“A ” and “B'’propose to CHANGE ZONING FROM OPEN SPACE ZONE, R-3 RESIDENTIAL
AND ROAD/STREET RESER VE ZONE TO A GRICULTURE.
TESTIMONY
So much of our island has been rezoned to urban from agricultural, without the approval of
residents. This sounds refreshing. Some of you may be tired of hearing me talk about the Maui
Island Plan which demands that we maintain the small town, rural nature that our island. That
plan was approved at every level of government and not following it is essentially against the
law. It seems desirable to change land designated as urban back to ag especially if the change
occurred after the plan was approved.
CR 21-44
Relating to the establishment that conditional permits for zip line and bungee jumping
operations in the County Agricultural District be required.
FIRST READING of bill to require a conditional permit for zipline, canopy, and bungee jumping
tour operations in the County Agricultural District.
TESTIMONY
Time and again, residents who reside in properties adjacent to these businesses, have asked that
their right to live in peace on their own properties be respected. Effective permitting
requirements will protect those rights and ensure we don’t have traffic jams in pastures and the
like.
In closing, let me say, mahalo nui team! Thank you for working to respect, preserve and
care for our island.
On our little, our tiny little rock in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, Council Members, you rock.
The bold and innovative work you do rocks, seemingly, around the clock! You amaze me.
Mahalo team
Nick Drance
TheMauiMiracle.org
RECEIVEDTestimony of
Pacific Resource Partnership
20ZI JUN 17 PH |: 52
City Council
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani N.W. Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Communication No. 21-280 Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "REFERRING TO THE MAUI
PLANNING COMMISSION A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTERS 19.98 AND 20.41, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMODATIONS ON MAUI"
Friday, June 18, 2021
9:00 A.M.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council.
Pacific Resource Partnership (PRP) is a non-profit market recovery trust fund which represents approximately
7,000 men and women union carpenters and 240 large and small contractors. With our expertise in research,
compliance, marketing, and project advocacy, we are committed to building a stronger, more sustainable
Hawaii in a way that promotes a vibrant economy, creates jobs, and enhances the quality of life for all
residents of Hawaii.
Our state has the highest cost of living in the nation and COVlD-19 only exasperated the challenges for many
of our residents at a time when unemployment has skyrocketed. Maui has taken a larger hit with higher
unemployment rates than the state and a slower economic recovery.
Imposing a moratorium on the construction of visitor accommodations will only further hurt Maui's
economic recovery. Maui's economy benefits tremendously from the visitor industry. Between 2020 and
2021, 77% of Maui's property tax contribution came from visitor-use property. Prior to the pandemic,
accommodations were the largest employer for the county employing 12,900 residents, which dropped 60
percent and has yet to rebound. Limiting visitor accommodations through a moratorium will also limit the
growth of other industries like construction, retail, restaurants, and many of our small businesses. These
industries provide important employment opportunities for local residents who depend on these jobs to
survive and raise a family on Maui.
From 2010 - 2019, there has been a decline in Hawaii-born residents and an increase in US citizen born and
foreign-born residents on Maui. A moratorium will likely accelerate this trend causing Hawaii-born residents
and their families to leave Maul for more job opportunities and a better life elsewhere.
(B)RGOURtC
THE POWER OF PARTNERSH P WWVr.PRP'HAWAII.COM
PHONE ^ 808.528.55571100 ALAKEA STREET / 4TH PLOOR
H0N0LULU/HI9&813
n VAVW.FACEBOOK.COM/
^ PACIFICRESCURCEPARTNERSHIP
m TATHER
tBPRPHAWAII
(Contiiraecl FVoin Page 1)
Maui County population demographic shifts
2010-2019
180,000 167.488
ISO,000
120,000
90,000
60,000
10,000
Foreign-bornPopulation Hawaii-born US citizens bom elsewhere
■ 2010 azoio
Moreover, the proposed bill lacks data showing that a moratorium on visitor accommodations will limit the
amount of tourist visiting Maui and does not provide data showing the impacts that tourism is having on the
County's environment and residents' quality of life. Instead, the bill states 'The moratorium will remain in
effect and maintain the number of current transient accommodation units until the Council enacts
legislation addressing the findings and recommendations presented by a Budget, Finance, and Economic
Development Committee-established Tourism Management Temporary Investigative Group..." Shouldn't you
have the findings and recommendations first before passing any legislation, especially a moratorium?
Let's create policies that will help revive the economy, get our community back to work, and keep local
residents Maui. As such, we respectfully request that this Council to defer this measure.
THE POWE^ OF PARTNERSHIP
D -
MAUI 2021 JUN 18 AH 8: 21
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKCHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 21-39
Moratorium on New Visitor Accommodations in South and West Maui
Friday, June 18, 2021
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We would like to share our concerns on Committee Report 21-39 on the moratorium on
new visitor accommodations in South and West Maui.
We support green initiatives to help preserve our environment, visitor education and
responsible tourism. Visitor accommodations are some of the top leaders in addressing
green initiatives, including educating visitors about various sunscreens and their impact
on our ocean life, reducing waste, switching to compostable food ware, phasing out
water bottles and so much more. Before a moratorium is put in place, significant data
should be released on the purpose of this moratorium and the environmental outcomes
expected so that they can be further considered along with the impacts of stopping new
visitor accommodations construction in the planned resort areas of South and West Maui.
We have heard from many businesses and individuals who are not familiar with this
moratorium and question why the process is being rushed without broad community
involvement. They and we feel now is not the right time for a moratorium and we need as
much flexibility as possible during this period of economic recovery.
Further, we are concerned that if passed, this bill may face legal challenges. Legal
challenges are a burden to the County and take time and resources away from other
departments. The time and cost to fight or settle the case also impacts residents and
businesses through increased taxes and fees. If the Council knows there are potential
legal challenges, why take the chance and pass the bill with that uncertainty?
Therefore, in addition to the Chamber’s opposition to moratoriums, we oppose this
measure and ask that it be deferred.
Mahaio for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
e/k ' J-
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
808-244-0081 legislation@l\/lauiChamberx»tn MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
im M 18 AH 8= 21
p; MAUICHA^\BEROF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
VOICE OF »ISiNESS
CR 21-280
Moratorium on New Visitor Accommodations
Friday, June 18, 2021
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We are alarmed by the potential negative impacts of CC 21-280 on the moratorium on
new visitor accommodations on Maui and the creation of a TIG. We understand the
resolution today is to send this bill to the Maui Planning Commission and wanted to share
our thoughts.
We all agree that issues like affordable housing and rentals, infrastructure, traffic and
ways to improve resident quality of life are ail things must be urgently addressed, but we
disagree with the method of simultaneously placing a moratorium on new visitor
accommodations and creating a TIG. We strongly believe that a TIG should be created
now with broad participation, including leaders from every impacted industry, and that the
TIG should address these issues, through legislation if needed, without the need for a
moratorium.
We consistently share that the Maui Chamber of Commerce opposes all moratoriums and
this is because they are inflexible. We've heard Councilmembers say that this moratorium
will only last for two years, but two years is significant when looking at growth. According
to leading state economic Paul Brewbaker, Maui would forego about $200 million dollars
per year in associated jobs and incomes because of this moratorium. This will directly
impact Maui’s residents.
Lastly, data shows that the majority of new visitor accommodations in the last 20-25 years
has been from vacation rentals, not conventional lodging. Conventional lodging like hotels,
condo-tells, and timeshares are built in the appropriately zoned areas, typically where
other lodging and visitor attractions are. As many have said, we cannot stop visitors from
traveling to Maui and if they cannot find a place to stay or if the legal accommodations are
too expensive due to demand, they may knowingly or unknowingly stay in an illegal
vacation rental. Instead of a moratorium, let’s start with a TIG and truly address resident
concerns and tackle the illegal vacation rental problem. We appreciate the opportunity to
share our concerns on this moratorium today and ask that you defer this measure.
Sincerely,
■)
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
808-244-0081 legislatk>n@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.coni62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RECEiVElT"
im JUN 18 AH 9: 19
MAUI OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKCHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OP BUSINESS
June 18, 2021
To the Honorable Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Maui County Council Members,
We are writing to you today and signing this letter because we are concerned about the two
visitor accommodations moratoriums currently being discussed. We all believe in embracing
the Aloha Spirit, responsible tourism, education for our visitors, and respect for our
environment and culture. We also all want to see issues like affordable housing and rentals,
illegal short-term rentals, infrastructure, traffic, protection of sacred places, and education and
protection of our ocean life addressed to better improve the quality of life of Maui’s residents.
We believe these things can be achieved by bringing the right groups together (such as
government officials, industry leaders, organizations, and residents) to find winning solutions
for all. We do not feel that the two moratoriums will help solve these issues and in fact,
believe they will have significant negative impacts to our economy and residents.
Please consider the following:
● The visitor industry is our economic driver and supports many other industries such as
activities, retail, restaurants, transportation, agriculture, manufacturing, and nonprofit
organizations. With this support, other industries can grow and help to further diversify
our economy. We are the most dependent county in the state on our visitor industry.
● Continuing to support this industry, which generated $73 million in real property tax
revenue from hotels and timeshares in FY21, provides the county with resources to
invest in economic diversification while also raising revenue for all other programs like
affordable housing and rentals, social services, infrastructure, etc. Real property tax is
the biggest revenue source for the County and according to DBEDT, hotels/resort
properties account for 20% of expected real property tax revenue in 2021. Additionally,
9 of the 10 largest real property taxpayers in the County are hotels and timeshare
properties.
● Visitor accommodations provide employment for thousands of Maui residents, helping
to provide for them and their families. In fact, the tourism industry accounts for around
75% of all private sector jobs on Maui.
● The bills will shut down opportunities for investment in our economy at a time when we
are trying to recover from the effects of the global pandemic. It is important to
remember the industry is recovering and had huge losses so now is not the time to do
this. According to leading state economist Paul Brewbakerthe opportunity cost of
shutting down lodging construction for two years would be about $200 million per year.
808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.co62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
● We are concerned these moratoriums will create negative impacts by spurring
further illegal shortterm rental operations, which are often in our local
neighborhoods, potentially taking more homes away from residents.
● Hotels and visitor accommodations do their part to address the environmental
impacts of visitors through sunscreen education, reducing waste, switching to
compostable food ware, phasing out water bottles and more. There is also no
factual evidence that tourism Is a major factor in environmental issues on Maui.
● We would have preferred to see the Council bring all concerned parties together
into a working group to hear all points of view and work towards a sustainability
plan to address both current concerns and create  amap for our future.
● There are potential legal challenges to these bills and any legal challenges that
the County faces impacts residents and business as time and service costs to
address these are recouped through taxes and fees.
We all support sustainable tourism, but we do not believe that a shutdown on the
construction of new visitor accommodations in appropriately zoned and planned hotel
and resort areas is the answer. These bills will have the wrong effect at precisely the
wrong time. In creating legislation, in particular a moratorium, both the positive and
negative impacts must be weighed. We urge you to defer these measures to seriously
consider the unintended consequences and devastating economic impact that measures
like these will have on Maui’s people and fragile economy.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap, President
Maui Chamber of Commerce
Joshua Berlien, Chair
Construction Industry of Maui
Lahela Aiwohi
Aiwohi Contracting
Joshua Berlien
Berlien Consulting LLC
Jerry Agbanaoang
Individual
MaryAnn Blanchard
Catering Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Merlita Agbanaoang
Individual Francis Keoni Cabanting
Pool Supervisor
Fairmont Kea Lani, MauiMary Albitz, Owner
Island Art Party
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.co
MAUIi  ●CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
F BUSINESSVOICE #
Astrid Heckert
Director of Finance & Business Support
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Chris Cashabeck
Areas Group Sales Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Wayne Hedani
Individual
Gazel Correia
Individual
Sylvia Ho, Treasurer
Maui Chamber of Commerce
Kat Cruz
Hospitality Employee
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Jeff Hoylman
Hospitality Employee
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Michael Cuthbertson
Area Vice President
Destination By Hyatt Residences
Jody Joaquin
Assistant Director, Talent & Culture
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Donnie Dadiz
Beach Supervisor
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
William Kamai
Hawaii Regional Council of CarpentersDavid Englert
Rentals Maui Inc.
John Kevan
Maui Paradise PropertiesDavid Eseke
My Perfect Stays
Ivan Lay
Hawaii Regional Council of CarpentersThomas Fairbanks, Owner
Old Waiuku Inn at Ulupono
Angela Leone, President
Professional Rental
Management Association
Fred Findlen
General Manager
Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa
Angela Leone, Owner
Coconut CondosMatthew Gray
Revenue Analyst
Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa David Maleski
StandartPark Hawaii
Ruth Guiza
Director of Revenue
Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa
Perlita Manlansing
Individual
808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.co62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
MAUIi  ► CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OP BUSINESS
Rafael Manlansing
Individual
Gregg Nelson
General Manager
Napili Kai Beach Resort
Terri Marinas
Individual Sutee Nitakorn
Director of Sales
Kaanapali Golf CoursesArt Marinas
Individual
Roger Nitta
Hospitality Employee
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Garrett Marrero
Maui Brewing Co.
JS Masson
Director of Revenue Management
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
David OIney
Director of Finance
Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa
Dave & Cathy Medina, Owners
A Perfect Vacation Rental
Anna Pader
Individual
Shannah Milstead
Director of Sales & Marketing
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Elpidio Pader
Individual
Janette Paguyo
IndividualJurg Munch, Proprietor
Lahaina Grill & Lahaina Ice Cream Parlour
Tylun Pang
Fairmont Kea Lani, MauiMonica Natividad
Individual
Frank “Bud” Pikrone
General Manager
Wailea Resort Association,
Wailea Community Association
Jorge Natividad
Individual
Adelia Natividad
Individual Michael Pye, Chair
Maui Hotel & Lodging Association
Joe Natividad
Individual Michael Pye
Area Vice-President & General Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani, MauiRick Nava, Chair
Maui Chamber of Commerce
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244*0081 legislatton@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.co
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
voieE OF Busmess
Melanie Takushi
Individual
Richard Ramirez
Executive Sous Chef
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Glenda Tejano
IndividualGina Rausch
Conference Service Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui Roland Tejano
Individual
Carol Reimann, Director
Maui Chamber of Commerce Chuck Thorne
Hana Lava Tube
Dena Roady
Area Vice President
Andaz Maui at Wailea Resort
Lynn Uchima
Individual
Luly Unemori
Individual
Leanna Robert
iTrip Vacations Maui
Angela Vento
General Manager
Wailea Beach Resort
Yolanda Saribay
Individual
Jose Saribay
Individual Rick Volner, Director
Maui Chamber of Commerce
Adrianna Schillace
Food & Beverage Coordinator
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Tetsuji Yamazaki
General Manager
Sheraton Maui Resort & Spa
Ray Shimabuku
International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers Local Union 1186
Brian Yano
Vice President, Retail
Jones Lang & Lasalle
Patrick Sullivan
Sullivan Properties Inc. Jasper Yun
Area Group Sales Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani, MauiRie Takahashi
Leisure Sales
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MaulChamber.co62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Maui Travel Trends
Total available hotel rooms have remained stable, despite TSA arrivals to Maui '"70% above 2010 levels
Hotel Supply*^^ vs. Passenger Arrivals
180%
168%170%
160%
153%
o
S 150%o
T3
139%O)
I 140% 134%c
127%130%
114%120%
111%109%105%110% 104% 104%104%102%103%100% 96%
100%
103%102%101%
90%
80%
2017 2018 20192010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Hotel Supply (Total Available Room Nights) TSA Arrivals (Total Passengers)
1(1) Source: STR
Source: Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism; represents US arrivals only(2)
Maui Travel Trends
Maui hotel supply has decreased over the last 20 years; rapid growth of vacation rental units is accommodating
the rise in visitors
Total Hotel Rooms^^^ vs. Total Vacation Rental Unitsl^^l^l I
10.7k
Vacation rental units in Maui
(2020)
12,000
8.6k >Registered hotel rooms in
Maui (1998)
10,000
C I >
8,000
6,000
7.3k
4,000 Registered hotel rooms in
Maui (2020)
331
2,000 Vacation rental units in Maui
(1998)
C i0
1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
Total Supply - Hotels 'Total Supply - Vacation Rental Units
2(i) 1998-2016: Soufce- Hawaii Tourism Authoritv-Visitor Plant Inventory. Note 2006-2016 data is subject to retroactive revisions by Hawaii Tourism Authority. 2017 - 2020; Source - AirDNA
Vacation Rental units were referred to as Individual Vacation Units (IVU) prior to the 2014 VPI(2)
Maui Travel Trends
The average price to buy a home has increased nearly 3x, driven in part by the potential income from short term
rental properties
Average Home Cost*^> vs. Total Vacation Rental $722k
Average Home Value Maui
{2020)
12,000$750,000
>
>
10,0003
TO c
10.7kO) roVacation rental units in Maui
(2020)
3 CTO OI
> cc
8,000 c’  oI $500,000o TOI U
TOO)
>oonj fO
OJ O>< 6,000 *-$246k
Average Home Value Maui
(1996)
4,000$250,000<; _>
2,000331
Vacation rental units in Maui
(1998)
7?^$0 0
2018 20202012 2014 20162002 2004 2006 2008 20101998 2000
Average Home Value 'Vacation Rental Units
(1) Source: Zillow Research Data
1998 - 2016: Source - Hawaii Tourism Authority-Visitor Plant Inventory. Note 2006- 2016 data is subject to retroactive revisions by Hawaii Tourism Authority. 2017-2020: Source -AirDNA
Vacation Rental units were referred to as Individual Vacation Units (IVU) prior to the 2014 VPI
3(2)
(3)
Maui Travel Trends
Vacation Rental Units exist throughout Maui while hotel locations are concentrated around resort areas
Hotel Locations vs. Vacation Rental Unit Locations
7,640Vacation Rentals - Number of Properties^^l
39
Hotels - Number of Properties^^^
Vacation Rental Properties not
consolidated within resort areas
Source: Mapbox-OpenStreetMap
Source: AirONA as of Apr-21
CTO
(1)
/II
4
Maui Travel Trends
Demand for alternative accommodations continues to grow, capturing the majority of Maui room nights
Hotel Demandl^^ vs. Vacation Rental Demand^^^
945k2.1mm4.0mm 4.5mm Total Demand RN'sTotal Demand RN's Total Demand RN'sTotal Demand RN's
100%
29% 32%37%40%75%
50%
71% 68%63%60%25%
0%
2021 YTD20202018 2019
Hotel Room Nights■ Alternative Accomodation Room Nights
5(1) Source; STR
Source; AirDNA(2)
r4C
Les^ is MorejuofficiaT Visitor PTant Inventory data show that all of
MauUsland lodging increase since 1992 comprised vacation rentals
Thousand lodging units
20 Vacation
Renta! Vacation
rental
15 All
conventional
lodgingHotel rooms, condo/hotel,
apt/hotel, timeshare units,
bed & breakfast, hostels
10
5
0
1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
Slide copyright 2021 TZ »o .a, t
Sources: Hawaii Tourism Authority. 2020 Visitor Plant Inventory (httPs:/Awww.hawaiitourismauthoritv.orQ/media/6299/2Q20-visitor-plan‘- . torv-report-l -11 -repoi ●)
Count^Clerk
Ashlie McGuire <amcsuperstar@yahoo.com>
Friday, June 18, 2021 8:45 AM
County Clerk
Moratorium on visitor accommodations
From:
Sent: m\ JUN 18 ilH 8^ 46
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha,
My name is Ashlie McGuire and 1 am a lifetime resident of Maui County. I grew up in Kihei, and now live in Keokea. I am
in support of a moratorium on visitor accommodations in south and west Maui because 1 grew up watching it first hand.
We went from a small community to an insane hodgepodge of transients, visitors, and transplants. Regardless of your
feelings towards all of that, it is well known that the people in South Maui, the people who have been there for many
generations, have been saying "nuff already" for decades. This is simply a continuation of that fight. The fight to
preserve a sacred area, and blessed area, and a culturally and ecologically significant area. Native sea birds nest in these
areas, native plants deserve to thrive in these areas, and native Hawaiian people need access and allowance to both
spiritually and culturally significant areas. Areas like fishponds, burial grounds, and surfing spots-all of which are present
in both South and West Maui. Not to mention, NO local wants this island to end up like Oahu. I don't care what the rich
fat cats on top want, this is about protecting the rights of the PEOPLE, not properties or corporations. Please hear us,
NUFF ALREADY.
Mahalo.
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^lei^
Ashlie McGuire <amcsuperstar@yahoo.com>
Friday, June 18, 2021 8;46 AM
County Clerk
Additionally
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I forgot to mention, this visitor moratorium needs to encompass ALL of Maui county, not JUST west side and south side.
Don't try to pull that loophole, we see you.
Sent from my iPhone
QoOt] 73
5o mzsz
oCD i t Ioo <zx
m M rn<??:x)‘x
m O
1
Count^Clerk
Spencer Hyde <spencer_hyde3@hotmail.com>
Thursday, June 17, 2021 7:49 PM
County Clerk
Testimony in SUPPORT of Visitor Accommodations Moratorium
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
Thank you for representing the values of the citizens of Maui County and considering our concerns as you
deliberate over whether or not to impose a moratorium on further hotel development. I am writing to you
tonight to please ask that you support the moratorium because we are entering a once in a lifetime
opportunity to diversify our economy to meet the 21st century, and a moratorium on visitor accommodations
is not only a first step toward diversification (to continue building and expanding hotels is the opposite of
diversification), but it would also send a clear message to the community that our leaders are ready to
courageously tackle the issue of overdependence on tourism. A moratorium is just the first step. And  1know
it's scary for some of our leaders to take that first step. !t's much safer to keep doing the same thing. But the
situation of our economy is dire. Young people here in Maui, like myself, need better opportunities to afford
the cost of living here. Many of us will never be able to afford a home in our own home and that is
unacceptable. We don't need more of the same opportunities. We need better opportunities. That starts by
taking economic diversification seriously. There's never been a better time in history.
Also, I would like to add that I strongly believe that this moratorium should extend to all parts of the county,
not just the West Side and the South Side, because otherwise development may just shift to other areas and
do nothing to help wean our overdependence on the tourism industry.
Thanks for listening,
Spencer Hyde
4320 E. Waiola Lp.
Kihei, HI 96753
(808) 344-8299
OQ
73o-> i
mom mCO-<
OO <T]
mm -H
73 X ato
1
Count^^Cler^
From:
Sent:
Jen Bal <kailanamalie@gmai!.com>
Wednesday, June 16, 2021 7:02 AM
County Clerk
Moratorium Banning New Hotels
To:
Subject:
Please stop it's to much building to many tourists
SJJ
H- UlQ
Ui u-oO >●o UJ V-
O
LU 3
oi I
cn oo
1
RECEIVED
2021 JUH 17 AM 7^ 59
FICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
OF
June 17 2021
TO: Maui County Council Chair Alice Lee
Vice Chair Keani Rawlins Fernandez
Council Members
SUBJECT: Support FOR CR 21-39
“Recommending FIRST READING to temporarily maintain the status quo in the
development of hotels and other visitor accommodations in South Maui and West Maui until
the respective community plans for the areas are updated or two years have passed,
whichever is sooner, because of environmental and other impacts.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of the Council
My name is Hannah Bernard and I am Executive Director and Co-Founder of
Hawaii Wildlife Fund.
Mahalo nui loa, thank you for the opportunity to submit my support for CR 21-39
“...to temporarily maintain the status quo in the development of hotels and other visitor
accommodations in South Maui and West Maui until the respective community plans for the
areas are updated or two years have passed, whichever is sooner, because of
environmental and other impacts.
This proposed moratorium on new development is a very important first step in
redefining our relationship with tourism here in Hawaii nei. The reduction in visitors
in 2020 caused by COVID-19 gave us an extraordinary opportunity to experience
our home in a way that was both poignant and breathtaking. Our nearshore marine
resources thrived in the absence of so many people in the water; and also cast a
light on our own local usage patterns that we might want to address.
Hawaii Wildlife Fund is deeply committed to the management of our tourism-based
economy, since the impacts of so many visitors to Hawaii (~10 million in 2019, and
expected to match or exceed that in 2021) has negative effects on nearshore
marine life. These effects include sea turtle disturbance and outright harassment as
well as displacement of our own community from favorite sites. See for example
P.O. Box 790637 ● Paia ● HI ● 96779* (808)280-8124 * wild@aloha.net ●
www.wildhawaii.org
this recent article: on KITV https://www.kitv.eom/story/44090398/maui-sea-turtle-
photo-causes-uproar-on-social-media
VM««#ll04i A OV«rAMC«
STOP
Do not pass
this sign to
view turtles
A picture posted on social media is making its rounds and turning some heads. A large group of people at
Ho'okipa Beach is seen in the water near two turtles-bypassing a sign reading 'Stop do not pass this sign
to view the turtles'. Jennie Montijo
We have engaged the tourism industry since our inception in 1996 in order to help
manage the impacts on our environment, but we desparately need the County's
help in managing the carrying capacity of Maui. Please allow this bill to move
forward to begin to formulate a better way of life for residents and to better support
the environment upon which we all depend, especially the tourism industry.
Mahalo for your consideration and continued progress in protecting our
environment,
r
Hannah Bernard
Executive Director
Hawaii Wildlife Fund
P.O. Box 790637 ● Paia ● HI ● 96779* (808)280-8124 * wild@aloha.net ●
www.wildhawaii.org
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Sandra brissette <sandra_brissette(3)yahoo.com>
Wednesday, June 16, 2021 11:53 AM
County Clerk
Moratorium on Vacation Buildings
To:
Subject:
Aloha, CARE Committee members. I am writing to express my strong support for both of the visitor
accommodations moratoriums proposed. We need to stop the building of vacation type buildings until there is a
plan by the planning department in place that protect the environment and the residents who live here and their
children. As this meeting is taking place already our island is advised of drought conditions last miring the
usage of water and it is only mid June. What will happened when more hotels build pools and waterfalls, not to
mention the waste water that our system can’t handle already. The planning department needs to come up with
a plan that will protect our water, develop better waste water & sewage systems that protect our reefs. They
need to make sure we have affordable housing for us and our children. Our children are suffering living in poor
conditions just to stay close to family, what is in the future for them here? Please consider the history of how
these islands were given to the US government to protect them, not rob them. We should have in place a bus
system that works for our workers and the tourists before having more people flood our highways.. Let's not
succumb to the pressure for tourism growth, when what we need is tourism planning. Over crowded roadways,
building that block the scenic roadways and beaches taken over by hotel lounge chairs does not make for a
pleasurable experience to tourist or residents. It has been reported that Mayor Victorino is threatening to veto
these bills.. Please don’t let that discourage you from passing them. Both of these bills reflect the overwhelming
sentiment of your constituents that Maui residents deserve to be treated as MORE important than visitors, not
less. We, not the visitors or the tourism industry, are the ones who will be voting in the next election. If the
Mayor vetoes these bills, you can and SHOULD override him.
Sandra Brissette
Kihei Resident
SOO-n
a-n 73
m
om O' rriOo "n
m ~i mXX OKaJ
'●O
1
Countj^C|erk RCCr-iVED
20Z1 JUN 15 AH » 42
kat reynolds <kcuddihy@dnk20ne.com>
Tuesday, June 15, 2021 9:59 AM
County Clerk
Friday's Maui County Council Meeting
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFICC OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha
I understand this Friday the Maui County Council will review a moratorium on new tourist accommodations. I am writing
in support of this proposal and would like my comments considered in this meeting.
Maui has a problem with excessive tourism. I fully support a ban or moratorium on any new visitor accommodations for
Maui. This is an island where our resources are limited and we are already seeing ill effects of so many tourists on our
islands. Please vote for a moratorium on new accommodations.
Mahalo
Kathy Cuddihy
1
received
M JUN 16 ra I»! 13
June 16, 2021
Aloha Maui County Council Members:
EI am writing this letter in support of the proposed moratorium on visitor accommcggigMlJr,^
South Maui. This moratorium is a crucial step toward remediating the current unregulated over
tourism we are seeing on Maui.
K
The Maui Island Plan suggests limiting the number of visitors to approximately 1/3 the number of
residents in order to preserve our environment, infrastructure, and quality of life for residents-all of
which would improve the visitor experience as well.
The year 2019 was already a year of uncontrolled growth, fueled by the tourism industry. Promises
were made by leaders during the early part of the pandemic to improve on the tourism experience for
both visitors and residents. Residents were promised that the goal would be to decrease the number of
tourists while protecting the islands. Since October of 2020, those promises have been completely
forgotten by our leaders, who proudly announce that the goal of reaching 2019 numbers has been met
and now exceeded.
The current volume of tourists we were seeing pre-pandemic and now, in 2021, during the pandemic, is
a threat to the health, safety and quality of life of the residents of Maui, our environment and wildlife.
Our island resources are very limited. Our inadequate sewage treatment, water, and landfills are not
meant for this level of use. We are told that we will have yet another water shortage this summer.
While my family's yard dries up and dies due to not watering it, the hotels are literally sucking up water
as if there is no restriction. While sewage is discharged into our oceans, tourists are overcrowding our
beaches and cruelly abusing our wildlife (I am thinking about honu and dolphins right now). Our fishing
industry is endangered by the abuse the ocean environment is enduring.
On Maui, tourists do not stay in the tourist areas, but drive all over the island, causing huge traffic
congestion—and this is despite the rental car shortage. Tourists don't even think twice about using up
resources meant for residents, such as UHauls! I have seen horrific pictures of the road to Hana being
blocked by tourists who choose to park on the road, blocking traffic, because of lack of parking.
Residents are literally being told that we do not count and that the tourism industry is all-powerful. Our
mayor has already said that he will veto this moratorium, similar to the way he vetoed the affordable
housing bill. He has constantly communicated in a very condescending way to residents, very publicly
blaming residents for COVID spread rather than acknowledging that it had to have come In by travel; he
has called residents "little children who refuse to listen" when we were concerned about the delay in
vaccinations here; and he goes out of his way to please the big money brought In by the tourism
industry and mainland investors. He has made it clear that residents are second class citizens to
tourists.
Residents here sacrifice a great deal financially to live here and deserve to be able to enjoy the beaches,
hikes and parks. Instead, there is no room for residents on any of these. The majority of residents here
do not depend at all on the tourist industry—yet all of us are made to sacrifice for it. For me, it is about
more than a financial sacrifice, as this is not only my birthplace but also that of my ancestors. I am
trying my best not to chased out by greedy leaders who put short-term profit first.
Our economy needs to be diversified. Our children need to be taught skills that will help them to
succeed in society, rather than just to serve tourists. We need a moratorium on future visitor
accommodations while solutions can be implemented, including leadership that supports resident lives
over the tourism industry.
I appreciate the members of the Maui County Council greatly. With few exceptions, you are the leaders
who put residents and the 'aina first.
Mahalo Piha,
Kai Duponte, MSW
RECEIVED
June 18, 2021
m\ JUN 18 AH » 21 IIAWAI'I HOTEL
S I I I V N ( I
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Council ChojtpPI Qp jj-jp
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernand^(;5;Jg^qp^i^ig^gtj^^
CC 21 -280 - "REFERRING TO THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION A
BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTERS 19.98 AND 20.41,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI"
Hearing date and time: Friday, June 18, 2021 at 9:00 a.m.
RE:
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Honorable Councilmembers,
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide comments on behalf of Hawaii Hotel Alliance
("HHA") regarding the County’s consideration of a moratorium on building permits for visitor
accommodations.
Like so many industries, the pandemic was a game-changer for tourism. The COVID-19
economic recession left Hawaii’s hotels the hardest hit market in the country. For a year, most
hotels throughout the county were shut down and/or at occupancy levels that have left many
properties operating at a significant loss. Despite the devastating impact that COVID-19 has
had on Maui's hotels, the industry doubled down on our commitment to our island home and
to the most valuable assets we have: the men and women of Hawaii who work in and around
our hotels.
Throughout the pandemic, our hotels extended the health and welfare benefits for our
furloughed employees and developed life-saving ‘Safe Stay’ protocols to protect our workers,
our guests, and the communities we serve. Our hotels invested directly in community food
drives, supported kupuna care, and engaged in countless acts of support for churches,
schools, and relief programs. The legitimate visitor industry has worked tirelessly to keep
kama'aina safe and healthy while working towards the safe reopening of our hotels. Simply put:
our hotel industry will continue its generational commitment to being an integral part of the
health of thriving communities across Maui County and across our State because the
legitimate visitor industry believes that tourism is additive to support the well-being of those of
us who call Hawaii home. The same cannot be said of illegal short-term rentals.
At the heart of this matter of a moratorium on building permits for visitor
accommodations appears to be a desire to control the negative impacts of tourism across
Maui County. At HHA and throughout the legitimate visitor industry, we share this concern. We
believe the conversation should focus on the causes of the negative impacts of tourism and
not the parts of the visitor industry that are crucial to our health, our culture, and our way of life
here in the islands.
In 2009, Hawai‘1 had 43,000 hotel rooms which ran at high occupancy with seven
million visitors to our shores. In 2019, we had the same number of hotel rooms but more than
10.2 million visitors. In the last 20 years, our total hotel room count on Maui
has actually fallen, while at the same time short-term rentals have
exploded, adding unhosted B&B directly into the heart of some of our most
coveted neighborhoods and fragile ecosystems across the county. The
vast majority of these short-term rental operators do not live in Maui
County. While we have made progress in putting tougher laws on the books to deter the
operation of illegal hotels in our neighborhoods, our hardworking partners at the county have
admitted that we still need additional resources and tools to aid in effective enforcement.
HAWAI'I H\ I I I \
OTELS ( 1.
Our hotels consist of entire ecosystems that consider the needs of our guests and our
guests’ impact on the communities in which our hotels are situated. Hotels are self-contained
environments that, with tremendous input from our community members, permitting
authorities, employees, and cultural advisors, are designed to minimize the cost and footprint
of our visitors while maximizing visitor spend and contribution to our economy. From
maintenance of the beaches our visitors use to the promotion of voiun-tourism and ecotourism
opportunities for our guests, hotels are actively engineering positive visitor impact for the
benefit of Hawaii.
If it is the intent of the Council to align the interests of kama'aina and the visitor
industry, then a moratorium on ‘permits for visitor accommodations’ (which reads as no more
hotel rooms) is, in my belief, a misinformed approach. Rather than single out hotels, which
contribute to our communities in countless ways, we should focus our ire on the explosion of
vacation rentals and enforcement against the illegal short-term rentals that are taking housing
away from local families, clogging our streets, breaking the law, not contributing to our tax
base, skirting environmental compliance, non-compiiant with basic health and safety
regulations, lacking in community contributions, and destroying neighborhoods across Maui
County and throughout Hawai'i.
Yes, it is time to revisit our relationship with our visitors. And on behalf of HHA and our
membership, we welcome every opportunity to continue our work with the Council and our
communities in developing projects that put locals to work, invest in environmental
stewardship, and promote local business, schools, and non-profits while honoring our host
culture. Thank you for your time and consideration of these comments.
With Aloha,
Jerry Gibson, President
Hawai'i Hotel Alliance
Jerry@hawaiihotelalliance.com
County Clerk
ncoriviiD
Valerie Guarini <52maui@gmail.com>
Tuesday, June 15, 2021 12:27 PM
County Clerk
Moratorium on new hotels/visitor accommodations
From:
Sent: 2021 JUN 15 PH 12:31
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha,
As a Kihei resident, taxpayer and voter, 1 support the moratorium on building new visitor accommodations. Not only do I
support the moratorium I believe it should be much longer than 2 years. Our current infrastructure and environment
barely supports the magnitude of tourists arriving daily on our island. Traffic on S. Kihei Road is too often at a standstill.
The Piilani is packed with cars. Our beaches, parks & sidewalks are overcrowded.
I have lived in Kihei for over 20 years and have seen tourism increase to the point where it's more than just an
annoyance. During that time I have met & interacted with many tourists who were regular visitors to Maui. Over & over
again returning visitors have expressed to me their disappointment with the unbridled growth on our island. Many have
said this is not the Maui they loved and wilt not be coming back.
I honestly don't understand the government's need to keep increasing tourist accommodations. We are already at or
above a peak where tourism has become a detriment to those of us who live here. During the height of the Covid
pandemic when our island home was so wonderfully empty, there was so much talk about limiting tourism. I felt hopeful
we wouldn't become another Oahu. My hope now is the Council will concentrate on ways to cap tourism and remember
the residents of Maui who certainly deserve to enjoy island we love so much.
Mahalo,
Valerie Guarini
279 Ohina Place
Kihei, Hi 96753
808-385-6980.
Sent from my iPad
1
RECEIVED
2021 JUN 17 PH |:5I
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKJune 17,2021
Ms. Alice Lee, Chair Maui County Council
And members of the Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku Maui, HI 96793
Subject: Hotel Building Permit Moratorium
Aloha Chair Lee and Members of the County Council:
It is an honor to provide testimony to you on this important matter. My name is Wayne N.
Hedani and I come before you as President of Kaanapali Operations Association, Inc. or KOA
for short. KOA represents 5000 units of hotels, condominiums, commercial and recreational
facilities at the Kaanapali Beach Resort which generates in excess of $3Billion in annual
economic contribution to the County of Maui employing 5000 employees and paying over
$150Million dollars in taxes annually to government coffers each year. We oppose the bill in its
current configuration. Let me explain why:
The bill in its current form attacks the wrong targets at the wrong time in the worst possible
conditions. Its stated purpose is to reduce our effect on climate change. It will do nothing of the
kind. Co2 emissions will continue unabated. Global temperatures will continue to rise. Sea level
rise will continue to accelerate. Nothing the Maui County Council does will affect those
outcomes. If you want to address climate change, you should start by building infrastructure
toward a hydrogen based economy away from fossil fuels.
The only result of the current bill will be an added layer of government bureaucracy on the
permit system which is already overburdened with restrictions causing expensive delays and
increasing the price of everything constructed here on Maui. Several of our properties are in the
midst of financing redevelopment of their properties to maintain their competitiveness in the
global travel marketplace. This comes after years of pursuing approvals from the County of
Maui. To withhold pennits for these projects would produce the opposite of what you desire.
When a hotel undergoes reconstruction, it involves taking units out of inventory for up to 2 years
during construction. This would make less units available during the time period of the proposed
moratorium. You should be encouraging redevelopment to address climate change and rising sea
levels, not discouraging its progress. The County is an advocate of strategic retreat to address sea
level rise, this moves against that initiative. The County would essentially be saying this is what
we want you to do but you cannot do it because we haven’t figured out how to control tourism.
Here is how you can control tourism:
Kaanapali Operations Association, Inc. ● P.O. Box 11135 ● Lahaina, HI 96761 ● phone 808.661.7370 ● fax 808.661.7371
Limit tourism to master planned destination resort areas that are zoned for hotel uses. All hotel
zoned lands have already been developed. The only additional new hotels can be built when an
old one is taken down. You want this to happen to maintain our competitiveness in the world
tourism marketplace. Success in tourism is not a given. Currently there is not one hotel who is
earning a profit in the market. They are only starting to recover from a sustained year of losses.
Not all of their employees have returned to work. They need help, not hurt.
Stop issuing new “hotel” permits for short term rental homes in residential neighborhoods. This
is the only approved source of new hotels in Maui County. We are currently at about 400
approved out of 800 authorized by the Maui County Council. 400 more short term rental home
“Hotels”are waiting in the wings for approvals. Eliminate that excess 50%. Better yet rescind the
ordinance that allows TVRs altogether. This is 100% within the control of the Maui County
Council. It will absolutely result in a reduction of “over tourism”.
The Maui Planning Commission sent a letter to the Maui County Council which was passed by
the commission unanimously asking for a moratorium on TVRs over 10 years ago. The concern
was tourism impacts to residential neighborhoods. Today those impacts have spread though out
our entire island. Now is the time to act on that letter. Cap TVRs where they stand or rescind the
ordinance altogether. B&Bs can do what TVRs do now, and better with more control. This is the
most effective way to address over tourism and it is absolutely within your control. Do not look
elsewhere for the solution. You are the solution. Fail to act and you are the problem. The Council
has failed to act on this measure within the last ten years.
400 new TVR hotels translates to over 875,000 more visitors per year. This is the source of over
tourism in uncontrolled numbers. Double that number if you consider illegal TVRs which
outnumber legal TVRs by two to one. This is the source of the problem which was created when
the Council approved the TVR ordinance. If all TVRs were eliminated, over tourism would
disappear overnight.
Cap B&Bs. where they stand. Insure that they are owner occupied.
In the recent protest on the beach at Wailea there was a photograph of an elderly kupuna sitting
in a beach chair in the bright sunshine, on a golden sand beach with gentle winds blowing and a
crystal clear ocean in front of her. It was an idyllic scene for most people. The only thing that
was out of place was her sign that said “where is the quality of life?”. It was surrounding her at
that exact moment in time. She just did not realize it. She was unhappy in the midst of
tranquility.
Like most people we take things for granted until it is gone. Paychecks, food on the table, the
ability to pay for a roof over our heads and funding for our children’s education was what was
missing for the last year. Food lines 300 cars long waiting for free food were everywhere. How
quickly we forget.
Do not harm the visitor industry by banning hotel building permits. Control out of control TVRs
which are within your kuleana instead.
Thank you for this opportunity to provide testimony. I am available for questions at your
convenience. You may reach me anytime at 281-3686.
Mahalo and Aloha,
^>^e N. Hedani
'rodent
..aanapali Operations Association, Inc.
cc: Maui Planning Commission
RECEIVED
ZIPPY'SZ02( JUN 18 AH & 21
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKDate: Thursday, June 17, 2021
To: The Honorable Keani N.W. Rawlins-Fernandez, Council Vice-Chair
From: Jason Higa, CEO, FCH Enterprises dba Zippy’s Restaurants
FCH Enterprises dba Zippy’s Restaurants strongly opposes CC 21-280 and CR 21-39
in regards to visitor accommodations. These moratoriums impact a multitude of
industries, far beyond the visitor industry, including restaurants, activities, retail,
agriculture, and more.
As we recover from a devastating economic downturn, this is not the right time to enact
such legislation. During the pandemic-related shutdowns [as well as the CDC
restrictions even when businesses reopened], our State saw the deep impacts at every
level in every community. The visitor industry continues to be our key economic driver,
and a vast number of residents depend on this industry. The State and counties must
continue to support other industries and provide resources to diversify our economy.
Should CC 21-280 and/or CR 21-39 go into effect, visitors will have limited options for
hotel rooms due to increased prices. This would result in visitors seeking out less
expensive, most likely illegal rentals within rural communities, which in turn will directly
impact the already limited and extortionate housing market. Our local residents struggle
to find affordable housing, which will be exacerbated by such legislation.
The State’s efforts to diversify the economy, finding other means to provide for
productive and stable employment, and providing tangible assistance to the people and
businesses of our communities will ensure economic recovery, included in a well
considered strategic planning effort could be discussions involving regulations with
regard to the visitor industry. In the meantime, the Council should focus its efforts on
pressing issues such as traffic, infrastructure, and housing. These are problems and
issues that directly impact local residents' quality of life.
Thank you for your time and consideration of our testimony in strong opposition of CC
21-280 and CR 21-39.
1765 SOUTH KING I HONOLULU. HI 96826 i P 808.973.0880 I F 808.955.7053 I ZIPPYS.COM
A DIVISION OF FCH ENTERPRISES, INC.
Count^^Jerk
From:
Sent:
Kanani Higbee <khigbee1037@gmail.com>
Thursday, June 17, 2021 11:03 AM
County Clerk
Moratorium on visitor accommodation for west and south maui IN SUPPORT
To:
Subject:
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
I, Kanani Higbee, an a Maui oiwi and I live in Lahaina. I would like to give testimony in support of the moratorium on
visitor accommodation for West and South Maui.
I fee! that the visitor industry needs to be limited in West and South Maui. We need other industries like agriculture. The
agriculture lots will be developed soon for Honokowai and we will have lots of Hawaiian farmers, finally.
Also, we don't have enough water for more tourist development. We are already being asked to conserve water. Maui
police go into the valley of Honokohau to tell Hawaiians to stop using water for their crops. And so Hawaiians are unable
to connect to their identity in order to rehabilitate from Americans taking their water, livelihood, etc. That's why we
have too many Hawaiians in prison and jail because their adverse childhood experience score is so high. Hawaiians are
over represented in prison more than twofold. That's unacceptable of our elected leaders to continue this oppressive
practice.
Please if we could expand on agriculture so Hawaiians can have their livelihood back. They are a people suffering. They
need rehabilitation once and for all. Tourism is not good on a large scale. It has amounted to bankruptcy, business and
housing mortgage folding, people's hopes and dreams blown away because of tourism struggling during recession and
pandemic. It's not good to have our state economy dependent on tourism for 70% of the economy. Besides, many
Hawaiians would prefer working in jobs that help the community, not exploit it. Tourism brings over tourists that buy up
our homes.
Mahalo,
Kanani Higbee
OO
O
C rnKanani Higbee
om-<
. or. <n
mm —i
X OoJC
1
Aloha, Council members.
My name is Sarah Hofstadter. I am a full-time, permanent resident of Kihei and a leader of the
HALE Hawai’i community group. I am writing to express my strong support for both of the visitor
accommodations moratoriums proposed by Kelly King and Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
It is no secret that Maui County residents, especially on the island of Maui, are increasingly voicing
strenuous objections to the uncontrolled growth of tourism. One down side of our excessive economic
reliance on tourism was evident during the height of the pandemic, when so many residents were
financially devastated. As long as our economy is so tightly tied to tourism, any major disruption to
the global economy in the future will have the same effect.
And now that visitors are back, the contrast between current conditions and the relative peace and
quiet we enjoyed when we were “closed” has thrown into sharp relief the other down sides of
overtourism: traffic, overcrowding, food shortages, overuse of our natural resources, abuse of
wildlife, and an excessive number of expensive rescue operations attributable to poor judgment and
disregard of warnings by visitors.
Enough is enough. Maui residents are getting fed up with the double standard that allows crowds of
visitors to degrade our quality of life, while resident-oriented recreational facilities and gatherings
are still subject to closures and limitations. We are facing severe drought conditions; farmers are
fighting over water rights and Upcountry residents are letting their gardens die to conserve water,
yet our resort areas are green and lush. We have  alooming problem with adequate sewage
processing facilities, and other aspects of our island infrastructure are seriously in need of repair;
visitors add to these problems, but do nothing to help solve them. We are in desperate need of
affordable housing, yet we continue to commit an excess share of our construction resources to
visitor accommodations and luxury second homes for rich mainlanders.
The Maui Island Plan, which was adopted in 2012 and is supposed to have the force and effect of
law, specifies in section 4.2.3.a that we are to “Promote a desirable island population by striving to
not exceed an island-wide visitor population of roughly 33 percent of the resident population.” That
provision has NEVER been enforced. Now is the time to start. Let’s not wait until a cherished
kupuna in East Maui dies unnecessarily because visitor traffic on the road to Hana made it
impossible for an ambulance to get through in time.
Of course, Maui has no legal authority to directly control the number of visitors who come here.
Thus, the ONLY legal tool we have to regulate tourist numbers is our ability to limit the
accommodations available to them. If visitors cannot book lodgings, they will not come, and
reducing visitor demand is the only way we have to influence the number of incoming flights. We
already have MORE than enough hotel rooms and vacation condos to house the number
of visitors Maui’s infrastructure can properly handle, and MORE than enough to house a
number of visitors equal to 33% of our resident population. Building yet more capacity would
only add to our existing problems.
The opposition to this bill is groundless and deceptive. Why do the hotels need to expand, when they
are not operating at full capacity now? If they really need more revenue, they can raise rates
instead. As for construction workers, if they need jobs, they can get them from building affordable
housing for residents, including their own ohanas and friends, instead of additional/expanded visitor
accommodations. Construction union opposition to the moratorium bills is very short-sighted and
narrow-minded, and does not reflect a commitment to the long-term well-being of the workers and
their community.
The tourism pause necessitated by the pandemic gave us the perspective to see that we MUST
diversify our economy, both to insulate it against future emergencies and to preserve residents’
quality of life, as well as Maui’s infrastructure and ecosystems. Let’s not waste the present
opportunity to build on that insight with actual policy changes. Let’s not succumb to the pressure
for tourism growth, when what we need is better tourism management. Let’s not build any more of
what we have too much of already. Instead, let’s focus Maui’s workforce and investment resources
on the things we really NEED and DON’T have: affordable housing, updated infrastructure, more
local food production, and a better future for our keiki, with good-paying jobs that enable them to
stay on island.
It has been reported that Mayor Victorino is threatening to veto these bills. Please don’t let that
discourage you from passing Council Member King’s moratorium now, and referring Council
Member Rawlins-Fernandez’s bill to the Planning Commission promptly with an expression of
support from the Council. Both of these bills reflect the overwhelming sentiment of your
constituents that Maui residents deserve to be treated as MORE important than visitors, not less.
We, not the visitors or the tourism industry, are the ones who will be voting in the next
election. If the Mayor vetoes these bills, you can and SHOULD override him.
Thank you for your attention. - Sarah Hofstadter, Kihei resident and HALE Hawai’i Steering Team
member
OO
73
mC“n
o"i rn mo <o
mm a72 J- SjJ
7s m
Maui Performing Arts - page 2 of 2
11
imeshare with O r««»
73O *n
CH
”i m
moJune 17, 2021 m-<
OoTO: Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins- Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members for the Maui County Council
mm—»
73X
7; m OoSi
AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)
Mitchell Imanaka, Chair
FR:
RE: CC 21-280 (REFERRING TO THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION A BILL FOR
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTERS 19.98 AND 20.41, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI)
(Sent via e-mail to care.committee@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council:
Attached please find a memo regarding the legality of certain aspects of the proposed measure on
a moratorium on the issuance of building permits in certain districts on Maui. Your kind
consideration of the points raised would be greatly appreciated.
Yours Very Truly,
Mitchell Imanaka
Chair
ARDA Hawaii
c/o Mitchell Imanaka ● 745 Fort Street, Suite 1700 ● Honolulu, HI 96813 ● (808)521-9500
mimanaka@imanaka-asalo.com
cades ■ schutteA LIMITED LIABILITY LAW PARTNERSHIP
Confidential Discussion Draft
Attorney-Client Privilege
DATE: June 16, 2021
ARDA Hawai‘i do Mitchell A. Imanaka, Esq.TO:
FROM: Cades Schutte LLP
/ CRC 21-280 (Establishing Chapters 19.98Review of Resolution
and 20.41, Maui County Code, Declaring a Moratorium on New
Transient Accommodations on Maui)
RE:
We were asked to review Maui County Resolution
“Resolution”) to assist our client in its evaluation of the Resolution. This
memorandum presents our assessment.
/ CRC 21-280 (the
I. Introduction
The Resolution would impose a moratorium for the Island of Maui on the
issuance of any permit for a “transient accommodation,” including hotel and
timeshare units, that is not already in operation as a transient accommodation on
the effective date of the Resolution and for the “expansion” of any existing transient
accommodation. The Resolution claims a moratorium is necessary because “Maui
now dramatically exceeds the codified [one-third] visitor-resident ratio” set forth in
the Maui Island Plan and the “continued development of transient accommodations
directly relate to an increase” in visitors. Based on those assertions, the Resolution
assumes prohibiting the development of new transient accommodations and the
expansion of existing transient accommodations will prevent additional visitors
from traveling to Maui.
Although the Resolution improves upon the prior forms of moratoria on
transient accommodations that have been proposed for Maui, the Resolution is
ultimately too ambitious and too blunt to survive legal scrutiny. In particular, the
Resolution is invalid as a matter of law for the following reasons:
The Resolution fails to substantially advance a legitimate government
interest, because it rests on demonstrably flawed and unsupported factual
premises, including using the daily visitor count for Maui County (rather
than Maui Island) for the year 2019 (rather than 2021), concluding an
CADES.COMKAHULUl LIHUE 808.521.9200HONOLULU KONA WAIMEA
increase in transient accommodations has caused an increase in the daily
visitor population, asserting transient accommodations are “under
regulated” and asserting a prohibition on the development and expansion of
transient accommodations will ameliorate negative impacts on the
environment and infrastructure.
The Resolution is unconstitutionally vague, because it proscribes activity in
in overly broad terms that fail to provide a reasonable opportunity to
developers and operators of transient accommodations to know what
conduct is and is not prohibited and invites discriminatory enforcement.
The Resolution violates the equal protection clause, because it singles out
transient accommodations and treats transient accommodations differently
from the rest of the visitor industry, including businesses that service
visitors and directly impact carbon-emission levels and the use of
infrastructure, such as roadways, waste-water facilities and water.
The Resolution is overbroad, because it extends to all
accommodations,” rather than tailor its reach to be consistent with its
stated purpose and purported connection between an increase in transient
accommodations and the daily visitor population.
transient
The Resolution violates vested rights, because it fails to protect projects
that have a valid discretionary permit but may require an extension of time
to complete development.
The Resolution impermissible delegates authority to a future Council
because it authorizes an extension of the moratorium without providing a
procedure for the extension.
II. The Resolution
The Resolution proposes to add two chapters to the Maui County Code—
Chapter 19.98 (Moratorium on Transient Accommodation Permits on Maui) to
Title 19 of the Maui County Code (Zoning) and Chapter 20.41 (Moratorium on
Transient Accommodations on Maui) to Title 20 of the Maui County Code
(Environmental Protection). The proposed chapters are identical. Under the
Resolution, Chapter 19.98 and Chapter 20.41 would provide in material part as
follows:
19.98.030 New transient accommodation permits prohibited. New transient
accommodations are prohibited in all zoning districts on the island of
Maui. No permit applications or permits required by this title may be
accepted or granted by any board, commission, or agency for new
transient accommodations.
2
20.41.030 New transient accommodation prohibited. New transient
accommodations are prohibited in all zoning districts on the island of
Maui. No permit applications may be accepted or permits granted by
transientany board, commission, or agency for new
accommodations.
Sections 19.98.030 and 20.41.030 (emphasis added).
The term “new transient accommodations” is defined as “any structure
intended to be used for transient accommodation, including hotels, timeshares,
short-term rental homes, and transient vacation rental units, that is not in
operation as [a] transient accommodation as of the effective date of the
ordinance, but excluding bed and breakfast homes.
20.41.030. Although the term “structure” is not defined in the Resolution, Maui
County Code defines “structure” to mean “a combination of materials to form a
construction for use, occupancy, or ornamentation whether installed on, above or
below the surface of land or water.” MCC 19.04.040. Under this definition, a
“structure” includes a building, rooms or units within a building and additions to or
expansions of an existing building.
Although the term “transient accommodations” is not defined in the Resolution
or Maui County Code, the term “transient” means “any visitor or person who owns,
rents or uses a lodging or dwelling unit, or portion thereof, for less than one
hundred eighty days and whose permanent address for legal purposes is not the
lodging or dwelling unit occupied by the visitor.” MCC 19.04.040. Thus, a transient
accommodation is an “accommodation” or “unit” for transients.
Sections 19.98.020 and
Applying these definitions, the Resolution would prohibit the acceptance or
approval of any permit for new buildings, rooms or units within buildings and
additions to or expansions of existing buildings that are intended to service
transients. The restriction would extend to “hotels, timeshares, short-term rental
homes, and transient vacation rental units.” Sections 19.98.020 and 20.41.030.
Maui County Code defines “hotels” as “a transient vacation rental, excluding
bed and breakfast homes and short-term rental homes” and “short-term rental
homes” as “a residential use in which overnight accommodations are provided to
guests for compensation, for periods of less than one hundred eighty days . . .
excluding bed and breakfast homes.” MCC 19.04.040. Although “timeshares” and
“transient vacation rental units” are not defined in the Resolution or Maui County
Code, the Code defines the term “time share unit” to mean “any plan or program in
which the use, occupancy, or possession of one or more time share units circulates
among various persons for less than a sixty-day period in any year, for any
occupant” and “transient vacation rentals or use” to mean “occupancy of a dwelling
or lodging unit by transients for any period of less than one hundred eighty days,
excluding bed and breakfast homes and short-term rental homes.” Id.
3
The moratorium on the approval of permits for “new transient accommodations”
that are “not in operation as transient accommodation as of the effective date of the
ordinance, but excluding bed and breakfast homes” in “all zoning districts on the
island of Maui” would lift at the earlier of two years from the effective date of the
law or “upon the enactment of legislation in accordance with chapter 19.98 or
chapter 20.41.” Sections 19.98.050 and 20.41.050. The referenced “legislation” is
“legislation implementing appropriate recommendations presented by a Budget,
Finance, and Economic Development Committee-established tourism management
temporary investigative group . . . .” Sections 19.98.010 (Purpose) and 20.41.010
(Purpose) (the only sections in chapters 19.98 and 20.41 that reference legislation).
While the Resolution allows the Council to “extend the moratorium for an
additional six months,” Sections 19.98.050 and 20.41.050, it does not provide a
procedure for the extension, such as by resolution or further ordinance.
Chapters 19.98 and 20.41 would not apply to the following:
● Bed and breakfast homes,^ Sections 19.98.020 and 20.41.030;
● “Any new transient accommodation that has received its last discretionary
approval prior to the effective date of the ordinance establishing this
chapter,” Sections 19.98.040(A) and 20.41.040(A);
● “Any new transient accommodation that does not require any additional
discretionary approvals prior to operation as of the effective date of the
ordinance,” Sections 19.98.040(B) and 20.41.040(B);
● “Renovations or repairs of transient accommodations that do not increase
lodging capacity or expand the structures beyond the boundaries of the
existing structural footprint,” Sections 19.98.040(C) and 20.41.040(C);
● “A time extension for permits or approvals granted prior to the effective date
of this ordinance,” Sections 19.98.040(D) and 20.41.040(D); and
● “[T]he processing, approval, or granting of any application for the approval of
a new transient accommodation that is properly filed with the County and
complete prior to the effective date of’ the Resolution, Resolution Section 6.
1 The term “bed and breakfast homes” is not defined in the Resolution. Maui
County Code defines “bed and breakfast homes'
accommodations are provided to guests for compensation, for periods of less than
one hundred eighty days, in no more than two detached single-family dwelling
units, one of which is occupied by the owner-proprietor. Each bed and breakfast
home shall include bedrooms, one kitchen, and living areas and shall include no
more than six bedrooms for bed and breakfast home use, as specified within the
zoning district provisions of this title.” MCC 19.04.040.
a use in which overnightas
4
There is no mechanism to obtain an exception from the prohibition, such as by
resolution of the Council or approval of the Planning and Public Works Directors.
The Resolution rests on three findings. First, the Resolution finds that transient
accommodations are under-regulated and that the “continued development of
transient accommodations directly relate[s] to an increase” in the ratio of visitors to
residents. Citing to counts by Hawaii’s Department of Business, Economic
Development and Tourism, the Resolution finds that “Maui’s daily visitor count
grew from just over 46,000 in 2010 to nearly 70,000 in 2019, while the resident
population remained constant at approximately 150,000 over the same time period”
and that “Maui now dramatically exceeds the codified visitor-resident ratio” set
forth in the Maui Island Plan. Sections 19.98.010 and 20.41.010.
Second, the Resolution finds that the continued development of transient
accommodations and the related increase in tourism cause “negative impacts on the
environment, overwhelms County infrastructure, and negatively impacts residents’
quality of life.” Sections 19.98.010 and 20.41.010. According to the Resolution, to
“preserve the County’s environment, and to work toward resilience, new
development or expansion of hotels, resorts, timeshares, short-term rental home
permits, and transient vacation rental unit permits must be limited on Maui island
for an interim period.” Sections 19.98.010 and 20.41.010 (emphasis added). Thus,
the stated purpose of the Resolution is “to comply with Maui Island Plan,” which
seeks to “[pjromote a desirable island population by striving to not exceed an island
wide visitor population of roughly 33 percent of the resident population,” Island
Plan § 4.2.3.a, “by pausing increasing transient accommodations and tourism.”
Sections 19.98.010 and 20.41.010 (emphasis added).
Finally, the Resolution finds that the “pause will maintain the number of
current transient accommodation units” so that the “tourism management
temporary investigative group” established by the Budget, Finance, and Economic
Development Committee “may investigate and recommend actions including
carrying capacity for the island in the Maui Island Plan and for heavily visited and
traversed locations, addressing infrastructure loads of roadways, wastewater
facilities, water use, other County facilities, and environmental impacts.”
Sections 19.98.010 and 20.41.010 (emphasis added). The Resolution anticipate the
Council will adopt “legislation implementing appropriate recommendations
presented by the” temporary investigative group. Id.
The Resolution has been placed on the agenda for the June 18, 2021, meeting of
the Council. The Resolution acknowledges that Sections 8-8.4 and 8-8.6 of the Maui
County Charter “require that the appropriate planning commission review proposed
land use ordinances and provide findings and recommendations to the Council,”
Resolution at 1, and, thus, “respectfully requests that the Maui Planning
Commission transmit its findings and recommendations [on the Resolution] to the
Council as expeditiously as possible.” Id. Following the receipt of the Planning
5
Commission’s findings and recommendations on the Resolution, the measure may
be adopted on one reading (as opposed to two readings on separate days). Maui
County Charter Section 4-2 (l)-(2).
III. Analysis
The Council previously introduced two bills proposing moratoria on the
development of transient accommodations within specific areas. First, Bill 191
proposed to add Chapter 40 to the Maui County Building Code, which would have
prohibited the “development” of “transient accommodations,” including hotel units,
in West Maui and South Maui for two years from the law’s effective date. Under
Bill 191, the prohibition would have ended earlier than two years if the ordinances
approving the West Maui Community Plan update and the South Maui Community
Plan had been adopted. If the ordinances became effective before the two-year
prohibition ended, the prohibition would have lifted on the effective date of the
ordinance approving the South Maui Community Plan update. Bill 191 has been
withdrawn.
Second, Bill 232 proposes to add Chapter 40 to the Maui County Building Code,
which would prohibit the “development” of “visitor accommodations,” including
“hotels, resorts, timeshares, short-term rental homes, bed and breakfast homes, and
transient vacation rentals,” Bill 232, Section 4000.4, in West Maui and South Maui
for two years from the law’s effective date. The prohibition would automatically end
in West Maui on the effective date of the West Maui Community Plan update if the
West Maui Community Plan update becomes effective in less than two years.
Similarly, the prohibition would automatically end in South Maui on the effective
date of the South Maui Community Plan update if the South Maui Community Plan
update becomes effective in less than two years. Bill 232 has been placed on the
agenda for the June 18, 2021, meeting of Council.
In prior memoranda, we discussed the problems with Bills 191 and 232. While
the Resolution addresses several of the concerns that we raised regarding the
legality of those bills, the Resolution remains fundamentally flawed.
A. The Resolution Fails to Substantially Advance  a Legitimate
Government Interest. The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
provides that no State shall “deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law.” U.S. CONST, amend. XIV; accord Haw. CONST, art I, § 5. “The
Due Process clause confers both procedural and substantive rights.” Richardson v.
City & Cnty. of Honolulu, 124 F.3d 1150, 1162 (9th Cir. 1997). Substantive due
process protects individuals from arbitrary acts of government and ensures that
“the government does not exercise power without any reasonable justification in the
service of a legitimate government objective.” County of Sacramento v. Lewis, 523
U.S. 833, 846 (1998). A “regulation that fails to serve any legitimate governmental
objective may be so arbitrary or irrational that it runs afoul of the Due Process
Clause.” Lingle v. Chevi'on U.S.A. Inc., 544 U.S. 528, 542 (2005); see also id. at 549
(Kennedy, J. concurring) (noting that the Lingle decision “does not foreclose the
6
possibility that a regulation might be so arbitrary and irrational as to violate due
process”).
The Resolution fails to advance a legitimate governmental interest in five ways.
First, the Resolution’s findings assert that, “according to Hawaii’s Department of
Business, Economic Development and Tourism, Maui’s daily visitor count grew from
just over 46,000 in 2010 to nearly 70,000 in 2019.” The cited figures appear to be the
average daily visitor count for Maui County, however, and not Maui Island.
According, the findings do not support the Resolution’s stated purpose, which is to
“comply” with the Maui Island Plan, or the adoption of a moratorium for the Island
of Maui.
Second, the Resolution incongruently relies on the average daily visitor count in
2019, rather than 2021, to arrive at the conclusion that “Maui now dramatically
exceeds the codified visitor-resident ratio.”^ (Emphasis added.) If the moratorium is
presently necessary to comply with the purely planning policy estimate of the
desired ratio between visitors and residence expressed in the Maui Island Plan, the
moratorium must rely on the current residence and daily visitor counts.
Third, an increase in hotel rooms and other transient accommodations has
demonstrably not caused an increase in the daily visitor population. On the
contrary, hotel rooms on Maui have declined from 8,577 units in 2000 to 7,251 units
in 2020. Only a handful of hotels have been built during the last 25 years. Yet the
daily visitor count has continued to increase. Thus, there is no factual basis to
conclude that the moratorium will cause the daily visitor count to stabilize or
decrease. No data or study has been presented in support of this conclusion. No
known facts support this conclusion. Visitors will continue to come, as they have.
And, as they have, visitors, will stay in alternative accommodations, including
illegal accommodations, when hotels are at capacity or too expensive.
Fourth, contrary to the finding that “transient accommodations” are “under-
regulated,” hotels and certain other transient accommodations, such as timeshares,
are
Chapter 106. For example, hotels and timeshares may only be developed in areas
that are designated for hotel use (not in residential neighborhoods) consistent with
existing zoning laws. In this way, the development of hotel and timeshare units
avoids the potentially adverse effects on neighborhood character, area
infrastructure and the availability of on-street parking. See Willdel Realty, Inc. v.
New Castle County, 270 A.2d 174 (Del. Ch. 1970), affd 281 A.2d 612 (invalidating a
moratorium on building permits and noting that although some of the land subject
to the moratorium was undeveloped, the undeveloped property was “situated within
a highly developed area for which patters of construction and development were
heavily regulated. See, e.g., HRS Chapter 486K; HRS Chapter 514E; HAR
2 According to Hawafi Tourism Authority, the average daily visitor count on
Maui Island in 2021 is approximately 40,000.
7
already established” and thus the need for a moratorium during a period of plan
reformation was doubtful).
Finally, the assertion that the prohibition on the development of transient
accommodations is intended to address negative impacts on the environment and
purportedly overwhelmed infrastructure does not withstand scrutiny. No rational
review leads to the conclusion that developing transient accommodations over a
period that would not exceed two years has any effect on carbon-emission levels,
climate change or global warming. Nor has any data or study been presented to
support such a conclusion or the conclusion that the County’s infrastructure is
overwhelmed due to the continued development of transient accommodations.
Revealing that no existing data supports the assertions in the Resolution, the
Resolution calls for an investigation and recommendations regarding the
“carrying capacity for the island in the Maui Island Plan and for heavily visited and
traversed locations, addressing infrastructure loads of roadways, wastewater
facilities, water use, other County facilities, and environmental impacts.”
Sections 19.98.010 and 20.41.010 (emphasis added); see, e.g., Monmouth Lumber Co.
V. Ocean Township, 87 A.2d 9 (N.J. 1952) (holding moratorium valid because it is
“consistent with the theory of planning to provide, after study of the conditions of
the community, a means of preventing changes in the character thereof which
might be opposed to the theory of planning and zoning pending the formulation of a
detailed and complete ‘comprehensive plan’ for the municipality, either new or in
substitution for an outmoded plan”) (emphasis added); see also Willdel Realty, 270
A.2d 174 (holding that action of county council in rezoning land was not arbitrary
and capricious where there was a full exploration of facts by the department of
planning, a spirited public hearing by council and an abundance of technical data
before council when it acted).
Resting the Resolution on demonstrably flawed and unsupported factual
premises severs the connection between the purported purposes of the Resolution
and the actual effects of the Resolution. With the failure of the purposes of the
Resolution, the prohibition is arbitrary and the Resolution is invalid. See, e.g., New
Jersey Shore Builders Ass'n v. Township Committee of Dover Tp., 468 A.2d 742 (N.J.
1983) (holding that a moratorium on issuance of building permits for construction of
multi-family housing and for conversion of motels into condominiums was invalid
due to lack of factual justification for moratorium in regard to problems of
water supply and water pressure and explaining that “[t]he situation must be
exigent, the causes must be adequately explored, and it must be
demonstrated that other less extreme solutions have been investigated
and found to be not feasible. None of these requisite proofs is before the
court. Stripped to its essentials, the ordinance is nothing more than an
expedient legislative reaction”) (emphasis added); Cellular Telephone Co. v.
Village of Tarrytown, 209 A.D.2d 57 (N.Y.S.2d 1995) (a moratorium on cell tower
construction was invalidated because there was no evidence that cell towers
produced any public health or safety problems; rather, the moratorium was based
8
on bare perceptions of the village residents regarding health); Q.C. Construction
Co., Inc. V. Gallo, 649 F. Supp. 1331, 1336 (D.R.I. 1986) (“Analyzing the necessity of
the Resolution and considering less drastic alternatives lead inescapably to the
conclusion that the Resolution is unconstitutional” because “[a] moratorium on
issuance of building and sewer connection permits is not reasonably necessary to
protect the welfare of town residents” and “only preserves the already bad
situation that [purportedly] existed.”).”
B. The Resolution Is Unconstitutionally Vague. The Fourteenth
Amendment is violated by laws so vague that persons “of common intelligence must
necessarily guess at their meaning and differ as to their application.” Planned
Parenthood v. Arizona, 718 F.2d 938, 947 (9th Cir.1983); Scurfield Coal, Inc. u.
Commonwealth, 582 A.2d 694 (Pa. 1990) (a vague ordinance is one that proscribes
activity in terms so ambiguous that reasonable persons may differ as to what is
actually prohibited). A law is unconstitutionally vague if it fails to provide a
reasonable opportunity to know what conduct is prohibited, Giaccio u.
Pennsylvania, 382 U.S. 399, 402—03 (1966), or is so indefinite as to allow arbitrary
and discriminatory enforcement. City of Chicago u. Morales, 527 U.S. 41, 52 (1999);
see Exton Quarries, Inc. v. Zoning Board of Adjustment, 228 A.2d 169 (Pa. 1967) (a
local government unit has no authority to adopt an ordinance that is arbitrary,
vague or unreasonable or inviting of discriminatory enforcement).
The Resolution is unconstitutionally vague for two reasons. First,
Chapters 19.98 and 20.41 would prohibit the issuance of a permit for “any structure
intended to be used for [a] transient accommodation, including hotels, timeshares,
short-term rental homes, and transient vacation rental units, that is not in
operation as transient accommodation as of the effective date of the ordinance,
but excluding bed and breakfast homes.” Sections 19.98.020 and 20.41.030
(emphasis added). Under this provision, it is unclear whether, for example,
transient accommodations that have an active operating license but may be in the
midst of a renovation or recovering from COVID-19-related impacts and out of
operation would be subject to or exempted from the Resolution’s prohibition.
Second, Chapters 19.98 and 20.41 would not apply to “renovations or repairs of
transient accommodations that do not increase lodging capacity or expand the
structures beyond the boundaries of the existing structural footprint.”
Sections 19.98.020 and 20.41.030 (emphasis added). The exception makes no sense.
For example, the Resolution would seemingly prohibit an owner from simply
making a room or unit larger without increasing capacity and from enlarging
existing accessory uses, such as by expanding a restaurant located within a hotel,
beyond the structure’s current footprint. Neither of these forms of development
would increase the lodging capacity or run contrary to the Resolution’s stated
purpose—to maintain Maui’s daily visitor count. Yet both forms of development
appear to be prohibited.
9
Because the Resolution proscribes activity in terms so broad and ambiguous that
reasonable persons may differ as to what is actually prohibited or exempted, it fails
to provide a reasonable opportunity for developers and operators of transient
accommodations to know what conduct is and is not prohibited and invites
discriminatory enforcement. See, e.g., Scurfield Coal, 582 A.2d 694 (a vague
ordinance is one that proscribes activity in terms so ambiguous that reasonable
persons may differ as to what is actually prohibited); Exton Quarries, 228 A.2d 169
(a local government unit has no authority to adopt an ordinance that is arbitrary,
vague or unreasonable or inviting of discriminatory enforcement). The Resolution
must be clarified to avoid invalidity.
C. The Resolution Violates the Equal Protection Clause. The Equal
Protection Clause “keeps governmental decision-makers from treating differently
persons who are in all relevant respects alike.” Nordlinger u. Hahn, 505 U.S. 1, 10
(1992). Where the challenged government action does not implicate a suspect class
or burden a fundamental right, the action is unconstitutional if it does not
“rationally further a legitimate state interest.” Id. at 10.
Here, the Resolution singles out “transient accommodations,” excludes “bed and
breakfast homes” from other transient accommodations and treats all other
transient accommodations differently from the rest of the tourist industry. There is
no rational basis for treating “transient accommodations” differently from other
businesses that service visitors and directly increase carbon-emission levels and use
of roadways, wastewater facilities and water use, such as rental car companies, tour
companies and restaurants. Because there is no rational basis for- the regulation,
the classifications drawn in the Resolution violates the Equal Protection Clause.
See, e.g., New Jersey Shore Builders Association u. Township Committee of Dover,
468 A.2d 742 (N.J. 1983) (moratorium on building permits for multifamily dwelling
units or conversion of motels into condominium units, but not for laundromats, car
washes, or restaurants, while commission studied and reported to township
committee on adequacy of public water supply held invalid because the latter
groups were also consumers of large quantities of water).
D. The Resolution Is Unconstitutionally Overbroad. The stated purpose of
the Resolution is to “[pjromote a desirable island population by striving to not
exceed an island-wide visitor population of roughly 33 percent of the resident
population,” Island Plan § 4.2.3.a, “by pausing increasing transient accommodations
and tourism,” Sections 19.98.010 and 20.41.010 (emphasis added). As noted above,
however, hotel rooms on Maui have declined from 8,577 units in 2000 to 7,251
units in 2020, and only a handful of hotels have been built during the last 25 years.
Accordingly, the Resolution proscribes a use that has demonstrably not contributed
to an increase in visitors on Maui.
What has substantially increased, particularly on Maui, are short-term rental
homes. See Hawai‘1 Vacation Rentals: Impact on Housing & Hawaii’s Economy
(March 2018), Hawaii Appleseed Center for Law and Economic Justice,
10
https://hiappleseed.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/Appleseed-Vacation-Rental-
Report-rev.-3.29.18.pdf. As of March 2018, there were an estimated 9,000 short
term rental homes on Maui. Id. at 9. Shockingly, one in seven housing units on
Maui was identified as a short-term rental home. Id. More than 50 percent of sales
of units on Maui were found to be to nonresident buyers, and 66 percent of those
nonresident buyers rented out their units on a short-term basis. Id. On these facts,
“it is not a surprise that Maui has the highest percentage of residential units being
used as [short-term rental homes] in the state.” Id. (citing Individually Advertised
Units in Hawaii, SMS Research & Marketing Services for Hawai‘i Tourism
Authority
http://www.hawaiitourismauthority.org/default/assets/File/research/accommodation
s%20studies/Individually%20Advertised%20Unitsits%20in%20Hawaii%20(Vacation
%20Rentals).pdf).
Despite the obvious connection between the proliferation of short-term rentals,
particularly illegal short-term rentals, and the increase in the daily visitor count,
the Resolution inexplicably does not limit its reach to short-term rentals. Without
question, illegal short-term rentals will continue to increase despite the proposed
moratorium. Only developers of legal transient accommodations will be impacted by
a moratorium on transient accommodations. Compounding the failure to address
illegal short-term rentals, as the use that actually impacts the island, the
Resolution extends to uses, such as hotels, that have not contributed to the increase
in the number of visitors. Overly broad limitations on the constitutional right to
make productive use of land are illegal. See, e.g., Commonwealth v. Asamoah, 809
A.2d 943, 946 (Pa.2002) (a municipal ordinance is overbroad if, by its reach, it
punishes constitutionally protected conduct as well as illegal conduct); Nunez v. City
of San Diego, 114 F.3d 935, 946 (9th Cir. 1997) (in order for an ordinance to be
narrowly tailored, “there must be a sufficient nexus between the stated
government interest and the classification created by the ordinance”)
(emphasis added). To pass constitutional muster, the Resolution must address the
use that has contributed to the identified harm—an increase in the number of
visitors to Maui. By extending its reach to uses that have not contributed to an
increase in the number of visitors to Maui, such as hotel units, the Resolution is
unconstitutional.
(Dec. 2014),
E. The Resolution Violates Vested Rights. The right to proceed with a
project despite a change in the law vests upon reliance on the last discretionary
approval for a project. Kauai Cnty. v. Pacific Standard Life Ins. Co., 65 Haw. 318,
328, 653 P.2d 766, 774 (1982) (a “final discretionary action constitutes official
assurance”). While the Bill exempts “a time extension for permits or approvals
granted prior to the effective date” of the law,” it does not appear to allow an
extension of a Special Management Area permit or any other permit with a
deadline. The failure to protect projects that have a valid discretionary permit but
that may require an extension of time to complete development violates vested
rights. To conform to the law of vested rights, the Resolution should provide for
such an exemption.
11
The Resolution Improperly Authorizes an Extension of the
Moratorium with No Mechanism for the Extension. The Resolution allows the
Council to “extend the moratorium for an additional six months,” Sections 19.98.050
and 20.41.050, but fails to provide a procedure for the extension.
F.
The Maui County Charter, which “is a constitutional document. . . [that] defines
the responsibilities of [Maui’s] local government,” Maui County Charter (Foreword);
see Maui County Charter Article 2, requires “every legislative act of the council” be
accomplished by one of two forms: an ordinance or  aresolution, id. Section 4-1
(“Actions of the Council. Every legislative act of the council shall be by ordinance
. . . . Other acts of the council may be by resolution.”).
As the Resolution will ultimately require any moratorium to be enacted through
an ordinance, any extension of the moratorium would require the adoption of an
ordinance. As the Resolution acknowledges, the Maui County Charter requires that
the appropriate planning commissions review proposed land use ordinances and
provide findings and recommendations to the Council. As the Resolution requires
review and comment by the Maui Planning Commission, any extension of the
moratorium would require review and comment by the Maui Planning Commission.
By purporting to give the Council the power to extend the moratorium for a six-
month period (the Resolution is unclear as to whether power to extend the
moratorium is for a single six-month period or unlimited six month periods) without
requiring the Council to follow the process set out in the Charter, the Resolution
runs contrary to the Charter. See Maui County Charter (no provisions allowing
Council to simply extend an ordinance or resolution and bypass required agency
review). The result is an impermissible delegation of authority, which renders the
contemplated extension invalid. Cf. Akaku: Maui Crnty. Television, v. Lopez, No.
30281, 2013 WL 1829764, at *8 (Haw. App. Apr. 30, 2013) (finding that a rule which
specifies the process and procedures that agencies must follow in exercising their
authority is not an impermissible delegation of authority).
IV. Conclusion
The Council has appropriately worked to correct the errors in the prior bills for
moratoria. We ask the Council to consider the points raised in this memorandum
and craft a moratorium that will meet constitutional muster.
12
Count^Clerk
■  2’8
Molly Jacobson <mol[y@mollyjacobson.com>
Thursday, June 17, 2021 11:23 AM
County Clerk
In support of the Moratorium
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: ● r
, A.
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
I am writing this letter in support of the proposed moratorium on visitor accommodations in West and South
Maui. This is a great first step toward fixing the problem this council has already identified: unregulated over
tourism.
I hope that future steps will expand the moratorium to the entire island because what happens in South and
West Maui does NOT stay in South and West Maui. Tourists put waste in our sewers (and oceans), drink from
our water table, and fill up our extremely limited landfill. They travel all over the island, and are constantly
hoping for "new" and more "secret" "locals-only" places to visit.
When the Maui Island Plan suggests limiting the number of visitors to 1/3 the number of residents, that is
commonsense. More tourists does NOT equal more money. As any business owner will tell you, getting more
customers when you cannot meet demand is not a good thing.
It's a recipe for disaster. If you cannot provide the product or service people are paying for, they rightfully
complain and take their business elsewhere.
We all know that this island is not providing a quality experience for tourists when there are so many jamming
the roads, clogging up the reefs, endangering wildlife, and threatening our health and safety.
We all know that the current state of over-tourism is just a continuation of what has been true for at least a
decade.
And we all know that the quality of life of residents is suffering because of it.
I know that many folks will speak about this to you. There are many specific issues that will be brought up, so I
will not rehash them here.
I wrote an article a few weeks ago on the national platform Medium.com. The link is below, as is the text of
the article.
As the editor of a best-selling book about cancer, I write about and think about and report upon it every day.
My article outlines the way that over-tourism acts on Maul... and how it is EXACTLY like how cancer acts in the
body.
I encourage you to read it and consider the analogy.
If we had cancer, we would get treatment. Quickly.
1
This moratorium is a good place to start. It makes many other treatments possible.
I know that the mayor has threatened to veto this and many other pro-tourism-management measures.
So whati
Even if he does veto it, you are our voice. The elected representatives of the County Council speak for us.
I look forward to supporting you as you consider and hopefully pass this moratorium. Even if it is vetoed later,
our voices MUST be heard.
I have deep appreciation for the work you do, and for the time, effort, and energy it takes. I wish you well in
your deliberations during this critical time on Maui.
May we all be guided and blessed, and may you be protected and honored.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Molly Jacobson
Kihei
https://mollviacobson.medlum.com/over-tourism-on-maui-behaves-exactlv-like-cancer-in-the-bodv-
242ca2ed30d4
a Over-Tourism on Maui Behaves Exactly
Like Cancer in the Body.
We Must Take It Seriously and Get Into Treatment
Immediately.
The article looks best and reads most clearly on the website. However, I have included the text below as well:
Over-Tourism on Maui Behaves Exactly Like Cancer in
the Body.Molly Jacobson
Jun 2,15 min read
We Must Take It Seriously and Get Into Treatment Immediately.
2
I think about and write about cancer every day in my business and personal life. I also think about and write
about Maui every day in my business and personal life.
I don't claim to speak for anyone else, and I am not born and raised on Maui. There are many people who speak
more eloquently and with more wisdom than I about the historical and political situation here.
I do not speak for anyone but myself: a white lady born in Connecticut who moved here when she was 33, sixteen
years ago. A business owner who has struggled with anti-business (pro-tourism) regulations.
A writer who knows she communicates better in paper than in person.
I am humble about my role in my adopted home. But  Imust speak because I think Maui has a serious problem.
Here's what I want to tell you:
Cancer cells grow fast, don't stop, refuse to die, replicate endlessly, steal resources, and spread
to new areas. They are assisted by tiny genetic problems and chronic inflammation.
Tourism also grows fast, doesn't stop itself, refuses to die a natural death, replicates endlessly, steals
resources, and spreads to new areas. It is helped by tiny loopholes in the laws and the chronic irritation
residents experience.
Maui has metastatic cancer. It's called over-tourism. And unless we do something, now, there will be no normal
cells left to save us.
***
The Six Hallmarks of Cancer and Over-Tourism
Biologists and oncologists and cancer researchers generally agree that there are six things cancer cells
do that normal cells do not.
Hallmarks of Cancer: The Next GenerationThe hallmarks of cancer comprise six biological capabilities acquired during
the multistep development of human tumors...www.cell.com
The hallmarks of cancer comprise six biological capabilities acquired during the multistep development of human
tumors...
www.cell.com
All six of these characteristics are in operation on Maui.
Cancer cells and over-tourism both exhibit the following deranged and damaging behaviors.
ONE: Self-sufficiency in growth signals ... Pedal to the Metal
Cancer cells grow and never stop growing.
A good way to describe this is that their accelerator pedal is jammed to the floor and stuck there.
Cancer cells use fuel at unbelievable rates. They don't even attempt to stop themselves, let alone
go the speed limit.
Their goal is exponential growth.
3
They aren't satisfied with a little tumor. They want a GINORMOUS tumor.
This is true in tourism as well.
Cancer and tourism both want extreme, neverending, exponential growth.
We are currently experiencing "extreme growth.
We have known for decades that the checks on tourism don't exist... or aren't enforced.
(Even travel writers get it.)
The tourism authorities keep getting more and more funding.
The developers keep building and building.
The commissions and planners keep approving hotels, condos, and short-term rentals.
The airlines keep adding flights.
And local businesses scramble to keep up.
One location? Those were the old days. Now you need your restaurant, surf shop, gift store,
clothing boutique, or art gallery in three locations at least.
Paia, Kihei, and Lahaina.
That's where the tourists are. Right?
For now.
Folks upcountry think the/re safe from tourism cancer.
But we're getting squeezed tight, and Maui is a small island.
It's just a matter of time before that speeding cancer of tourism decides it can
climb the hill.
Or follow the road to Hana.
Why not? Pedal to the medal!
Two: Insensitivity to anti-growth signals ... Brakes Don't Work
Cancer cells grow fast. They also disable their own brakes.
Even if they wanted to stop growing, they couldn't.
(And they don't want to stop.)
Imagine flying down the highway, pedal to the metal.
Uh oh — you see Taguma up ahead, standing in the middle of the Pi'ilani, laser gun pointed right.
At. Your. Bumper.
4
Better slow down.
Yeah, right.
If you're cancer, you don't do that.
You can pump the brakes all you want... but you are not stopping.
Cancer doesn't care about tickets. And if it hits Taguma as it flies by, cancer doesn't care about him,
either.
Cancer doesn't worry about being caught or getting a ticket.
This is true in tourism, too.
Cancer and tourism both want to never stop growing.
Developers know that Taguma has nothing but that little laser gun.
He can't actually stop them.
The laws are built to help them build more, not regulate them.
They fly by the regulators and barely even get a ticket.
They get permits for one kind of project and then build under another set of codes.
They "sell" their affordable housing requirements to another developer so the units are far
from their pretty property.
The homeowner who sees the influx of Silicon Valley tech workers sells their home for well
over the asking price.
Even though they know that person is probably only going to live in their home part-time,
or maybe for a year or two.
Meanwhile, regular people try to pump the brakes.
Residents write letters and show up to commission meetings and committee meetings
and council meetings.
They go to the beach and airport and wave signs.
5
JBut is anyone listening?
The regulators nod through testimony and smile tight little smiles. Then they do exactly what
they planned to do all along.
The brakes don't work.
***
THREE: Evading apoptosis ... Not Committing Suicide to Prevent Harm
Cancer cells grow fast and don't stop. They also refuse to die.
Normal cells are born, live a certain length of time ... and then kill themselves naturally and quietly
at the end of their natural lifespan.
They don't live forever.
They know that if they did live forever, the body would die.
We can't have too many cells.
Our cells die by the billions.
If you are an adult human, about fifty billion of your own cells are committing suicide TODAY.
Normal cells monitor their own health.
6
If they notice damage, they repair it.
If they can't repair the damage, they kill themselves.
If they notice they've been deranged ... their DNA has changed ... they kill themselves.
But not cancer cells. Cancer cells tell the genes that kick in to commit suicide to look the other way.
Don't see the pedal to the metal exponential growth.
Don't see the way the brakes flap around, useless.
Just stay quiet and don't kill me.
This is true in tourism, too.
Cancer and tourism both disable the natural instinct to kill yourself before harming others.
People who own businesses based in tourism worry that limiting tourism will limit their future.
So they keep quiet when tourists try to drown turtles.
7
LSW i
shared a link.
May 8 at 1:20 PM ■ @
edit - NOAA hotline at the top for visibility: +1 (800) 853-1964.
I'm sure there are many PSA's on this subject, but I want to add
another in case it helps even one person. Please give wildlife their
space!
We have been totally enchanted by the wildlife here and are very
diligent about keeping our distance. This is our third day spent on th'
beach near "Turtle Town" and I was really disappointed to come aero:
a few adult men grabbing and chasing turtles, flipping them over
forcefully and even standing on top of them in the water (pushing
them down into the sand) while they struggled to come up for air.
I was polite at first but will admit that I am a fallible human with a lov
for animals, so I did lose my temper a bit at their obstinate and rude
response v Undoubtedly a few will find it Karen-ish, but I did spend
few minutes on the phone with NOAA and they were very kind. Their
enforcement hotline can be reached at +1 (800) 853-1964.
Hoping everyone's weekend is beautiful! We are grateful for the
opportunity to spend time in this beautiful place.
**
7  f’ r:.;< XT. ' I I
V ●
In'
?l
lie► h-●  ■ c 4
^ I 4
8
Posted in the Maui Bound group on Facebook
Or cut fishing lines at Kamaole Beach II.
When tourists make fun of local culture or the Hawaiian language, they say nothing.
I get it. We don't want to be rude in return.
But it's not just in tourism businesses.
The construction industry says "tourism is good, development is good.
They want 18 months of work from that hotel or the new condos. They want jobs, jobs, jobs.
If we're not building forever, how will they make money to feed their families?
It's not like the county or the state is paying them to build and repair infrastructure.
In other places, developers would never get to build a shopping center or a hotel or a condo without
massive investment in the infrastructure.
You want to build a hotel? OK, build this overpass. Or create a park.
Elevate this road. Install high-speed internet for this entire area.
But requiring major commitments in infrastructure would kill off development.
Or at least, that's the fear.
So we say "ok, restripe the road here, or install  astop sign there.
We say "do a study and see if the pollution is too much.
No matter what the results are, we look the other way and let it all just keep going.
We hope something will change someday, but for now ... who can stop it?
We don't kill off the cancer of over-tourism the natural, quiet, effective way .. by refusing permits.
And so cancer keeps growing. Because that's what cancer does.
***
FOUR: Limitless replicative potential... Multiply an Infinite Number of Times
Cancer cells grow fast, don't stop themselves, and never die. They also make new cancer cells.
They give birth over and over and over to new cancer cells. Exact replicas of themselves.
And those new cancer cells do the same thing their elders do.
9
They grow fast, don't stop, refuse to die a natural death ... and replicate.
So now there isn't just one cancer cell. There are infinite cancer ceils.
And those infinite cancer cells create another infinity of cancer cells.
Same in tourism.
Cancer and tourism both replicate to infinity.
If one condo is good, two Is better.
If I have a hotel, I need another one, right next door.
Sea levels rising within 20 years?
Oh, well. I'll think about that when the time comes.
Nonsensical growth in development is a hallmark of cancer and tourism.
Does this person want a short-term vacation rental permit? OK.
Now their neighbor does? OK.
In this other neighborhood, too? Sure.
Oh, you want to move to the mainland and get a permit to rent your home out to tourists?
You'll come back when you retire, after you've made your money?
10
Author
Kamela Inq O
\ said prices should be function of area wages. I believe we
are aligned there
Like Reply - Sd hdili*d 003
ana
Kaniela Ing But leaving the tab for local businesses to pick up is not the
answer and they're not the problem. You can increase housing supply by
deincentavising out-of-state ownership with increased property taxes.
Like Reply Sd
stmmmmmm
Kaniela Ing I should know, I'm born and raised in Hawaii, own property
in Hawaii, own a business in Hawaii, and I'm in the highest tax bracket in
Hawaii. Know what I'm planning on doing? Moving away because
income tax is too high, keeping my property because ! can rent it out for
double my mortgage because the people I grew up with can't afford to
buy, and I'll be back when I retire and I don't have to pay any taxes. I’m
not doing any of this because 1 want to, but because that's how the
Hawaii system is designed.
Like Reply Sd
’●mif
Kaniela Ing Locals that can't afford homes aren't the only people being
run out of the state. And if you build more homes, I'll just buy more
homes and rent them from the mainland. I'm part of the problem with
housing in Hawaii and I'm pretty much telling you how to beat me to
even the playing field. But you're not gonna get there if you go after
businesses.
Like Reply Sd
:o
©
©
3
1
You raise the rent by 50% after your tenant's lease is up?
11
April 22 ● 0
More and more I'm hearing stories about hard working Maui people and their families getting
booted out of their rented home because someone is buying it (and it sure seems like out of state
buyers). Desperation is thick and spreading wider as folks look for new homes to rent and none
are available or rentals are now charging much more than ever before because of the ramped up
demand. Every now and then Ben and I get solicited by realtors wanting to buy our home and the
pitch is that they have buyers wailing with some able to pay lots of cash right away, so I can see
how it's enticing to sell.
I really believe that our working class folks need to be able to stay stable to help our island's
future be promising. That is what our own parents and grandparents did for us so that each
generation has hope and can help themselves and help the greater community do better too with
each passing generation.
In other states, in small towns across the mainland, members of generational families relocate and
long time residents move elsewhere when they no longer can bear the burden of unreasonable
growth and the cost to live there. We call an island our home. There is nowhere to go. No
highway to Jump on to another town. And quite frankly, folks don't want to move to a continent.
Nor should droves of our people be forced to.
What's going on now puts aside all that we. our parents, our grandparents and those before them
have worked for here on Maui.
It cannot be that way.
Just saying it out loud.
I don't know the answer, but for now, if you are  alandlord, please consider offering reasonable
rent amounts to local residents in need.
I get it. It's tempting. There is money to be made.
Tourism has replicated itself, and it's showing up in every area of our life on Maui.
***
FIVE: Sustained angiogenesis ... Demanding Food from Neighbors
Cancer cells grow fast, don't stop, refuse to die, and replicate endlessly. They also steal food from neighboring cells.
They are so disgusting!
They make blood vessels that reach out like vacuum hoses to neighboring cells.
They attach to the cell, evading its defenses, and start siphoning off its blood supply!
So the normal cell is living its life, handing over all its food.
Meanwhile, it can't feed itself.
It's dying so the cancer cell can live.
12
Same is true in tourism.
Cancer and tourism both steal ALL the food from neighbors.
Short-term vacation rentals and encroaching hotel developments bring vacationers into residential neighborhoods.
Surf schools and boating outfits jam up beaches, cross private property, and load without permits.
They're taking up space that fisherman and residents need to go about their business and feed their families.
13
Access Denied! Surf?Fish?Dive?
May 19 at 11:20 AM -0
The tourism related commercial activity at Mala Boat Ramp is out
of control. Local fisherman unable to get a stall for trailer because
of the commercial activity. There are only 16 commercial permits
allowed out of the harbor. Today the parking lot was inundated
with trailers for zodiacs used to take crew to Ka'anapali. On top of
that you have scuba operators launching next to the pier
damaging the reef as they walk out. Their guests take up all of the
They stay up late and party. They walk through areas that are off-limits.
O!ii O »
Un.'i "> O
.tt Ho.ipii Trni' Taii^crt ornkmi}
tnroMng rodis v>Hle lining sn a cuIumJ me
6l«ne Itie r«jd«nb aJ( ycu want but I'le lr(/.h is
tnai The (cixlm con« aixl Co they
Munt b*rauie itvy are vieKorna* guew I m ud
If*.
n
I-S
£} 'J*'*
ibCcrntrenls TWSbKsrei
Ejv^ ^ Comment Share-
■
PL61S€STAY View 17 more commerts All Conimenls w t:
●‘-V OFF
I'm done win SatevM'/liinam.i
O',like a«ptf
»repiiad 1 Raply
Mayee crtey wii take a rock borne
and end jpwlihscme tpiritMi
vKitorilcJICMingthem lc<
Omlifc» h#pN 'L if
^ ^TBE »M ;nepiiMV. ^ W
write a ptiMic en . Q 1^ TP
15
n? tai isi tj
.■r,
They block the road so people can't get to work, school, the hospital.
16
● . 4- ■■■‘’●●Vt^
*x* .S. k
/, '
l'“v ff Soa;:bD>...Celebrdl«i Ihe ^rst da>' s>f
wmnpr by t.ikirg drivp nut f.ttt bpfcrp sonr«p.i". ■
» Coming back bcme i tar n to tn# atcus! Lit«falt>'
.tW ■ ". *» every viaterfal, bike, or tceriic area Aatt.'
inji>3at«<l »«h ftfuTril cars. Aithousri criywded. v! LJr rocK» ate notbir^ new now viwtun are■ -
«4 bccnrnng bnucn ant; /jvt polling o\-cr and
parkirg l%aiKvay m tbo road cr«>atog sirtgi$ lar«> traffic flow. Now vorne itkiy m> 'Vv great to Ivn'evv :f' ● tounun back to drive o.ur aconrtirty, nit at wnat
^^:-.>●... ''S.'ri cost to the See More
»<V.- '
i^OV ^5*> '■j CcrvrTeoK 37 Share;
vJ*
f/b Like (71 Comniem <i> Share CJ ●
Mo<t Relevant »
Si^estcn: Maui could hire some
folks to write tickets to Worsts for
lUegdl parkog wcukf be great it
cars could be lowod, but tickets that
have to Be wed before leaving Waui
vwold b« Irelptu'. AiiuUier
luggesticn is for the county to stoo
nafketm... See Moteh o-lllia Rafty >
1^1
'  ■
●y o .3 ® ®Writeacnmment●'l
They park outside of designated parking areas. Their cars clog our streets. Including in our most important places:
17
● ●●
lao Valley today. Traffic jam trying to get in and out of parking lot,
choke cars parked on the road
■«!
\
w *
Who cares?
They're on vacation. They need an Instagram photo!
18
Sometimes they have to stop. But no one should have to leave work to do this:
This photo was taken in Ha'ena, Kauai in 2019. Over-tourism has been building for decades, long before Covid hit.
Meanwhile, our infrastructure is buckling.
We're losing our roads, and we can't keep repairing them with bandaid solutions.
19
Be-z^are Che reed ts collapsing-
(Kaiu HmvjusC pdsi Twin K Falls:
vO 17 Comments AZ Share
[£) Uke Share
View 1 more cerntrsent All Comments »
..ano checkout the lire of crumb''ing
pavement into the roadtjust
noticed it iodn>'
Shtrv
Just pet MMi. I receved tne same
photo from a coworVer. When and
HOW are they even going to rep»r
this without shutting oernn access f
LAc Shm
rtvs was already addressed on
March 13lh and State MkjIia^s
addressed It immediately. Mahalo
State Highway ere#! .!
O'
SSS«?r I RepI.:r'»»innp-:
Addressed yes. But what ts being
Our bridges are crumbling with every extra car.
Our water table is disappearing.
Our outdated sewer system is spewing waste into the ocean.
Our landfill will be completely full in just a few years.
We have about two days worth of food on the shelves at any given time. And the extra tourists are buying it all.
And the beaches are so loud that the fish don't come in close. So even those who fish for food can't feed their families.
And hey — again — tourists cut the fishing lines!!!!
Do we have to draw out the analogy more?
Well, we can. It's sad, but true. Tourism is cancerous in a sixth way, too.
SIX: Tissue invasion and metastasis ... Spread to Other Organs and Tissues
Cancer cells grow fast, don't stop, refuse to die, replicate endlessly and steal from neighbors.
They also spread to other organs and tissues.
Cancer cells aren't happy Just where they are.
20
They want to be EVERYWHERE.
Once they've started stealing from neighboring cells, they have the extra jet fuel they need.
They fly to other areas and set up new homes.
A breast cancer cell goes to the brain or the lungs.
It's breast cancer... but it's in a brand new place.
A new place with plenty room and new food to steal.
The same is true with tourism.
Cancer and tourism both want to spread into new areas.
Tourism doesn't want to stay on the beach in Kihei or Ka'anapali.
It wants the entire island.
Those who live in Kula or Haiku may feel like they're in a bubble.
But as we run out of space down here, tourism is going to come to you.
It's already there, in little pockets.
In cancer, we call that micrometastasis. In tourism, it's called short-term vacation rentals.
If they were allowed to build in Haleakala crater, condos would be there by 2022.
And tourists would book them.
***
ASSISTANCE: How We Enable Cancer
Cancer cells grow fast, don't stop, refuse to die, replicate endlessly, steal from neighbors,
and spread to other organs and tissues.
And they do it with assistance from the environment in the body.
There are two things that, if present, help cancer to wreak havoc.
Genome instability... When Small Changes Mean Big Changes
Cancer cells are dividing all the time. To do that, they have to use certain "machines'
built into cells and governed by DNA.
If those machines have little flaws in them, and they get used over and over, they can help cancer out.
If you are building a house it's critical to get your lines level.
21
If you lay a concrete slab that is just a little off, everything built on it is off, too.
The house might look straight at first.
But ten, twenty, thirty years later, it's listing.
Cracks in the foundation, drywall, roof.
It all comes from one little piece of concrete not being correctly laid.
When there is just one little problem in one little gene that helps cells divide, cancer is super happy.
That one little problem — gene instability — will allow cancer to hijack the entire system.
This is true in tourism too.
Cancer and tourism both want little tiny loopholes to exploit.
We have dozens and dozens of little loopholes tourism can use to grow, evade death, and steal resources.
A tax incentive that rewards commercial landlords for sitting empty — driving up the overhead for small business
owners who could create non-tourism jobs.
A planning commission entirely appointed by the Mayor — allowing a pro-tourism executive to stack the commission
with pro-development members.
A local newspaper that rents its office space from the County — which perhaps may make it less likely to publish tough
stories about the negative effects of tourism.
A desire to enjoy island life and not worry too much on the part of recently retired residents — who don't show up to
testify.
High cost of living that just keeps climbing — keeping people working three jobs from having time to do anything other
than work.
There are so many more.
These "little" things all assist cancer, and tourism.
Here's another environmental assist for cancer and tourism.
Chronic Inflammation ... Irritation Makes Everything Worse
Chronic, low-level inflammation helps cancer grow.
When tissues are irritated, warm, swollen and bloated, that's our immune system trying to help.
It's sending fluid to immobilize the injured area and bring food.
It's causing heat to kill off bacteria and viruses.
But here's what's weird.
22
The cancer tumors see that inflammation and think "hey, that's a lot of Interesting activity.
So they try even harder in that area of the body.
The process is complicated, but ultimately, inflammation rebounds. It encourages tumor blood vessel formation and
metastasis.
In other words, chronic inflammation ends up helping tumors steal resources and spread to new areas.
This is why people who have chronic inflammation of one sort or another are more prone to cancer. (Diabetes, heart
disease, etc.)
The same is true in tourism.
Cancer and tourism both use inflammation to metastasize.
When people get irritated because their road is blocked, they eventually start to snap.
They might flip someone off as they pass. Or worse.
Any existing irritations on the island will get worse when over-tourism arrives.
If you used to have a beautiful area all to yourself, and now folks are moving in next door, maybe you hold your tongue.
After all, they are your new neighbors.
But then when tourists come and traipse through your property to go to a waterfall... no.
No more. Your irritation gets inflamed, and you get angry.
It's understandable, but it's also helpful to tourism.
The pro-development, pro-tourism forces can dismiss you and say "oh, this is just locals yelling.
Or "these are just Not In My Backyard types.
Or "hey, haole, funny that you came here and ruined everything, and now you are the one wanting haoles to leave.'
(Yes, I've heard that. I know some people reading this are thinking this about me!)
And so we shut up. Because it seems like we will never be heard.
Those who say something get dismissed. And tourism grows because it's using anger and irritation as fuel for its own
efforts.
It's impossible to win this fight with angry words, or even angry signs.
Getting angry at cancer doesn't do a damn thing.
It doesn't hurt over-tourism, either.
23
In fact, getting angry causes irritation and inflammation. So it's helping cancer.
What Happens When You Get a Cancer Diagnosis
You know what happens when your doctor tells you that you have cells that are growing
fast, refusing to stop or die, replicating endlessly, stealing food from normal cells, and spreading
to new tissues?
Normal life STOPS.
You cal! into work and say "I can't come in for the rest of this week.
You get someone to care for your children, your dog, your goldfish.
You go for second opinions.
You get test after test after test.
You find out what can be done.
You don't sit back and say "oh well, it's cancer.
Your oncologist won't let you. It's urgent, it's NOW that you have to deal with it.
Business as usual stops. And it never, ever comes back.
Because the way you were living before you had cancer didn't work out.
And you need massive changes.
Everything stops while you wrap your head around your situation.
Even if you choose not to treat with conventional treatments, you still do everything you can
to address the emergency.
I once heard a commissioner say "you don't quit your job until you have a new one.
She was trying to justify her voting to approve a permit for a hotel that had not planned well
and did not meet the criteria for the Special Management Area (in my opinion and the opinion
of others who are professionals in relevant fields).
Her words triggered my thinking. She made the connection for me between over-tourism and cancer.
Because she's wrong. When you have cancer, yes, you quit your job.
If it's killing you, you quit. Even if you don't have another job lined up.
On Maui, we need to act like we have cancer.
Because guess what?
24
The tourists are noticing that our place isn't so special anymore.
We're killing the golden goose.
This was posted yesterday:
25
Maui Bound
Group post by ● 17h -0
Just got home from a week on Maui. Absolute paradise, and now I kno
so much. I figured I'd post my opinions and tips on what we did if anyc
when someone brandished a gun at us.
in Napili on the west side and are very happy with that. We'
spent time in Lahaina but we were not comfortable there once the
everywhere once it was dark. One large man was throwing trash out of
Side note: it must be sad to see your home overrun with tourists, some
We parked 3 blocks back from Front St and after the sunset we walked
looking men sitting on a ledge asked if we wanted to trade "left overs 1
DOthered me at all except he was BRANDISHING A GUN at us. I'm 95%
Decause I saw that the rack looked clear. As soon as he held the gun uf
laying "No, no, no." to his gun-wielding friend.  Ithink it was either my
Doticed, or my husband's excessively large biceps. Regardless, we just !●
/considered calling the police but it was 8 pm on our last night and the\
hery odd and unexpected to say the least.
Utfe^snorkeled every day on our own and enjoyed the constant adventu
places to explore. Ahihi Nature Preserve is spectacular and I appreciate
explaining before hand the rules of the park.
We did a snorkel excursion but felt like it was very "touristy" and not sc
depends on your comfort level in the water. We saw one turtle in turtle
everyone that crowded it and got way too close I didn't go see him,
turtles elsewhere during our^. Please for the love God, do not crc
e bought local fish and cooked ourselves which was~7Tf<<Ag|[
We
For too
Also had such a great experience at Down The Hatch that we had to gc
Restaurant with great food and fair prices. The wait wasn't long.
Ululani's Hawaiian shave ice is truly the best we had except I wouldn't
in the Hyatt... they really didn't make it the same as the brand. Leoda's
banana cream oie is ASTOUNDING. Their aonle criso is nothing to writ(
Maui will not be Maui much longer if we don't do something.
Maui needs to get a second opinion. We need to have specialists come in and advise us.
We have to do our research.
How do other amazingly special areas handle tourism? What works, and what doesn't?
We need to STOP the environmental assistance we give tourism.
We have to CLOSE all the loopholes.
We have to stop the irritation. Give residents what they need.
Enforce the existing laws. Don't let tour companies jam up Mala.
Don't let tourists get away with breaking the law. If you are trying to drown a turtle, you should PAY.
If residents can't have more than two people attend high school graduation, but tourists gather in large crowds, it's
unfair.
If you can't fish on the beach, it's unconstitutional.
Stop the daily grind of irritation. Reserve parking spaces for residents. Reduce travel to Hana. DO the things you can do,
NOW.
We don't have the luxury of letting chronic inflammation continue.
And those residents who are speaking and being shamed? Painted as anti-business?
Breathe deeply and keep yourself calm. Channel that irritation into the kind of resolve that gets things done.
Because if enough of us have enough resolve, we can beat cancer.
It's the only thing that ever has.
27
CountyCleHc R£C£IVED
Paul Janes-Brown <curtaincallmaui@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 16, 2021 11:40 PM
County Clerk
Testimony CC 21-280
From:
Sent: im JUN ! 7 AM 7: 59
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
My name is Paul Janes-Brown, I live in Pukalani,  Iam testifying in support of Item CC 21-280
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTERS 19.98AND 20.41, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUL
When the visitors left, the planes stopped landing and the field around the airport turned into
a gigantic parking lot, we got a taste of the impact on our quality of life the visitor industry
represents. We had a chance to dial back our dependence and reinvent ourselves. However,
we wasted that chance and now we are inundated with visitors.
Thankfully, the rental car situation has not caught up with the demand, however some of our
residents have seized on this money making opportunity, which is unfortunate and selfish.
1 applaud Council Member King for her vision in bringing forth this much needed
moratorium. I would go even further by banning vacation rentals until our houseless
population is adequately taken care of. It is unconscionable to have the number of houseless
here and excellent accommodations sitting vacant for most of the year. 1 would put a
minimum lease of 12 months on all rentals.
This moratorium would put a hold on the growth of our visitor population, which is sorely
needed. We need to focus on the quality of our visitors not the quantity. Our plans are out of
date and until we get new plans, which will address these issues, we need to act now to let us
breathe, focus and plan for the best future for all our people.
1 hope the council will act to adopt this much needed ordinance. Mahalo nui loa.
A hui hou,
Paul Janes-Brown
1
County Clerk
Buck Joiner <mauibuck@gmail.com>
Thursday, June 17, 2021 4:56 PM
County Clerk
Testimony, Council mtg June 18: visitor accommodation moratorium bill
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
1.1 request that the hearing/discussion be open to the public. There is nothing secret, confidential, or
personal involved. This is a highly public impactful topic.
2 I am in full support of the visitor accommodations moratorium bill. As a 40 year resident, I have seen the
visitor industry grow from a pubescent teenager into a full-grown voracious monster bully that controls
virtually every aspect of Maui life. Visitors are now like an invasion of little fire ants that debilitate the
environment and the residents.
We absolutely need to get a handle on dealing with our own popularity and how we can offer a quality
experience to the visitors without destroying the lifestyle and amenities for those of us who live here.
Most sincerely
Buck joiner
OO
O’n
H
7)Virus-free, www.avast.com mcz
om rnCO"<
OO ●<*n
mm -I
TJXm
cp OhO
1
Count^^leij< RCCulVSD „
m\ JUN 14 PH 1=
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Kaaz <rbjykz@gmail.com>
Monday, June 14, 2021 1:06 PM
County Clerk
Moratorium on visitor accommodations
From;
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Dear County Council Members;
I am writing this letter in support of the proposed moratorium on visitor accommodations in West and South Maui. I am
supporting this moratorium as an initial step toward remediating the current unregulated over-tourism we are seeing on
Maui.
The goal for visitors to Maui has been to limit the number of visitors to approximately 1/3 the number of residents in
order to preserve our environment, infrastructure, quality of life and all that makes Maui such a beautiful and popular
tourist destination,
The current volume of tourists we were seeing pre-pandemic and now, in 2021, during the pandemic, is a threat to the
health, safety and quality of life of the residents of Maui, our environment and wildlife.
These huge numbers of tourists are consuming and using scarce resources with few restrictions and controls. Maui's
sewage treatment injection wells are inadequate to properly treat the sewage produced by our residents, let alone
thousands of tourists, This results in inadequately treated sewage discharging into our oceans, killing coral, infecting
people and ocean life, alike.
Due to climate change and global warming, Maui is experiencing a major drought that is predicted to get worse, not
better. Tourists not only consume water, but the resorts and hotels and golf courses consume massive amounts of water
in a wasteful manner to maintain the illusion of  agreen and lush Maui in areas that have traditionally been dry and
sunny, not lush and green.
Traffic on our highways is terrible, particularly on the road to Hana, and East Maui is being overwhelmed by tourist
traffic. All of Maui is being overwhelmed by traffic. The exhaust from the thousands of cars is ruining the clarity of air,
threatening our health and consuming fossil fuels that contribute to the acidification and destruction of our oceans.
Toxic sunscreen further pollutes the ocean, killing and bleaching the coral on which we depend to create reefs that help
control our sea levels, provide a haven for fish, and support a sustainable fishing industry.
Tourists crowd our beaches, and tour boats crowd our oceans disturbing the quality of life for both residents and
existing wildlife. Noise from tour boat engines affects the already struggling whale, honu and dolphin populations.
Tourists on our beaches have been seen disturbing spinner dolphin pods which are trying to sleep during the day causing
illness and death. They also disturb the honu, preventing them from nesting and basking on the beaches. Molokini is a
great example of how tourism disturbs the overall marine environment. During the pandemic, the fish and oceanic
predator population returned to its normal ecological balance. Now it is once again disturbed, as shown in a recent
study.
These are but a few of the consequences of the unregulated rampant over-tourism we are once again experiencing. I
thank you in advance for your support of this moratorium on tourist accommodations. Maui is literally being "loved to
death" by excess tourism, and we are in danger of sacrificing our island, it's rich cultural heritage, environmental beauty
and diversity on the altar of tourism. Once the island is destroyed, tourism will decrease and we will literally have
destroyed that which is currently supporting us. Now is our chance to limit tourism and begin to diversify our economy.
1
Sincerely,
Joy Kaaz
Kihei resident
Member of HALEHawai'i
2
■fc * *●
PRMA RECEIVED
* ,/''^O* «
* V ZO?! JUN 18 AH 9:2*1June 18th, 2021
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Dear Mayor Victorino and Maui Council Members,
We are writing this letter on behalf of Maui PRMA, the Vacation Rental Trade Council under the Maui
Chamber of Commerce, to urge vou to oppose CC 21-280 & CR 21-39. We strongly believe that these
moratoriums will cause significant negative impacts on Maui’s community and economy during a critical
recovery period. Signing these moratoriums into law would put Maui’s visitor industry at a competitive
disadvantage, stifle employment opportunities for Maui residents, and seriously hinder our economic
recovery.
Maui PRMA strongly opposes the moratoriums (CC 21-280 & CR 21-391 for the following reasons:
By limiting rooms in the face of increased demand, the moratorium will increase prices in the
visitors industry, driving away visitor spending and investment that would otherwise flow into
Maui’s economy, local businesses, and government budget.
It does not address specific quality of life issues (traffic, infrastructure, housing) that are currently
impacting residents.
As Maui has been most impacted by the COVID-19 recession in terms of our dependence on the
visitor industry and rate of unemployment, local businesses and jobs in Maui, including those in
construction, activities, restaurants, retail, agriculture, will be hit even harder by the negative
economic impact of these moratoriums.
It does not grandfather in accommodations with planned expansions already underway, and CR
21-39 violates vested rights by not exempting projects that do not require discretionary approval
to proceed.
Although the moratorium’s stated purpose is to,” to preserve the County’s environment and to
work toward economic, cultural and environmental resilience,” the moratorium likely will result
in the opposite outcome: a noncompetitive visitors industry and economic stagnation in Maui.
We recommend that the Tourism Management Temporary Investigative Group (TIG) present findings and
recommendations before we enact moratoriums that do not address quality of life concerns and will
detrimentally impact our local jobs, businesses, and economy. To truly preserve the County’s
environment and to work toward economic, cultural and environmental resilience, we should not
needlessly cripple our economic recovery through instating these moratoriums if there is no clear
justification to do so.
We welcome any discussion with you or a member of your administration and can be contacted at
Mauiprma@gmail.com.
Mahalo,
John Kevan
Angela Leone
Co-Founders of Maui Professional Rental Management Association (Maui PRMA)
Countj^lerk
Wendy McCracken <wendykat4@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, June 16, 2021 8:46 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Support for moratorium banning new hotels - Agenda item CR 21-39
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OoO  'DCorrection to Agenda item #. Mahalo 73C“n
m2;oHSent from my iPad om mooBegin forwarded message; “n <m m
xmFrom: Wendy McCracken <wendykat4@yahoo.com>
Date: June 16, 2021 at 8:39:28 PM HST
To: county.clerk@mauicounty.us
Subject: Support for moratorium banning new hotels - Agenda item CR 29-39
Ov-n
To the Council Members of the County of Maui.
I hereby support the moratorium banning the building of new hotels and other visitor accommodations
for many of the same reasons you have already received and will receive from other concerned citizens
and individuals. With the past events of the year  Iwould think that eyes would have been opened to the
results of human greed and gratification when we keep pushing the natural environmental elements out
of the way to satisfy a select few with usually deep pockets. Oahu is one populated small island in the
middle of the Pacific Ocean that has and is demonstrating the affects of this. Not only the Impacts on
nature but environment for all and it doesn't take rocket science to see how the negative energy in the
aftermath produces sociatel issues as well as an increase in crime and invasion of a peaceful lifestyle.
Even a 2 year period to develop a plan will not be enough to prevent taking the wrong turn and putting
unnecessary and harmful burdens on the land and the community. The need to work smarter and find
ways to utilize and improve what is already in place Is a better plan.
I worked in a Natural Resources and Environmental department for a law firm that represented major
mining companies and saw firsthand the attempt to strip the land from the people and the environment
by business commerce and the devastating results when it did. I am also mystified by how people who
take an oath in an official position seem to have forgotten about common sense when it comes to profit
over reality such as the need for infrastructure to support all the hotel and vacation rental building
when we can't even provide sufficient infrastructure and housing for those who live and reside here and
will supply the services needed to allow those utilizing those facilities and domains for short term
pleasure trips to enjoy them.
Restaurants, stadiums, ballparks, casinos and other entertainment event structures have capacity
limitations for obvious reasons. It makes more sense to stop the madness and take care of what we have
already created. Let's continue the Aloha spirit that draws visitors here from all over the world and
continue providing the quality first over quantity. This is not what developers, politicians and those with
a monetary agenda seem to take into account. Singer songwriter Jack Johnson says it well in his song
"My Mind Is For Sale" with the lyrics "I don't care for your careless, me first, gimme, gimme, appetite at
all".
Please take care of those who care about more than quantity and take care of Maui, the other islands of
Hawaii, the 'Aina and Kama'aina. Mahalo.
1
£ount^CleH<
HFUnTTUFrom:
Sent:
Richard <richardmoss26@gmail.com>
Monday, June 14, 2021 1:47 PM
County Clerk
proposed visitor industry construction moratorium
Z07I JUN 14 PH J 08To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
My name is Richard Moss. I live in Kihei. I am writing to express my support for the proposed visitor industry
construction moratorium. Excess tourism will destroy the aloha of Maui for Maui residents, and for tourists. For
residents there are significant negative environmental, traffic, overcrowding and quality of life impacts. For visitors,
those same impacts reduce the quality of their vacation experience. For some, increasing tourism is about visitor
industry and construction jobs. The visitor industry can't seem to fill the jobs they have available now. How will they fill
the new jobs needed with growth? As for construction jobs, we don't need growth in that sector. The construction
industry can be devoted to maintenance, renovation and upgrades of existing facilities. For the State and County
Governments, they look at increased tourism and visitor industry construction as increased tax revenue; GET, TAT and
income taxes for the State, and property taxes for the County. Those governments need to more efficiently use the tax
revenues they have now instead of reducing our quality of life to obtain more tax revenues.
I strongly support the proposed visitor industry construction moratorium, and beyond that, better managing the
visitor numbers we have now. We need to look for ways to diversify our economy, perhaps in the agriculture and
technology sectors.
Richard Moss
137A Pauloa Place
Kihei, HI 96753
Sent from Mail for Windows 10
1
RtaCiliV CD
20ZI JUN 17 PH <2: 56
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha -1 now realize that this is submitted perhaps too late to be
presented to the Council AND if it can be included^ MAHALO:
From:
Sent:
Bonnie Newman <bonnienewman10@gmail.com>
Thursday, June 17, 2021 12:07 PM
County Clerk
Hotel Moratorium on Tomorrow’s Meeting
To:
Subject:
I am a 35-year full time resident of Maui; the last 17 years in Maui
Meadows. I sincerely believe we need No more Hotels or vacation-
rentable condos in South Maui. The traffic is already horrible and
tourists are ruling all the restaurants and beaches; there's hardly room
for us local folks to go anywhere. PLEASE help Stop this massacre of
our Sacred Islanc.
This is intentionally brief. Others have written substantiating
testimony already
MAHALO for All you do for All of us
745A Kupulau Drive, Kihei
RESPECTFULLY - Bonnie Newman
a
Bonnie Newman Rs
The Singing Realtor!
Coldweli Banker Island Properties
The Shops at Wailea Office
808 / 283-0645
©ATOAHi
rimeshare with C
- sf o
0“n
5^“imJune 17,2021 m-<
oo S <TO: Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins- Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members for the Maui County Council
*nr* mm O73X
^ m o
AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (XRDA-Hawaii)FR:
RE: Opposition to CR 21-39 (Recommending FIRST READING on bill to temporarily
maintain the status quo in the development of hotels and other visitor accommodations in
South Maui and West Maui)
(Sent via e-mail to county.clerk@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council,
1 am writing in STRONG OPPOSITION to Councilmember Kelly King’s proposed bill to
amend the building code to “declare a moratorium on new transient accommodations on Maui.
There is no data to suggest that stopping the development of transient accommodations will
decrease the number of visitors to Maui, mitigate environmental impacts or improve residents’
quality of life, all of which are stated goals. A moratorium is also not needed to adequately study
the impacts of tourism as the county works toward resiliency - this can be done while the
industry continues to operate.
How will stopping the development of transient accommodations keep visitors from coming to
Maui? It won’t. Today the fastest-growing segment within the visitor accommodations industry
is the transient vacation unit. If the purpose of the bill is to ultimately decrease the visitor count,
perhaps further regulation is needed on the number of legal short term rental units that are
allowed.
As (a member of/chair) of ARDA-Hawaii, which represents the vacation ownership and resort
development industries in Hawaii, I’m surprised that the County would want to stop timeshare
visitors from coming to Maui. The timeshare visitor has the exact profile of the type of visitor
that we should welcome with higher income levels, more spending off property in restaurants
and local stores, and are more likely to take care of their property, which for most is a home
away from home, as they are owners, not transients. We should be mindful that the timeshare
industry could be part of the solution.-
Furthermore, the liming of the moratorium is illogical from an economic perspective. It is
concerning that the County would deter capital investment in a time where it is still recovering
1
from the impacts of pandemic. The County would risk forgoing substantial amounts of
investment from being injected into the economy creating jobs and vital lax revenue. The
industry is a strong contributor to Maui’s economy, providing more than $73 million per year in
slate and local taxes in addition to employment of and income to Maui residents. Additionally,
ARDA-Hawaii and the hotel industry supports the community through charitable donations to
on-island organizations, such as Maui Food Bank, Maui Memorial Medical Center Foundation
and Boys and Girls Club of Maui, among others.
Due consideration should be given to the broader impacts of the proposed measure. We as a
community should consider some sort of resolution that provides our local residents with the
ability to continue to work to provide for their families while at the same time addressing the
impacts of the influx of visitors until Maui can transition to a more diversified economic base. The
proposed moratorium does not offer a form of management, rather
I respectfully ask that you defer this measure and instead convene a task force to address these
concerns in a more meaningful way.
Thank you for your consideration of my comments.
Respectfully submitted,
Ryan Nobriga
Maui Task Force Chair
ARDA Hawaii
2
i®ARDAHi
73
'M Timeshare with morn'-j
June 17,2021
mm ^:oX OTO: Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins- Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members for the Maui County Council
OJC
FR; AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)
RE: Opposition to CC 21-280 ("REFERRING TO THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTERS 19.98 AND 20.41,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI)
(Sent via e-mail to county.clerk@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council,
I am writing in STRONG OPPOSITION to CC 21-280 referring to the Maui Planning
Commission a bill for an ordinance establishing Chapters 19.98 and 20.41, Maui County Code,
declaring a moratorium on new transient accommodations on Maui. CC 21-280 seeks to create
an island wide moratorium through temporarily prohibiting the issuance of any permit under
Title 19. The proposed measure creates multiple concerns that could have broad impacts on
Maui’s economy.
The purpose of the proposed bill is to establish  amoratorium to comply with visitor to resident
ratio specified in chapter 2.80B, Maui Island Plan by pausing the increase of transient
accommodations. However, there is no data to suggest that stopping the development of transient
accommodations will decrease the number of visitors to Maui. It is simple, it won’t. Visitors will
still come to Maui and seek other accommodations even if the supply of lodging units is limited.
The volume of visitors will permeate into the residential neighborhoods of Maui through an
increase in short-term vacation rentals, which are the fastest-growing segment within the visitor
accommodations industry. If the purpose of the bill is to ultimately decrease the visitor count,
perhaps further regulation is needed on the number of legal short-term vacation rental units that
are allowed.
Moreover, the proposed ordinance is intended to mitigate negative impacts on the environment
and residents’ quality of life. Again, there is a lack of data suggesting that a moratorium will
substantially reduce the negative impacts on the environment or residents. It is concerning that
1
such a broad and inflexible policy would be implemented without first establishing transient
accommodations as the primary cause of these negative impacts.
Furthermore, the timing of the moratorium is illogical from an economic perspective. It is
concerning that the County would deter capital investment in a time where it is still recovering
from the pandemic. The County would risk forgoing substantial amounts of investment from
being injected into the economy creating jobs and vital lax revenue. For example, the timeshare
industry is currently a strong contributor to Maui’s economy, providing more than $73 million
per year in stale and local taxes in addition to employment of and income to Maui residents.
The proposed ordinance would enact a moratorium to “maintain the status quo” while the County
establishes a Tourism Management Temporary Investigative Group (“TIG”) to study and enact
legislation to belter manage tourism industry’s impact on the environment and residents' quality
of life. However, given the potential negative economic impacts, there is no reason why the TIG
cannot be conducted while the industry continues to operate and invest in Maui. It would be
unnecessary to implement a policy prohibiting economic growth, posing significant risk to
Maui’s economy, without first obtaining information to better manage the industry. Instead, the
TIG, in collaboration with the tourism industry, should address the Council’s concerns prior to
the moratorium in order to prevent causing unnecessary harm to Maui’s fragile economy
recovering from the pandemic.
Further, as (a member of/chair) of ARDA-Hawaii, which represents the vacation ownership and
resort development industries in Hawaii, I’m surprised that the County would want to stop
timeshare visitors from coming to Maui. The timeshare visitor has the exact profile of the type of
visitor that we should welcome with higher income levels, more spending off property in
restaurants and local stores, and are more likely to take care of their property, which for most is a
home away from home, as they are owners, not transients. We should be mindful that the
timeshare industry could be part of the solution.
Due consideration should be given to the broader impacts of the proposed measure. We as a
community should consider a resolution that provides our local residents with the ability to
continue to work to provide for their families while at the same time addressing the impacts of the
influx of visitors until Maui can transition to a more diversified economic base.
I respectfully ask that you defer this measure and instead convene a task force to address these
concerns in a more meaningful way.
Thank you for your consideration of my comments.
Respectfully submitted.
Ryan Nobriga
Maui Task Force Chair
ARDA Hawaii
2
Count^Oerk
Andrea Perkins <reiserperkins@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 16, 2021 10:19 PM
County Clerk
In support of the moratorium on building more resorts
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha Committee Chair King and Councilmembers,
Km writing to express my solid support for placing a 2-year moratorium on the issuing of new resort building permits.
My husband and I have lived in Maui for 12 years. He is a physician with Maui Memorial. I work for a local nonprofit. We
love living here, own our home, and are part of a wonderful community, but the recent dramatic increase in tourism has
made us wonder how sustainable it is to continue living here. Tourism on this scale affects our daily quality of life
significantly. We've already given up on being able to enjoy our favorite beaches, hikes, and eateries without fighting
throngs of tourists, nor do we feel like we can even drive to work safely what with the ever increasing bike tours (my
husband has seen many victims of these tours end up in the emergency room). It's also worth pointing out that my
husband's already stressful job is made doubly so by the strain visitors put on our small health care system. I honestly
can't imagine more tourists than what we're already dealing with. Please reconsider favoring industrial tourism over the
needs of the people who call Maui home.
Thank you for your time and all the work many of you are doing to protect this special place.
Andrea Reiser Perkins
808-283-5201
2^O T1
C'TI
■im
;omo-< moo <T1
mm H
;o:r a07
●o
1
Count^Oeij< REClIVCD
2BZI JUN 15 WKM2
From:
Sent:
Judya <kuulei7@comcast.net>
Monday, June 14, 2021 11:42 PM
County Clerk
Over excessive tourism
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I am just buying to stop off a building Kihei and Wailea. When is enough already? There are too many hotels already.
Every time I drive by the old Maui Prince I want to cry. Stop building and concentrate on making other options of
industry on Maui. There are very few residents on maui that want more hotels if any. Why does the council keep
allowing it?
Please focus on other industries other then tourism and overdevelopment options.
Judy Pokipala
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEIVED
ZOZI JUN 18 AH 8:21
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
June 18, 2021
Council of the County of Maui
RE: MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS (CR 21-39)
Hearing date and time: Friday, June 18, 2021 at 9:00 a.m.
Aloha Chair and Council Members,
I am Co-Founder of the Hawaii chapter of 350.org, the largest international organization dedicated to
fighting climate change. 350Hawaii.org supports the proposed moratorium on building permits for
visitor accommodations. This proposed bill would amend the building code to place a moratorium on
visitor accommodations development in West and South Maui, an action which would help ensure the
County stays on track to implement critical plan action items relating to the visitor-industry impact on
the County's environment. By doing so, this bill would help preserve the County's environment and
efforts towards climate change mitigation and resilience-building.
Earlier this year the State Legislature followed Maui County's lead and officially declared a Climate
Emergency for Hawaii. But it is not enough to acknowledge the crisis we face, meaningful actions to
address the climate crisis must be taken. This moratorium would do just that by providing the County
with clear policy direction to mitigate climate change and work toward resilience.
This proposed bill addresses an issue that is very important to the community. We strongly encourage
the Council continue to keep this policy conversation open to the public and not discuss the bill in
closed session.
Mahalo for the opportunity to testify in support of the proposed moratorium on building permits for
visitor accommodations.
Sherry Pollack, Co-Founder, 350Hawaii.org
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Carole Sarra <csarra47@gmail.com>
Thursday, June 17, 2021 6:29 AM
County Clerk
Support for moratorium of tourist accomodation
To:
Subject:
We support a moratorium on tourism infrastructure of all kinds.
We own a home and live full time in Kihei. We pay taxes and support the local businesses on a year round basis.
The town is overwhelmed with tourist! Kihei Road is always congested and the beaches are so crowded we rarely go any
more. I feel like I am living in an amusement park! The Pilani"i Highway is so crowded with cars that  Ioften have to sit
through more than one change of the street light to get to the shopping center. Also tourist don't respect our speed
limits.
We can have a healthy economy without the invasion of tourist who mostly support the food trucks lining the roads and
Costco.
Tourism does not support the overall economy. They don't hire the plumber to fix a leak or a contractor to remodel the
kitchen. They don't buy furniture or carpeting to up grade their home. They don't buy plants at Kihana Nursery or
supplies at Ace Hardware. They don't support the non-profits that need contributions to exist. I can guarantee you that
we full time residents contribute much more to the economy than the part time tourist do. The "hospitality industry"
mostly supports the minimum wage service workers, which becomes a trap that is difficult to rise above. These workers
can't even afford housing without out taking in room mates. It is a sad situation when you put your own residents at the
bottom of your priorities.
We must protect our oceans and sea life from pollution which is aggravated by the thousands of people covering
themselves in sun screen harmful to the environment. We must protect our wildlife and native plants from robbing
them of their habitat. We must protect the culture of our native people. We must protect our air from the pollution of
exhaust from too many cars and our evenings from the light pollution of hotels and businesses trying to attract
attention.
Please do the right thing and address these problems by putting a moratorium in place!
Respectfully yours,
Carole Sarra
82 Kuli Puu St.
Kihei
OOO-n 73
mO
-< moo <
mm -H «●3DX
;^m avn
1
Countj/^leH< . v' C D
m\ JUN 15 M to 42
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
,/ 1
Bart Smith <northshoreroadxxx(a)gmail.com>
Monday, June 14, 2021 8:13 PM
County Clerk
Moratorium on New Hotels
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Dear Council Members
There is a breaking point whereIf you build them they will come.I support a moratorium on building more hotels,
there is too much of a good thing and I believe we are at that point.
I support a quality of experience for tourists and residences and when there is too much traffic, no parking, and hot
spots over crowded the whole experience is degraded.
For those reasons I believe we should permanently stop permitting new tourist hotels.
Sincerely,
Robert B. Smith
Maui Meadows, Kihei
1
received
20ZI JUfJ 17 PH 12: 56
office of the
COUNTY CLERK
June 17.2021
VIA EMAIL AND ONLINE SUBMISSION
Chair Alice Lee and Members of the Maui County Council
County of Maui
One Main Plaza
2200 Main Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Testimony Concerning MORA TORIUM ON VISITOR
ACCOMMODATIONS DEVELOPMENT: Separate Bills introduced by
(i) Councilmemher Kelly King (CR 21-239) and (ii) Councilniemher and
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez (CC 21-280) (collectively,
the ''Moratorium Bills’)
Re:
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony concerning the above-referenced
Moratorium Bills. My name is Matthew Sparks, and  1am Chief Development Officer of Hilton
Grand Vacations {''HGV'). As members of the Council may know, HGV is the owner of the Maui
Bay Villas resort presently underway in Kihei, located on the site of the original “Maui Lu“ rcsott.
We write to express our opposition to the Moratorium Bills.
We acknowledge that the two Moratorium Bills before the Council are not identical.
Nevertheless, subject to certain exceptions, the Moratorium Bills both seek to stop development
of visitor accommodations for a period of two years, or. in the case of CR 21-239, until the West
Maui and South Maui community plans have been updated, whichever occurs first.
The Moratorium Bills claim that their purpose is to stop the increase of carbon-emissions
levels, mitigate climate-change impacts, and limit the rate of global warming by pausing visitor
accommodation development and the related increase in tourism. While we applaud the desire to
preserve our environment, we do not believe that the Moratorium Bills are an appropriate means
to obtain the desired protection. The Moratorium Bills provide no documentation, scientific studies
or other evidence that would suggest a moratorium on visitor accommodations will actually lower
carbon emissions, mitigate climate change impacts, or improve quality of life for residents. We
also believe there are a number of legal problems with the Moratorium Bills. Finally, the
Moratorium Bills would be harmful to the visitor and construction industries, which are just now
beginning to recover from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Accordingly, we respectfully request that the Moratorium Bills be deferred to allow time
to better research the issue, consider the broader negative impacts the Moratorium Bills could have,
and explore more collaborative ways to address environmental concerns in a meaningful way.
2443513
Maui County Council
June 17,202!
Page 2 of2
Thank you for your consideration and the opportunity to provide this testimony.
Very truly yours.
Matthew Sparks
Count^^lerk
Larry Stevens <lfstevens@earthlink.net>
Friday, June 18, 2021 8:25 AM
County Clerk
Accommodations moratorium
From:
Sent: 70ZI JUN 18 AH &27To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Councilmembers:
Please allow the public to observe the discussions on the accommodations moratorium bill. This is an important subject
of broad public interest.
Maui is once again overwhelmed by visitors, while we lack the necessary infrastructure to protect our islands and our
residents from the inevitable wear and tear that they bring with them. This also compromises the visitor experience. We
must look for ways to restore the balance, so that visitors and residents alike can properly experience the wonders of
Maui.
Larry
1
CountyClerk
Sara tekula <spectekula@gmail.com>
Thursday, June 17, 2021 11:09 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Gabe Johnson; Keani N. Rawlins; Kelly King; Mike J. Molina;
Shane M. Sinenci; Tamara A. Paltin; Tasha A. Kama; Yukilei Sugimura
TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS MORATORIUM
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha ma kakou,
I’m a 17 year Maui resident and I reside in Makawao. I am testifying as a private citizen in strong support of the
moratorium on new building permits for visitor accommodations.
I’d like to start with just a quick observation, in case it’s not obvious. It's interesting to me that I have barely seen any
person testify as a private citizen who is in opposition to this moratorium. The only folks who have showed up in
opposition so far are tourism industry accommodation lobbyists and hotel general managers testifying on behalf of
their corporations. Regardless of what the corporate tourism sector says, which is entirely predictable from their
biases, we can clearly see that there is overwhelming support for the moratorium from our broader Maui community.
The people of Maui are fed up. Including me. While I used to enjoy regular time at the beach with my family on a
weekend, now I become distraught as I realize that I won't be able to find a bit of sandy shoreline that isn't crowded
with tourists and with overflowing parking. I end up staying at home, and that makes me sad.
I keep asking myself lately, "what do we have left that is just for us, the citizens of Maui who are paying taxes and
working harder and harder, two and three jobs, to afford the higher and higher costs of living?" We need to have
space outdoors to breathe during our time off and rest for our mental health-especially after the year we've had-and
those spaces for us are becoming few and far between. It seems the priority is to ensure that the VACATIONERS
have this access to time and space on Maui. For us, we are getting squeezed out from every single direction.
Together, we must find a way to ensure that we as  acommunity can breathe, and you as decision makers can make
room to work with the community to make wise, responsive decisions. A moratorium could grant us this opportunity.
The testimony I saw from the carpenter's union at  arecent committee meeting gave me pause; the gentleman that
was testifying on the union's behalf admitted that they need continual, non-stop growth in the hotel sector so they
can continue getting their 'luxury high end jobs" to install marble tile and such. We cannot have growth without
limits.
If we have continual growth like that, going unchecked and with no plan but to keep allowing more, 1 don't have to be
a mathematician to add it up: more visitor accommodations equals more jet fuel, more shipping, more rental cars
burning fossil fuels, more emissions and pollution, fewer fish in the reefs, more water leaving our streams and wells
to support fake waterfalls and flushing toilets in resorts, and less space for our families to enjoy the place that we
love and support with our hard work and taxes. Not to mention the impacts on our fragile island ecosystems, both on
land and in the water.
It’s nearly impossible to drive the Hana Highway now with the numbers we have now, with tourists cars blatantly
blocking the road making it impassible. How will we handle hundreds, if not thousands more tourists? Is the County
not committed to sustainability? Don't we need to figure out a plan before we open the floodgates?
Have we thought about visitors' impacts on waste streams, air quality, water quality? Do we need to study them
more closely? The moratorium would create that opportunity for us to work together to get a clear picture, and put a
pause on the potential for harm until we know more. It seems like a no-brainer, honestly. The moratorium is
temporary. The harm of unchecked tourism growth is permanent.
A moratorium on visitor accommodations would give the Council and other leaders in our community an opportunity
to further clarify how to alleviate the pressures and vulnerabilities created by over tourism, without allowing
unchecked growth to continue. We need to pass this now, so we can address the issues immediately before
everyone and their mother submits a building permit. Please do not delay, because it is already too late.
Furthermore, the moratorium on visitor accommodations must apply to the entire island, not just West and South
Maui. Otherwise, visitor accommodations will be proposed in other communities outside of West and South Maui,
which we do not want.
Please, when you deliberate about this as council members, do not go into executive session. Please allow the
community to hear your thoughts and understand your decision making process.
Mahalo for hearing our voices today, mahalo for thinking of what our community of hard working families truly
needs, not just what the lobbyists and their industries want.
Sara Tekula Makawao, HI
1
R E C EIV t D
/S?l JUM 17 AM Ii-- 12
OFFif>: OF
COUNTY CLERK
T HrHe ali'i ka 'aina, he kauwa ke kanaka
The land is the chief, man is its servant
f ' t
2
Countj^£le^ ncoL.'vcB-
2021 JUH 15 H) 28Pamela Beagle <pbeaglelandscapes@ic!oud.com>
Tuesday, June 15, 2021 2:16 PM
County Clerk
Moratorium on hotels
From;
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I fully agree that we already have enough hotels. The temporary break from too much traffic as well as locals wanting
restaurant reservations and now unable to get them due to large numbers of tourists. The reason Maui is popular is
because it is NOT overbuilt.
Mahalo
Paul and Pamela van horn-beagle
Kula, Hawaii
808.866.8602
1
RFPfiivCD
Jl/N (7 jiH 7: 59
office of thf
COUNTY clerk
Count^CleHc
Madolin Wells <madolin@fivesenseshealing.com>
Wednesday, June 16, 2021 5:53 PM
County Clerk
Please Support CARES-50 Moratorium
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha Committee Chair King and Councilmembers,
I'm writing to express my gratitude to Kelly King and Keani Rawlins-Fernandez for their much-needed related proposals
placing a 2-year pause on permitting new resort building. I urge Council Members to send Vice Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez's proposal on to the Planning Commission without delay.
Our island is overwhelmed by tourism. Residents are saddened, frustrated, angry, upset. They feel betrayed by the
policy-makers whose job it is to protect the health and safety of Maui and are failing to do so.
Though our decision-makers may feel that the economic health of Maui justifies enabling what is essentially an addiction
to over-tourism, the very opposite is true. Maui's economy is desperately in need of diversified income rather than
"mono-economy." The revenue generated by tourism Increases the widening wealth gap. While some hotel workers are
paid a living wage, many are not.
Over-tourism provides profits to corporate interests without requiring their fair contribution to infrastructure. Instead,
the tourist economy here wears down roads, costs emergency services of fire and police and medical workers that are
paid out of the county budget, it causes destruction of reefs and interferes with wildlife, including dolphins, sharks, and
whales. Visitors are not appropriately schooled on what is permissible, let alone what is pono. Visitors crowd out locals
from enjoying their favorite eateries because they literally cannot get a seat at the table (or in the take-out line). Over
tourism usurps resident access to public beaches that belong to the county and state.
Over-tourism focuses on building out development for the super-rich and luxury resorts rather than critically needed
affordable housing, without which life-long Maui residents are being forced off their island home, or into homelessness.
Loss of each younger generation to the mainland for better job opportunities was one of the key factors that prompted
Hawai'i to develop tourism as a major industry back in the 1960's. Now over-tourism is causing the loss of young people
once again - and older people too, because it's too expensive to live here.
Our leaders are failing in their responsibility to protect Maui's health and safety.
Most cases of the Brazil P.l variant of Covid-19  -which is more contagious and more resistant to antibodies - have been
coming in to Maui - 22 vs 13 into O'ahu as of 5/27/21. {https://www.mauinews.eom/news/local-news/2021/05/most-
hawaii-cases-of-brazil-variant-found-in-maui-county/. The Delta variant from India is more contagious than previous
strains and may cause more severe illness. By the time it had reached America, it was already causing an uptick in case
counts after 6 months of cases falling rates, even though it comprised only 6% of all US cases. But in no time at all, the
Delta variant is already in Hawai'i. (https://www.staradvertiser.eom/2021/06/14/breaking-news/delta-coronavirus-
variant-which-may-cause-more-severe-illness-detected-in-hawaii/). See also
https://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/doh-news-release-hawaii-department-of-health-laboratory-detects-delta-
variant-in-hawaii/
Recently eliminating post-tests that provide a truer picture than pre-tests, and now lifting all restrictions without
utilizing the possibility of vaccine passports, continues to endanger Maui's people.
1
Back in April of 2020, the Governor inaugurated a "Hawai'i Economic and Community Recovery & Resiliency Plan" led by
Alan Oshima as "Economic and Community Navigator." A group appointed by The Commission on the Status of Women
was designated to devise "A Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for COVID-19." It seemed that well-considered, innovative
plans were forthcoming from both committees. What happened to those plans? Did they submit their hard work and
ideas and simply get Ignored? Meanwhile the heavy toll of over-tourism continues to grind down Maui and all
inhabitants, human and otherwise.
It's high time to take that step back that we were all promised.
Respectfully yours.
Madolin Wells, Kihei
2
REC rr \{ VED
m\ JUN 17 PH 4: 31
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSTATE OF HAWAII
STATE CAPITOL
HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813
June 17, 2021
Council Chair Alice L. Lee
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama
Councilmember Gabe Johnson
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
Councilmember Mike Molina
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Councilmember Shane SinencI
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura
Re: Supporting CR 21-39 BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE TO ADD
CHAPTER 40 RELATING TO A MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR
ACCOMMODATIONS
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, & Honorable Council Members
Please accept this correspondence as testimony in support of Councilmember King's bill, CR 21-
39, a bill for an ordinance amending the building code to add chapter 40 relating to a
moratorium on building permits for visitor accommodations.
I recently sent a survey to South Maui constituents, asking "Do you support a moratorium on
luxury development in South Maui?" An overwhelming majority 81.4% responded YES. While my
question was narrowed to only luxury development, it is clear from the comments they included
{pasted below) that the prevailing sentiment is that we need a moratorium on all visitor
accommodation development, and better tourism management:
//Please help control over tourism. The overall traffic congestion, over building and just
about over everything on Maui is truly getting out of control. The road to Hana is also
another nightmare and a disaster waiting to happen.
I support a moratorium on vacation rentals, including hotels, to help stop the ever-
increasing amount of tourists coming to Maui.
"Moratorium on any hotel, and condo etc. More affordable homes, we don't need
anymore luxury development."
moratorium on resort and condo development
Definitely need a moratorium
Limiting the number of tourists visiting our island causing overcrowding on roads,
stores, trails and beaches.
//
ft
a
//
n
Office of Representative Tina Wildberger
Proudly serving the 11"' House District
415 S. Beretania St. Honolulu, HI 96813, Room 327
Phone: 808.586.8525 | Fax; 808.586.8529 | email: repwildberger@capitol.hawaii.gov
//stop overtourism and all development including housing!"
reducing tourism for the subsequent destruction of our ocean environment.
Too much tourism"
Diversifying away from tourism, hospitality, we need higher 21st century jobs!"
Managing/reducing tourism, limiting the expansion of more tourism development and
high-end real estate development, creating affordable housing, creating sustainable jobs
not dependent on tourism."
Permanently prohibit any further hotels or additions to hotels or any short term rentals
in S. Maui,
eliminate dependence on tourism"
UNNECESSARY DEVELOPMENT!! Why do we continuously allow non residents drive out
locals???? I am born and raised here and all I can afford is a tiny condo? Doesn't make
sense to me. Also we DO NOT NEED ANYMORE HOTELS. NO MORE "AIRBNB" NO MORE
BED AND BREAKFASTS.
Better management of tourism impacts on beaches and infrastructure. No new or
additions to hotels.
Over development of south Maui especially just to make developers rich!
Over tourism and limiting rental car availability
capping # of tourist entering Maui, too much hotel building
Overbuilding / The traffic is a problem and they continue to allow more expensive
condos.
Please, stop any more development in Makena.
I think the continued development of the tourism industry and real estate properties
are only propagating the cycle of disrespect for native culture and land, and will make it
harder and harder for people who live on regular budgets to remain here. I also think
without out thoughtful care, Maui could end up looking like Waikiki one day, and this
would be a true shame."
"There has to be a limit in tourism. We talk talk talk about it but never do anything
about providing other ways to support the economy. There has to be a balance between
fun for tourists and quality of life for kamaaina.
n
tt
u
u
ft
t! tt
tt tt
tt tt
tt
tt
it
tt
Mahalo,
Representative Tina Wildberger
House District 11 - South Maui
Kihei ● Wailea ● Makena
Office of Representative Tina Wildberger
Proudly serving the 1 House District
415 S. Beretania St. Honolulu, HI 96813, Room 327
Phone: 808.586.8525 | Fax: 808.586.8529 | email: repwildberger@capitol.hawaii.gov
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Yun, Jasper (KEA) <Jasper.Yun@Faimnont.com>
Thursday, June 17, 2021 3:06 PM
County Clerk
FW: Visitor Accommodation Moratorium
RECEIVED
Z02I JUN 17 PH > 20
To;
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKAloha Maui County Council,
I believe that the Visitor Accommodation Moratorium will not resolve the issue that Is concerning a local
residents. As a long time-Maui resident, I think it important to go after the illegal short-term rentals as they directly
impact the community versus creating a moratorium for hotels that help employ our residents & give back to the
community. Mahalo
JASPER YUN
AREA GROUP SALES MANAGER
T + 808 875 2228
F + 808 875 2247
iasDer.vun@fairmont.com
www.fairmont-kea-lani.com
www.fairmontorchid.com
Kea Lani O ' O Orchid O ' O
100% FlEXIBLE
MEETINGS
tnMaoi
MEET WELL
GIVE BACKM/towaf-f
'1-.
Think before you print. Help us reduce our environmental impact
This e-mail, any attachments and the information contained therein ("this message") are confidential and
intended solely for the use of the addressee(s). If you have received this message in error please send it back
to the sender and delete it. Unauthorized publication, use, dissemination or disclosure of this message, either
in whole or in part is strictly prohibited.
Ce message electronique et tous les fichiers joints ainsi que les informations contenues dans ce message (ci
apres "le message"), sont confidentiels et destines exclusivement a I'usage de la personne a laquelle ils sont
adresses. Si vous avez recu ce message par erreur, merci de le renvoyer a son emetteur et de le detruire.
Toute diffusion, publication, totale ou partielle on divulgation sous quelque forme que ce soit non
expressement autorisees de ce message, sont interdites.
This e-mail, any attachments and the information contained therein ("this message") are confidential and
intended solely for the use of the addressee(s). If you have received this message in error please send it back
1
to the sender and delete it. Unauthorized publication, use, dissemination or disclosure of this message, either
in whole or in part is strictly prohibited.
Ce message electronique et tous les fichiers joints ainsi que les informations contenues dans ce message (ci
apres "le message"), sont confidentiels et destines exclusivemcnt a I'usage de la personne a laquelle ils sont
adresses. Si vous avez recu ce message par erreur, merci de le renvoyer a son emetteur et de le detruire.
Toute diffusion, publication, totale ou partielle ou divulgation sous quelque forme que ce soit non
expressement autorisees de ce message, sont interdites.
2