MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Public Hearing | 2021-11-18
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1519,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MiNUIES
of the
PUBLIC HEARING HELD ON
NOVEMBER 18, 2021
THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII. CONVENED A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2021 AT 6:00 P.M., VIA BLUEJEANS, WITH
CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING, FOR THE PURPOSE OF RECEIVING TESTIMONY ON
A PROPOSED BILL ENTITLED 'A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION
2.80B.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY
PLAN".
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council public hearing for the West Maui Community Plan
update please come to order. We have music now and we'll have dancing a little later.
Okay, may we have the roll call. But before we begin, there are a couple of Members
who will be popping up very soon as, like Member Keani Rawlins-Fernandez. Are you
going to enter now or in a few minutes. Okay, okay. So let's get started. The greeting
folks is aloha ‘ahlahi, that means good evening to everyone.
So may we roll call. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Aloha ‘ahiahi. Chair. Proceeding with roll call. In
accordance with the Governor's most recent emergency proclamation related to the
COVID-19 response, Members should state who, if anyone, is present with them as
part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinencl.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha ‘ahiahi kakou my Maui hikina. I'm here at home alone.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 2
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha ‘ahiahi, Madam Chair, my colleagues and everyone else
joining us for our public hearing this evening. For the record I'm like my colleague
Mr. Sinenci, 1 am home alone here in Makawao. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good evening, Chair. Good evening, Councilmembers and
community members. Aloha ‘ahiahi. 1 am in the 8th floor of the County Building all by
myself.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha‘ahiahi. 1 am home in Napili and right now I'm alone. But
my husband went to go pickup the kids from the bus stop, so when he comes back, it'll
be me, my two kids, my two dogs, and I'm in the kitchen.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Aloha‘ahiahi. Good evening everybody from Kula. And
there's nobody on this floor by me so we're all by myself. Looking forward to a good
public hearing.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Tern Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Aloha ‘ahiahi. Chair. Can you hear me okay.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 3
CHAIR LEE: Yes. yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, I, I'm currently in my car at the Lanikeha
Community Center, just finished a workshop here and then I will be home shortly. So
my video will be off for about ten to fifteen minutes, but I'll be listening. That's where
I’m located and I think that's everything. Mahaio, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. aloha.
COUNTY CLERK; And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha everyone. I am in Wailuku in my home office and by myself for the time
being. My, my dog Koa is about maybe seven feet away.
Madam Clerk.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS GABRIEL JOHNSON. MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, SHANE M. SINENCI,
YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR KEANl N.W. RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
COUNCILMEMBERS NATALIE A. KAMA AND KELLY T. KING.EXCUSED:
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are seven Members present, two Members excused, and zero
Members absent. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am County Clerk Kathy Kaohu. And also present from the Office of
the County Clerk are Deputy County Clerk James Krueger; and Legislative Division
staff Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, and a representative from the Corporation Counsel's Office will be on call
tonight. Members, the purpose of this public hearing Is to receive testimony on the
proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION
2.SOB.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI
COMMUNITY PLAN".
As a reminder, we are required by Section 2.80B.090D of the Maui County Code, to
hold a public hearing on this bill before we can consider approving it. This public
hearing serves as the public hearing for the West Maui Community Plan Area.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 4
Before we proceed with testimony, I ask that everyone please keep their microphones
muted, unless it is your time to speak. Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
Ms. Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony. Members of the
public may testify by connecting to the Council's online public hearing by phone or
video conference through the information posted on today's public hearing notice.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
videos and microphones off and should turn them on when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the proposed bill posted on today's hearing notice. And
individuals may testify for three, up to three minutes. When testifying, please state
your name and the name of any organization you represent. Please also identify to
the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans as the
remainder of the public hearing can be viewed on Akaku: Maui Community Media or
on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the public
hearing at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, our first person to testify is Joseph Pluta. To be followed by Donna Clayton.
CHAIR LEE: Joe, are you there?
PRESENTATION OF TESTIMONY
MR. JOSEPH PLUTA:
Yes I am and I'm trying to un, to get my video going here. Let's see, there it is. I
believe, there I am, okay, thank you. My name is Joseph Pluta, I'm the, here as the
President of West Maui Taxpayers Association. And  Ithank you very much for this
opportunity to testify. In order to make sure I don't go over my time. I'm going to read
from my little list here so I don't waste my time and yours.
The West Maui Taxpayers Association conducted a survey to be used as a tool for
consideration by the Maui County Council who was currently reviewing the West Maui
Community Plan. There seems to be major conflicting elements in the current draft
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 5
with the Maui Island Plan and to areas where housing could be located, and as such
deserves to be really carefully explored and reviewed. Inconsistencies with the Maui
Island Plan and the Ka‘anapali 2020 community planning effort are also of a concern
to me and potentially subject to unnecessary and unwanted litigation at the expense
of Maui taxpayers.
For example the West Maui Community Plan draft currently proposes changes in land
use designations for approximately a hundred acres in the Kaanapali South area for
parks and open space, and a hundred acres for agriculture where the Ka‘anapali 2020
community plan and island plan envisions residential and mixed use development.
As an initial founding member of the Ka'anapali 2020 community planning group, I
participated in monthly meetings for over 20 years, once a month or more than that for
20 year . . . the Ka'anapali 2020 team. This was an award winning plan and key
stakeholders in the West Maui Community Plan who participated with me were my
good friends Ed Lindsey, May Fujiwara, Buck Buchanan, Star Medeiros, Eve Clute,
and A. James Wriston III. I'm mentioning those names because they're just, they are
now deceased. There's many more members who are still alive that participated, but
they are now deceased, they left this world thinking that the Ka'anapali 2020 plan as
incorporated into the Maui Island Plan was going to be respected.
The West Maui Community Plan draft disrespects the legacies of these community
members who were devoted to serving the West Maui community and that's not
acceptable to me.
The survey, interestingly enough had 48 percent of the respondents indicated that they
had never even heard of the West Maui Community Plan. The West Maui Community
Plan draft eliminates hundreds of acres of housing in areas of Launiupoko and Olowalu
where approximately half the survey participants indicated they would like to live.
That's also seems nonacceptable. This survey was developed by the West Maui
Stakeholders and the West Maui Taxpayers Board, and facilitated in synergy with the
Maui Chamber of Commerce survey platforms and easily accessible via the internet.
It can be viewed with its results on our West Maui Taxpayers website at
www.westmaui.org.
So I have submitted written testimony to this, the community plan and information
about it was posted and sent to the Council, the Planning Committee. Also on the
newspaper, the Maui News, Lahaina News, and we've done our best to try to get
people involved. We appreciate the Council's taking a look at these issues, we're, we
know that you've got lots of things to do, affordable housing is.
That's not me, I don't believe. I'm sorry, does that, does that mean my times up? Hello.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 6
CHAIR LEE; Can you conclude, can you conclude please.
MR. PLUTA: Yeah, I can conclude right now. So thank you very much, there's a lot testifiers,
I appreciate you taking the time to do this and looks like you're going to have a lot of
information to digest. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members are there any questions for Mr. Pluta. If not, thank you
Joe.
Oh, one question. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Pluta for your testimony. I
just was wondering if you could share with us how the survey was funded.
MR. PLUTA: How was the survey funded? We got donations from people to go towards the
cost of paying for the survey.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, I have a question.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Pluta, mahalo for your
testimony this evening. I, I, during Committee I don't remember asking this question
so 1, I figure I just take advantage of this time now. In your planning meetings,
Ka'anapali 2020, did you folks account for sea level rise and climate change when,
when establishing that plan.
MR. PLUTA; You know, I, it's a great question, I don't recall us spending any great deal of
time talking about that. No.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo for your response. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any more questions? If not, thank you very much.
MR. PLUTA: Thank you very much. God bless you and have a great evening.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 7
CHAIR LEE; You too.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Donna Clayton. To be followed by Howard
Hanzawa.
MS. DONNA CLAYTON;
Aloha, I'm Donna Clayton. I'm with Na Ala Hele Maui Council and also the West Maui
Greenway Alliance. I would like to testify on the acceptance of the draft West Maui
Community Plan. I first would like to say that this huge undertaking was a joy to be a
part of as the work with the community was handled so well and our get togethers were
engaging, collaborative, and fun.
I am in support of accepting the draft West Maui Community Plan with the following
addition I would like you to consider;
The West Maui Community Plan states in the Section 4, Implementation and
Monitoring 2.12, to complete the West Maui Greenway multi-use path to provide a safe,
off-road path for walking and bicycling between parks, neighborhoods, and
businesses.
Also. Section 2 requires landowners to evaluate and adjust proposed projects to fit the
community's vision for the future. I feel clarifying wording is needed to avoid conflict in
the, in the future. So I would ask you to please consider adding; "Require new
development, redevelopment, and Chapter 201H, HRS and Chapter 2.97, MCC
housing projects to incorporate the planned West Maui Greenway into their project and
provide right of way for the greenway if the alignment crosses the property."
If something is not required, it can be avoided. The West Maui Greenway is a high
priority in West Maui and part of the West Maui transit corridor design that is in progress
at this time. Once the route is determined, this additional wording will help ensure that
working together, the County, State and community, we can make the West Maui
Greenway a reality. Mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 8
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mr. Howard Hanzawa. To be followed by Joshua
Dean.
MR. HOWARD HANZAWA:
Aloha, Madam Chair and Committee, I'm sorry Councilmembers. My name is Howard
Hanzawa. I retired from Kaanapali Land Management, twenty, oh, I'm sorry, ten years
ago, but I still believe in the process that was done for Ka'anapali 2020.
Mr. Joe Pluta gave a very good overview of Ka'anapali 2020. There was heavy
community participation in the planning of Ka'anapali 2020 for more than two decades
starting in 1999. It's the only project on Maui, and also, the only one in the State of
Hawaii which has had such an extensive involvement by community members in order
to fulfill the needs of future generations. Before then projects were criticized for not
engaging or either informing communities of new developments.
The participants in the first few sessions actually chose the consultants that would help
them in the planning process including the attorney, planners, architects, and
engineers. Active community participants included long time advocates for seniors,
Hawaiian culture. Veterans Affairs, housing, education, hospital and health needs,
traffic flow, recreation and open space. Unfortunately, as Joe had pointed out many of
the, some of the participants have passed on.
Guests included the government officials that spoke about infrastructure needs and
requirements. Meetings probably totaled over 200 over the years. The overall plan
was thoughtfully scripted to fulfill the vision of the general community. Elimination of
any portion of the plan would be a blow to the many years of hard work by the people
involved, and any changes at this point may also make it financially infeasible.
I think there are those that do not realize the extent of the work by the Ka'anapali 2020
community participants. It is too easy today for people to oppose developments of any
kind without thinking about the impact on the needs of the future generations. I think
they should learn about the history of Ka'anapali 2020 and find out how unique it is.
Changing any aspects of the plan that was developed over 20 years would send a
message to future project planners that it is futile to engage the community in planning
because it would not make any difference during the land use process.
Think about that, Ka'anapali 2020 should be held up as an example of how projects
should seek and reflect community ideas and vision. It would not be fair to the
hundreds of participants who gave their manao and over the . . . over the past two
decades. Thank you.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 9
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We have a question for you.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thankyou, Chair. Thankyou, Mr. Hanzawa for your testimony.
MR. HANZAWA: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just, I \wasn't around for all the meetings but I, I just wanted to
clarify, was the plan was to get folks into houses by 2020.
MR. HANZAWA: Well, you know, when it first started in 1999, that's when the, shortly after
the Pioneer Mill closed down, and there were all those vacant lands on the mauka,
mauka of the highway.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, it was a yes or no question, sorry. Was, I mean, I thought
the reason why it was called Ka'anapali 2020 was the plan was people would be living
in the houses in 2020.
MR. HANZAWA: Well here we are twenty something years later, we haven't gotten approval
yet. It’s taken that long. So yes it was, but it's taken much longer than anticipated.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thankyou.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, I have a question.
CHAIR LEE; Yes, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo. Chair. Aloha Mr. Hanzawa, mahalo
for your testimony this evening.
MR. HANZAWA: You're welcome.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I just wanted to clarify, I just wanted to clarify the part
in your testimony, you said that none of the plan, the Ka'anapali 2020 plan should be
changed. Is that still true when we receive new informations, that, such as sea level
rise and climate change and that, so should that be incorporated into land use
decisions.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 10
MR. HANZAWA; Well, you know, all the lands for Ka‘anapali 2020 is mauka of the highway.
With sea level rise, it's going to put a burden on the lands that's closer to the ocean
and we're going to lose lands to housing, commercial needs and other things. So, to
me, it would really put a stress on the community to find additional lands for housing
and that would be mauka of the highway.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I'm sorry, so was that a yes that new information
should be incorporated when they become available to insure that we're operating off
of the most updated information.
MR. HANZAWA: Yes, I believe so.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo, Mr. Hanzawa. Have a nice evening.
Mahalo, Chair.
MR. HANZAWA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any more questions? If not, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Joshua Dean. To be followed by Gary Grube.
MR. JOSHUA DEAN:
Hello, can you hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. DEAN: Hi, aloha. Councilmembers. This is, my name is Joshua Dean and thank you for
your time and the opportunity to testify. Mostly what I'd like to focus on is this conflict
that as a result of this West Maui Community Plan, we have a conflict with what the
Maui Island Plan, which took six years to complete, was finished in 2012.
And I went to a bunch of those meetings and, and there was in that plan designated
places for gro\Arth on west, in West Maui for local families to, to have a home, affordable
and workforce housing. This plan wipes it out. I mean, I've been involved in
construction, involved in housing, affordable housing hundred percent, you know
workforce housing projects and there's a lot of things that need to line up in order for
these things to make sense.
And what this plan does, it, it makes a mockery of all the hard work that went into this
Maui Island Plan that designated potential places for Maui families just like me to own
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 11
a home in West Maui. .. . back in 2012, this plan came out and said we would like the
opportunity to have housing in West Maui. Now in 2021, it erases it off the map with
this West Maui Community Plan. So I want to ask what's changed. Okay, 2012 we
want workforce housing, 2021 we do not. So, what's changed.
Has the prices of homes gone down so that everybody can afford a, everybody who
wants a home, you know, local families can now afford a home. No, that hasn't
changed. What else? Has the demand for workforce housing or affordable housing in
Lahaina changed? No. The only thing that I think has changed is that we've
incorporated planning processes that make a mockery of previous plans.
And, just like what Howard Hanzawa said, that you've put all this work, you have all
this community involvement, alright all these people who want homes who are raising
families, sending kids to school here, school teachers, firemen, all these people taking,
after their long day of work coming to these planning sessions, you know, and then it
just gets erased. So what does that do? Right, to the motivation of these people to
come out to these meetings and testify to say what they want if every time they keep
saying it, everybody knows it. What do people want, they want housing, okay. But,
nothing gets approved.
And now we're taking another step backwards that not only is nothing getting approved,
but it's, nothing can be proposed because they've designated these areas like in Makila
and Olowalu as areas of stability, which means don't even propose an affordable
housing project because it's already denied. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I  keep turning my microphone off because I don't want to cause any
reverberation. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you.
Madam Clerk, next testifier please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mr. Gary Grube. To be followed by Mandy Sato [sic].
MR. GARYGRUBE:
Aloha, Council. Good evening. My name is Gary Grube and I own one of the largest
lots up in Plantation Estates, neighborhood of Kapalua. I purchased that 25 acre empty
lot in 2016 with the intention of building a house, much like the current estate homes
in the neighborhood in that Kapalua Resort. I also had an interest to build a family
farm since we have 25 acres to work with. Ultimately I decided to postpone building
the house to favor developing the family farming operation which is known as Hua
Momona Farms. We've been selling vegetables and microgreens to Maui restaurants
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 12
and consumers for a couple of years. We've also been helping the Maui community
donating our vegetables to those who have food insecurity every week for over the last
12 months.
Farming is not easy, as an innovator and with over 400 patents, as a serial
entrepreneur with many favorable outcomes along the way it is my opinion that small
scale commercial agriculture in the Plantation Estates neighborhood is not
economically feasible. Issues to face head on include poor soil conditions, limited
water supply, gulches, sloping terrain, and high winds.
While our family farm has had some success in this tough environment, we are the
lucky ones with a targe lot at the end of the road that has less of the vegetable crop
inhibiting plastic debris that was left behind from so many years of pineapple farming.
I feel that the current legacy agriculture land designation just won't make the
economics work, and won't attract even one more of the smallest commercial farming
operations to the neighborhood going forward ever. I understand that the Rural
Residential designation was not available when the neighborhood was originally
created. I feel that the designation of Rural Residential best fits the makeup of the
Plantation Estates neighborhood.
It's common sense that others will not build new farms to improve Maui food security
because of the land use designation, especially amongst estate homes in a resort
neighborhood. Correcting the land designation to Rural Residential won't prohibit
anyone from farming but it will recognize what the true nature of the neighborhood is
with a designation that is now available.
I fully support the request from the Plantation Estates Lot Owner's Association to
designate all of Plantation Estates as Rural Residential. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mandy Sato [sic]. To be followed by Chad Fukunaga.
MS. MANDY SAITO:
Hi, can you hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 13
MS. SAITO; Hi, good evening. Thank you for being here tonight. My name is actually Mandy
Saito and I work for Kaanapali Land Management Corp. and I’m here to testify in
support of the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan. I've previously submitted written
testimony as well, please feel free to use the document for reference.
I’m here to ask for reconsideration of the land use designations for the Kaanapali Town
South noted in the current draft West Maui Community Plan. The current draft
designates 200 acres of Kaanapali Town South's agricultural land to Parks/Open
Space and Agriculture, which is not consistent with the Maui Island Plan.
The Maui Island Plan identifies the entire Kaanapali Town area as within the Urban
Growth Boundary, indicating the area as an appropriate location for urban
development. It specifically recognizes the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan area and
identifies it as a part of Maui's direct growth strategy.
The Maui Island Plan serves as the foundation for the community plans. The Maui
County Code 2.808.070 states "The community plan shall implement the general
plan's visions, principals, goals, and policies".
This designation does not, is not consistent with the characterization of Urban Growth
Boundaries, and does not, is not compliant with the Maui Island Plan, and in turn the
Maui County Code. Please reconsider the land use designations for the Kaanapali
Town South and select more appropriate land use designations that align with the
Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan and the intended characteristics of the Urban Growth
Boundaries defined by the Maui Island Plan. If you're not able to change the land use
designations for productive use, please at the very least keep it. keep the existing
designation of Agriculture for future consideration. Thank you again for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? If not, thank. You have a question.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Hi Mandy, thank you for testifying. So you're saying that
the impact of changing this has a large ramifications to the community.
MS. SAITO: Yes it does cause, you know, the Maui, the General Plan is there for, for guideline
and it's identified as an area of directed gro\Arth because of its location to infrastructure
and what is needed for development. So yes, it's  ahuge impact to the future of the
island.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 14
So when you say infrastructure, will, will there beCOUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
infrastructure in place with this new desig-
MS. SAITO: Well if you look at, sorry, continue.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No, go ahead.
MS. SAITO: So if you look at the south area, there is a portion that you know touches the
highway, and that area is designated, it's about  ahundred acres and that's the area
that's Parks/Open Space. So that area is the closest to infrastructure along the
highway which, you know, that's, that's the best opportunity to provide some type of
housing for the future.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you very much, Mandy.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I just was, wanted to clarify your intending
that all of it will be built in the next ten years.
MS. SAITO: No, I'm not. But it is, you know, a directed growth plan. The Maui Island Plan
is not going to say that this is going to be done immediately--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, you answered my question.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions for clarification? If not thank you.
May we have the next testifier. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Chad Fukunaga. To be followed by Roxanne Feiteira.
MR. CHAD FUKUNAGA:
Good evening, Council Chair Alice Lee and Members of the Maui County Council. My
name is Chad Fukunaga, I'm employed by Kaanapali Land Management Corp. I'm
providing testimony in support of Ka'anapali 2020 community master plan. I've been
an active participant of the Ka'anapali 2020 planning for 16 years and have witnessed
the dedication and time many citizens have also given to this process.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 15
The Ka'anapali 2020 planning effort has always been an open and transparent
process. AH community members were and continue to be invited to participate,
regardless of their background or beliefs.
The planning effort has been collaborative and thorough. The Ka'anapali 2020
community group selected their own consultants to guide them in the master planning
effort. They have also met with, and continue to meet with various County and State
agencies, and local politicians to understand infrastructure and regional factors.
The master plan incorporates many community benefits, such as medical facilities:
transportation center, police substation, cultural center, Veteran's memorial park
community centers and gardens, intermixed parks and open spaces, and more.
The Ka'anapali 2020 community group recommends that the community plan land use
designations be consistent with the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan, which would
encourage separate and unique community centers as in, as an intended attribute of
the planning effort.
I submitted a written copy of my testimony and I included an exhibit map of the
preferred land use designations for reference. That same exhibit was shared with other
community members and I also submitted to you 324 signatures of support.
Do you believe that landowners and concerned citizens should work together? If so,
please honor the efforts of the Ka'anapali 2020 community group and adopt the
community plan that reflects the character and ideas of their vision. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Yes, we have one.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Mr. Fukunaga for your testimony this evening. I just
had a question, what has been one of the challenges of manifesting Kaanapali's plan.
Has it been funding infrastructure?
MR. FUKUNAGA: Urn, it's both, So infra, the, the bypass is a major factor. We have an
agreement with the Department of Transportation and we, we've participated in, in the
funding and planning of that, that project. The bypass has not yet reached Kaanapali.
And, and, there's other factors.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members. If not thank you, Mr. Fukunaga.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 16
MR. FUKUNAGA; Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Roxanne Feiteira. To be followed by the testifier
calling in on the last four digits 7693.
MS. ROXANNE FEITEIRA:
I'm here on behalf of my mother BlossomAloha, my name is Roxanne Feiteira.
Feiteira, to provide her testimony. Her testimony is as follows:
Aloha Madam Chair and Members of the Maui County Council. My name is Blossom
Feiteira, I apologize for not presenting my testimony in person and I want to thank you
for the opportunity to speak to the subject matter before you this evening.
As you know the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands have been working with
beneficiaries from West Maui since the property was transferred to the trust in 1996.
For the past two years, beneficiaries again participated in the planning for the
Honokowai area and ... completed the environmental assessment. At whole buildout,
Honokowai will provide approximately 533 single family and multi-family residential
units, and approximately 250 agricultural lots for beneficiaries on the Maui Island
waitlist. With an estimated timeframe of seven years, this development will be well
within the planning timeframe.
As we have worked on the plan, the County of Maui moved forward in updating their
community plan for West Maui. Unfortunately, the timing of both activities and it's
completion did not provide an opportunity for the Honokowai development plan to be
included in the West Maui Community Plan update. As a beneficiary of the Hawaiian
Homes Commission Act, I ask for your support in the inclusion of the Honokowai lands
and its planned development in the West Maui Community Plan update. Your support
of the inclusion in the community plan will be much appreciated. Mahalo for your time
and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, I'm sure you don't have questions, the testifier is not
here. I mean the person who gave the actual testimony. So thank you.
Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 17
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is the caller calling in on 7693. To be followed by Pat
Wong.
CHAIR LEE: 7693.
MR. HANS MICHEL:
Hello, my name is Hans Michel from Lahaina. And my residence is Lahaina for
58 years. I also participation person who . . . helps the Ka'anapali 2020 and I was in
the island plan, and ! was part of the West Maui Community Plan which I do not favor
at all. There was a lot of changes and a lot of thing got done behind somebody's back.
I definitely favor the Ka'anapali 2020 plan . . . Howard Hanzawa has mention it and
Joe Pluta, they have explained it more than plenty good. And the worst part of it is we
still don't have any affordable houses, West Maui cause the County always find a way
to turn things down. Please help us out and have  acloser look. Aloha, Hans Michel
from Lahaina.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members, for clarification. If not, thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Pat Wong. To be followed by Peter Laszlo.
MR. PAT WONG:
Morning, good evening Councilmembers. Appreciate the opportunity to speak to you,
I haven't seen most of you in some time and quite frankly I've never testified before the
body since I left the County. I am here because I represent Peter Martin, my law firm
does, and when I became aware of the language in the West Maui Community Plan,
and I looked at the information in there I became concerned and I felt compelled to
provide you with my thoughts. And you know I did submit written testimony, typically
not the way I would want to have to interact with you, but be that as it may, I think it's
necessary.
You know, I want to echo some of the comments from Josh Dean earlier about, you
know, the existence of and the, of affordable housing in this area. And then specifically
speak to my concerns about the vague terms that are in the West Maui Community,
the proposed West Maui Community Plan. I hope and  Iknow that all of you are doing
a great job and all of you will look very closely at the language in here, specifically,
areas of stability. You know I looked in the definitions, it's just not there and it appears
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 18
to be a sweeping, you know, no development definition. I would hope that you, as you
work through this, will look at those areas of concern that I have and provide clarity. I,
I think eliminating the, the areas of stability and reverting back to what's provided in the
Maui Island Plan, which is consistent with the General Plan is the correct way to go.
I think that you have a hard task. I understand the overall policies and concerns and
the want for open areas and open space. But again you're measuring that against the
lack affordable housing. You know, when you decide this, remember that you're living
in a house that was provided and developed by someone at some point. That, absent
the developers, individuals cannot afford to do it on their own. You really need the
assistance of the people in the community along with the availability of the landowners
and their willingness to come forward and do this. It's not an easy task to do.
Currently the various land use requirements that are in place make it already difficult
to get anything done. Adding vague terms to what's already a very difficult process
only complicates it further. So let's hopefully work towards consistency with the island
plan and the General Plan and remove the vague ambiguous terms, like areas of
stability. And I think if there's one thing you can do is clarify that those areas that have
previously been identified as areas of growth under the Maui Island Plan remain that
way. And you, as a Council have the opportunity to look at those things.
You know, discuss it with Corp. Counsel. Speak to the deputy that's assigned and go
through this plan and try to identify for yourself where are the conflicts between this
plan and the Maui Island Plan and the General Plan. Why is it that, you know, this plan
is in such conflict and are you going to allow that to occur. It's up to you, it's your
decision. You can certainly disregard everything that I've said and, and move forward
and adopt the, you know, the vague definitions. I mean there are no definitions, you
could certainly help by trying to define what, what is an area of stability. My quick read
of it is, it's plainly no growth. And that's unfortunate. It's unfortunate because people
really do need places to live here.
You know, I did submit written testimony, I offer that you, you know, look at it. I will
continue to monitor this and hopefully we can work through this process and, you know
encourage, rather than discourage the use of 201H in these areas of stability that's
been identified. Unless there's any questions, I don't have any further comment aside
from what I've already said. Thank you very much for this opportunity and I look
forward to seeing ail of you again. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Wong. Any questions, Members. If not, thank you again.
Oh, Member Sugimura has a question.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 19
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I just want to say good to see you. Thank you, Pat.
MR. WONG: Nice to see you too. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions or comments? Okay, thank you.
Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier please
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Peter Laszlo. To be followed by Elle Cochran.
CHAIR LEE: I believe you're muted.
MR. PETER LASZLO:
Let's see.
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you now.
MR. LASZLO: Okay, I apologize for that, I'll start again. Aloha, Council Chair Lee and
Councilmembers. My name is Peter Laszlo, and I am the President of Kapalua Resort
Association, which is the master resort community association for the Kapalua Resort.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify this evening. The Kapalua Resort Association
includes ten residential communities, along with the two Kapalua Resort hotels and
other commercial resort area amenities.
I am testifying tonight to support the Plantation Estates in their desire to change their
land use designation from Agricultural to Rural Residential. Prior to the development
of Plantation Estates, back in the 1980's I would definitely say that the land looked a
lot like what the West Maui Community Plan describes as agriculture. Since 1990 and
the development of the Plantation Estates neighborhood, the subdivision is a large lot
residential neighborhood with estates, some family farms, and is very rural in character.
The example pictures and description of what constitutes as Rural Residential in the
West Maui Community Plan fits this neighborhood group.
Plantation Estates neighborhood has been involved in the process of seeking to amend
their land use designation since the update to the General Plan and Maui Island Plan.
They recognize early on that their neighborhood here is rural and not agricultural, and
would like to be acknowledged as such. Since the rural zoning ordinance came about
in 1997, the appropriate way to go about seeking this change is first through the Maui
Island Plan, which did recognize the entirety of the neighborhood as falling within the
rural growth boundary, then the community plan.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 20
As mentioned earlier, the West Maui Community Plan land use designation description
of Rural Residential fits exactly \A/hat the Plantation Estates neighborhood is. Further,
the Plantation Estates maintain their own roadways, and provide for many other
services that are commonly paid for by public monies. Kapalua Resort Association
supports the Plantation Estates efforts to be recognized as a Rural Residential
neighborhood. It would be consistent with the Maui Island Plan, the definitions within
the West Maui plan and with their neighborhood being part of the Kapalua Resort.
Mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier please. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Elle Cochran. To be followed by David Gomes.
MS. ELLE COCHRAN:
Can you hear me? Can you see me? Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, aloha.
MS. COCHRAN; Hi, good evening Chair Lee and Councilmembers and wow, that was like
PTSD seeing Mr. Wong. Aloha, Pat, how are you. So  Iwant to start, I'm Elle Cochran
testifying on my own behalf and I'm sending actually hard copies to you guys cause
I'm having email difficulties. I compiled a bunch of my input, additions, ideas, thoughts,
on the entire West Maui Community Plan update and, since February. And, so I want
you all to hopefully get a chance to look through that.
So in a nutshell real quickly, 1 want to hone in on Ka'anapali 2020 plan which 1
wholeheartedly support and please keep it in its entirety. You know, just, 1 got real
time feedback today, in particular our millennials, right, our young future generation,
people who never seen this plan, people who never heard of this plan, i showed it to
them, I gave them details about it. When they had questions, we had thorough
discussion and they loved it. They thought, oh my god, I have hope, there's opportunity
for us to finally, to possibly have a home. They love to have the connectivity was there.
How it created really family atmosphere. The integrated parks, right the connectivity
where you can walk and play and go to your mixed use. There's a bus transit. There's
a church, there's a school, there's so many things that they thought just made a, the
layout, the design, they couldn't have thought of  abetter community to be built. So
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 21
that's our everyday workforce millennial future generations taking this in and supporting
it.
And then the kupuna who every, who people spoke about that have been following this
plan, have been part of this plan for decades. They are looking at the hospital still
going through the wellness center, center that's included and thinking a place here will
just increase my quality of life, my health, a place where I can, you know, live, age in
place and be in comfort, health, and joy.
So, you know, I feel like this needs to be in place, the, a person who just saw, a
millennial said if you cut out this Kaanapali South portion, isn't it really going to kill the
whole plan. Doesn't the infrastructure need to connect? I'm like you got it, you know.
And I'm just like blown away that our, our, you know, up and coming future generations
see it.
And this plan does address, address SLR. This plan addresses sea level rise and
managed retreat issues. People, when they kind of move somewhere, it's going to be
inland. This entire project is mauka of the highway, you know.
And if you want to talk about canoe hales having to be relocated, the company is
willing to relocate up on that ten acre park that's just above the Hanakao'o Beach Park.
I spoke to canoe clubs, I said you guys need 97 acres? That's too much. Ten acres,
more than enough.
I didn't attend any of the community plan meetings, but I watched all 39 meetings via
Granicus. I took notes and I counted 38 different, different testifiers, right. I got
65 signatures on a petition that support this. And I want to be crystal, crystal clear that
every single person that signed my petition, I explained it very thoroughly. It wasn't
like eh, you like housing, sign. No, I walked through the map with them, every inch, 1
explained every detail, we had thorough discussions before they signed those
petitions, I made sure. And 65 of those signatures are on my petitions.
Hans Michel brought up a point, he was on the West Maui Community Plan Advisory.
Again, I watched all 39, and what 1 did notice. Wrap up, what I did notice is that in
particularly Hans and some others had questions, but those were just pull, I mean it
was like there wasn't follow-up, thorough discussion. People were sitting there with,
you know, confused looks going I want further discussion and votes were called. So,
yeah, there was not so great practices happening throughout the West Maui
Community Plan Advisory. And that's all i have at this time, thank you Members for
being there for us this evening.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 22
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Elle. Nice to see you again. Members, do you have any questions?
if not, aloha.
MS. COCHRAN; Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is David Gomes. To be follo\wed by Ke'eaumoku
Kapu.
MR. DAVID GOMES;
Good evening. Council Chair Lee and Members of the Maui County Council. My name
is David Gomes, and I am the General Manager for Hawaiian Cement here on Maui.
I'm testifying tonight regarding our Honokowai Concrete Batch Plant, which is located
directly behind the existing light industrial and retail area on Halawai Drive intersection.
I did provide testimony at February 21, 2021 Council Planning and Sustainable Land
Use Committee meeting, and earlier at a Maui Planning Commission meeting when
they were reviewing the draft plan.
I reviewed the draft plan as being discussed tonight and our site is located in subarea 2.
I had some difficulty reading the map. The version that I reviewed was not clear and I
could not make out the labels in the map key. I think the site where our batch plant is
located may be proposed for revision from Project District 3 designation to agricultural
designation, but I could not confirm this. If our site is proposed for park and or open
space designation, our concern is whether we will be able to receive extension
approvals for our State special use permit, and County conditional use permits which
we secured in order to operate our batch plant.
We do lease the land from Kaanapali Land Management Corp. The batch plant is
operated on an as needed basis and allows us to provide quality concrete for projects
in the West Maui area. Due to potential traffic delays and the length of distance from
ourPuunene Batch Plant, we would, we wouldn't be able to meet the standards needed
to provide concrete for projects on the West Maui without the ability to mix out there in
Honokowai.
We would also like to support Kaanapali Land Management Corporation's request to
have the community plan designations in Kaanapali area match the proposed
Ka'anapali 2020 plan. I understand that the Ka'anapali 2020 plan has been shaped by
members of the West Maui community for many, many years, and involved a lot of
time and effort by the community members. As I also understand, the Ka'anapali 2020
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 23
plan, our Honokowai Batch Plant site will be proposed for industrial use, which would
be similar to the existing uses. Thank you very much for your time and work on this.
The ability to continue to have concrete batch plants in West Maui is an important part
of being able to serve the community. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Nope.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is Ke‘eaumoku Kapu. To be followed by Mike Gronemeyer.
MR. KE’EAUMOKU KAPU:
Hi, aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. KAPU: Can you hear.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. KAPU: Okay. Yeah, hi everybody. My name is Ke'eaumoku Kapu of Lahaina, kuleana
and direct descendant of Kauaula, as my father before me. I mahalo you all for this
time. I will be straight up. You know. I've been following this for a lot of years. And
the Maui Island Plan, urban and rural, are not meant to be filled with development only.
Urban growth boundaries also include ag, parks, open spaces. So the reason why I
bring this up is because years and years and years, and 1 don't know what happened
to the Ka'anapali 2020 plan. Maybe they had so many things going on at the same
time, but I followed that for years as well.
Me and wife have been a strong advocate to a lot of things that have been occurring
especially when it comes to a . . . buildup of pristine areas such as Olowalu,
Ukumehame, and also the new area which is known as Wainee. Because I feel that
all this is related and tied in together especially when they all of a sudden found an
exemption to put in a pipeline, an eight inch and  atwelve inch pipeline of non-potable
water and they trying to do development with non-potable uses. It really doesn't make
sense to me.
I think what needs to be done and 1 really support the efforts that have been done by
CPAC, I really support the plan hundred percent, because we got to start some place.
We got to start to make sure that if we going do something correct, we gotta start
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 24
looking at our infrastructure on how we need to improve our infrastructure and not just
do everything as a piecemeal. And I think for years, what we've been watching is a lot
of that piecemeal being happening.
The bypass, the second phase of the bypass isn't done. Now how is that going to
Ka'anapali 2020 . . . The hospital, police station, the schools, all this kinds of things, I
think they overwhelm themselves. I think it would have been smarter if they piecemeal
this thing instead of trying to gather all these kind of things and they put it into basic
plan.
So we look at, you know the growth boundary amendments, or we look at how we
going survive as the residents of the westside. We really got to look seriously on how
the improvement and the infrastructure basically going, going have to work within each
other and work together. And this is a start, this is a possible solution to make sure
that we can do things proficiently and active and not try to rubberstamp everything as
we go forward and piecemeal all these things as our infrastructure. ... we not even
giving that time for our infrastructure to even approve or even sustain ourselves, our
traffic, our shoreline that's being degradated. All these kinds of things we need to
consider how we going to fix these problems before we even start thinking about
growth. So, I want to mahalo all of you for allowing me this opportunity to speak.
Me and my ohana as well as my wife have been strong advocates to making sure that
the right thing is done and this is a start. The West Maui General Plan is a start. So
let's go with that and let's try to make sure that we can do everything proficiently at the
same time and not try to do things ahead of time. Mahalo. Mahalo for all your time.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not. thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Next testifier is Mike Gronemeyer. To be followed by Tom Schnell.
MR. MICHAEL GRONEMEYER:
Aloha and mahalo for this opportunity to share my voice with the Council. My name is
Michael Gronemeyer, I've been a resident of West Maui for over 18 years. I'm currently
72 years old and I'm testifying on my own behalf.
I'm strongly in favor of designating Plantation Estates community as Rural Residential
in the West Maui Community Plan. This would be consistent with the most recent Maui
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 25
Island Plan, within the rural growth boundary and also the recommendations of the
Maui Planning Commission, and consistent with the definition in the Maui County Code
for Rural Districts.
In, in background, in 2013 I was living in the Launiupoko area on a small lot with a
15 acre farm nearby. I planned to build on the 15 acre lot, but when the Maui Island
Plan came out it had that area designated as agricultural. I was getting ready to retire
so my wife and I decided to rely on the Maui Island Plan which designated Plantation
Estates as Rural Residential, and that's what we were looking for. At that time the
Maui Island Plan had just been adopted after lots and lots of work. I knew that the
Plantation Estates owners had been actively involved in the plan and overwhelmingly
supported the rural growth boundary. The rural designation simply means we would
not be required to farm, but still encouraged to farm.
The recent CPAC worked hard but could not reach agreement concerning Plantation
Estates with three motions all failing. Two motions to designate Plantation Estates as
agriculture failed. One motion to designate Plantation Estates as rural failed. The
Maui Planning Commission did recommend Rural Residential for Plantation Estates.
Now almost nine years after I've decided to move here, I see the draft plan going back
to agricultural. This is very concerning to me. I don't see any real change in the
character of the neighborhood since I've moved here in the last nine years. And I don't
see any increase in density. As Mr. Spence said, intelligent zoning would be able to
limit density if rezoning were ever eventually undertaken.
One other point, Maui Land & Pine could not sustain agriculture on this land and one
of the other testifiers said that they are having very great difficulty as well. So
commercial ag is not practical in this area. I'm strongly in favor of designating
Plantation Estates Rural Residential. I have been doing ag even at my age but we're
getting too old and we would probably be stopping soon.
One last point, I am also opposed to policy 2.3.2 concerning the way gulches are
handled. I've provided written testimony with . .  .examples on how, how. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Ido.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. Can you spell your last name please-
MR. GRONEMEYER: Yes, G-R-O-N-E-M-E-Y-E-R.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 26
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, any more questions, Members. If not, thank you Mr. Gronemeyer.
MR. GRONEMEYER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Tom Schnell. To be followed by John Kindred.
MR. TOM SCHNELL:
Evening, Councilmembers. My name is Tom Schnell. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Could you speak a little louder, Tom.
MR. SCHNELL: Yeah, sorry, can you hear.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. SCHNELL; I'm having some problems with my video, sorry. My name is Tom Schnell,
I'm a planning consultant with PBR Hawaii, planning consultant for Maui Land & Pine.
CHAIR LEE: Can you speak a little louder, Tom.
MR. SCHNELL: Sure, I'm, I'm Tom Schnell and I'm a planning consultant with PBR Hawaii
and planning consultant for Maui Land & Pine and I’m here speaking on behalf of Maui
Land & Pine. Can you hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. SCHNELL: Okay, Maui Land & Pine submitted written testimony and the testimony was
short, you have it in your package. But Maui Land  &Pine's primary concern is that
previously two areas of their lands were designated as Project District on the
community plan, and those areas have been designated various districts within the
new community plan. Maui Land & Pine would just like to have assurance that with
the change in designations on the community plan, that the uses and the zoning that's
permitted within the project districts under the zoning code is consistent and would not
change with the community plan designations.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 27
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all done. Members, questions.
MR. SCHNELL: Yes. that's all. Thank you. Sorry, sorry my video didn't work.
CHAIR LEE: We have a question for you.
Member Paltin.
COUNCiLMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering if you could clarify if Michael Hotta is still
the General Manager.
MR. SCHNELL: No, Michael Hotta has left Maui Land  &Pine. Paul Subrata is the, Paul, Paul
is the Vice President but he's not able to make it because he's travelling today.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Who's the President?
MR. SCHNELL: The Vice President is Paul Subrata.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Who is the President?
MR. SCHNELL: I think that's Warren Haruki, I believe that he's the, he’s the Chairman of the
Board.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions. Members. If not thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is John Kindred. To be followed by Roy Sakamoto.
MR. JOHN KINDRED:
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Thank you for the opportunity to provide
testimony tonight. My name is John Kindred and I'm here on behalf of my
neighborhood Plantation Estates located in the Kapalua Resort. I hope you have had
an opportunity to review the written testimony I submitted as it provides greater detail
of the areas of concern with respect for our neighborhood.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 28
Plantation Estates is a low density residential neighborhood within the Kapalua Resort,
which makes us very different from other agriculture subdivisions. The Maui Island
Plan process in 2012 identified our neighborhood as rural. We are two plus acre home
sites that serve as a buffer between agriculture areas to the north of us and the
urbanized parts of Kapalua Resort to the south. Our neighborhood was developed
prior to the establishment of the rural zoning category, and the only agriculture that
was done to fulfill agriculture requirements at the time was agricultural land
conservation of the gulches and the cultivation of Norfolk pine trees.
The Maui Island Plan identifies our neighborhood within the rural growth boundary.
According to Maui County Code 2.806.70 "community plans shall implement the
general plans vision, principles, goals, and policies". As such, our neighborhood
should be designated as Rural Residential. Moreover, our neighborhood matches the
description of rural land use found in Hawaii State law.
In 2018 the Orion Report commissioned by the Planning Department looked closely at
Title 19, Maui County zoning code. The report identified that agricultural zoning
practices are not working. And the County should be identifying lands within the
County agricultural zoning districts that are primarily being used for large lot residential
or rural use and consider reclassifying those lands to the appropriate County rural
zone.
Our neighborhood is the perfect opportunity for the County to take such action. Our
neighborhood has been involved in every aspect of the update to the West Maui
Community Plan. We have demonstrated that the balance of community feedback,
specific to Plantation Estates is favorable to changing the designation to Rural
Residential. Times change and to better fit community needs and the growth of a
community, so should the reexamination of land use designations for subdivisions like
ours that were never meant to be an agriculture subdivision, but a rural neighborhood
within a resort community.
I also want to take the opportunity as my neighbor Mike Gronemeyer pointed out that
CPAC took three separate votes on our neighborhood. Two to keep our neighborhood
in agriculture and one to redesignate to Rural Residential .All three motions failed.
There was never a definitive conclusion from the CPAC. The Maui Planning
Commission voted six to two to change our neighborhood to Rural Residential because
they felt the description in the West Maui Community Plan best fit our neighborhood.
We kindly ask for the Council's reconsideration of our neighborhood land designation
to Rural Residential. Mahalo for the opportunity to bring these concerns forward.
Thank you.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 29
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Kindred.
Member Sinenci has a question for you.
MR. KINDRED: Of course, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCi: Mahalo, Mr. Kindred for your testimony. I was just curious
does, does this change the, should you go through  achange, would that affect you
guys land values and your tax brackets.
MR. KINDRED: Weil I'm not a real estate agent so I'm not sure I'm professionally qualified to
ascertain that.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay, alright.
MR. KINDRED: But what i would say is that we are, we're indifferent to paying higher tax
rates if that's what the Council decides is appropriate for rural, rural designation.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions, Members. If not thank you, Mr. Kindred.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Roy Sakamoto. To be followed by Saman Dias.
MR. ROY SAKAMOTO:
Good evening. Council. Thank you, and thank you Madam Chair. My name is Roy
Sakamoto. I was born, raised, and live in West Maui. First of all I would like to
recognize the Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee for their many, many
hours devoted to the new West Maui Community Plan. Obviously there are areas of
contention with this new plan. There is one community plan designation I would like to
see changed, 1 don't think this is contentious at all.
For the draft of the map of subarea 1, page 87, which encompasses the Kapalua, Napili
area, I notice the area of what is commonly known as the Plantation Estates
Subdivision and Honolua Ridge Subdivision are designated agriculture. This is not the
true nature of these subdivisions as you've heard from previous testimony, and I firmly
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 30
believe having these subdivisions designated as Rural Residential is more in line with
what they really are.
On page 68, it defines Rural Residential, and I quote "The Rural Residential community
plan designation is intended to preserve rural character. Rural Residential areas are
generally developed with large-lot subdivisions". Incidentally the lots in the Plantation
Estates and Honolua Ridge are all two acre plus lots. This designation may serve as
a buffer area between agricultural areas and more urban development. The Rural
Residential designation goes on to conclude that "The primary use of this designation
is low-density residential, and may include support uses such as parks, schools, and
farming."
In closing, I would like to restate my belief that the Plantation Estates and Honolua
Ridge Subdivisions will serve as a perfect buffer if zoned Rural Residential. We feel
the development of the Kapalua Resort and the 10,000 or more acres to the north,
which as we all know used to be pineapple fields, and are correctly zoned in master
plan as agriculture. Thank you and that concludes my testimony.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mr. Sakamoto. I believe we have a question for you.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Sakamoto for your
testimony. 1 just was wondering as a realtor does it make it easier to sell the properties
if they are zoned rural.
MR. SAKAMOTO; No it doesn't-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, thank you.
MR. SAKAMOTO; No affect on values either.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions. Members. If not thank you, Mr. Sakamoto.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Saman Dias. To be followed by Julie Cachola.
CHAIR LEE; Members, we have about six more testifiers, six or seven.
Ms. Dias.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 31
MS. SAMAN DIAS:
Aloha, can you hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. DIAS: Okay. This is, aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. I am Saman Dias, the Chair of
Maui Bicycling League. And Maui Bicycling League has been advocating for West
Maui Greenway for the last seven years. West Maui Greenway is not a new concept.
It has been outlined as a priority project in Hawaii Bike plan that was developed in
1994.
Maui Bicycling League very much would like to accept the draft of the West Maui
Community Plan and requesting following additions:
The West Maui, the West Maui Community Plan states in Section 4, Implementation
and Monitoring, 2.12, Complete the West Maui Greenway multi-use path to provide a
safe, off-road path for walking and bicycling between parks, and neighborhoods, and
businesses.
Also in Section 2 requires landowners to evaluate, adjust proposed projects to fit the
community's vision for the future. I feel clarifying wording is needed to avoid conflict in
the future. I please ask your consideration to adding following: "Require new
development, redevelopment and Chapter 201H, HRS and Chapter 2.97, MCC
housing projects to incorporate the planned West Maui Greenway into their project and
provide right of way for the greenway if the alignment crosses the property."
The West Maui Greenway is a high priority in West Maui and this additional wording
will help ensure that working together with the County, State and community, we can
make the West Maui Greenway a reality. Mahalo for your time, appreciate it. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do we have questions. If not thank you very much, Ms. Dias.
MS. DIAS: Good evening. Aloha, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Julie Cachola. To be followed by Cassandra Abdul.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 32
MS. JULIE-ANN CACHOLA:
Aloha, my name is Julie-Ann Cachoia, I'm a land use planner at Hawaiian Home Lands.
I've been authorized to present our written testimony tonight.
The State Department of Hawaiian Home Lands has approximately 777 acres of land
in Honokbwai. Beginning in 2019 to present, DHHL has undertaken a master plan and
HRS 343 environmental assessment process for a new homestead community on its
lands at Honokowai. The DHHL Honokowai planning process is nearly complete and
DHHL is requesting that the County's West Maui Community Development Plan in the
Subarea 2, be updated to reflect DHHL's Honokowai Homestead Master Plan in order
to better coordinate future collaboration with the County of Maui on critical County
infrastructure and services that are needed to support the new Honokowai Homestead
community.
As you know, pursuant to the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, which has been
incorporated into the State Constitution, the Hawaiian Homes Commission has
exclusive authority, land use authorities over DHHL lands. As such, DHHL has created
its own land use designation categories that reflect the Hawaiian Homes Commission's
land use policies for DHHL lands. In order to facilitate incorporation of DHHL's
Honokowai Homestead Community Master Plan into the County's Community
Development Plan, DHHL has identified the Community Plan designations that are
most applicable to DHHL's land use designations. And these are reflected in the table
presented in the written testimony. And also included in the testimony, written
testimony is a layout, a map that lays out the land uses on the DHHL's lands at
Honokowai.
We also note that in Subarea 3, the plan accurately designates DHHL's Leali'i
Homestead as Residential as DHHL plans to develop single-family residential
homesteads on these lands.
We appreciate the County's consideration of DHHL's request to update the Subarea 2
area for the Community Plan to reflect DHHL plans for, at Honokowai.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. No questions. Thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Cassandra Abdul. To be followed by Albert
Perez.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 33
MS. CASSANDRA ABDUL:
Good evening, Council. I know it's been a long day for all of us. I wanted to thank you
for all of the hard work, 1 know that people have put into the West Maui Community
Plan. Our interest is as a non-profit community land trust and affordable homes in
perpetuity.
I've heard this evening about other plans that took a lot of work and a lot of planning,
the General Plan, the Maui Island Plan, and the Ka'anapali 2020. And I've heard that
there are conflicts between the current plan and those plans that went before them,
which raises a concern. But my main focus here today is to ask that when you look at
your plan, that we find a way to increase affordable housing.
What I see, of little that I have read through is that there are designation, designated
areas that originally were planned for housing that will no longer be allowed to have
housing in them. And, as an affordable housing non-profit, this concerns us, especially
on the west side where housing is so badly needed, so difficult to come by, and so
very, very expensive. We ask you to support affordable housing, to as much as
possible keep it in the plan. If areas in the other plans, the Maui Island Plan or the
General Plan were designated as residential or areas that could be developed, we ask
you to reconsider if they are now going to be pulled out of that designation.
My concern is that whatever we do there are sometimes unintended consequences.
And again, we need housing so desperately and 1 know that with you, and with the
plans that you work on, we can develop that and provide it for our island families. So
once again, thank you very much for all that you do to support our community and the
hard work you've put in and the long hours you've put in, especially tonight. Thank
you, aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members. If not, thank you, Ms. Abdul.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mr. Albert Perez. To be followed by Lee Chamberlain.
CHAIR LEE: And then how many?
COUNTY CLERK: Five.
CHAIR LEE: Hi, Albert.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 34
MR. ALBERT PEREZ:
I'm Albert Perez, Maui TomorrowAloha, Chair Lee, Members of the Council.
Foundation. You know the voice of the community is the voice of the people, and the
people of West Maui have spoken. This Council has been exemplary in listening to
the people's voice in spite of the ongoing challenges of the pandemic.
Maui Tomorrow supports the current draft of the West Maui Community Plan. The
process was very thorough from early public outreach through several dozen
community plan advisory committee meetings. Planning Commission review, and the
Council's Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
I would like to weigh in on the issue of whether the Maui Island Plan was ignored by
the West Maui Community Plan Advisory Committee, it most certainly was not. There
were several discussions about the relationship of the Maui Island Plan to the
community plan. The key question was whether all of the area within the growth
boundaries had to be designated for development. The guidance from the Planning
Department was that those boundaries were an outer limit that did not have to be filled
in during this particular update of the community plan. Of course, those who owned
land was not designated for development were not happy with that approach, but that's
what the community wanted in order to stop uncontrolled sprawl happening in the ag
lands. Although some disagreed with the outcome, it was a fair process.
The claim that areas of stability is not defined, is incorrect. Areas of stability are defined
as areas that should remain the same over the next 20 years. They reflect things that
the West Maui community wants to protect for future generations. Cultural resources,
open spaces, environmental features, natural systems, and continued agricultural
production. The number of housing units provided in this plan exceeds the need that
was identified by about a thousand units.
In addition this Council funded and adopted a comprehensive affordable housing plan
so let no one say that you don't support affordable housing. You do remain concerned
that people are being told with certain exceptions, such as conditional use permits, that
the community plan is only enforceable within the special management area. We ask
the Council to do everything they can to make sure that the people's voice as
expressed in the community plan will have the force and effect of law in all areas mauka
to makai.
Citizens serve on the CPAC's and they participate because they care about their
communities. If the community plans are not enforced, then these citizens will have
wasted their time, and their faith in government will be eroded. When people lose their
faith in government, our entire society is undermined. Mahalo.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 35
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members. If not, thank you, Albert.
Madam Clerk.
MR. PEREZ: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mr. Lee Chamberlain. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Chamberlain.
MR. LEE CHAMBERLAIN:
If I can get my video to work. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. CHAMBERLAIN: Great, evening Council Chair and Councilmembers. My name is Lee
Chamberlain and I'm part of the West Maui Greenway Alliance and Maui Bicycling
League and I’m here to testify in reference to the West Maui Community Plan's
Section 4, Implementation and Monitoring, 2.12, Complete the West Maui Greenway
multi-use path to provide a safe, off-road path for walking and bicycling between parks,
neighborhoods, and businesses.
I've already submitted written testimony associated with this and you can use that as
reference. But the highway to the whole thing is that I'd like to go ahead and ask the
Council to go ahead, include language that states in orderto accomplish the West Maui
Community Plan's, West Maui Greenway path implementation, "Require new
development, redevelopment and Chapter 201H, HRS and Chapter 2.97, Maui County
Council housing projects to incorporate the planned West Maui Greenway into their
project and provide rights of way for greenway if the alignment crosses the property."
This type of language is important to insure that implementation occurs with the
greenway. And, I want to bring to the Council's attention State Bill 1402 which further
expounds on the direction of this supporting greenways and getting away from a car
centric system here in Hawaii. SB 1402 purpose is to go ahead and help Hawaii reach
its goal of 100 percent clean energy and carbon negative economy by 2045. And
within that, there was language associated with why its purpose is there. And a lot of
it has to do with the fact that the State governance has found that car-centric
transportation systems are not affordable and efficient and support, provide equitable
investment for everybody relative to health disparities and, and infrastructure and so
forth, which is not efficient.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 36
So anyway, it's important ... to go ahead and, and bring into fold the West Maui
Greenway which is going to help us reach these goals and provide alternative
transportation. So my point is is that to do that we need to go ahead and include
language that tightens up the whole system to make sure that there is implementation
. . . Thank you, appreciate the opportunity to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Questions, Members. If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next, oops, sorry, our next testifier is Junya Nakoa. To be followed
by the testifier calling in on the last four digits 2936.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA;
Eh, howzit.
CHAIR LEE; Hi.
MR. NAKOA; You guys can hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, we can.
MR. NAKOA; Okay. Yeah, I support the West Maui Community Plan, the one these guys
when work hard on, yeah, and whatnot. So, you know, this, this is what it is. But, I am
totally, totally against Ka'anapali 2020, 110 percent, okay. Frick that, 150 percent.
Okay, I tried to, I tried working with Chad, Chad Fukunaga and the Kaanapali guys,
trying to work with them for the past three months, okay. All they did was give me the
runaround. I've been, I, 1998 I was in the original, original guys that the . . . Kahana
McDonald's we had our meetings over there.
Yeah, and the Ka'anapali 2020 was supposed to have choke affordable homes,
workforce housing homes built, but zero was built. Not one single, single home was
built. Okay, and then now they going try push the Pu'ukoli'i Mauka and then . . . and
then now you get 51 percent of that, and you know what, they not building nothing.
They not, they not taking care of the local people.
But then when I when ask them about the south part of the project, if they could, you
know, make urn, you know if they going make urn for, for build homes over there, to
make urn all affordable, 100 percent affordable. You know what Chad Fukunaga said.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 37
it’s not feasible. So you think these guys are really thinking about making affordable
homes, no. They thinking about their bottom line, their pockets. So I'm against these
guys, okay, 110 percent, 150 percent.
And, Peter Martin, when his Olowalu development, same thing. Talk to him yesterday,
yeah, I told urn eh, 1 have an opportunity to build the real affordable homes, true
affordable home. He ... no Junya I get um. So what that means, he, he like the
bottom line, he like put more, some more money in his pocket. If we can help him out
. . . so he not, he not willing to work with the people. These guys is all cons. They no
even build nothing for the local people of Lahaina. We got screwed and we got
screwed.
Look Ka'anapali 2020, what kine name is that. ... we already in 2021 and not one
home was built, affordable for the work, workforce housing cause these guys is fooling
you, if you guys listen to them. Okay, 1 tried working with Ka'anapali 2020, 1 sat down
with them for three months and they, and I brought in, I brought in, I going drop her
name again, I brought in Autumn Ness. She knows a lot about affordable homes, they,
they say oh yeah, great idea but we .. . we're not going to do that, you know. So what
the hell, these guys is all BS.
Yeah, this me, passionate and I know plenty people say they going do petitions like
that... signatures. Bull, 1 tell you, I represent  alot of locals in Lahaina, a lot, including
the people who work for all the hotels in Kaanapali. Even though 1 no work for the
ILWU anymore cause they suck, cause they don't know how to represent their people,
I still get people stay talking to me about, yeah, okay. So yeah, I support the West
Maui Community Plan.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Junya. Members, any questions. If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is the testifier calling in on the last four digits 2936, 2936.
And 2936 will be followed by 9200.
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MS. LORRIE BETSILL NIELSON:
Yes, hello, can you hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 38
MS. NIELSON: Hi my name is Lorrie Betsill Nielson and I am a West Maui resident. I have
been blessed to live here for over a decade now and I feel very connected to the
community over here. I have for almost a decade also been a wedding and event
planner and have produced many beautiful weddings at the Olowalu Plantation Estate.
I want to publicly share my support for the Olowalu and Launiupoko projects
specifically.
I know that Peter Martin, you know, Junya has said, you know gets a lot of negative
things said about him. But getting to know him, I truly believe that he has West Maui's
best intentions at heart. And I do feel like if we can all be a little bit more openminded
and work together, that we can truly make some great changes here in Maui. I know
personally that Peter has been willing to donate land to support projects that I think are
important to the Olowalu and West Maui area to help Launiupoko and Olowalu
residents.
So I just again want to, you know, publicly say that I do support this, I think it would be
great and I do think that we all need to have more forward thinking as we really truly
think about how to progress Maui. We're never going to make changes if we keep
thinking backwards. We have to be forward thinking, we have to be progressive and
we have to most importantly work together and be on the same team for West Maui.
That is all, thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions. We have one question.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Betsill Nielson. I just wanted
to clarify, you have lived in West Maui for the last 10 years.
MS. NIELSON: I've lived here since October of 2008.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: In West Maui.
MS. NIELSON: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MS. NIELSON: Yes, mam.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any more questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18. 2021
Page 39
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is calling in on the phone with the last four digits 9200
9200. To be followed by Peter Martin.
CHAIR LEE: 9200.
Madam Clerk, let's go to the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, our next testifier is Mr. Peter Martin.
MR. PETER MARTIN:
Let's see . . . well I turned on my speaker and also the video, but I guess it, it doesn't
matter to see me. Oh, there I am, hi. Oh shoot, look old brah. Anyway, yes, I hope
you, all these Councilmembers look over all the letters. I really like the support letters
of course and they were mostly support letters, lots to read. I especially like Lori
Gomez's that and she's been teaching what, 47 years at Lahainaluna, a very strong
letter of support.
Let's see, I want to build houses ... in Olowalu and Launiupoko. I have built a number
of houses affordable, many of them 100 percent affordable, I think in Lahaina and in
Haiku and in Waiale. And it’s a joy to see these families get a chance. And they all,
you know, we have the blessings and it's just a wonderful thing to see these families
get a house and I'd like to keep doing it. The nice thing about Olowalu is it has water,
we, I sent you something that explains that the, the idea that it's going hurt the reefs is
foolish.
We have the skill, I mean our, my small company but we have, we do roads, water,
sewer, all internally. We build our houses ourself, we have our own concrete crew.
We did hire all union framers and, and we plumb, we didn't have a plumbing crew, but
we do so much internally, I generally get super good bank rates. Own the land, like to
build houses, 100 percent affordable for people on Maui, right here in Olowalu.
1 live across the street, they are not happy, they come complain to me. My daughter
and grandchildren and son-in-law live here. They can come . . . they don’t like the
house, we fix it. We just like to build houses, people want to live here. I want to do it,
I own the land. They want to buy, pretty simple. But somebody in the way, one, one,
one governments in my way. So all I ... I guess 1 could beg, please, anyway, that's
my story, I, I, I like my work, 1 love it here, love the local people. That's it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, questions? If not, oh, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 40
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Martin, mahalo for your
testimony this evening.
We, there was a question earlier and since you're joining us, were you one of the
individuals that helped fund the survey that was referenced earlier.
MR. MARTIN: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
MR. MARTIN: And, and also, I also was the one who sent the letter in from seven of the
thirteen West Maui, the CPAC members, seven of thirteen specifically, and you can
read the letter, said that they want affordable housing in Launiuopoko and Olowalu.
So to say that the community plan like Albert Perez says that the members chose not
to have people here, this is, this is not true. Somebody should explain . . .
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Martin. You answered my question.
MR. MARTIN: Bold faced lie.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, don't forget you're asking-
MR. MARTIN: Please read, please read the letter.
CHAIR LEE: -clarification questions of not previous speakers. Okay. Alright, any more
questions? Thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Rick Nava. To be followed by Dylan Payne.
MR. RICK NAVA:
Good evening. Chair Lee. Can you all hear me
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 41
MR. NAVA: Okay, Councilmembers, good evening. I am Rick Nava, resident of Lahaina.
The 22 Maui Islands Plan priority was to provide housing for our Maui families. To
address this priority the Maui Island Plan designated areas where these homes are to
be built. Now, West Maui Community Plan wants to change the areas as areas of
stability, in other words, no housing, no growth. Our local families are begging for
affordable homes. My daughter wants to be a homeowner. My son wants to return
here to Maui to live but there is no homes, there's no inventory.
The changing the designated areas where it was originally designated for the, to build
homes as areas of stability to me is very concerning. By doing so it will make it even
more difficult for our locals to become homeowner, homeowners. Our families are
leaving the island, and the biggest reason for that of course is that they can't afford
homes. There is no affordable place for them to rent and of course, overall the cost of
living here on Maui is very expensive. And having no place to live and does not give
them any type of dignity and also they go on and find a place where it's a lot more
affordable.
Please work with our homebuilders. Find a way for our local families to either become
a homeowner so that they can return home and the, so that they can, you know, be
able to become a, become a part of our community again. Thank you. Chair Lee and
Councilmembers for allowing me to testify this evening.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Nava.
MR. NAVA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, how many more people do we have? Will the, do you think the
staff needs, your staff needs a recess, short recess.
COUNTY CLERK: Six more testifiers. We, perhaps. I'm in a. I'm in a different room.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, let’s take a ten-minute break, give every, the staff a, time to rest.
Okay, so that means we'll be back at let's make it 8:50, 7:55, 7:55. Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 7:43 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 7:57 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBERS KAMA AND KING,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council public hearing for the West Maui Community Plan
update of November 18, 2021 please return to order.
Shall we continue. Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 42
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. Our next testifier is Dylan Payne. And Mr. Payne will
be followed by Kaipo Kekona.
MR. DYLAN PAYNE:
Hi, good evening, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. 1 served on the CPAC, and at
CPAC we had a lot of meetings that went to about this hour so Tm, I'm seeing a really
familiar look on all of your faces and understand what that means, so I'll try to keep this
as brief as possible.
My name is Dylan Payne. I, I live in Olowalu. I graduated from Lahainaluna High
School and went off to college, majored in Planning and I actually did an internship
with the Maui County Planning Department, Long Range Division in 2009, I believe,
yeah, it was the summer 1 got married. And they were going through the Maui Island
Plan and I kind of got to be a fly on the wall for that process somewhat and 1 just thought
gosh this is a Herculean effort, you know, they're putting a lot of, they're taking this
very seriously.
And then fast forward, you know, to today, and here we are and we're updating the
West Maui Community Plan. And as, has been rehearsed by lots of testifiers tonight,
they, they don't really jive with one another. You know, I'm not quite sure how that ail
works itself out. Time, you know, changes things. But, there are a lot of places where
they, they just don't agree at all. And, you know, I think that does need to be looked
at.
I, a lot of the people that have testified tonight have been involved in this process for a
long time. Most of them are you know, special interests or activists and I suppose
that's just the nature of the process that those are the types of people that you get that
show up at these, these gatherings. But I, and 1 don't know if there's really a good way
to capture, you know, what, what the average Joe really thinks, what people really want
to see happen over the next 20 years, here on this island.
But I, I do know that I, I work as a realtor, and I've been involved in, in the construction
and sale of a lot of workforce housing projects over the past few years and that's been
one of the highlights of my life to be able to help people . .. friends and peers to, to get
a home. And there's some things in the draft of the community plan that would make
that moving forward very difficult.
I sent you written testimony that shows that.. . price homes for sale ... right now start
at $995,000 and go up to, 1 think it was $2.6 million. And that's just, it's out of reach
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 43
for so many of our people. So, if there's one thing that I could leave you with tonight, !
would, I would really plead with you to, you know, remove Policy 3.4.2 that prohibits
and just really discourages workforce housing south of Puamana. I would say get rid
of that. If you do that, that doesn't mean that there's going to be a bunch of housing
built in those areas, but it means that you're going to give it a chance, that you're going
to listen to it in the future. You can still say no, cause quite frankly, all of those
proposals will come right back to you and this body for approval at, at that given time.
And maybe five years, ten years down the road, some of these projects that have been
included in the plan still haven't gotten off the ground, because heck, they, they were
all on the West Maui Community Plan that was done in 1996. So I would, I would just
plead with you to do what you can to make housing more attainable for, for the people
here. As I watch this process I know a lot of people care about . . . those are all
important, have a place to live, that stuff kind of doesn't matter.
CHAIR LEE: Can you conclude, please, Mr. Payne.
MR. PAYNE: Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mr. Payne, mahalo for your
testimony and mahalo for keeping it as brief as possible. Oh, you still there.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Payne.
MR. PAYNE: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: I think, yeah he's still there.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay. I have a question. Okay, there, okay,
thank you. So 1 just wanted to clarify in your testimony you said special interest and
activist. I just wanted to have a better understanding of what you mean by activist.
And the second part to that question is how does an activist, how do you differentiate
an activist from a regular Joe. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Payne.
MR. PAYNE: Good question. I, you know. I'll email you cause I don't want to take up more
of your time, but I think it's people that, you know, the word NIMBY comes to mind, or
even bananas, you know, which is an acronym for don't build anything near anyone
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 44
never, ever, you know. But 1, I, I'll email you,  Iguess, or I'll email the, the Council
because that's, it's a hard thing to define. But yeah, thanks for the question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, I just was wondering what you meant by, in
the context of your--
MR. PAYNE: Most, mostly called it the NIMBY component of like I've got mine, I've got my
home, 1 don't want anything else built anywhere around me because I got mine and I
don't want anybody else to show up sort of thing.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, that’s what you mean by activist.
MR. PAYNE: Yup.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo, Mr. Payne. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any more questions?
If not. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kaipo Kekona. To be followed by Kahala Johnson.
MR. KAIPO KEKONA:
Aloha, mai kakou. You guys can hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. KEKONA: Okay, aloha. My name is Kaipo Kekona, I'm born and raised here on Maui in
Lahaina, still living here in Lahaina and happy with that. I'm now currently a farmer for
occupation. And i also served on the CPAC in 2006 to 2010, I believe it was with like
an extension on our three-year term thing, but four years of volunteering time to the
plan. I can relate to having something poured into all your effort. I was, I was not a
parent when 1 got into that plan, and I left as a parent with two children. So a lot of
change, a lot of growth.
I can support the community plan, or the most of it. 1, I can recall even being a part of
the Ka'anapali 2020 development plan, and although it is past 2020 and we haven't
seen anything yet, for the most of it 1, I'm comfortable with the project. I don't really
agree when seeing all these projects talk about providing a school within their projects
because it's just I feel like a way to get more sympathy towards their project and I don't
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 45
think it's a realistic thing. We'd have like nine schools all of a sudden developed in
West Maui and we just got to kind of weed through those I guess as it goes.
Puielehua is another good project that I can see us supporting and, and understanding.
And I'm not sure I really support what's happening up on the Kapalua Ridge and all of
those higher homes up there. I think we need to look into that a little more in detail.
And I'd like even as Councilmember Rawlins mentioned earlier that we would have to
consider all plans that we work with now to be adjusted to newer technologies and
findings and things that have changed in the time.
Much one consideration is the State's finally owning up to their Constitutional right in
the interim midstream flow standards and that's going to affect us in a lot of ways. The
County currently right now is going through their water development plan. That should
be considered once, when looking into these other plans.
Yeah, I don't support Olowalu's growth, just because its way outside and it's more of a
sprawl factor from where things are already taking place and just the infrastructure and
impact. And I don't believe there's adequate water in the area to have that sustainable,
let alone the impacts that we will see on the reef system out there, which is qualified
to be one of our healthiest reef systems that we have left.
The Makila section is, you know, majority of the people, all of the people, and even
some them that didn't voice their opinion today have direct conflicts of financial benefits
to those, to that project. And they gave testimony tonight and seven of the members
that were on the community plan also had conflicts of interest within the, you know, the
main areas in that area from Olowalu to Lahaina. And, the community plan still came
out the way it did. So that kind of speaks already for itself, I'm not sure if everybody
agree with me, probably not, but I think that says enough. Some of urn are actually
employment under majority of that water, or that landownership agencies and all of
their aliases in one way or form of another.
So I don't support those kinds of projects, the controversial existence right now with
our community and the, and some of the kuleana people that still fortunate to have
land here in Lahaina from the Crown. I'll be wrapping up real quick. Some of those,
that controversial situation of that waterline that's being installed goes directly right
along the Makila development area and that's obviously going to be providing for that
type of developments and we need to consider those. That's all I would like to wrap
up with. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 46
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to clarify the Kapalua Ridge
statement. Were you referring to Plantation Estates and Honolua Ridge and was it
you're saying keep it in ag.
MR. KEKONA: Yeah, yeah, for, for, yeah for the most of it that's exactly, I'm referring to those
projects and I would like to keep it as ag, yeah and find a way to regulate that ag
system, that ag farming.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, thank you, wasn't sure on the Kapalua Ridge. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not. thank you, Mr. Kekona.
MR. KEKONA: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier Chair is Kahala Johnson. To be followed by Linda
Magalianes.
CHAIR LEE: Kahala Johnson.
MR. KAHALA JOHNSON:
Hi can you hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. JOHNSON: Okay, perfect. (Spoke in Hawaiian.) Hi, my name is Kahala, I'm from
Waiehu ... land back now, My father is a Kekahuna, we have mo'olelo mo'oku'auhau,
aka receipts to Olowalu. So, I'm not here to play.
The proposed development in Olowalu is against the consent of the community. A
small vocal minority of rich entitled developers, together with their paid lawyers,
consultants and collaborators, continue to repeat and disseminate a savage
conspiracy maintaining otherwise. While a few of these loud vocal minorities have
expressed emotionally overwhelmed opinions in the past, we cannot let tear-streaked
tantrums and colonial visions overrule the voices of the community who have already
spoken on this issue.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 47
One of my favorite non-Hawaiian experts on things Hawaiian, once you worked on
Mr. Martin's project, will be fulfilling the wishes of residents and that the proposal was
sensitive to Hawaiian culture.
Councilmember Yuki Sugimura published in the Maui News in 2020 because I
sincerely want to believe with all the kapu aloha in my gay activist heart, that
Mr. Martin's project is in fact a Make A Wish Foundation answer to housing in disguise.
And not the tone deaf million, millionaire gentrification of Olowalu and Launiupoko, it
may or may not be.
And I want to respond to the statement by
Unfortunately Martin's ... of Hawaiian women standing to protect iwi and aina in West
Maui raises the reddest flags for me. And those flags are raised even higher
considering the company he chooses to offer testimony in his behalf. Yeah, the
feminist and activist in me felt the cringe ... so I'm just going to have to break the
silence and call that out as a survivor of abuse.
With that in mind, I want us to think forward, not backward, to think progressively and
on the same team so that we do not let these rich patriarchs dictate and colonize the
future of our community. I am not an average Joe, I'm a member of a colonized people
who constitute the highest statistics in terms of homelessness in our own land. And
who will most likely not be able to afford any of these houses even though they are
built on our aina. Mahalo Council, it's late, . .  .colonizers suck my soul, so I won't be
taking questions, just. . .
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So I'm curious, what, what, this is Yuki Lei
Sugimura, what did you quote me from?
MR. JOHNSON: Yeah, that's the Maui News 2020, you can check that out. But again I don't.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: About what?
MR. JOHNSON: . . . I'm tired.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we can, we can.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I’m just trying to clarify-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson, why don't you email-
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 48
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: -Member Sugimura the answer to the question, cause that might be a long
conversation.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Okay, 1 would love to have  aconversation with him. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: I'm sure you would. I know all of us probably would.
Member, I mean not Member, but Madam Chair, Madam Clerk. Throwing me off
already. Past my bedtime.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Linda Magalianes. To be followed by Wello.
MS. LINDA MAGALIANES:
Aloha, can you hear me? Aloha, my name is Linda Naina Magalianes and I am a lineal
descendant of Olowalu. I, I would, I would like to adopt the CPAC. First and foremost,
Peter Martin, you don't own any lands there, I told you to find the paperwork. And,
being that there's a lot of cemeteries there, and the 2020, like some of us said, I never
even heard about the 2020 and it's 2021 already. Put that on the side. Let's start from
one at a time, not one whole shebang of everything one time. That's too much for
everybody to even follow through on what you folks are doing.
I, I attended a lot of the CPAC meeting and you know twice they got shut down in
Olowalu, Ukumehame, Kauaula, enough is enough already. Show the paperwork,
that’s the bottom line, you no own nothing. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions. I don't see any hands. No questions. Thank you.
Member Sugimura, just for clarification. I wasn't trying to cut you off necessarily, but
because it’s a human reaction when somebody criticizes you or any of us to want to
respond. Right.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: I just want clarification. I ,I'm fine. I just wanted to know
what he was quoting. I'm totally fine. He can, he can send me something.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 49
CHAIR LEE: No, no, but it's not really, my concern was it had probably nothing to do with the
West Maui Community Plan. So, you know, having an conversation not germane to
tonight's subject was what I was fearing would happen. That's all.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I didn't mean to cut you off.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam, Madam Clerk, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Wello. And Wello will be followed by Karen
Comcowich.
MS. CONSUELO APOLO-GONSALVES:
Aloha, can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. APOLO-GONSALVES: Hi, my name is Consuelo Apolo-Gonsalves. I was born and
raised here on Maui all my life. Thirty-two years of my life I spent it in Lahaina. I have
a 31 year old daughter and I would like, love to see her getting one affordable home
and not this crazy prices that we see today. But, yeah, I gotta echo that, what, what
Linda was saying about the lands being Peter's. It's not, and we all know that.
But anyway, my concern is, you know, I mean it, the 2020 neva worked, we, we in
2021 already. I mean my daughter is 31 years old, she going wait 31 more years for
get something affordable. And then this part about Peter wanting to do things for the
community. If he wanted to then why is he pinpointing who can get what. That's really
not giving us chances, you know. So, I, I'm, I'm for the West Maui Community Plan.
And please make it happen. I mean you guys doing  aterrific job and all these people
going come after you guys because why, they not the ones who making the money.
Enough is enough already. Time for think about us. Thank you, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. Alright, no questions.
Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 50
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is Karen Comcowich. To be followed by Tammy Harp.
MS. KAREN COMCOWICH;
Aloha ahiahi. My name is Karen Comcowich. Although I was very involved in the
development of this plan starting as a West Maui alakai and continuing as a CPAC
member, I'm speaking on my own behalf. This is the West Maui Community Plan. It
is not the developer's plan, nor the large landowner's plan, nor the community from
20 years ago plan. It is the West Maui Community Plan. The maps in the Maui Island
Plan are a guideline. It gives the largest boundaries CPAC is allowed to fill-in with
potential development.
The West Maui Community Plan is the chance for the community to say where we
prefer to see growth. The area designated above Hanakao'o aka Canoe Beach was
supported by the community to be left undeveloped because it is a break between
Lahaina and Kaanapali. It is the last little bit of greenspace above the beach used for
canoe practice and local gathering.
Further Olowalu is a terrible place for development, above the mother reef for the
islands. This is an area that the community always comes out against. Be strong and
kill this zombie.
Regarding Plantation Estates, the West Maui community wants this area to be
agriculture. The owners are lovely and very involved, but their outreach to diverse
community input is lacking. The broader community supports agriculture for . . .
estates.
Some of the testifiers mentioned a lack of area available space for affordable housing.
There is ample land designated for growth. We have space to grow affordable housing.
Please support the West Maui Community Plan land use maps. We spent hours
listening to testimony and developing a plan that balances the desires of developers
and landowners with the needs of the community.
I support the addition of a policy for the West Maui Greenway provided by Donna
Clayton. Thank you for your time and for having this late long meeting. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions. If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk, how many more do we have.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 51
COUNTY CLERK; We currently have two more testifiers signed up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, call the next one.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Tammy Harp. To be followed by Victoria Kaluna
Palafox.
MS. TAMMY HARP;
Aloha, Chair Lee, Councilmembers, ohana and friends. My name is Tammy Harp, a
shoreline gatherer of the Lahaina district by trade. Mahalo for this opportunity to share
manao. If Kaanapali gets approval for sand replenishment then they need to give back
something to the aging community. Their mauka holdings adjoining Hawaiian Home
Lands should go towards kupuna care, housing, hospice facility for residents. It is the
aging West Maui community who were a part in some way or another which helped
sustain Kaanapali to what it is.
Also as for the Plantation Estates, you know, speculative investments wind up that
way, you know, unhappy with what, what get. And ! think there's a possibility that they
could work within their community with families who would like to come malama the
aina. You know, and work some kind of a something, you know, out of it, you know
the families from their community, you know, their, their area.
Also too, about the TAT, the, the CFD or the CFID, I think we should have more
percentage from the TAT revenues invested in Lahaina District Community Facilities
District Fund. And then, it is our natural resources that draws paying sightseers. They
are, you know, they, they impact us and especially the old time families, you know, and
many a times they end up coming and buying, and staying and trying to change things.
But anyway, also about Olowalu, like Uncle Harold Kaniho said in Lahaina Winds of
Change [sic] by Uncle Eddie Kamae and Aunty Myrna. The land was quite rocky and
from what he was saying it was like unsuitable, you know. They always had problems
out there growing the sugar cane. And then also too, by the store where Monsanto
used to be, you know, they got out because they claimed their project area is
contaminated. So, I don't know, maybe you gotta go do one hemp farm with a
manufacturing thing out there. Because it's not suitable for humans. So might as well
economic engine for the communities, you know, the community.
Also to, what happens with the, the Kahoma Village Housing. Does the County have
spare land, you know, with, within infrastructure kind of areas or, you know that, that
could be. May 1 continue?
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 52
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Harp, could you finish in about a minute or so.
MS. HARP: Yes, I, I, I'll try be fast. Could It be, I got it written down, could it be relocated on
lands the County got from Pioneer Mill to appease housing credits. The batch plant,
is it in an area where there is light industrial kind of environment. Also to make sure
all maps have correct boundaries. We don’t need a repeat like the pie shaped house
at Mala which impacted my access, which made it unsafe for many to gather from the
shoreline.
And also to, 1 just wanted to mahalo all those who participated in this process to ensure
some form of long-term sustainability for the, the Lahaina district. And one last thing,
we need to kapu our mountains from developments. No grading, shaving, excavating.
Our mountains should remain quiet and still. Also no pu‘u should be shaved and
altered. I think that's it, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions. If not, thank you again.
Madam Clerk, please call the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Victoria Kaiuna Palafox. Followed by Dawn
Hegger-Nordblom.
MS. VICTORIA KALUNA PALAFOX:
Aloha, Madam Chair Lee. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, yes we can.
MS. PALAFOX: Thank you, thank you. Aloha Members, County Council. My testimony will
be sweet and short. 1 support the West Maui planning. We worked many years as a
community residents. I live in Ukumehame, my two generations of grandparents have
come to live in Olowalu. I have my grandparents still buried there at the old Olowalu
Church which was the Lanakila. And her father was buried across the street where
Camp PECUSA is. And that cemetery has been plowed over.
I am against Mr. Peter Martin and his development in Olowalu for such disrespect. For
many many years, I worked over there in Olowalu, way before Mr., his development
came in. And they were DLNR sites, boulders that had plats on it, that labeled that
area where Camp PECUSA is to not to touch. There were three big stones and I talked
before with DLNR and I reported this so much. Nobody cared about it, the
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 53
development went in and took all those site numbers away. Those site numbers also
said do not remove. Today you cannot find that. My grandfather's place where he was
buried is not there anymore. He plowed over. So how come.
Olowalu is a very sensitive area, especially by our ocean. When we were younger we
use to dive there, so much baby fishes use to come from there. I remember. Today
when we go and dive, our children, cause I cannot go in the water, they are still none,
and they are trying to thrive, they are trying to replenish. Especially the uhu, the uhu,
the one who creates the sand for us. That is important, Olowalu was ace for the uhu
before.
But any way, e kala mai I am against any projects going on in Olowalu because of the
sensitivity of that area. And I agree that that area was made, and he wants to make it
only for the rich. And I've never seen him ever build affordable houses in Lahaina.
What I saw him do though is offer land to his employees or people of his choice to
purchase lands for him in private areas. And we find that these private areas are
kuleana owned by families that are still living in Lahaina. if that's the kind of
development Mr. Peter Martin brings to Lahaina, no thank you. You can keep that type
of development.
What we need is someone, a development company that really wants to work with the
people and help us to develop strong healthy communities so that we can strengthen
our aina and our district so we can better the lives of our people in Lahaina. I know
that the residents in Lahaina, we can work together into making our community a
stronger place for us today and a better place for our children tomorrow. Let's work
together. Let's ku. Mahalo, Councilwoman Lee.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Palafox. Thank you very much. Any questions. Members. If
not, may we have the next testifier.
Madam Clerk.
Followed byChair, our next testifier is Dawn Hegger-Nordblom.COUNTY CLERK;
Nameaaea Hoshino.
MS. DAWN HEGGER-NORDBLOM;
Good evening, everyone. This is my cat tower behind me, no cats right now, jumping
on my desk. Listen, 1 wanted to say thank you for everybody to testify and also for all
your hard work on the County Council. I really appreciate it. I do appreciate Maui
Planning Commission as well.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 54
I'm going to start from the Kapalua side. I did get a chance to talk to Plantation Estates,
you know, regarding the ag versus rural designation. And because I worked for DLNR
in the past, in the conservation district as a regulatory planner, I do feel that it should
always, ag should remain in ag and the reason why  Isay that is because from a State
level, you know, you don't want to keep these, you don’t want to keep perpetuating
gentlemen lots, or gentlemen farms.
I was going to say that with climate change and sea level rise, I think that a lot of the
plans that have come before you as far as housing, I would think, I did, I'm not really
sure how I voted for the Ka'anapali 2020 part. But I would say that if there's an
opportunity for the Ka'anapali 2020 Committee, which I am a part of... if there is some
give and take, it would actually be very nice for people to, it would be nice to see some
solution worked out where part of the property could be kept in greenspace for that
canoe halau and you know for them to be, go ahead and do housing.
As far as Olowalu at Launiupoko. You know, sometimes I go up there to do mobile
notaries and some of the houses up there, just crazy, beautiful, amazing, lots of water,
and lots of lawns. But my point is is that at some point, we have to focus on affordable
housing for people and infill areas that have infrastructure and really concentrate on
transportation oriented development. Those areas that people can actually take the
bus, they can walk, they can walk to the store. You know these communities are so
far out there, it is cultural historic site. If there was ever development out there, which
I don't support, I would like to see that there's more archaeological, cultural, and
historical, I guess saving there.
And I would, I would actually say that's the same for Kapalua as well because, you
know, everybody is, nobody ever mentions tourism in the whole scope of things. But
we have a lot of tourist here and the . . . numbers is, you know, 60,000 people at any
given time, that's 40,000 tourist and 20,000 residents going back and forth on the
highway. You know, at the end of the day, what it becomes is the quality of life is being
impacted for West Maui residents.
So with all that in mind, I just wanted to say thank you. I just want to say that I'm also
on the Environmental Council, so, for the State of Hawaii, so, and I was a previous
land use plannerfor DLNR, and HART, and Army Guard. So if you have any questions.
I'd be happy to answer.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions. If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 55
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Nameaaea Hoshino. To be followed by Jade
Chihara.
MR. NAMEAAEA HOSHINO;
Aloha, you guys can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. HOSHINO: Aloha, my is (Spoke in Hawaiian.)... my name is Nameaaea Hoshino, born
and raised in Lahaina. For myself, yeah, I do support West Maui Community Plan and
hopefully it can help a lot of our people here on the west side. And for me, you know I
totally against the whole idea of what Peter Martin's, of this great white hope, in sense
of he's bringing, of bringing housing to our people, the people here. But, you know
when you talk about Olowalu, it's a very, like a lot of people say it’s a very sensitive
area and what's doing right now, of these projects of especially that Olowalu, that
sensitive area. Yes, you have archaeological sites, even might become even sea rising
because of what's happening there. You could see it when you driving to Lahaina.
And, you know a lot of the issues that, that I see, especially what's happening in
Maui Lani, there's a lot of desecration that's happened in that area. So what you would
think that's going to happen if that development.. .goes through. And I was born and,
you know I was raised over there and you know, I can tell you a story that what
happened in, when there was a fire in Olowalu and  .. . things that was, that took place
are one of my grandma's sister's actually lost their home in the fire. But they saved
everybody else. And, you know, the . . . compliments of what Peter Martin could do,
provide for them is ... , yeah, didn't provide any housing. So what does it teaches you
in, in the respect of he's going to offer people better housing. To me that's one concern
because there's a lot of broken promises that he tells people.
And you just look at what's happening in Launiupoko. Yeah, there's water restrictions
of how much water or even over charging them. And see, and these are the things
that we have to deal with as, you know, people living here. You know, and I don't want
that in the next generation to suffer because already we having traffic. We have a
huge population of tourism that's coming here every day, especially now in the holidays
you going see this impact. So what, what's going to help especially if development in
Olowalu is going to cause. And so, for my concerns and for my, you know, responses
to Olowalu, aole, no, we don't need a lot of that development there. And so mahalos.
Aloha.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 56
CHAIR LEE; Members, any questions.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jade Chihara. To be followed by Mark Deakos, and
nobody is currently signed up to testify after Mark.
MS. JADE CHIHARA:
Good evening, everybody. My name is Jade Chihara, I'm born and raised in Lahaina.
I live in Lower Lahainaluna Road, not Olowalu, not in any Plantation Estate. And
respectfully I think everybody who's testified so far tonight is older than me, and
perhaps better informed on these issues. 1 was recently given a stack of drafts and
copies of the Maui Island Plan and understanding the Water Use Development Plan
and trying to get. . . community.
But as a member of my age bracket and this generation, I'd like to speak on behalf of
what matters to me and that's to insure sustainability and just management of our
natural resources with, while these plans are on the table. If living with my family for a
little bit longer and, and that means that the island remains in its beauty and its stability,
I'm okay with that, while, while we figure it out in a just way.
1 do want affordable housing, I love our local people too, but not in a manner that is
detrimental to burial sites, to our natural resources and our streams and our oceans,
historically important areas to the entire community consent and important areas and
open spaces.
Mahalo for hanging in there. I'm realizing the stamina that each of you have. Thank
you for the opportunity to speak.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you for staying up to testify. Members, any questions. If not, thank
you, Jade, thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our final testifier is Mark Deakos.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Deakos.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18. 2021
Page 57
MR. MARK DEAKOS:
Yes, mahalo Chair and Councilmembers. Thank you for working late in the night once
again to hear the voice of the community. I'm Mark Deakos, 25 year resident West
Maui. I do support the existing West Maui island, focuses on high density growth in
areas that make sense for affordable housing, affordable living.
And if we look back at how West Maui has changed over the past few decades, I think
most of us would agree that some adjustments in our designs would have been
beneficial if we knew better back in the day. We may have avoided the loss of three
miles of beaches, the buildings that are currently falling in the ocean, some of the worst
water quality in the State. Our dried up streams and aquifers. Fifty percent of our coral
reefs now dead, and part from the wastewater injection wells. The horrendous traffic
we deal with, and fallow ag lands contributing to brown water events. And of course
cost of living that's out of reach for most.
So clearly we've made some mistakes in our design and planning. But fortunately,
we've learned from that poor planning and that's where the idea of smart growth comes
from. Designing while we minimize those negative impacts. And I would even argue
that we really need to transition to regenerative growth. That we actually heal the
damage that we've done, not just minimize the damage. And this is what communities
across the country are doing. And first and foremost criteria of smart and regenerative
growth is developing close to existing infrastructures while preserving greenspace and
ag lands such as Launiupoko and Olowalu.
Now with regards to the survey funded by Peter Martin. I just want to address . . .
probably can't see it but essentially the take home message from his survey despite it
being the worst way to do a survey, it shows that most people when asked where they
would like affordable housing it's in, it's in Lahaina and Napili. It's places close to
Lahaina.
And I want to show you another graph, at first glance you shouldn't ask a question like
if affordable housing existed in Olowalu, would you live there,
overwhelming yes, but it's actually 49 percent said no, which was shocking to me. Now
the reason it looks like so many more people said yes is because they adjusted the "y"
axis, the bottom of the "y" axis is at 47 percent. So it's a clear attempt to deceive,
which gives you some insight on, on whether you should trust some of the comments
that are being made.
So, why did they say no? Why do they want to live closer to Lahaina? Because if
you're a low-income household, you don't want to have to rely on driving to school.
It looks like
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 58
driving to work, driving grandma to get supplies. You want to be where it's convenient
in your supplies and not have that added cost.
So I support the island plan, the West Maui island plan and I hope you do too as well.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, any questions Members. If not, thank you. Mr. Deakos.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair our next testifier is Kai Nishiki.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Nishiki.
MS. KAI NISHIKI:
Good evening, Chair, Councilmembers. Kai Nishiki, speaking on my own behalf,
although I am the Chair of the West Maui Community Plan Advisory Committee. It
seems like there are a lot of paid consultants, developers, realtors, land speculators,
and lawyers here tonight opposing the plan during this public meeting. I always find it
interesting when you see a bunch of paid guys opposing the community plan, our West
Maui Community Plan, which really took a monumental effort on behalf of the Long
Range Division within the Planning Department doing extensive outreach with many
stakeholders in West Maui for, for years, two or three years. And the lengthy public
CPAC process with our large and diverse West Maui community. We focused on the
quality of life for residents, and the needs of our community, and let that guide our
actions. I believe this plan is a good reflection of a very thorough process.
I'd like to bring up some housing numbers provided by the Planning Department's
technical resource papers during deliberations. It was estimated that the housing units
needed in West Maui by 2040 was 6,923 and in the plan presented to you and the
community we made possible 7,950 which is over a thousand more than was projected
to be needed.
The Planning Director Michele McLean said that the lands that the CPAC is looking at,
and I'm quoting "are for designations are within the growth boundaries, but they are
not required to fill those areas up. There's way more land in the grovrth boundaries
than is needed for the population projections for the planning period." She said, "So
by leaving some of it as ag, or what is currently designated, that's fine for them to do."
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 59
Moving on to Hanako'o Beach Park. You know, it's home to West Maui's canoe clubs
and where the State regatta is held when it comes to Maui. Also there's a large
cemetery and really this is the last beach for locals to call their own in a sea of tourism
in West Mau.
Amongst other considerations the CPAC was asked to plan for a 3.2 feet level of sea
level rise in our deliberations. And we were asked to imagine a time when the entire
Hanako'o Park and cemetery is under water and the new shoreline is mauka of the
highway.
We were tasked with putting into place plans for our grandchildren, the future
generations to continue to have access to the shoreline and celebrate and honor their
culture. The most popular recreation in West Maui for tourist and locals according to
a survey conducted by the Parks Department is utilizing the ocean and beach parks.
A shortage of beach parks and parks in general in West Maui was identified. In addition
to the projected loss of up to 40 percent of our beach parks in the future. In fact it is
happening right now with Puamana Park being closed. Many of our current West Maui
beach parks are linear, thin strips along the coastline, not very wide with nowhere to
go with sea level rise. So it is vital to protect mauka expansion of important coastal
areas for future public access.
I encourage you to look at the big picture, not the individual sectioned maps, but look
at the large map that shows the entire community plan area. Look, can I wrap up in a
minute.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, could you wrap up please, Kai.
MS. NISHIKI; Yes. Envision the next 20 to 50 years when Kaanapali is fully built out with
thousands of homes. Villages of Leialii, Puukolii Mauka, Kaanapali Town North, etc.
and also Lahaina Town. The park area provides a much needed break between
Kaanapali and Lahaina.
We are very appreciative of the time, thoughtfulness, and community involvement of
the original process of planning Ka'anapali 2020 back in the 90's. Like all plans over
time, with new information and newly identified community needs, plans must adapt to
stay current. Sea level rise and coastal erosion weren't even a part of the conversation
back then.
Perhaps Kaanapali Land Management can just get started on Kaanapali Town North
and then come back when the community plan is up for review again. Finally, the plan
and the ten to one vote of the CPAC demonstrates and reflects support with all
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 60
members except for one voting in, in favor of the proposal for Hanako'o Mauka
expansion. And I can provide the vote count if you need it. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions. If not, thank you, Ms. Nishiki.
MS. NISHIKI: Thank you for the late night listening to the community. Good night.
CHAIR LEE: Goodnight.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair our next testifier is Yvette Celiz.
MS. YVETTE CELIZ:
Mahalo, Chair and Council. Thank you for your time, I know it’s late so I will try to
speak briefly. My name is Yvette Celiz, I am speaking on behalf of myself. I also
served on the CPAC, so I just wanted to say that  Isupport the plan. You know, it's not
perfect, but it's what came out of a very extensive community process.
You know, honestly, I didn't know what I was getting myself into when I first applied to
join. I didn't know how many countless hours upon hours of public testimony that we
would have to sit through and listen to. But you know that is a part of the . . . of the
community voices as much as possible. You know, all I knew, ail I thought was that,
you know, I, I'm born and raised in Lahaina, but  Ijust moved back home, you know, at
the time that I applied, and I just wanted to find ways that I could give back to my
community.
I work in human resources at a hotel in Kaanapali, we have about 400 employees, so
again I'm not speaking on behalf of anybody. But you know from my own experience,
those are the working class people that I thought of. Those are the everyday, you
know, community members that I thought of, like to provide a better community for
them to live in. And so you know, those, that's kind of what I kept in mind in terms of
the needs.
But again, we wanted to do it in a way that is just, that doesn't exploit people, doesn't
exploit land, you know, of course affordable housing is a huge need, but we want to
make sure that it's done in the right way. So again, keeping it brief I just want to say
that I support the plan and thank you guys so much for all your time.
CHAIR LEE: Questions. If not, thank you very much. May we have the next testifier.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 61
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have anybody signed up to testify as of this moment and.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, ask again one more time.
COUNTY CLERK: If an individual connected to the public hearing has not yet testified but
would like to do so, please identify yourself now in the chat. This is the last call for
testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Do you see anybody. Yes.no?
COUNTY CLERK: No.
CHAIR LEE: No. Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the
record and to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION. WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
1. Donna Clayton;
Gary W. Grube;
Mandy Saito, Kaanapali Land Management Corp.;
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp.;
Patrick K. Wong, Carlsmith Ball LLP;
Elle Cochran;
Michael Gronemeyer;
Jonathan Kindred, Plantation Estates Lot Owners Association;
Saman Dias, Maui Bicycling League;
William J. Aila Jr., Hawaiian Homes Commission;
Cassandra Abdul, Na Hale O Maui;
Lee Chamberlain;
Lorrie Betsill Nielson;
Peter Martin;
Dylan Payne;
Jade Chihara;
Teresa Adams;
Myrna Ah Hee;
Jeff Anderson;
Debbie Arakaki;
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 62
Tom Blackburn-Rodriguez;
Michaellyn Burke;
Paul Causey;
David Deleon;
Brian Egan;
Robb Finberg;
Fred Findlen, Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa;
Gordon Firestein;
Cesar E. Gaxiola, J. Walter Cameron Center;
Donald R. Gerbig;
Jerry Gibson, Hav\/ai‘i Hotel Alliance;
Kelli Gomes;
Lori Gomez-Karinen;
Steve Goodfellow;
Tamar Goodfellow;
Joshua Guth;
Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenters;
James Haynes;
Mel Hipolito Jr.;
Kai and John Kaahui;
Soncy Kaahui;
B. Kakihara;
Derek Kanoa, Hilton Grand Vacations;
Shalia Keahi;
Doris Lang;
Clifford R. Libed;
Michele Lincoln, Protect and Preserve Kahoma Ahupua‘a Association;
Ali Linder;
Peter Longhi;
Brian McCafferty;
Brinton Meadows;
David Medina;
Ken Moore;
Mark Nigh;
Nyla Nolan;
Lucie Ormsby;
Pacific Resource Partnership;
Karl P. Piotrowski;
Douglas G. Pitzer;
Lori Powers;
Barrett Procell;
Leilani Pulmano;
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2021
Page 63
Michael Pye, Fairmont Kea Lani;
Pamela Reader;
Karl J. ReuI, Kaanapali Golf Courses;
Hinano Rodrigues;
Rick Ryniak;
Judy and Pete Siracusa;
Matthew Smith;
Paul Subrata, Maui Land & Pineapple Company, Inc.;
Gerald Tanaka;
Tiffany Teruya;
Wallace Tom;
David Ward;
Anita L. White;
Amy Wisthoff-Martin; and
Lee Anne Wong.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Do we have anything else?
Madam Clerk, before I adjourn the meeting.
COUNTY CLERK: Just double checking. No, that takes care of the business before the body.
CHAIR LEE: Well Members its approximately 8:51 [sic] and this public hearing is now
adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The public hearing of NOVEMBER 18, 2021, was adjourned by the Chair at 8:50 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
211118ph;jm
RECEIVEDCount^Clerk
m\ NOV 15 AH l|: 22From:
Sent:
Donna Clayton <donnajclayton@hawaii.rr.com>
Monday, November 15, 2021 11:01 AM
'Lee Chamberlain'; County Clerk
'Saman Dias’; 'Clint Master'; 'Leo Nakayama'
RE: West Maui Community Plan Testimony
To: 0‘rrlCE GF THE
GO'UNTY CLEi-xKCc:
Subject:
You don't often get email from donnajdayton@hawaii.rr.com. Learn whv this is important
Hi Lee,
Yup, got this info but can we still ask or the Inclusion of Jan's suggested wording or is it too late?
The policy could be: "Require new development, redevelopment and Chapter 201H, HRS and Chapter 2.97, MCC housing
projects to incorporate the planned West Maui Greenway into their project and provide rights of way for the greenway
if the alignment crosses the property."
From: Lee Chamberlain [mailto:Lee@rldesmartmaui.com]
Sent: Monday, November 15, 2021 10:48 AM
To: County Clerk
Cc: Donna; Saman Dias; 'Clint Master'; Leo Nakayama
Subject: West Maui Community Plan Testimony
The WMCP states in. Section 4 | Implementation and Monitoring
2.12 Complete the West Maui Greenway multi-use path to provide a safe, off-road path for walking and bicycling
between parks, neighborhoods, and businesses.
In order to accomplish this The policy could be: "Require new development redevelopment and Chapter 201H. HRS
and Chapter 2.97. MCC housing projects to incorporate the planned West Maui Greenwav into their project and
provide rights of wav for the areenwav if the alignment crosses the orooertv."
Please use your leadership to support Hawaii's Bike Plan, Hawaii's SB1402 and the WMCP to modernize Hawaii's ground
transportation infrastructure by providing additional metrics, considerations, and assistance to the department of
transportation in order to move Hawaii forward into the twenty-first century. Please implement a comprehensive plan
for the establishment of any portion of the following on Maui as required by SB1402.
"https://www.capitol.hawaii.gOv/session2021/bills/SB1402_.HTM"
(1) A contiguous network of bicycle and pedestrian pathways connecting all public schools and libraries in each school
complex area to one another, and to its respective state and county transportation infrastructure, in which intersections
with other modes of transportation shall be minimized; provided that the pathway network shall be separated and
protected from vehicular traffic by physical or natural barriers, or by meaningful distance or elevation;
(2) A contiguous network of bicycle and pedestrian pathways connecting commercial business and shopping hubs to
residential areas, and to its respective state and county transportation infrastructure, in which intersections with other
modes of transportation shall be minimized; provided that the pathway network shall be separated and protected from
vehicular traffic by physical or natural barriers, or by meaningful distance or elevation; and
(3) Pedestrian exercise and active health pathways of meaningful length in which intersections with other modes of
transportation shall be minimized; provided that these pathways shall be separated and protected from vehicular traffic
by physical or natural barriers, or by meaningful distance or elevation, and easily accessible to residential and high
1
density communities where appropriate.
I Support the West Maui Greenway.
Sent from Mail for Windows
0 Virus-free, www.avast.com
2
RECEIVED
Donna Clayton
255 Kaualani Dr.
Pukalani, Maui, Hawaii 96768
29?! NOV 15 PM 3: 26
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Date:November 15, 2021
To: Council of the County of Maui
From: Donna Clayton/Na Ala Hele - Maui Council and West Maui Greenway Alliance
Aloha,
I would like to testify on the acceptance of the draft West Maui Community Plan. I first
want to say that this huge undertaking was a joy to be a part of as the work with the
community was handled so well and our get-togethers were engaging, collaborative and
fun.
I am in support of accepting the draft West Maui Community Plan with the following
addition:
The West Maui Community Plan states in. Section 4  |Implementation and Monitoring
2.12 Complete the West Maui Greenway multi-use path to provide a safe, off-road path
for walking and bicycling between parks, neighborhoods, and businesses.
Also, Section 2 requires landowners to evaluate and adjust proposed projects to fit the
community's vision for the future. I feel clarifying wording is needed to avoid conflict in
the future. Please consider adding:
''Require new development redevelopment and Chapter 201H, HRS and Chapter
2.97, MCC housing projects to incorporate the pianned West Maui Greenwav into
their project and provide rights of wav for the areenwav if the aiignment crosses
the property."
If something is not required, it can be avoided. The West Maui Greenway is a high
priority in West Maui and this additional wording will help ensure that working together -
the County, State and Community - we can make the West Maui Greenway a reality.
Mahalo for your time.
November 18, 2021
FAW1J '/
Council Chair Alice Lee and the Members of the Maui County Council
Re: West Maui Community Plan - Testimony Regarding Designation of Plantation Estates as
Rural Residential
I submit this testimony personally and on behalf of Hua Momona Farms, LLC and GFM Partners
LLC to provide a farmer's perspective on this topic.
I own and operate Hua Momona Farms LLC on the GFM Partners LLC Lot 23 in the Plantation
Estates HR II neighborhood, with an area of about 25 acres, and being TMK (2) 4-2-009:023,
providing vegetables to Maui restaurants and consumers for several years. We are a small family
farm in a low density large lot residential estate neighborhood. I understand there are over 100
lots in plantation Estates and our 25 acre lot is one of very few that are of this size, positioned at
the far east end and highest elevation of the neighborhood. 100% of our product is consumed in
Maui.
Rural Residential Land Use Designation makes sense. Agriculture Designation Does Not.
I was attracted to purchase the 25 acre lot to build a house much like the current estate homes
of the neighborhood in the Kapalua resort that surrounds the Plantation Golf Course. Since our
25 acre lot was one of the very few that are greater than 5 to 7 acres, I secondarily had an interest
to develop a family farm to go with a house. Ultimately, I decided to postpone building the house
to favor developing the family farming operation. My hope was that once profitable, the farming
operations would justify funding the addition of the house. It's been 5 years and we still have not
been able to Justify building a house. In my opinion, as an experienced business person and
farmer among other things, small-scale commercial agriculture in the Plantation Estates
neighborhood is not economically possible due mainly to poor soil conditions, limited water
supply, and high winds.
I feel that the current legacy agriculture land designation just won't make the economics work
and won't attract even the smallest of commercial farming operations to the neighborhood going
forward. I understand that the rural residential designation was not available when the
neighborhood was originally created. The designation of rural residential best fits the makeup of
the Plantation Estates neighborhood.
The cost of farming in the Plantation Estates neighborhood is higher than other areas on Maui
due to several factors including: wind, terrain, soil washed out of nutrients, and limited water
supply. A viable Plantation Estates specific farming business case is challenging to abate the wind,
terrain (e.g., gulches, pitch), and provide soil amendments to overcome low natural nutrient
levels and the plastic debris left behind from so many years of pineapple farming.
I know of several neighbors that wanted to farm next to their homes but stopped once the totality
of the hurdles became clear (e.g., layers of plastic debris from pineapple farming). My farm is just
one of a few lots above the heaviest plastic debris areas (e.g., at the highest elevation), so we
have a slight edge.
Between natural rain and neighborhood water supply, our small family farm barely has enough
water to maintain operations. I can't imagine even one more farming entity relying on our
neighborhood water source and natural rains. Our small farm spends as much as $1,500 each
month on irrigation water and hope it's available. Natural rains are just not enough.
The whole of Plantation Estates is simply a Rural Residential neighborhood
It's common sense that others will not build new farms to improve Maui food security because
of the land use designation, especially amongst estate houses in a resort neighborhood.
Correcting the land designation to rural residential won't prohibit anyone from farming but it will
recognize what the true nature of the neighborhood is with a designation that is now available.
1 fully support the request from the Plantation Estates Lot Owners Association (PELOA) to
designate all of Plantation Estates as "Rural Residential". I feel it is aligned with the reality of the
neighborhood make up.
I have been working constructively with PELOA leadership to ensure that a change in designation
will not result in any negative consequences for my agricultural activities. I'm comfortable that
their actions and intentions are supportive of the continuation of my farming operation within
Plantation Estates. I'm supportive of the PELOA management team and I support the change in
designation to Rural Residential for the totality of Plantation Estates.
Sincerely,
Gary W. Grube
Individually and as Owner & Manager of Hua Momona Farms, LLC
OO
O-n
C3]
2:0H
mC3
^ bm rnOO
Oo 3a»-“n
m H
73 X
X m QhO
PO
Kaanapaii Land Management Corp.
275 Lahainaluna Road * Lahaina, Maui, HI 96761 ● (808) 661-9652 ● /: (808) 667-9658 ● www.KaanapaliLand.com
Honoring our tools.
Presfftvtg onrspini.
OO
73*11
November 17, 2021 mCD
o O—I
: n rnCO
Council Chair Alice Lee
Council of the County of Maui
Office of Council Services
200 South High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
m1 CO
ov-n
Council of the County of Maui Public Hearing 11/18/2021
Testimony by Mandy Saito, Kaanapali Land Management Corp.
Subject:
Dear Council Chair Alice Lee,
Tm writing to ask the Council of the County of Maui to please reconsider the land use designation
for the Kaanapali Town South noted in the current draft West Maui Community Plan. The current
draft designates 200 acres of Kaanapali Town South’s agricultural land to Parks/Open Space and
Agriculture, which is not consistent with the Maui Island Plan. The map below shows the current
draft West Maui Community Plan land use designations.
kaanapali
Town South
if AQMCULTVM
PAftR$> MACf
pvftucfQUAajpueuc
9HAU. fOWN CCNTU
V—: _
£
JMi ^ PLANNINO COMMISSION /CPAC RECOMMENDED
COMMUNITY PLAN LAND USE OEStONATIONa
The Maui Island Plan identifies Kaanapali Town within the Urban Growth Boundary, indicating
the area as an appropriate location for urban development. In the Maui Island Plan’s Directed
Growth Plan, the region identified as Kaanapali Town consist of three regions Kaanapali Town
North. Kaanapali Town (central portion) and Kaanapali South and is also known as a portion of
the Kaanapali 2020 Master Plan, a community-based planning effort. Thus, Kaanapali South is
selected as a planned growth area. The map below is Directed Growth Plan from the Maui Island
Plan.
Directed Growth Plan
Figure H- II: KiFanapati Town — Planned Growth Area.
Regions within the Directed Growth Boundaries are described as “intended to be a self-sufficient
community with a relatively even split of single-family and multifamily dwelling units,
commercial uses, an interconnected network of parks and open spaces, schools and other public
facilities”. See Exhibit A.
“Urban” is characterized in the Maui Island Plan as follows: “Urban areas contain a greater variety
of land use types, including various housing types and densities, commercial, retail, industrial uses,
and resort destination areas. Infrastructure is more complete and reflects the need to serve higher-
density land uses.” See Exhibit B.
2
The Kaanapali 2020 community-based planning group participated in the General Plan process to
update the Maui Island Plan and incorporate the group’s vision. The map shown below reflects the
Kaanapali 2020 Master Plan’s vision with the respective land use designations. See Exhibit C.
Kaanapali
Town South
LEGtNO
COMHUHITY PUkM CANO V$C DCSIONATIOfO
AORKULTWIS
PAJDKfONOt SFACE
/ ouAcmjauc
KlCOnWL
(MAIL TOWN CENTEX
UKftAN COMOON
MOVSTftlAL
V~lc*%iun
●>-L.\ OATCHKANT —
n /KAANAPALI 2020 PROPOSED
COMMUNITY PLAN LAND USE DESIGNATIONS
■ ●'x'' y /
The Maui Island Plan serves as the foundation for the Community Plans. The Maui County Code
2.SOB.070 states “Community plans shall implement the general plan’s vision, principals, goals,
and policies.
The current draft community plan is not consistent with the characterization of Urban Growth
Boundaries, and not compliant with the Maui Island Plan and Maui County Code 2.80B.070.
Please reconsider the land use designations for the Kaanapali Town South and select more
appropriate land use designations that align with the Kaanapali 2020 Master Plan and the intended
characteristics of the Urban Growth Boundaries defined by the Maui Island Plan. If the Council
of the County of Maui is not able to change the land use designations for productive use, please at
the very least keep the existing designation of Agriculture for future consideration.
Sincerely,
Mandy Saito, PE, LS, LEED AP
Project Engineer
Kaanapali Land Management Corp.
Attachments:
Exhibit-A
Exhibit-B
Exhibit-C 324 Signatures of Support
3
EXHIBIT-ADirected Growth Plan
Figure 8 - II: Ka'anapali Town — Planned Growth Area.
Except as otherwise provided for this region, it is not the intent of the RGBs for agricultural subdivisions
to rezone lands within the boundary to higher densities than is already permitted, but to apply a County
Rural zoning district (2-, 5-, 10-acre minimum lot sizes) that reflects existing conditions or that is directed
by the Community Plan. The Community Plan shall determine the appropriate densities and standards to
apply within the West Maui RGBs. Any restrictions on agricultural activity are prohibited.
Ka'anapali Town
Located on the mauka side of the Ka'anapali Resort and Golf Course, Ka'anapali Town consists of the
Ka'anapali 2020 planned development located between the Lahaina Civic Center at the south end of the
planned growth area and the Honokowai Gulch on the north end of the planned growth area. I'he growth
area follows the proposed West Maui Highway Realignment transit corridor on the mauka slope up to the
Pu'ukoli'i Village area and Ka'anapali Coffee Farms.
Planned Growth Area Rationale
Ka'anapali Town consists of three distinct pieces: lower North Honokowai, lower East Honokowai, and
lower South Honokowai. The Ka'anapali Town planned growth area is 840 acres. Ka'anapali Town is
intended to be a self-sufficient community with a relatively even split of single-family and multifamily
dwelling units, commercial uses, an interconnected network of parks and open spaces, schools and other
Maui County General Plan 2030 8-57 Maui Island Plan
Directed Growth Plan
public facilities. A network of trails and bikeways will integrate Ka'anapali Town with Ka'anapali Resort
and the Pu'ukoli'i Village community. The north piece may contain an acute-care facility. The northern
portion has a proposed veterans’ memorial cemetery. The project is intended to provide an opportunity
for more resident housing in close proximity to employment at Ka'anapali Resort. Due to existing traffic
congestion in West Maui, improvements to the regional highway system are needed to accommodate the
population at Ka'anapali Town. The existing highway and implementation of the proposed Lahaina
Bypass will provide transportation connectivity and hard edges to contain the planned growth area. Table
8-23 provides planning standards and guidelines for this planned growth area.
The Ka'anapali Town planned growth area is depicted on Figure 8-11 and on Directed Growth Map #W2.
Table 8-23 provides a summary of the planned growth area:
Table 8 - 23: Ka'anapali Town Planned Growth Area
Background Information:
Project Name.-
Type of Growth:
Planning Guidelines:
Dwelling Unit Count:
Ka Directed Growth Map #: W2
Gross Site Acreage: 840
'anapali Town
Urban Expansion  Acres
Balance of SF and MF
units
> 25%
Approximately 1,800
Units
6-9 du/acre
33
Residential Product
Mix:
Parks and Open
Space%^‘*:
Commercial: Convenience Shopping; Region
Serving
Net Residential Density:
Lahaina Town North
Lahaina Town North is a portion of the master planned project known as “Villages of Leiali'i”. Lahaina
Town North is a moderate-sized urban expansion located north of Lahaina Town. It is a Hawai' i Housing
Finance Development Corporation (HHFDC) project. The planned growth area is intended to be
compact, and contain a mix of uses, and have a relatively even split of single-family and multifamily
housing units.
Planned Growth Area Rationale
Lahaina Town North is a logical expansion of the existing Lahaina community. Being an HHFDC project
with a mix of housing types and moderate single-family lot sizes, the project will address the need for
additional affordable resident housing in West Maui in close proximity to Lahaina’s employment
opportunities. The project should include a mix of land uses, park land, and open space, and will be
proximate to public facilities such as the Lahaina Civic Center. Thus, the project is intended to evolve
into a livable community based on sustainable land use planning. The Lahaina Town North planned
growth area is depicted on Figure 8-12, and on Directed Growth Map #W2 and W3. Table 8-24 provides
a summary of the planned growth area:
Table 8-24: Lahaina Town North
33
Additional units may be permitted through a transfer of development rights program or to provide anbrdable housing in excess
of what is required by law. Unit counts may be further defined through the entitlement process in response to infrastructure and
environmental constraints.
The distinct boundaries of the parks and open space, specific location of the recreational uses, and the precise amenities will be
further defined during the West Maui Community Plan update and the project review and approval process.
34
8-58 Maui Island PlanMaui County General Plan 2030
Directed Growth Plan
Table 8*2: Growth Boundaries and Protected Area Types
OtOWTH BOUNDARIES
(See Mips C*1 to C-5, S-1 to
W.U-1 toU-4,N-l toN-2.
1^1 to _
CHARACTERISTICS PURPOSE IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
Urban areas contain a greater variety of land use types, including various housing
types and densities, commercial, retail, industrial uses, and resort destination areas
Infrastructure is more complete and reflects the need to serve higher-density land
uses.
Ensure that future development occurs in an orderly
fashion. allovss in-fill and revitalization opportunities and
encourages "new urbanism" and ”neo-traditional design"
techniques.
Protect separation between communities through the use of Urban Growth
Boundanes Require community-based design processes and require design
guidelines for future major development. Identify and promote redevelopment
and in-fill opportunities. Encourage a mix of housing types and higher-density
residential development to cncouraite resident housing opportunities
Protect separation between communities through the use of Small Town
Boundanes. Allow for expansion where appropriate Utilize design guidelines
and rural infrastructure standards to protect Small Town character
Urban
Small Towns are less intensely developed than urban areas with fewer services and a
lower level of infrastructure. They may be more self-sufficient than Rural Villages
Primary employment opportunities are usually in nearby urban areas.
Protect the integrity, unique sense of place, and economic
viability of Maui's traditional small townsSmall
Town
Rural Areas contain a mixture ofagricultural activities, low-density residential areas,
and small villages.
Provide a transition between Urban Areas and Small Towns
and those areas m need of protection, including agricultural
lands.
Minimize expansion of infrastructure that could lead to urbanization Define areas
appropriate for additional rural development patterns. Promote an equitable
tax/water rate structure (hat reflects actual land use Adopt appropriate
infrastructure and subdivision standards to protect rural character
Maintain the separation of communities through the use of boundaries Allow for
Rural Villages where appropriate. Utilize rural design guidelines and appropriate
infrastructure and subdivision standards to protect rural character
Rural Villages may contain limited amounts of State and County urban designated
lands including residential and small clusters of businesses and civic uses mostly to
support surrounding rural residential uses and agricultural activities. Level of
government services is generally limited and many essential goods and services are
located m a larger town The level of infrastructure may be lower than Small Towns.
Engiloyment is generally a function of nearby Urban Areas or Small Towns.
Contain the spread of residential uses into prime
agricultural lands and provide a tool for designing villages
with a mix of lots and lifestyle choices.Rural
X
Rural Residential Areas are primarily a residential development pattern with lower
residential densities (0.5 to 10 ACRE/du), agricultural activities, and few services or
employmeni opportunities. Limited commercial and civic uses (churches, schools)
may be allowed in accordance with applicable community plan and zoning
UD
Sec Dwirapu NW-1. WC-1, S-t, N-1, NE-1, E-1, SE-1) IAreas with significant natural and environmental resources, scenic, open space, and
recreational resources, historic resources and other important assets that warrant
additional protection. Preservation areas may include accessory structures such as
public restrooms, structures related to a cultural or histoncal resource, and other
structures and ancillary uses consistent with the purpose and intent of the
Permanent protection of areas on the island that have
significant environmental, ecological, cultural and
recreational value and the degradation of the resource
would result in an irretrievable loss
Protection using regulation, casements. Transfer of Development Rights (TDR)
program or fee-simple purchase in couperation with land trusts, environmental
organizations, the County of Maui. State of Hawai  iand the Federal government.
The appropnaie community plan designation for this protected area type is park or
open space as determined during a community plan update or the entitlement
process.
00
preservation area.
Land areas devoted to passive (picnic facilities and gathering areas) and/or active
(including, but not limited to, bike paths, hiking trails, ball fields, and tennis courts)
uses that serve recreational needs.
Ensure that recreational and open space needs keep pace
with future growth and are appropriately located consistent
with the Maui Island Plan's Directed Growth Plan.
Acquisition, Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) pro^am, and/or cooperative
efforts with the development community during the design, project review and
approval process. The appr^riaie community plan designation for this protected
area type is park or open space as determined during a community plan update or
the emitlement process
Extensive area of largely undeveloped or sparsely occupied land established along
natural corridors to protect environmental resources and to separate distinct
communities Grcenbelts may include accessory structures and ancillary uses
consistent with the purpose and intent of the greenbelt area.
Ensure natural and undisturbed separation between
communities and protect environmentally sensitive lands
Acquisition. Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) program, and/or cooperative
efforts with the development community during the design, project review and
approval process Also implemented through the subdivision review process. The
appropriate community plan designation for this protected area type is park or
open space as determined during a community plan update or the entitlement
Greenbelt
process
Typically a long, narrow piece of land, ofren times used for recreation, pedestrian,
and bicycle traffic. Greenways can include community gardens and can be used to
link community amenities (e g. parks, shoreline) Greenways may include accessory
Structures and ancillary uses consistent with the purpose and intent of the greenway
area.
Provide opportimiiies to inter-connect communities, ensure
adequate recreational amenities, protect scenic resources,
and link residential projects with service areas. Greenways
may be improved to accommodate pedestrian, bicycle,
equestrian and other similar uses.
Acquisition, Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) program, and/or cooperative
efforts with the development community during the design, project review and
approval process. Also implemented through the subdivision review process. The
appropriate community plan designation for this protected area type is park or
open space as determined during a community plan update or the entitlement
Greenway
process
Lands that contain development constraints including steep slopes greater than 55
percent, floodplains, significant drainage features, and adjacent intact forested areas.
Protect areas with significant development constraints and
ensure sensitive areas are taken into consideration during
site design
An area that may require site design review and approval to ensure that areas with
significant development constraints arc avoided or appropriate mitigation
measures are incorporated into projects.
Sensitive
Land
hhui County Genoml PImh 2030 B~5 Msui Island Plan
EXHIBIT C - 324 SIGNATURES OF SUPPORT
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
a
Name .Signature
1
Address Phone No. Date
770^
1
S//6 GJircis-'if i/^iT7
T^e//
4 2,/
<£>
.- 6^'j>96~?6/
■ 'it
'hT? iOA'P^^ .-(-'ll
7/^k>t3-/A}A 7/
Qo%.7ioA-o1%-^'^2.1An 'Ac
Avi lA /U /1.'}'.^ ii^l ■ t
L/^^^Arh-A Hi
5(9'(^1a4xi 5(t^.
f.AtyniM -hi Sb'fhl
SI77D £+
I'tkU'.-HI U7-4i
i‘^i^V
^ ZOF 405 2- ih Z
lO
/;V \
T)A\)rn
^'['4lvAmA 5A\A‘4-(
{rU It 14
Pih^i uu\^Si\ ^^'70 / 2T
■●? /
\>cA
w 5Uf 'Xi
fcI
i — vf' .^yXy ^cnUi
Ai
.'ijASjZJ—Ai iMA
VK'OATAXKLMOC r>\Cr4nm;,nay DMjjKjrtrenl^'iiiiiin <uji *
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Pian that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below,
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
T X
t Ipvi lci<M
tWU
U fcLiy^. ,
U4\/Ayjy\ (<^c
4II
C7
/\w\5 b- Kil\(X Stf
< t fl( Ha 6 ●- Ho
Nt; ?K.
V'^^V^VA CJT'
wv^ej^b) giv^-)£/ tzos -7 5T3W=?"
^ / /W /) p w /«
■3 0,
iS a o
14 A I fJfi
I ft
^ LC^ T N2T/d
I'./Ax.K u H n
vfbJsy rHiJ^^'^^ y~3Q^ IL4‘AJpr.)
[ Uh)^L^^ i^/XL,fln,^f 0 , <  ‘
Xf i I
K \0Ai A'KLMCVCUMI’lift'CwMMu.'iily tti().iij«re’irAi!.lui'; ilix x
(3I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateSignature AddressName
f0or4\ ^ 3.^2- VtoaV
\yRamili) \[i^u
l-t4
M"runi's-32.^ F/'O.-x/fStiet -'
7]"& K4/H 7.2
7
Da.rl
/L.QLj£tl 'lo^ > ^ ‘^C'-/SC b
Qc
yW' <!SLjf
m)Ttt» mW^'k
I bo Ki^h(^jk^
M fUkm^I  ^ ttaciMi' ^ r
 CooF dAjl
rv \Shu (y-py^f.u ^A^V'2/^iiga via email at chad@kaanwalnand^.com or via USPS toPlease return this forrh
Chad Fukunaga, Manapali L^d Management Corp., 275 Lahainaiiiha Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,You can also call ^08) 661-JwS2 if you need further assistance.
K:\OATAU<LMC\CBMPlaii\Cominunity £nQagement\P«tition aocx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Signature Address Phone No. DateName
^21/al
34^ fiikAki]'
khmA [IAy> KOlPlU ST,lA^^ i(X>^
C\ M [f-aulayu & ■
jcwm 0hH\Cm
3/xi/z/
5 21 11
>>
ill MAI4-
1/
'M CAWiMilM ^■21.
ilo 2) H/heu. P2
U \cLav U'sajio12^ a'a/
V.d- tzs^
I
[Ml Otkuu( 0^, .u
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapali!and.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\OATA\KI.MC\CBMPIsn\Cofnmunity EngegemenlVPetition docx
u
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map .
below.
Name Phone No.Signature Address Date I
C/bx6 -
IVAidotn’C L
(/ij-ho^l
y7o-7/sl ^/4s~/y
^ Cgv4~ z/
ilTkou>
●^) ins S /4/VHAL.g ^
^bkc
7rM/- Jf.V\Ky)
'09 3-5^
- 3<-N/. ^ vZ/
U
K 'UATA\KLMC\COMf’liin\Ci)inmu>»ily i-iijjiiiiwviviiy'iSiiUri <!«'>!
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature DateAddress Phone No.
/'cCy C-Pen
p. pA
0,
/ydj* LL.SCO. IlSA
n 53ii;S~73 LQ
j(^ SI3 K)cL(Agf S Y
1^0 l
yV>\>rCL^
Fk!J,yLiJc- a t
/dPlease return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaiuna Road, Lahaina, Hi 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K:\DATAMQ.MC\CaMPi8n\Communily En9agement\Peiinon docx
I support the Ka'anapall 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
^\(X. W. \/<?u3e«-0(2- IA_
II >i(]u'pu\e. Pl.^KiW.Uv3Vifljr'\ l^oAo^ i G\(yiQoU
AsULor! 4jjv>-v l€ >
Gl&2.(-Zi4^-£l2S>
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaiiland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K:VOATAU<lMC>CBMPlan\Coninninrty En^gtmenlVPsbUondocx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maul Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
/it //n
 ^ WivnMqPi 'i h-'d V
■61
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K.'OATAVKLMC^CBMPla'vV^onmurvty i-nea3omonl«PeWioo.<)ocx
1 support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressName Signature
mi
s
5V
(\\ ho
4, i2%V-W,fM 7^
&S7 '-77^0
?bleWiVi'i
^Y^~oiSTPI
u
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainatuna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
lCtDATAVKLMCVCBMPlan\ConvnunilyEn9agom«n(\Peljtion.(]iK)(
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateSignature AddressName
C-'2rT4TOgUgg'U
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaiiiand.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, Hi 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K\OATA\KLMCVC6MPl8fMCo(rtmunfiy EnQagamanlVPobUon.doex
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressSignatureName
//4i^yce
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapatlland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga. Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K \OATA\KLMC\CSUPian\Communiiy EngaQem«m\Peiilion docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
162 West Lanai St
Kahului, HI 96732
Eric Matsuda 808 385 7805 5/11/21
1013 Prospect St, Apt 1216
Honolulu. HI 96822 808.358.6245 5/11/21Richard Y. Santo
A 761 Malaihi Road
Wailuku, HI 96793
5/11/21Dayna Pacheco 808 280 6615
1273 Moohele Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
Brooks Aoki 808 357 4787 5/12/21
545 Kualau Street
Wailuku. HI 96793
Jason Kuraoka 5/13/21808 280 0334
1032SKihei Rd B203
Kihei. HI 96753 5/14/21Jason Springer 808-868-9918
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapall Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661*9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\OATAU<LMC\CBMPlBntCommunity Engagemeni\PetiOon.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
1  Phone No. DateAddressiSignjName
i Tout PL
Hi fc. 7C/ yiH/AlDl^'^no d ylcd&iC s4
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USP8 to
Chad Fukunaga. Kaanapall Land Management Corp., 275 Lahalnaluna Road, Lahaina. HI 96761.
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K\DATA\KLMC\CeWf>l3n\Cammijni*y EtHBagwnent'PWitlon.dse*
! support the Ka‘anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressName
m o \"L
VIm //
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K\DATA\KLMCVCBMPlanVCcoiinu™iy EngagemonUPctitiwi doc*
B
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown he map
below.
wtei
RAAHAPAU J«*P*»0«)SiD
^ CO»««JWTY PIAN LAMO USE OESOMATOM
DatePhone No.AddressSignature^Name
ae-::&S3qz.7 ]}—/ C)^ CWi.;t
/
V7
ot\ fjj>L u c ^
 y>"'oh*/T)£.L^^a\ ●●
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahalnaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761.
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K\OATAW>iaC8MPI«iSCertwnui*y EngnQ«m«nW>«t<r Ooc*
?j?'.T*?' V
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
( ^nature Address Phone No. DateName
0 S'J
U.
^ y/>/vno
c (
/
7
74/m/n<t  '— ‘
K"CCfU
\-73i'
I 33^ ilcKtioh.Q.^0 S/y^/z/Lif^kona
S%2_ A^‘'' ^ i,CA ^/90i>a}Dz Vn J2/J- n/N_
K ^DATA^KLMC^CBMPlsn^Communlly EngsgementVPeiition aocx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressSignatureName
s/zn/fc/
s^sIWsv.'T'Sa iafo:6S)^5
^w\iau
05li^V
K'\OATA\KLMC\CBMPian\ComtTiuniiy En98gemem\P«tilion docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka‘anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Address Phone No. DateSignatureName
/7J/ /%c<
Vfy~1,Ti3.
15‘ii
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need hjrther assistance.
K.\OATAVKLMC£B^^ar>^anmur<ty Er>gsgema^l>Pe(itlan.4«ex
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Address Phone No. DateName Signature
Vkn
V\'U'\kiHL_
y\v*
K}14- ' k 5~»i H4lgiiAu) ?liv jn-Lu-x.
<d4AWa ?\. t\
^Av/>j3 ^ l*i.K.C Clk</c
3n-ii%I
jW>/LiXicL ('~{o yViQf *
^2.^5" C£3/2. <4/
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K \DAT A\KLMC\CBMPlanV::ommmty EngagwnenliPetBon docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
natureName Address Phone No. Date
1^2/^/hj S'-o
Bon 3T~ 5ty-g67-^87<WtUOf) 7im^U.iajv
ST
^ F?o>c i( C‘TS^
^of- a^L/-7
«f>tQjLtjr
5lggLg
CPf,xm/±j^
g'-/2--2/‘ilO A, A-LioS(.8£f6Hi‘l-■^UNE
3^ V*-r /
J2p
m no-wo2lCo HALuiAt €s-
Mio-nc^lj Honda ^10 A/^<t|AnA^
cy/\%h^jh^xd (fW
K \OATAU<LMC\CBMPlanvCcnimunity EngageirieniNPatition docx
I support the K3'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for KS'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddreasName Signature
1S^
L'h<heY
mssiS
GktM.
●^*4J5g I ^ .
5-A-2^rUib^S\
2^/:  I
L
fA^,W O'U C:-. *^0I ycS--???- %i<f●3oo L\ MC..Vt-nes
l3«t> ^'r
zrv>A^
FzCfinT5£.
75^
Fukunaga via email at chad6kaanapallland.com or via USPeto
nd Management Corp., 275 Lahalnaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
^/
 12^/2/
mra ne^^rn miB fonoM
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapa
You ean also call (808) 661-96S2 If you need further assistance.
K.AaAT«uawOCeMflinConvnu)tr EngietnMniVaBart oee>
the Ka’enapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over
Please respect the communit/s desires for Ka anapali
designations shown in the map
I support
widespread community support.
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use
below.
I /> £v’>
V ●
DatePhone No.AddressName
K,i
/«
OS-77
Vj^VlUo.v«-
/^.'VLy ^
\
xs^ L^k‘
9-f
7
AM^i'Lci
 -—r-rJ—r~?t:r4^i ikimiiaa vfa email at chad@kaanapaHland.com or via USPS to
S Fu KHrapal^a.d Management Corp- 275 Uha.naluna Road. Uhalna. HI 96761.
you can^so call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
K oum. o^Kq i
HI
KkWJ-: a/I H673Z
ac [ [ lJ_1_i\V.
fJcu»?E<0 4-1a'i-T
9PS ^hS4*)6
4/z/zf
HC/O
~/07 ^<0
L<1 A// zv<f
livHtil, M£ ^-f7T-zy?3
isohoi^a PI.
OhirtCs. P4ac«.
HT 9U'735
m'Bniv
gpy- Z85-9<tiii
L-Z'Z/LLW€>
fe~f^ Su)hj4^
^\MiuiL>rSuL-lUvi<>^ .^Aaaa
/
(>'2-nJflcau«lme
'Ralph U/z/2^
\
(p/2/^/r
^f\ \-hvtvr\
fZo IKaor
VtttMii tiAftui Kt ztK-f- LMkPlease return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via LISPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapall Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, Hi 96761,
You can also cad (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K \DATA\KLfJC'CRMPI».'Co«vnunrtv PngagcfTonUPetitlon doc*
1 support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka’anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
■0\P'p
SlJz/Tyl
s/n/^
'H/ ^ k/^^Ceipui^
V.0/?.<y%7nr (iArO ft I'^h
c^oa,
t/WAlM). ^CK, I
uiWVO lMKi
 .
^76 L.
n iop i'/, .
^S7 twpdt «.r '
JUM 0 |>)T5pl^!v
7h', HI I i ) ^
WVcw^v'O Ui l
C/0ES
3>f -fU^ jot
7^^//oo/co.|m,<i nl- 3^^-(g'ti4.'^ ^-/7-J^hoi^atTiK:'DATAVKLMC\CSWPiarnCofTimuiiity Eo98gemonl\Petilion oocx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
,'f'
tr^^ rV
ri kf,0, )l7l3
T^ici\c<pJ Cla/^k^\ 3/3/ yW/
/a- r
7s-7-38>c.
2/ii j-x>
21pto 3.512/
{
f’O. (boy./OaOkT
Q/c> P-2
1-p Ckrf■cC^—
\
MJaMkM
I a n\'^
WA ^i
u'4 K
1)1 Loo. Ala a. 6o3-8o3 3‘llj 'M
C 2<75-fe8.3-c
3/31 Ul
o.<95>.C e^q
Please retu^njhls forirTtoChadTukunaq^^a email at chad@kaanapali land.com or via USPS tc
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapaii Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
KADATAVKLMC\CBMPIan\Commurlty Engaflemenl\Pelllion.(JocK
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
'  |3^>^ /
Oi^
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K \DATAV(lMC.CBMP1nn\Con)muMity Er»gay^ita«t|tfMition.docii
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka’anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressSignatureName
1 D 'Icl
ICly^X.\HC'C
Q.r^<xtvi>
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@koanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapall Land Management Corp., 275 l.ahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K 'OATA\KLMC>CeMPIW'>CcrmTulity £ngagm>«n(^Mr:on 0<x>
PhOlWHO. _
:h> I/. ^^Vn:?A\2P.kMm^^M^
Addr—
faUUino
Nam*
SuiL
-i..
f
j
? '■
rr,srr-.sfr;ltr™"si^W^^^^also call (B08) 661-9652 If you n—d fufthar aaslstance.You can
k«m.> */: ■*-
W
POi
Sample Sample
Testim...ble.pdf Testim...2.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
beiow.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
7W)M /k^>^ P)UA
U) 2-“-
ALiW.Vii
.  8J.*l tJiitMXk. ‘jf-
tOifiduu i)f-
S^lf-OU-^OU.lArv* J■lA
HX aiLl
4^iz^(
O W^i^pL-
(*3 -S^ndvLtx^pKvJui1 4 r 7 f., ./cf^ ’ 9--'l Ic f: 3/2/
-iu‘1
■^7.
( U^h±(' r
t
jj\ev\ \Ae
r?
V '
l‘\f^\l i)t' ■ i/1<-?/)]'9'>
7l:J/M^ W.7^IP.fJi^'-h. <?h ’Xl 6/Mhad Fukunaga via ern^ at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
(^/3/°g/Please return this fdrm to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapall Land Management Corp., 275 Lahalnaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMCVCBMPlanVCO(nmuruty Enoasement\PeUtlon.docx
I support the Ka‘anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for KS'anapaii
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
wzz 'hi
cn. Ad 6'3'Z(
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaiiland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahalnaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K.'OATA\KLMC\CBMPIanVCommuRity Engagement^Pelrtlon.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka’anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Address Phone No.SJgnature Date
■!. !iaJ ti ^ '
m
KAIK, Ut\ KU ^ c -7^. > ^-286 - 7- 121
4^/y
S'K.nu
O#^-btr;
0/s/a/
3&T-
Ihhf
^y-u/
ri-
*/
Aiish- yt
A^« t^ \4>
>3(
7
Cki i^ic ) n( ■'
■ '' A
j^U b^nd^sa
rP’
■ s{a ' - ■1%
4#^9/(a^YAC{0^
Allan
4a«^ ValfA Wdtd\
(Dc-C
P^^ICUf
ll^
Please retU n t lis f«
i/«W-<7-
-A
lu
Lh(^>
A
I  JiT,ll^'na.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K:\DAT AM<LUC\CBMPlan\Comnunity Engae«ment\PettKan.4ocj(
L
I support the Ka‘anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
\7/olW^ 'ZS>2>
23^
H 0 ^
///
<kne
2^//-XT
tg?A(g<g> 6>-d-ZJ C^ertAT^'<-<L^
2So-^J
\A
//?
<2>Ct\eLU^
■vC>0 VsN. V VV?-Q
rv_> //3
<?-Z/9dl>-Y<tT~/V\i
» V svj
uA. ^<U/JL
(L- R. 4- ■ -s ^/
C^»J^ Qj)a-e^
b'HlMia 'ii'OftC Iff Uwsr mi«h»i!)cU21b-WlPlease return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahalnaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:'DATA\KLMC\CBMPt8n\Community Enga9emenl\Patitfon.<iocx
I support the Ka'anapall 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maul Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
beiow.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
/ fh ^^7^
/0£C/ M^fCAc4t <S^.
Pf-lUS^V^LAAi
 ia/cXa^ ,4^ ^07U
<S^*
/cr/
Uh^Ctl'^2.
cS s6Z>3-<:>?9^%
der/ti^/zj—
^\/7A fegtfa-Myu 37X--^*U7
^i4jiVI
J,vtjncil ^44 '5^37
Ufl oy\ ^"3"^/Jrt
"IhhKimBegc/Tafeix/ci?
A to€<^
//^V"
(iTu- fktcs>
A*0
i^hului
/<//ba-v,4 760 -9&J& 6-3-^
Ztyi<?uola Aytd y-3z-t
0~3~^lJ6&gc- Ay^ti^cj 1 Si-13 IS-Piease return this form to Chad Fukunaga via emaii at chad@kaanapaiiland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can aiso cail (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\OATA\KLMC\CBURan\Communlty EngaQSniem\Pelition.doex
I support the KS'anapail 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown In the map
below.
^gpdfureName Address Phone No. Date
^U/v/
,_>■ y
c'yf' s
//^ ■' f}-
//7 Aj^/t/J 4'/r "7^ y
{ It kiL-iuA^
yelhiA ^ Vs>/f66~^C{^^vf tti,"j-7c-
ZW^ W-FQi s/iC- 77a^
f^lcMA. ^MuUyiKAl y(, 6'Ga va
 ^
jol^/>)h/^/t^U'AiC/ (-JA.'/y\  iM~^
2.1 //ff&riK ^
f 0, ^t>x, 11.:;=^^OH ^W^Cf!
I Ona'/i. ^ f( y4^z^ 2-//^,
45fc>\
/«!’0 ^
 OU-^'^ fH Ivn^j l'zro-7»^(i.aga via email at chad@kaanapallland.com or via USPt
gement Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
Sto'ChidteiPlease this for
Chad Fukunaga, Kaan^ali Land M
You can also call (SdSj 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K:VDATA'KLMC\CBMRanVCammuni(y £noaown*nt\Petition.dOO(
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20>years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
McJo<jcfThofnfis Ht>oli Lahaj^7\ 7
1(01 7 .7
lioi huii
tiji ^y^fut '
1-1
h ydjLAAJ'-t/-v-
L Uf7
1T 'ft,\_
1/
^fO mfwm
^Is/zf
( I, /) /j
I C- 'CiA.c'
V
/f-1^-7 j
[h-Z/\ /y.
L
tu=.L ^!k\
Aisiaf'elf. .4h.if BT7 /Cchoko Si. toK-o^yj-iu/'o?>/Z^"■
GdDfZ/fi^ 7i£l^yinJi cfj;/ 4/1— 7^^ fhoh^p^- 9M^U^7f^9Please return this form to chad f^ul^unaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661>9652 if you need further assistance.
K;®ATA\KLMC\C8MPt*rnCommufWy &iB*9enwnttf'«Utlon.aocx
Z
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the mapbelow.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
CUrv \ tK StTQ
Z?J/ a a^c9l
UA-o\.% ^>Ii(h
-fiQ CfsM ^
iBBy
So Ls«— .
^iV VAUi pn
(<0(46
A/jW na:
K'‘^n!Uf^; fli
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@k8anapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahalnaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K.-\DATA\KLMCVCBMPl«n\Communfty Enoagomwit^Mtlon.Oocx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
'■haName Address Phone No. Datere
V W/
●0.,^7
Mftft-V- De i»s. st)3 .ST- u/w>^q gpfe-79fc ‘az:f (^k/go
it^^3 g)pft-?t:7-ceyj i
Xl'i HHh\
<4-1.
njf
’^09x\
hy\A ^Vt)WW
HHIz\
^d^g'.2CC-22t^ Ok^jcK^l^f
\~l^Ar^oy^
^m£ 3. Vumm
io Q
/
-o
J
iJt'
Please return this form to Chad Pukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaiiiand.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapall Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K.'\DATA\KLMC\CBURenVCommunlty Engagement\PetiHon.c)ocx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapall
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown In the map
below.
SignatureName Address Phone No. Date
'VIm/lCu J
- 0-f. rr^^vsi
qi. f(?/KU .\ )
) /-O'uJ-/'--frJ-■1^1 ■H‘2'1ni :
/fjf >^0 .fi/Mkco y,/
<
?
fce
'  -|g >
y
.y/ t.,
■-M-
● p^-/0i /
Uf\
moo-^ah^-i 7^ IL
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@Raanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapail Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K-^TAVKLMC\CBMPl4n\Community EAgagemenl^«(jticn.docx
r- f- 4
!-'l- -V / 0 4- ^i
f
/
1 support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for K3‘anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
SignatureName Address Phone No. Date
'A%-c
iLim
0>^3^2,f
(e
IfJitirrfer ijo/{ ^t. tW:. '2o^-o276r;c3
y07- ^T'^d Ce ^ ^
 T*-
^ liy^qTSOw
0/ ^
. V-
iVT)^ >\K
7^^ K/ -
:U
T }j/-U iFti
/V t/-C^ lACA'
u
/'  ^ ^ ^ I I - I J
(  Ptease return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapallland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahalnaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K.WTA>KLMCV::BUPlwVSon\muntty Ensagem«nt«Pe()tlon.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka’anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
?J>/n
J
0-3-2J
BSl Poheii <st ...fcQHMit..; u,’ eutnvz TXO'Q^IX
SSI StKahvtuu H)'^bT9-i Hbb-2g?>l
U-h-2l
noj■■/i
^13- ‘in 31^
(^.Jy^Uu
JZjISIl.
Ilf ●IfjjYji,
'fiuc^V^un: Vh^
Uww /f^.-.: (?/ cVl-DAy/^
W tdd^
M
'>u ^Ar/tO Qf 'V
"](kvZ^ I >'
i ;. V '
is”" M ^ j\ A/IP—Mill
S' [mAl>Z^ipxr'^x '’.y- ●}-
l'/\iV'^V^Vb’i .  I C' ■
\, V -^v ' -'\- :
'‘fHi■  i
i  <
4 ■; 1-'y' '\_jAX/ -'A i.1 ●
Please retUrn this form to Chad Pukunaga via email at chad@kaanapalilahd.com or via USPSto
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapaii Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBMPIan\Cttnmunity Engaeement\Petititfi.docx
i support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
'Sk«**>
ICZ Pont^k^&*
lOQf f/lititalif
22®
ui 6-3-3)476- 15^9
f /'Aym - c
Mc|P<4A4 WtAM ^
o'j’fosju
2^6 N
Kvyyy\^ ^
lcr\3 jujuJA,
&tc/ iU/-^i>»d' f»^-5 aiMUi ^ ■6-qqvj
h'^/4Please return this form to Chad
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapati Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBMPlan\Coniniuni(y Engaoemefil\Petlion.doc*
via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS toikunai
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
/
i/^-2 i~v -
1A? S yt,)- V  '-tUlV^i i. ]
Col'^XiK.
sltJWX)Jo^0A*o>
(^t>s SoiKitx 0'o,L S7./'iL-<
-Ljill'M
Sirsao ^0%its
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapall Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K:dATA\KLMC\CBMPIan\Community Engftgernenl^eQticn4>ocx
\ support the K§'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressName Signature
Lt^ //^ /i fjJi:
/ ''
1,f dn'y ■€ U‘ >
/jc-sy\J /v>C;  f
10^ I4uva \ojpa.
{ CL^AQJuyyQ— ffc U»7 (
ro T'
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chadQkaaiiapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661 -9652 if you need further assistance.
K.A0ATA\KLMC\C6MP(an\Canniunlty Ensagamant\Petiljan.(lacx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
—4 / LJ^'t \ /]u.
iy\ ff //
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaiHand.com or via DSPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, Hi 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K:\OATA\KLMC\CBMPIan\Communlty Eng9gemenl\Pe<ilion.dccx
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9E565FA0-CEEF-47E2-AF4A-600D9DB193C3
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Address Phone No. DateSignatureName
283-2420Steve Fuller 61 Jun-05-2021
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaiiland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, Hi 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K\DATA\KLMC\CBMPIan\Community EngagemenlVPetition.docx
Kaanapali Land Management Corp.
275 Lahainaluna Road ● Lahaina, Maui, HI 96761 »/: (8081 661-9652 * /; (808) 667-9658 ● ^^v^^'.KaanapalilJnd.com |
HinxirpiKKUt rooU.
Fmening out tptht.
or>November 17, 202! (■
'n 73n c=> m■)
o—(; mCouncil Chair Alice Lee
Council of the County of Maui
Office of Council Services
200 South High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
●VI moo ^n -ozs:
IT. rnw
or.'i NJ
Subject: Council of the County of Maui Public Hearing 11/18/2021
Testimony by Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp.
Re: Bill for an Ordinance Amending Section 2.SOB.070
Lm providing testimony in support of the Kaanapali 2020 community master plan. Lve been an
active participant of the Kaanapali 2020 community planning for 16 years and have witnessed
the dedication and time many citizens have also given to this process. But what better way for a
landowner and concerned citizens to work together? This question bares thought because the
Kaanapali 2020 community master plan is not properly represented by the currently drafted West
Maui Community Plan.
The Kaanapali 2020 planning effort has always been an open and transparent process. All
community members were/are invited to participate, regardless of their background or belief.
The idea being the more voices with differing background and ideals will provoke more
discussion and help create a model for a complete and well thought out community.
The planning effort has been collaborative and thorough. The Kaanapali 2020 community group
reviewed resumes and selected a planning consultant and engineer to guide and advise them with
the development of the master plan. They have also met with, and continue to meet with, various
County and State agencies, and local politicians to understand infrastructure and regional factors.
The master plan incorporates many community benefits, such as medical facilities, transportation
center, police substation, cultural center, veterans memorial park, community center & garden,
tennis complex, intermixed parks and opens spaces, and more.
The Kaanapali 2020 community group recommends the Community Plan land use designations
shown in the following exhibit. The suggested exhibit is consistent with the Kaanapali 2020
master plan and promotes separate and unique community centers. This same exhibit was shared
with other community members, and I submit to you (attached) 324 signatures of support.
●ATCM
nANT
POP PUBLIC I OUABt PUBUC
RX4 fle&toeHTUL ctowfueoluw]
●TC SMALL TOWN ecmt A
uc UltBAN COWBOON
WO PtOUSTWAL
HAWAIAM
ecueHT
/BATCH PtAWT
HOHOAPW^ HKiHWAT
7
KAANAPAU 2020 PROPOSED
COMMUNITY PLAN LAND USE DESIGNATIONS
Do you believe landowners and concerned citizens should work together? If so, please honor the
efforts of the Kaanapali 2020 community group and adopt the Community Plan land use
designations shown above.
Sincerely,
Chad Fukunaga
Vice President
Kaanapali Land Management Corp.
Attachments:
324 Signatures of Support
(LI support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name ,Sig nature Address Phone No, Date
V ●/ Lp
7lo^G)(JlK(AlA 1/ /
XU
Bo.oo
2/'Y/z^/■fU- 96~?6/
'VJ U^/> TUo
Z'/<U'ZfI Lt
W/ rn(\ An Qoi Z6if 019-
/^j /B ^3 UP A'pui^/
Ijg/
/(J f i,y^l tiB. /!>^ - !
2/f^y ■c. I
(\ / h'A H ^ ofiil Z~, /
5(^ [uycCi 5(yL .
( Ahml/iA h\ 3h'^h(
Ji770 s-^
UWa^.HI U7^I
^ zor 4Q5^ Ih z0
}ai4
t>A\:)rD
A % nf.A-2
WbV/y^/
(,'t \ W t MC -, -.'V
(Fry^j/Lii^^ nu‘'TA,-n\ Z6gt/J''ds
L
\w ^■of
ifWmiI AD a I k
(pxiDNan,A 5\\3u3 3f\ c
K\OATA\KLMOC] IPkitV.Commiiiiily Eii(jai)f?msnt'Pc^ili()'i tkx x
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map .
below,
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
\
IcipumhM %)3
—^ ^
—>
II
—Lj/ytr-TXSXJ
f)
^Wcl fe- Kuj(X'
< /^7A'
H
fA-^ Nc; PK.
N/Avt^A
'  V^vv:vei,bi ■2.0V, -.7 $7)W
f ^ ! ry) fiU P f-J fi Crt.
W r 2£)>
14 A
o o
N7 ^^7/7
ISc-4 iiT ^'T
^litivU, YmM. %A uu H //
mmxViki
Cilki^Lt^ Plu.£f,kx C.LAj' \  ( I  <nuy\
K \DATA\KLMC\CBMPI;i:i\Communi1y fcn(].ifjHrre'il\Pfltiti()n titt'x
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressName Signature
3i2- VtoaV Si H25-mz 'Z|
77^pc>una^
%Z^kfTV83^2- FrD.-^/f-St)df -
l\vC^
CK^I -
f\
Ayp Ver^u.^C\/
7i~e> ''^7/?\i
, 3
^(^(oO £»0 Uj£\Z ^ 'o ^ {
tSlc^ T7 ^ Alc*
/
u' tr
fPyMn,<an
d^wjr ^
Jjyhd(/ln
^ ^ / 7^>ir^ ,7~~> ^C
I ho Ki^4A.hihjkjtMorr<J>
o6^
U.MU^ V\Uiy~pYiyjS^Please return this lotm t6^^d'ptiKL)naga via email at chad^kaaru^alHand'.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, ij^anapali Management Corp., 275 Lahainaliifia Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661>;^52 if you need further assistance.
yy<;-/^a^J-V'H
mW^'k
K\OATAU<LMC\C8MPian\Community Engag9ment\P«ition.aocx
1 support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
^27/:2/
^ I ill'll34^ 344'3?^
ii/v^
r\ 3/^^/2/34^
5 2.1
4  ’>
i\i k^md m
1/
CAW\wiHA
giD 5 lUiheu, Pi
yt [cLaK \/XJS—' 12& 9-X--gfi4/v
^e-?rr-g5<6-?.0- m /z«sT(^
/
^ (jhdoi( ■2
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapal:!and.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaiuna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\OATA\KLMC\CBMPlan\Cunmunity Eng»3emefi(\Petiiicxi.<]ocx
L
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. late
3
/ '/f ( Jn h
\nS g-MA-HAL-g ^
^o7/Sl
^i6£i±2^
Q
^.]ux \ iTkoi;
r?A 93-z/if/^k
if.fi\»M ri/^w /)
^ 3-/^
3am \]'iC\//CA Lj^ - 3^/,
^)/f)fhoiuh^
dM.
Ho^u. P)m
K\OATA\KLMC\CBMPU»iNC«UTUT!iiii|y liii();i(j(»tr«-il'Pt<litiiiiui(x x
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Phone No. DateSignature Address
I io3 FrM IL.J
^73 U)cWkrr5l,
CCy C-Peyt
ph SC(h /,> S A
syri? ^7^1/3\
f(^ SI3 U)cL(Age S Y!eu
yo? sjml:H1^0 I  t
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K\DATA\KLMC'CBMPlanVCommunity EngagsmenRPaiilion.docx
! support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
a ^(Z/Z£>2-1916-c/\2a
G3L^>.»v3>
■3V)iri U h-cu'puie. PI.^^aWiW ~2ft0-Oqq2- (n\ (yi 'loU
|>1Wigvj'Kj Ag>ULi!)f^
■^U G(ezl-zi
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaiuna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\OAT AVKLMC'CBMPlan\ConitmjnilyEngBgement\Pebtlco.(]oc)(
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
/f^- // c/zfz(
O
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliiand.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapalt Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, Hi 96761,
You can aiso caii (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLWC\C8MPl8n\Convnunlty EngagementvPelibon.docx
{ support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Address Phone No. DateName Signature
km\ mCI
"●^0 s
c/aiJi-f5V
0[\ hv
S'dS
KjlewV,
'$0 Oh^lCP
d M
c/t;4
VYv&S7 ^77^
PI
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapall Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also cal! (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:'DATA\KLMCVC:BMPI#n\COfTi(ni;nity Eog#gemenllPelitlon.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
513t7gLg<3>i
I
I
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahalna, Hi 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:tOATA\KLMCVCBMrten\Commjnlty Engagcm«ntVPo(itjon.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressSignatureName
/o/o /f 7 d/
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapaii Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K \0ATA\KLMC\C8MPIan\Commurwy ErgagememVPetilion docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
162 West Lanai St
Kahului, HI 96732
Eric Matsuda 808 385 7805 5/11/21
1013 Prospect St, Apt 1216
Honolulu, HI 96822 808.358.6245 5/11/21Richard Y. Santo
761 Malaihi Road
Wailuku. HI 96793 5/11/21Dayna Pacheco 808 280 6615
1273 Moohele Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
Brooks Aoki 808 357 4787 5/12/21
\./i 545 Kualau Street
Wailuku, HI 96793Jason Kuraoka 5/13/21●r- 808 280 0334t-'
1032SKihei Rd B203
Kihei. HI 96753 5/14/21Jason Springer 808-868-9918
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapallland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapaii Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, Hi 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBWPlan\Comniunity Engagernent\Pelition.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for KS'anapaii
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
DatePhone No.AddressStgngtuf;^ /?Name
c TOLft FL
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 276 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
KAOATA\KLMC\CBMPtan'Community EngaotnwnliPtWc^.aoc*
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressSigngitM*^Name
/;
k </■ // o ●
(L
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via LISPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K\OATA'KLMC'C5MPi3''\CCTntnunily Engiqwem'Petilior doc*
i’ll
t
!  i
1 support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was devel^ed °ver^ Klna'^all
widespread community support. Please respect the community P
2020 Ld adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
f
i
below.r
t
{i
● i
Ii
■i
t
I A I
1>e
fc
●ATCHKAVr
o riTimn fl l» AS
i  t
MMimM. fLornimmm
●MUX TQWI,Lr
rrni ●«
f Moumu,
●AlCMftJMt
$rrs KAAKAPAU2e«P«0**O»e0
COWtUHnY PUW UHO US£ 0£S«HATIOHS
■I DatePhone No.Address i
Signature^
VName
&h-7i
/ r
\
rI
 ^
?
t* /i*
Vi
I
\
\  ■ i
t
<●i
■  ^
V
1●*
1
J
b
this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapamand.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761.
You can also call (808) 661 -9652 if you need further assistance.
KOATAliaJ«aC8l»>l««:oT«Bunity En^ig»Tter*Pi«wn oxx
Please returnj-
{
i
4
"i. ■  i
1 support the Ka‘anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
f ;Sfgn.ature Address Phone No. DateName
t 5'^ ^ ^}U. Wvno
(
L^h/^ ^7 ^/ u
pF-Tzi-m
K''ctni ^
/'
^0'i6Z<(y^ S^/u/z]\-1:h
*7
]y3^
113^ il(X.fioh<^o ^■jja,kona
3T>Z ^f900O-^a ^“<-
K \DATA\KLMC\CBMPian\Community EnflagememVPMition docx
I support the Ka'anapall 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressSignatureName
5^/¥r/fkuA,/’/.lJ.
C  y<^£>
K\DATA\KLMC\CBMPIan\Community Engagemenl^etiticn docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka’anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Signature Address Phone No. DateName »T
/7J/ /4 C-C
/7?
159/ it f3n/nm'AA
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via LISPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can ^so call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K.\0ATA\KLMCV38MPIan\Cemmunily Engsgemenl\Pe<i(ian.docx
i support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
?-ll WjltVlfeKH
»7yU/aa/i^\
kHLv>'
u VJ
V i,
5~’i H4I6MAUJ ?l
AWfc '?\.
3n-(>3J--L
h'it\
^Av/>V*w^
^5^1 /AA6ty 3n-ii% cI
iXfde^ (  yVi<y* « Lmc{_ 0(^/c^/r/
L^^Cc>c^ i /■
> 7Z^4V\-> ^
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K.\E)AT AV<LMC\CBMPlan\Cofnrrujnliy EngagamonPPeaiion.docx
1 support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name 94g nature Address Phone No. Date
s-a-~Lj
C'-zz-::-
‘iU AM/ ST
/fCtfykyf]/ '^-^<oo-y
S'! 83‘ilOA. A-LioSr6gg)-4iq-
W'7r>-‘^{p Cf-(2-(-2CU
OUhjS
iwviKf CAfpxd./±j^ dp
y^vlL
^//4g7 ^
lltfi ^HaImaI €i~
^ftnglj Honda 210 Ma| dnAi C>t
-g/l^/ggO|
5lin./'^02i
m ?no-S{^-io
soi-S7o-7oa
K\OATA\KLMC\CSMPian\Community EngagementVPeution docx
I support the KS'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for KS'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. bateAddressName Signature
i-fvi
\lfiUjL4.M*y
^ tjJSg I , ,
16^£, ^A/
uK/\^/i^7 ^
74(b^Z
gy^//:7c.
2j// 9^73
(Jj^
C- % ToS'.75’?- S53y*3^0 L\ mckV
13 ^ ● v<c^V*Cx nil ^ ●'
^TO I
, _y^9 (Zt>Je.
FtCun T5g.
Tur 75*7 S‘/^^.
■/
d Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapallland.com or via USPSto '
nd Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
Please return this 1
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapa
You can also call (808) 661-9652 K you need further assistance.
formw
*.■at●^‘■K,tKACXu>^^C<rrtxt1 Er9i9T»»fritox aoM
tho Ka'anaoali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
^  respect the community's desires for Ka anapali
designations shown in the map
i support
widespread community support. Please
and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use2020
below.
HarawuBi
iOf:
.'V
MiaoMUB
t%tm t^lW***^
|WXr9<n(
.if
//●
DatePhone No.AddressName
2^.
r  t'
0
, Inf'll ~C)‘\/fi /●
IMji. 5-77/
OUm-wVjJal 1 CvW\
AMm'(?.J /VM-m
7
\
71
S-r;:S£SSSS~SsS=5SRt5Su can alsoLlI (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
^ I
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka’anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
K«X*H ^..-Ko i
Da /sj ft-S M
UU^U, HI
i^l U13-2.
6^/ f/V
iJcf^oe rO
SP€ ^hS4*i6
$/2-/z(^OHS 3f‘? i?Ysr
eoe^H {
/{,y
f4(jU7Sh
131
LtWt> 2'V<’
PefC SuHu,^ iSai~ e7i-DST%
f?z HioGiipa.if'koJy^iigohona l=tom PI.
WCMlKjeu.Hiqbyi^
2-ffV Ohine\.
K:ih^i. Hr 9h'735   - ■
6'2
SO^'2^^-9m U/Z/
^l^)^X^SlLlU Aaaa
'2,1
'Ra.Iph 2A\
^i^fX l-kyhrS
-T20 ]teaor
Vvdv'iU t^u. Kt 2- i)0b'2Siom^i
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliiand.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K vDATA'Xl MC'CBMPlanXorvTujnify EngigeittanPPaflton doc*
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
ft l^k
r
XlJz/tyi
■Olfl'p
£t^-Z^-')lV:^
^0/\ \2U
uiWVO M>
TDf^X) <5 uj£]VV^S-7 .
'%ytuuA—^
^ 105 m r s/q/p
<fS7 HOPdt: e.r ' '7^
3±f^h^t^ fi^x^ ‘Sol ,
^ MjUha. ^4
1 n’t flop }ca.ku<Ln-
y^psrt ●Fc^J'pKMs;?
‘hi. m
NV<xv^Cc? UillQa<iW\, yTXyv^ (£.
i
imtJSiJO 6At^ftmy ,JA^
K;\DATA\KLMC^CBMPIan\CcmnH.nity Engageni9nt\P«ilion ao£x
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the mapbelow.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
5’'T' U ( 2. ;^/2,/'  /7
n7 k ;Z5q-/3s7f.O, il7l3rj
h-i
'■>^3 /XV
7S-7-363C.
2/;, I
7),5( 21
I
l^g 6oy ! DOO'^
MaV<3V\^l;S3l^^U-1^
i^jo
2X
I'beTi ■$jjti 1
14 H
Ini Lo(\ ^fattI a n 5o3-So5-3‘I^
2^?-Bg5c
G i Lo^>J\Wk 3 /31 I zL
rq
c
Please retuhijhis forrnloChad'Fukul^^^K^a^
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 rf you need further assistance.
^i-ev\Q.
email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
●1
K \OATA\i<LMCVCBMPIan\Cooimunity EnsaseroentVPetHion.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
, P IfVi.'i' $ 6 o |^jt-
● if\o /
fc<K^ Pu
=! ra ^^o \
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahalnaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K \DATA\KLMC C6MPtjn\Corii(ronity Eng89e<T»e<iftPe#tlon.()ocx
1 support the Ka'anapall 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No. DateAddressSignatureName
V 'lo|
Hoc' lay^2^1
Q.rycLntf) n
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via LISPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapati Land Management Corp., 27S Lahainaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K.'DATA'XLMC’CeMPanVCcmfTL.nrty cngagem«nnP«OBon(}(X3
Q I
:
PhoifHo. _AddrMs81Nam*
) 7 £> )C^ U)6I
-f A
, St;£
Pp^'^V^> V-^K- g. ^ i
 4
I
.L._.
call (BOB) 661-W52 » you n*«0 furthor a»»i«tance.
PI««M
Chad I
You can also
W●n
Sample
Testim...ble.pdf Testim...2.docx
Sample
I support the Ka'anapall 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature
7
Address Phone No. Date
fi<^jM  Pj ■
'/in/
^/>/>/y) 7-^~
fff
r~sm. Sf-H Kw'aIuk ^T-
ItX C|(.HAliKicViiMrU!
8/A-a)'S'dji,Fill ViM^yu. iliLi
<3-5 4kklo Jt
'i/3/;>/Ul'-Viy-/// ^SU!'®CP^ A 'j'S: A
Please return this fdrm taChad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapainand.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
tC\DATA\KLMC\CBMPlan\Cofnmunity Engagemenl'Pelition.docx
I
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown In the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
llU 2.S£727 &s!z>
● \
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K;©ATA\KLMC'CBMPIan\Cofnmunity Engagement'Pelition.docx
I support the Ka'anapalj 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signaturei Address Phone No. Date
n
^ Z /f i
9/(;LYACi. 0^ ).A-- >
A[.LAN t-AOL/^-)
^a.iCC'C ■f'S
■<-- ^L-luf luu fl ^ ^0 A
lOfjr-v MrwvcAC\*> -ST. , /
\<AW^L^|' 1-\L f/
Ka)hiu.V Kk
MuAlvu
p>6-^o-sv\ \ (,/s/a/
Ihhf
5 A/
y
% ^
^/
6/ d)£./9'06r/
rkish-
^/ Ait-Av
M k
h iiA~
7^^
Ziyyi'(>
Al«^ i^aU
CkL (od^Y-/Cr4Yy^ ●
WcKYfy^iH
[ialJ,- :
Please return this form to
<7-
. vfv. 94^4* S-
\^L Hu.
U[ yy 7 10 jj",
> ChadTukunaga via email at chad^i^i^mk^p^ii|ia'na.com or via LISPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBMPIan\Corrimunity Engagement'Petilion.clocx
I 3ct
\
L
c/3 lu
I
I support the Ka‘anapa!l 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature
^cL
Address Phone No. Date
\/ioL&r^
 ■'j
*::^CotrC
232> /^£>^o^zc
■ Jfc^  A/./-
i4 0A
4m€
2-^///T
?7fp/i^ |4V?/
8>?7^'S5^ 6^-6-Z-J
<^i!2.XeV^ Qu^
<>s^
//# 210- J
//3 C‘ 3--Z/
m I V
^’5^2/S\J
4> ● <g g/(L- R.
jet P t- f- S-'l.
\stl\im 'fd'ooir Iff uv^ermiehuiOcMllbWlPlease return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapaii Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, Hi 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
iC'OATAVKLMC'.CBMPIanVCommunity Enga9efnenl\P^tion.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
/C>^/
/m 5//- dsy</
f-e /'y yn i! ^
^ITA fhnik-TAA^
\'iot\hy^ f
IOS£/ My^rfcAt,!!
,Jh-^02- (2^,
 ^<kfU4 ,
/  f Pf ●
 ACAHUf.4i./ . i^/. «r6n?i
^oX. ^
 M/cAiU ^6.7^3
^^)ery\yn^ u.
^iJj. -^/vGc^)^ l/itfi*VI
_iwjneil ^^$4 "5^37
^y^JUy)Wf! o>i
y  My
/VO
780 -9^/S
Pl<^O0'
f^^UlUA
(II U fikoi
i^hului
da kn^oi^ '>=^QAa^
~Lt,iTiCM
0-3-2- /0c6St- Ar€ii‘jc^ 1 Si-1313Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, Hi 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:©ATAVKLMC\CBMPian\Comrnunity Engag«ment\Petilion.<locx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
SigiQ4^lureName Address Phone No. Date
y/A/A/^
Joy yXUljic a
//^ ^ ^/V'. ^ ^f-
r c’ -
/  MtiAH ^
✓
iX V?/J  161^-7^,
1iWuUhW
>2«j IZLd.
j^\i^ 6'*W^>Lh I^UG U\ hLjx V£>,/'
L^'~
{o\'>l>yh/^ (-ja. ●7\
.2-7 fioO'oii ^j//v
P-o.^T>^ il;^sLAH ^{_
/^o ^
,, _ fklkjlr^ga via email at chad^kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
gement Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
7T0- iPlease this for
Chad Fukunaga, Kaan^all Land M
You can also call (SdS) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
Chad
K:\DATA\KLMC'CBMPIan\Cofnmunity EngagementVPetilion.doex
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the mapbelow.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
KAc^lodtjThofrns u/kUzy^jt
lp~hActc^ ■j '~7
<Sy^Uihx/d-
lion
Vi
(lol fiysA ^■/L
lf-2 rf^n»vvo/cu .
I iA^'
’2f0 P)(yjofM(
tu. L
z\
r a<<\^0VA.
kisla-kk. Alo^i
'I'h f^ihj
/-f,
57^ /QtllCrkg Sf.
PL-
rs-c^''
iOK'G'^yi‘%^ U/o7>/Zi
Please return this form to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapall Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBMPIan\Communlty Enga9ement\Petiliori.(3ocx
ad/^ukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliiand.com or via USPS to
I support the Ka‘anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
CUr/ \ cJk Slip
Z3U/ ^ y
 -as. Cfs/zf
‘ftublk bl3?h'/
So Lo*^ ,
tV'Aiu
 1 —*« / —
lOud UtfisjsL C(J!i
{p^ y
2^U '/
~/C:>0
ffl ^7^Mki56
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K;'DATA’XLMC'C8MPIan\Community Engagement'Petilion.docK
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Address Phone No. Datere
L  .
t
Mftft-K. De i»s. .CT- U/MWi,q 'Cza jzo
^3 giDft-3&7-CZfc:
&  m w-zM
1
^tlLLH
^V()WVV 0rCe<^
'S20(^tC6i^A Blmz\S(m£ d. l)imm
~j\/^ ^A</-2 I
0^10Q/-Z,
^kne*7K\t/^'
^HA^UmST- ^0^'-2CC-2zc(g ,
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via DSPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K.-\DATA\KLMC\CBMPtan\Communrty EngagemenlV’etitioo-dooi
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka’anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Pian land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
JL1A 37^ L'
- iJi.
41/z
t{. IlSl
0[[
U3g/G7;y
///^'
'■ -/■ \JI.
\.
P
/ V- t
I, ^
/fLjiiA! ^ -
SmI Ti i'H
c».
7^ ifl^bijcAL &y
’jAc ●
X n/')
<^<<3.-^l ●
(l7 ^ H
‘'MO^jJiTihtUy AA/
tf^3 J^"'0:>cc ^a Q-4-^
ad Fukunaga via email at chadPlease return this form
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapaii Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
aanapaiiland.com or via USPS to
K;'OATA\KUMC\C8MP!3n\Cornmunity £ngagement\Petition.0oc*
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
.
A
M.^r
^/2/
, tRfffcr ijo4 {r. (j? ^^~J(
c
7^7-■hi- ^ 4r^cw^
TUm^rdiy ^ 7d 7- c/-2^0 V/?/
»5,'f,AKl4i' , ir -
q>(p'i^h
■70 ^ l^i4 , ^<£\ K
7
a
LLmh mm
lAtA ly^CA
Cu^aV
LPtease return this form tfo Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliiand.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBMPIan'Co(rmunity Engagement'Petition.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown In the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
0»y^i ^
b-3-21
Bsi poi^r vsf
f^huliAt kt'
Si St
K^hiAltAi
,1 >ui ! .Ui-diMlk j [r -6^
0.^ ^V3-
tJA
Uwi? f(\/\L'
^u^UiC^ 1/? ●uyiV'^
\A'
^eZ-i^icu, fH-,
(P/Ti/0/
G -6^~'Uttiivix ctm^i^ jM'J/ iL£L
/I
b ~V ^yjn
b^. / r
— A^''^—■ 4»" M ~ ^}
'jpSirlUi-t.il vvA£-|kAXvA3( ^ APlease return this form to Chad ^kunaga via ernail at chad@kaanapaliland.coi^r via USPSto
>2 ('●Yr- 1 /7-
UI nV  \
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761
You can also call (808) 661-9652 If you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBMPlai\Con)munity Engag«ment\Petiiion.doc!«
I support the Ka‘anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
€t/s/z/
SS7-SS7f 4-3.2/
\Ji
Corjc^api^
ICZ, \5/.
I0(pf
22®
ih 0-301.276* 16^^
iethf
Ak*M
ll4htAliiA ^ crolosjuDoriP-jg &npk/i
^^ev
lo"\3
ttKHJlr ^ -
Please return this form to Chad
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaiuna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBMRan\Coaimunity Engagement\Petilion.dC3Cx
via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS tikunai o
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Signature AddressName Phone No. Date
fl^o CfiA))di ^ /,
>?5
/3/a/a^/
¥ j Q.
Ccl~e,Jc( l?le^3)
~1-f 7 ^ \
^P5 Sju'fei 57, I
OWi) aAjLf'
3' i/f/^0, ^ ^ ^ Si io%
f^onja Gghfu^it} c4la/
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBMPlan\Conimunity Engagemenl\Petition.aocx
I support the Ka‘anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community's desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Phone No. DateSignature Address
( O
l-i^ ^'f X / i ●' 'U-s/!" ,0 M' ^C7C^i
(0^ Kuq [ ojpcx.
I ■ Ct^CxxjjyQ—QufajYVti-'/
WlL
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via USPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\C6MPIan\Co<niminlt/ EngagamenAPetiiion.docx
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka'anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Name Signature Address Phone No. Date
<rn -K; ” ,iy\
Lc </ 2/
//
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaj|land.com or via DSPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahalna, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:CATA\KLMC\CBMPlan\Community Engagement\P0lition.(3ocx
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9E565FA0-CEEF-47E2-AF4A-600D9DB193C3
I support the Ka'anapali 2020 Master Plan that was developed over 20-years with
widespread community support. Please respect the community’s desires for Ka’anapali
2020 and adopt West Maui Community Plan land use designations shown in the map
below.
Phone No.Name Signature Address Date
K^ai Ige Drive, 283-2420Steve Fuller 61 3un-05-2021
Please return this form to Chad Fukunaga via email at chad@kaanapaliland.com or via LISPS to
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp., 275 Lahainaluna Road, Lahaina, HI 96761,
You can also call (808) 661-9652 if you need further assistance.
K:\DATA\KLMC\CBMPlan\Community Engag»nerit\Petjlion.docx
RbCElV'ED
Z02I NOV 17 PH q: 23
Carlsmith Ball llp
A Limited Liabilitj' Law Partnership
75-5722 Kuakini Highway #208
Kailua-Kona, Hawaii 96740
Telephone 808.329.6464 Fax 808.329.9450
WVVW.CARLSMn'H.COM
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
PWONG^CARLSMITH.COM
November 17, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HawaiM 96793
Re: Substantial Flaws with the West Maui Community Plan
Dear Council Chair Lee:
The Planning and Sustainable Land Use (“PSLU”) has substantially revised the West
Maui Community Plan (“WMCP”) draft that was prepared by the Maui Planning Commission
(“MPC”). Many policies in WMCP are contrary to law, are unconstitutional and, most
concerning, contain statements and policies that illegally single out one person and their
businesses for unfair treatment.
Throughout the last few years, the Council has affirmed and reaffirmed the island’s dire
need for affordable housing. In various places, the WMCP confirms this need and contains
statements, policies and action items to promote affordable housing development. See, e.g.,
WMCP at 24 (“The shortage of affordable housing in West Maui clearly makes it challenging for
employers to find and retain qualified workers... .”); id. at 55 (“[Ajffordable housing for
working families is almost impossible to find.”). Indeed, the Committee Report transmitting the
bill notes the goal of “Safe, Healthy, and Livable Communities for All includes several action
items to expand long-term affordable housing opportunities for residents, with specific actions to
promote farmworker housing and senior housing.” CR 21-109 at 10.
Despite this pressing need, the Council has approved policies in the WMCP that are
contrary to its stated goal of encouraging the development of affordable housing. The plan also
singles out one landowner and seeks to impede the reasonable and beneficial use of land for
residential purposes. Peter Martin wants to provide desirable, quality affordable homes for Maui
residents in areas like Lahaina Town South and Launiupoko. Ignoring the housing needs of its
people, the Council’s draft plan includes a number of policies to prevent the development of
affordable housing and inhibit the ability to make productive use of property.
There are several legal issues with the policies and action items described in the plan.
This testimony briefly describes those issues and calls for the Council to revise the WMCP.
Honolulu MauiHilo Kona
Maui County Council
November 17, 2021
Page 2
Policy 3.4.2 gives rise to claims under the Fair Housing Act. The policy “discourages”
the development of affordable housing projects under Hawai‘i Revised Statutes (“HRS”)
Chapter 201H and Maui County Code (“MCC”) chapter 2.97 in the area North of Makaluapuna
Point and South of Puamana. The Fair Housing Act (“FHA”) prohibits governmental policies
that have a disparate impact on a protected class. See Texas Dep't of Hous. & Cmty. Affs
Inclusive Communities Project, Inc., 576 U.S. 519 (2015); 24 C.F.R. § 100.500. Discriminatory
intent is not required. Id. To sustain a claim for disparate impact, the claimant need only show
that a government policy has a disparate impact on a protected class. Even if the government
shows that the policy has a legitimate purpose to achieve a public goal, the claimant may prevail
by showing there are less burdensome means of achieving that goal. See 24 C.F.R. § 100.500(c).
Policy 3.4.2 is, quite literally, a governmental policy. Excluding the availability of
affordable housing in large areas of West Maui will have a disparate impact on members of a
protected class, such as those in certain racial groups. There is no rational or legitimate reason to
exclude the development of affordable housing projects in an area designated for future growth
in the general plan. See Maui Island Plan (“MIP”) Directed Growth Map W4. The policy should
be removed to avoid violating the FHA and inviting challenge from developers, individuals and
the federal government.
The attempt to prohibit “lifestyle estates” conflicts with State law. The WMCP
prohibits what it calls “lifestyle estate-type projects” in the Agricultural designation and
“discourages” the use in the area North of Makaluapuna Point and South of Puamana. See
WMCP at 81; id. at 112. Oddly, the plan defines a “lifestyle estate” as “[pjroperty designated
Agricultural that is used for luxury dwellings, such as second homes, where very little, if any,
farming occurs.” WMCP at 166. To the extent the term is interpreted to prohibit “farm
dwellings” in within the State Agricultural District, the prohibition may conflict with State law.
See HRS § 205-4.5.
Policy 3.4.2 fails to advance a legitimate state interest. Substantive due process
protects individuals from arbitrary acts of government and ensures that “the government does not
exercise power without any reasonable justification in the service of a legitimate government
objective.” County of Sacramento v. Lewis, 523 U.S. 833, 846 (1998); cf Richardson v. City &
Cnty. of Honolulu, 124 F.3d 1150, 1162 (9th Cir. 1997). A “regulation that fails to serve any
legitimate governmental objective may be so arbitrary or irrational that it runs afoul of the Due
Process Clause.” Lingle v. Chevron U.S.A. Inc., 544 U.S. 528, 542 (2005); see also id. at 549.
Policy 3.4.2 fails to advance a legitimate state interest because it is contrary to the stated
goal of “support[ing] construction of rental and ownership housing that is affordable and
available to local employees and their families.” WMCP at 51. “Discouraging” the development
of affordable housing within areas slated for growth in the general plan does not “support”
constructing affordable rental and ownership housing for the residents of West Maui. On the
contrary. Policy 3.4.2 affirmatively works against that goal by, in effect, prohibiting affordable
housing projects under HRS Chapter 20IH and MCC chapter 2.97 North of Makaluapuna Point
and South of Puamana. No legitimate government interest is furthered by such a policy.
. V.
Maui County Council
November 17, 2021
Page 3
The deletion of Lahaina Town South as an Area of Change makes no sense. In the
MPC draft of the WMCP, 64 acres in Lahaina Town South had been designated as Residential in
anticipation of a new residential development, including affordable housing, planned for the
area. During its consideration of the plan, the Council limited the designation to 20 acres with the
remainder retaining its current community plan designation. This change goes against the
proposal by Community Plan Advisory Committee (“CPAC”) and the acceptance of the
proposal by the MPC.
The WMCP violates Equal Protection. A fundamental tenet of the U.S. and Hawai‘i
State Constitutions is that all are entitled to equal protection under the law. Indeed, “[t]he
purpose of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is to secure every person
within the State’s jurisdiction against intentional and arbitrary discrimination, whether
occasioned by express terms of a statute or by its improper execution through duly constituted
agents.” Vill. of Willowbrook v. Olech, 528 U.S. 562, 564 (2000) (citing cases) (quotation marks
omitted). A class of one violation arises where a plaintiff can “show that the discriminatory
treatment was ‘intentionally directed just at him, as opposed ... to being an accident or a random
act.’” Kamaole Pointe Dev. LP v. Cty. of Maui, 573 F. Supp. 2d 1354, 1376 (D. Haw. 2008), on
reconsideration in part (Sept. 9, 2008) (citing Jackson v. Burke, 256 F.3d 93, 96 (2d Cir.2001)).
Here, Martin and his companies have been singled out for discriminatory treatment by
many of the policies and action items in the WMCP. Two items in the WMCP provide an
example, though they are not exhaustive. First, Policy 3.4.2 is clearly aimed at preventing
affordable housing developments South of Puamana, where Martin owns land and has proposed
an affordable housing development in the past. Second, the elimination of Lahaina Town South
as an Area of Change and the rejection of the community’s proposed residential designation for
64 acres is also aimed at discouraging residential development. The decision to change the
designation of 64 acres contained in the MFC’s draft of the WMCP was neither an accident nor a
random act. This type of discriminatory action is precisely what the guarantee of equal protection
seeks to prevent.
The cultural overlay should not be included because the concept is materially
incomplete. The Council made substantial revisions to the MPC draft of the plan and created
new policies and ideas not advanced by the CPAC or MPC. See generally CR 21-109. The
cultural overlay is one such new “idea” added by the Council. This overlay, which seeks to
impose strict monitoring and archaeological requirements on proposed development not found
under State law, is materially incomplete. If the people agree that a cultural overlay is
appropriate for certain historic areas in West Maui, the overlay should be omitted from the plan
and passed as a separate ordinance or amendment to the community plan once the proper
research, review and public process has been completed.
There are several other policies and action items in the plan that are problematic and
should be revisited:
●  Policy 3.1.1: Conversion of Agricultural land within growth boundaries.
Policy 3.1.1 limits the conversion of agricultural land to urban or rural designations only when
Maui County Council
November 17, 2021
Page 4
(1) “Conversion is required to accommodate the population or employment projections for the
region;” or (2) “Conversion will facilitate shoreline retreat... WMCP at 65. Inexplicably, the
provision of affordable housing is not noted as a permissible reason for conversion of the
designation.
●  Policy 2.2.12: Ownership of Mill Street. The policy provides: “Upon
determination of proper ownership of Mill Street, consideration can be given to this being an
alternative parallel road to HonoapiTlani Highway and Lahaina Bypass to help disperse traffic as
Lahaina Town develops.” WMCP at 39 (emphasis added). Mill Street is owned by Wainee Land
& Homes and Hope Builders. The bolded clause appears to be a unilateral revision to the plan
that was not discussed during any of the PSLU meetings. The language was not in the CP AC
draft or the MPC draft of the WMCP.
●  Policy 2.3.2: Gulches. The WMCP broadly identifies “gulches” as an “Area of
Stability” and assigns those areas the Open Space community plan designation, with the stated
purpose of “prohibiting development and impervious surfaces in these areas . ...” WMCP at
117. From what can be determined, it is evident that those designations are often inconsistent
with the Urban and Rural growth designations in the MIP’s Directed Growth Maps. Compare
MIP Directed Growth Maps (W1-W4), with WMCP Figure 3.16 at 116. While the goal of
limiting the introduction of soil, debris and contaminants into the water that runs through the
gulches is sound, there are other lawful mechanisms in place to address those concerns. The
sweeping designation of all gulches as Areas of Stability with Open Space uses is patently
overbroad as it fails to consider the existing surrounding area, including the extent of current
development or planned development, the directives in the MIP and the impact of those
designations on existing property rights.
●  Design Policies for Lahaina Town. The design policies for Lahaina Town are
overreaching and will make residential development considerably more expensive. For example,
“Imitation or synthetic materials, such as vinyl siding and T 1-11 veneer are prohibited .. . .”
WMCP at 48. Disallowance of cost-effective building materials will further inhibit developers’
ability to provide housing at affordable prices.
As the above policies make clear, this draft of the WMCP is legally and practically
flawed. Accordingly, the following revisions are proposed:
Remove Policy 3.4.2 regarding restrictions on affordable housing
developments and “lifestyle estates.” The policy serves no legitimate purpose and inhibits the
construction of affordable housing, a recognized need of the community.
Revert the designations in Lahaina Town South to the MPC draft. The
community needs more affordable housing and embraced 64 acres in this area for residential
development.
1.
2.
Maui County Council
November 17, 2021
Page 5
3. Remove references to a “cultural overlay” in Policy 2.3.18, Policy 2.5.20,
Action No. 3.08 and 3.27. Such an overlay should only be implemented, if at all, after proper
vetting, research and opportunity for public review.
Remove restrictions on the use of affordable housing materials. The Council
should reconsider the design policies for Lahaina Town to support the construction of affordable
housing.
4.
Though often the plan says the right things, the policies and actions the WMCP
implements will make it even more difficult to obtain the necessary entitlements to develop
affordable housing. Coupled with the restrictions on building materials and imposition of
unnecessarily strict monitoring requirements, affordable housing will be more out of reach than
ever if the WMCP is not revised. The revisions identified above are necessary to achieve
County’s goal of providing affordable, desirable housing for the residents of West Maui.
Very truly yours,
Count^OeH<
?0/l NOV 18 AH 8: 36
'OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
PSLU Committee
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:16 AM
County Clerk
FW: Wmcp Draft references to K2020
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
From: Elle Cochran <cochranelleOO@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, November 17, 2021 10:33 PM
To: PSLU Committee <PSLU.Committee(g)mauicounty.us>
Subject: Fwd: Wmcp Draft references to K2020
IYou don't often get email from cochraneileOO@Qmail.com. Learn why this is important
These comments were written on 2/23/21.
Please try to go through this. Things may have changed since this date but wanted to let you be aware of this.
Mahalo,
 Forwarded message
From: Elle Cochran <cochranelleOO@gmail.com>
Date: Wed, Nov 17, 2021 at 10:04 PM
Subject: Wmcp Draft reference to K2020
To: <cochraneHeOO@gmail.com>
https://www.icloud.eom/notes/0so7UBMc-Mi-iBvzutD3he5IQ#WMCAP Draft Plan Reference to K2020
1
Countj^leiic
^vtUL.'VED
m\ NOV 18 PH 5:35
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Elle Cochran <cochranelleOO@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 5:27 PM
County Clerk
West Maui Community Plan Hearing
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from cochranelleOO@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha PSLU Committee,
This is testimony From Elle Cochran, testifying on behalf of myself.
I'm sending hard copies of ALL my input, changes, ideas and thoughts on the West Maui Community Plan Update.
I have email Issues .
In a nutshell, I am in total support to keep Kaanapali 2020 Plan in it's Entirety please!!!
I got Real Time Feedback, today's comments in reference to the K2020 Plan.
Basically, From the youngest Millenials
who have never seen or heard of K2020 First Impressions after seeing the Plan and it's hearing Its details popular
comments are that they like the sense of Community in Its connectivity through roads ,Parks,Community centers, bus
transit, the opportunity of owning an affordable home since they are priced out of the Market today, they are
impressed with the Well thought out Design lay out is a place where they will be able live & Build a family, be near work
and places to play. Our Kupuna who have been supporting and watching this plan for decades are excited and Now
more than ever hopeful for the Hospital, wellness Center and the overall potential to age in place with comfort and Joy !
It's a Perfect site to create a Medical professional Community which is an assset this day and age with the Pandemic we
are in.
The gist is more Relevant than ever! we need to keep the K 2020 in tact for our current kama'aina to stay home, future
generations and to enhance the Quality of Life of our Kupuna!
Mahalo for your time and consideration,
Elle Cochran
Still The Voice of the People!
1
To: COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Subject: Testimony for tlie Public Hearing on the Adoption of the updated West Maui
Community Plan - November 18, 2021
e-mailed to: count^^derk@mauicount\^us
Aloha and mahalo for this opportunity to share my voice with the Council
My name is Michael Gronemeyer. I have been a resident of West Maui for over 18 years. I am
currently 72 years old. I am testifying on my own behalf.
I am strongly in favor of designating tlae Plantation Estates (PE) community as Rural
Residential in the West Maui Community Plan (WMCPT This would be consistent with the
most recent Maui Island Plan (MIP) which designated PE within the Rural Growth
Boundary, the recommendation of the Maui Planning Commission, and consistent witli the
Maui County Code for Rural Districts - "19.29.010 A. Purpose".
In addition, 1 am strongly opposed to die policy 2.3.2 as written in the October 2021 version
of the West Maui Community plan.
—  *   ic   *   *  *   *   *  *   *   *  *   * — *— *    *   *  *   *   *  *   * — *  * _ * _ *
PE is Rural Residential by the Community plan's own definition (see paee 68 of the plan).
In 2013, my wife and I determined that our 15 acre farm near Lahaina was too much for us in
retirement. We relied heavily on the county approved MIP which had a rural designation for
Plantation Estates, Kapalua (PE) when we decided to seU our farm and farm equipment to
move to PE.
At tliat time, the MIP was also endorsed by the Planning Department and the 2012 Maui
County Council. I knew tliat the PE owners had actively participated in the MIP and
overwhelmingly supported being in the rural growth boundary. The rural designation
simply means that we would not be required to farm but still encouraged to farm.
Now seven plus years later, the CPAC appears to have ignored the MIP even though there
had been no change in the characteristics or "future growth" of the PE community during
that time period. The PE lot owners have consistently been opposed to increased density. As
Mr. Spence testified, intelligent zoning would be able to limit increased density if rezoning
were eventually undertaken.
During the WMCPAC and Planning Commission processes, former Planning Department
Director Will Spence supported the "Rural Residential" designation for PE. I agree with his
analysis. The Kapalua Resort Association representing over 900 properties in West Maui also
supports the "Rural Residential" designation for Plantation Estates.
Due to misinformation presented by one farm laborer as well as a few committee members,
the WMCPAC was unable to reach a decision related to PE's designation in the community
plan in three failed votes. In the January 23, 2020 CPAC meeting there was a motion to accept
the PD recommended designation for the Plantation Estates "Agriculture". This motion failed.
During the March 4, 2020 CPAC meeting, there were two (2) motions on the PE lots. The first
vote was to change the land designation of PE from "Agriculture" to "Rural Residential". That
motion did not pass. A second motion was then called to keep the land designation of PE as
"Agriculture". That motion also failed to pass. As a result, CPAC made no decision
concerning PE.
The Maui Planning Commission (MPC) review resulted in an amendment to the WMCP
changing the designation of PE to "Rural Residential" by a 6-2 vote. After the MPC
transmitted their recommendations to the Council this was overturned. I do not know why.
I am strongly in favor of designating the Plantation Estates community as "Rural Residential"
in the West Maui Community Plan (WMCP) consistent with the Maui Island Plan and the
Maui Planning Commission review.
Policy 2.3.2 in the October 2021 version of the West Maui Communiti^ plan has serious
problems.
The definition of "gulch" in Appendix D of the plan is vague resulting in most of tlie island
being within the definition of a gulch. During a heavy rain virtually, all undeveloped land is
"A natural geologic .... channel or drainageway that conveys rainfall". The map in Figure 2.3
of this Plan does not help much and is inconsistent with the definition above.
The Planning Commission approved draft policy 2.3.2 stated "Gulches, as identified in the
map in Figure 2.3 of this Plan, shall remain in open space and no new permanent structures
shall be developed in or within 100 feet of the top of the bank of identified gulches unless
Low Impact Development strategies are implemented to prevent stormwater runoff.
There are many significant problems with tliis policy. A few of these problems are illustrated
in Exhibit A wltich we do not have time to get into in this meeting. I provide this illustration
for future reference.
Then the October 2021 plan went further and deleted the underlined wording from policy
2.3.2 above. This is a significant change. It renders many privately owned small lots across
West Maui, which were previously approved by the county, unusable for development of
structures both agricultural and residential. It also creates numerous issues for the county to
administer the "open space" on the large number of small owner-occupied lots.
As lot owners, I believe we all want to take due care to prevent erosion and runoff from our
lots. It would be far better to use poHcy wording that focuses on the lot owners (and their
contractors) responsibility for taking tlie steps necessary to prevent problems due to
stormwater runoff. This would put the priority on managing stormwater runoff rather than
the arbitrary "top of the bank". I thought this was already Maui County policy.
If there are other reasons to keep the October 2021 policy 2.3.2, it should not apply to
previously approved subdivisions without adding back "... unless Low Impact Development
strategies are implemented to prevent stormwater runoff." If policy 2.3.2 remains unchanged,
it would render many lots which were purchased under previous county policy, unsuitable
for structures both agricultural and residential.
Mahalo for your consideration
Michael Gronemeyer
Exhibit A
Illustration of some of the problems with Policy 2.3.2
While there are many problems with this Policy 2.3.2, tliis example will illustrate some of the
problems. Many lots have similar characteristics and present similar problems. Since I do not
anticipate any new or expanded structures on my lot, I will use my lot to illustrate some of
the issues. I have a topographic map if requested.
Where exactly is the gulch and where is the "top of die bank"
This lot is on Keo'awa street - which is roughly on top of the ridge. The land slopes down on
either side of tlie street so is Keo'awa street the top of the bank? If so tlien based on the plain
English definition of "gulch" in Appendix D this entire lot is in the gulch!
At this lot's driveway, Keoawa street is roughly 1000 ft above sea level. Then tire lot drops
rapidly where it levels off at approximately 980 ft where the main house is located
Then the lot drops rapidly again where it levels of at approximately 940 ft where the ohana,
main horse pasture and stables are located.
Then the lot drops rapidly to a level area at about 910 ft which is second part of the horse
pasture area. This pasture is approximately half way between the street and the rear property
line.
Then this lot continues to drop rapidly in a series of at least 4 terraces all the way down near
the stream bed at about 700 feet above sea level. This is approximately 1,300 feet from the
street.
There is a level area at about 750 feet above sea level which tire previous owner of this lot
used as part of his pasture for cattle along with all terraces above tliat. I no longer use this for
pasture area in order to allow vegetation to grow where the cattle had worn the ground bare.
This conservation activity significantly controls erosion and storm runoff.
The streambed drops rapidly by over 80 feet vertically to 620 ft. above sea-level over the next
500 ft horizontally (the next 2 lots) toward the ocean. It is virtually impossible that water
would rise above my terrace at about 750 feet above sea level. Is this then the "top of the
bank" for my lot ? if not what is and why ? I believe it is more appropriate to use a more
traditional definition of gulch in some way based on the "high water mark" similar to the
ocean beaches.
Since there is no detailed mapping of the "gulches" or the "top of the bank" how can any
land owner determine or plan for the best available use of the land? How can the county
effectively deal with the vague and arbitrary policy 2.3.2.?
Exhibit A
The ^'Open Space question
The WMCP Policy 2.3.2 also states "Gulches, as identified in the map in Figure 2.3 of this
Plan, must remain in open space".
As previously noted, the maps in the WMCP are very high level and inconsistently applied.
At die current time it is impossible to tell from the "map" whedier half of my 6 acre lot falls
into this new "gulch" category.
Once the actual gulch areas can be mapped in detail, the questions relate to what uses are
allowed in this '"Open Space", especially for lots less than 15 acres zoned agricultural.
For example, can any of these "open spaces" be fenced?
Can the fenced "Open Space" areas be used for livestock?
Will soil conservation in the open space areas continue to be a valid agricultural use ?
Are retainage basins allowed in "open spaces"?
Will pig trapping be allowed in "open spaces"?
Are groimd moimted solar panels "structures" ?
How will "Open Space" restrictions be reconciled with HRS 205-4.5 ? With MCC 19.30A?
When will these changes go into effect?
How will action item 3.11 affect structures which may already be within 100 feet of the "top
of the bank"? Both now and in the future.
It
These questions and likely others will need to be thoughtfully analyzed witli practical
workable answers before the council proceeds with action item 3.11 in the plan.
LUu-v
Q
LLJ J - LU
ac Li_oo>-1  , 'O
LUHo
LJ- =)LU C3
2:
Gc: I-O
Oo
plantation P states Lot
I O Moohui ^u\tc ^02
/\nCT5
[ ahaina, pjawaii 9^7^ *
(505) 669-90'^o
f*saciatian
00
November 16, 2021 73o~-c
H
cr> m
Om mo.
ovia: county.clerk@mauicounty.us O -oT1 Z3Cr~
m -H
ZiXMaui County Council
Council Chair Alice Lee
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai'i 96793
Owxni
SUBJECT: West Maui Community Plan
Dear Chair Lee and Maui County Councilmembers:
My name is Jonathan Kindred and I am presenting this testimony In my capacity as President of
the Plantation Estates Lot Owners Association (PELOA). PELOA comprises 103 lots (together
“Plantation Estates”) which were developed in four (4) stages beginning in 1990. We respectfully
request the Maui County Council to reconsider designation of our neighborhood that falls within
the Rural Growth Boundary of the Maui Island Plan as “Rural Residential” in the West Maui
Community Plan (WMCP). This designation best fits the characteristic of our neighborhood.
Our neighborhood is low-density and rural residential in character. PELOA is committed to
remaining low density. From a land use perspective, we are located within the Kapalua Resort
and our homes surround the Plantation Golf Course. This significantly distinguishes our
subdivision from other non-resort agricultural neighborhoods. Our neighborhood was planned and
developed by the developer over 30 years ago in 1990, before the Rural zoning category (Chapter
19.29 MCC) was adopted. PELOA was developed essentially as what has since been recognized,
as a rural neighborhood.
The Maui Island Plan designated Plantation Estates within the Rural Growth Boundary. In the
Orion Report (March 2018), that looked closely at Title 19, Maui County’s zoning code, the report
pointed out that agricultural zoning practices are not working. It stated, “The intent of agricultural
zoning is to protect agricultural land while allowing certain agricultural-related uses and structures
such as barns, greenhouses and farm dwellings. The reality is that practices such as agricultural
subdivisions are allowing non-agricultural uses that may threaten adjacent bona fide farm
operations. In addition, the required farm plan is an exercise that requires much staff and applicant
time but has little impact on ensuring ongoing farming operation.” As well. Section 7.1.1.1 of the
Maui Island Plan states: “Encourage future community plan efforts to identify lands within the
Page 2
County Agricultural zoning district that are primarily being used for large-lot residential or rural
use and consider such lands for reclassification to an appropriate County Rural zone.” As
mentioned previously, our neighborhood was placed within the Rural Growth Boundary in the
Maui island Plan. We are low density, large lot residential estates with some family farms. Placing
our neighborhood in Rural Residential will allow for consistency with the Maui Island Plan
according to MCC 2.80B.70, and also provide consistency with the recommendations in the Orion
Report.
Further, the Orion Report also notes that, "[a] significant amount of Maui is currently within the
state's agricultural land use district Some of this land has been subdivided into agricultural
subdivisions for housing development or small farms containing very limited agriculture
production-less than could rightly be considered subsistence farming or a hobby farm.” See
Attachment A. The State Land Zoning Allocation map, produced by the Office of Planning (2013).
The map notes that Maui contains 235,280 acres of Agriculture zoned land and just 4,200
of Rural zoned land. The Orion Report recommends, “Maui should consider requesting a district
boundary amendment to change developed non-farm property to a more appropriate district such
as Rural and redouble its efforts to truly protect remaining farmland by revising its processes and
establishing new conditions for subdivision and non-farm use."
acres
It is important for you to know that the CPAC took three (3) votes on our subdivision, two (2)
motions to designate our neighborhood as Agriculture and one (1) motion to designate us as Rural
Residential. All three (3) motions failed and the CPAC was unable to come to a decisive
conclusion. At the Maui Planning Commission, the Commissioners amended our neighborhood
to reflect it as Rural Residential. They felt the definition in the WMCP; both graphic and textual,
best fit our neighborhood. The motion passed with  a6-2 vote.
We kindly request the Maui County Council's reconsideration of our neighborhood’s WMCP land
use designation. Designating our neighborhood as Rural Residential will fall in line with the Maui
Island Plan, MCC 2.80B.70, and the land use definitions that are described within the WMCP.
This will not set a precedent with other Agricultural neighborhoods as we are situated within a
resort destination area and our neighborhood provides a buffer between urban Kapalua and
agricultural areas to the north.
As a separate matter, the last iteration of policy 2.3.2, now reads “no new permanent structures
maybe developed in or within 100 feet of the top of the bank of identified gulches.” It contains no
exception for Low Impact Development Strategies within this area as had been approved in the
MPC draft, the CPAC draft, and as originally proposed by the Maul Planning Department. We
recommend that the exception for low impact development strategies be reinstated. Low impact
development strategies seek to protect, retain, and filter water on the lot concerned. Eliminating
those protections would be counterproductive in protecting runoff from those areas that runoff
often from land formerly used in intensive monoculture. Additionally, there would be significant
negative consequences to hundreds of people owning lots in previously approved and subdivided
lots across West Maui. Such a requirement would appear to render many lots practically or
Page 3
actually unbuildable. if the previously approved language is not reinstated, Policy 2.3.2 should be
expected to be challenged as arbitrary, capricious, and a taking requiring compensation for quite
a large number of lot owners across West Maui. We recommend that this language be reinstated
as it has been uniformly In place and approved throughout the entire West Maui Community Plan
process.
Sincerely,
VJonathan Kindred, President
Plantation Estates Lot Owners Association
Attachment
K.-U)ATA\PEl.OA\W)itauiCP l>p(lata\AppiiC8Uon»\PELOA Testimony LeUer-WMCP.ctocz
Attachment A
Ih<”aleil r.-
.'.'SP/. V'A
(ffic©iWaimfel
^Molokai
I A: 110,791 ac
I C: 52.511 ac
R: 1,798 ac
iU: 2,287 ac
>- -*>
Kauai
A: 144,317 ac
C: 194,459 ac
R: 1,374 ac
U: 14,865 ac
Maui
A: 235,280 ac
C; 204,149 ac
R: 4,200 ac
U; 22,870 ac
ifiioriciiului
/
Oahu
A; 120,790 ac
C: 158,669 ac
U: 104,232 ac
ItjCal^iQil
■ ^
«C
State Land Use Districts Hawaii
A: 1,183,339 ac
" C: 1,343,125 ac
R: 1,618 ac
,U; 56,348 ac
Agricultural
Conservation K ‘ "
Rural
Urban
●/
r-. V
THa map wu produced by the Office of
Planning (OP) for planning pupoeee.
I  Itafiouldnotbe uaed forboundarylnter*
I pretaaone or other ipeliaianatyila beyond
h  a A tt ●"’’●tsto™ of tt*e data. Infomalion
IP-
‘ HAWAII regarding compBationdatee and eccuracyof
' oTATCWIDfc tfw data presantad cn be oMairad from OP.
r. MapNo.20l30402-01-DK
iGlS Map Date: 04ffi2/t3
L/Vj
110550
J111
PROGRAM Sourcaa:
lUMMEUic Stele Land Use Districts; State L«rd Use
● o«arto»»ii..Mai coiwlaslon, Feb. 2013.
Miles
1.
r.nMAUI
RECEIVED
ZOZI NOV 18 AH 8: 35
Saman Dias
99 Kahana Nui Rd.
Lahaina HI 96761
C-^FICE OF THF
OOUHTY CLl;v ■
Date: November 17, 2021
To: Council of the County of Maui
From: Saman Dias Maui Bicycling League (MBL) / West Maui Greenway Alliance
Aloha Council members
MBL has been advocating for West Maui Greenway for last 7 years. West Maui
Greenway is not a new concept. It has been outlined in Hawaii Bike plan that was
developed in 1994
https://hidot.hawaii.qQv/hiqhwavs/files/2013/02/Bike-Plan-appendixq.pdf
MBL very much like to accept the draft of West Maui community plan
And requesting following additions:
The West Maui Community Plan states in. Section 4  |Implementation and Monitoring
2.12 Complete the West Maui Greenway multi-use path to provide a safe, off-road path
for walking and bicycling between parks, neighborhoods, and businesses.
Also, Section 2 requires landowners to evaluate and adjust proposed projects to fit the
community’s vision for the future. I feel clarifying wording is needed to avoid conflict in
the future. I please ask you consider adding:
Require new development redevelopment and Chapter 201H HRS and Chapter
2.97, MCC housing projects to incorporate the planned West Maui Greenwav into
their project and provide rights of wav for the sreenwav if the alignment crosses
the property.''
The West Maui Greenway is a high priority in West Maui and this additional wording will
help ensure that working together - the County, State and Community - we can make
the West Maui Greenway a reality.
Mahalo for your time.
Saman Dias
Chair Maui Bicycling League
WILLUMJ. AILA.JR
CHAIRMAN
HAWAIIAN HOMES COVOAlSSlOS
DAVID V. ICC
OOVERNOII
STATB or Hawaii
TYLER L COMES
DEPUTY 70 THE CHAIRMAN
JOSH GREEN
LT GOVERNOR
STATE OF HAWAII
STATE OF HAWAII
DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS
P O BOX 1879
HONOLULU HAWAII 96805
Ref.:PO-2I-351November 18, 2021
es
oo0“n
CZi
m
i 2mMemorandum c=>
oCO-<To: Members of the Maui County Council j ‘ I
CO ys^Tt
mFrom: William J. Aila Jr., Chairman
Hawaiian Homes Commission
m 9? oXT
v/i
Re: DHHL Comments on County of Maui West Maui Community Development Plan
The state Department of Hawaiian Homelands (DHHL) has approximately 777 acres in
Honokowai. Beginning in 2019 to present, DHHL has undertaken a master plan and HRS 343
environmental assessment process for a new homestead community on its lands in Honokowai.
The DHHL Honokowai planning process is nearly complete and DHHL is requesting that the
County West Maui Community Development Plan (Subarea 2) be updated to reflect DHHL’s
Honokowai Homestead Master Plan development in order to better coordinate future
collaboration with the County of Maui on critical County infrastructure and services that are
needed to support the new Honokowai Homestead Community.
As you know, per the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, which has been incorporated into
the State Constitution, the Hawaiian Homes Commission has exclusive land use authority over
DHHL lands. As such, DHHL has created its own land use designation categories that reflect the
Hawaiian Homes Commission’s land use policies for DHHL lands. In order to help facilitate
incorporation of DHHL’s Honokowai Homestead Community Master Plan into the County West
Maui Community Development Plan, DHHL has identified the Maui County Community Plan
Designations that are most applicable to DHHL’s land use designations. These are reflected in
Table 1. Exhibit A reflects the layout of these land uses on DHHL’s Honokowai lands in the
DHHL Honokowai Homestead Conceptual Master Plan.
Members of Maui County Council
Page 2
November 18, 2021
DHHL would like “Subarea 2” of the West Maui Community Development Plan to be updated
as follows:
Table 1
Translating DHHL^s Honokowai Land Use Designations to Community Plan Designations
DHHLHonokdwai Master
Plan Land Use Designation
Applicable Community
Plan Designation
Approximate
Acres
Subsistence Agriculture
Homestead
Rural Residential 337
Residential Homestead Residential 70
Single-Family
Residential Multi-Family Residential 35
Supplemental Agriculture Agriculture 14
Community Commercial
Community Agriculture
Community Recreation
Rural Village 24
Agriculture 16
28Public / Quasi Public
Employment Center 16Industrial
Conservation Open Space 146
Public / Quasi PublicRoad & County Facilities 91
DHHL Villages of LealPi
We note that in Subarea 3 of the West Maui Community Development Plan, the plan
accurately designates DHHL’s Leali'i as “Residential” as DHHL plans to develop single-family
residential homesteads on these lands.
We appreciate the County’s consideration of DHHL’s request to update Subarea 2 of the
West Maui Community Development plan to reflect DHHL’s plans for its lands in Honokowai.
Should you have any additional comments, please contact the DHHL Planning Office at
dhhl.planning'^a’hawaii.tzov .
Enclosure — Exhibit A
C: Hawaiian Homes Commissioner Randy Awo
2
Honokowai Beneficiary Community Master Plan
Legendh
West Maui ’
Homestead Residential: Single Family
Homestead Sub-Ag:1 to 2 acre lots
Homestead Residential: Multi-Family
Homestead Supplemental Agriculture
Community Use: Agriculture
Community Use: Parks
Community Use: Commercial
Conservation: Gulches and Buffers
Industrial
County Facilities
Connection to North Development
  Walking Pathways
Future Access Easement
'A' Cultural Sites
Non-DHHL Lands
Roadways
Access Point
Note: Lot Lines are conceptual and for
graphic purposes only.
1400 SCO tJOO 1«00
NORTH
received
F!CE Or T'ni
cler;■-OUNTYNovember 18, 2021
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
via countv.clerk@mauicountv.us
Subject: Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
DearChair Lee and Council Members:
Everyone agrees on the critical need for affordable housing for Maui's workforce. The State of
Hawaii classifies lands as urban, rural and agriculture (and conservation.) Approximately 5% of
land is available for development. This restriction on available land for residential development
results in the high cost of housings, as the (low) supply and (high) demand for housing continue
to escalate!
Housing and Land Enterprise of Maui, dba Nd Hale  OMaui (NHOM) is a grassroots,
membership-based Nonprofit 501 (c) 3 organization established to secure and preserve a
permanent supply of affordable housing alternatives for low- and moderate-income households
in Maui County. We strongly support affordable workforce housing inall its forms including for-
sale single family homes and condominiums; and for rent apartments.
We understand that the Maui Island Plan, which took 6 years to complete, and was finished in
2012, prioritized housing and Included the areas in Launiupoko and Olowalu in West Maul. The
currently proposed West Maui Community Plan before the Maui County Council reverses this
carefully crafted plan and designates the same area as "areas of stability."
We respectfully request that the Council consider the unintended consequences of further
restricting housing: the reduction in currently available land available to create affordable
workforce housing, accelerating the loss of our precious island families - our children,
grandchildren, family and life-long friends - who find no workable ways to manage the high
cost of living and/or opportunities to attain their dream of truly affordable housing.
No Hale 0 Maul strongly supports affordable and workforce housing initiatives and
developments. The County is a crucial partner in the development of affordable and workforce
housing in Maui. Let's continue to collaborate and work together as a community. This will
lead to more homes for island households. Together we can make a real impact on the housing
needs of our community.
Mahalo for your support of affordable workforce housing,
Executive Director
190 N. Church Street, P.O. Box 1829, Woiluku, HI 96793 ● Ph. 808.244,6110 ● Fax 808.244.6115 ● www.nahaleonaui.org
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Lee Chamberlain <Lee@ridesmartmaui.com>
Monday, November 15, 2021 12:28 PM
County Clerk
Donna; Saman Dias; 'Clint Master'; Leo Nakayama
RE: West Maui Community Plan Testimony resubmission with name
To:
Cc:
Subject:
90OYou don't often get email from lee@ridesmartmaui.com. Learn why this is important
Lee Chamberlain
99 Kahana Nui Rd
Lahaina, Hi. 96761
(925)917-1994
 -r\ :x)c -n CD m
Om-< rn
r-
m -●
~o
mXThe WMCP states in. Section 4 | Implementation and Monitoring OX n'
2.12 Complete the West Maui Greenway multi-use path to provide a safe, off-road path for walking and Wfcycling
between parks, neighborhoods, and businesses.
NO
In order to accomplish this The policy could be: "Require new development redevelopment and Chapter 201H. HRS
and Chapter 2.97. MCC housing projects to incorporate the planned West Maui Greenwav into their project and
provide rights of wav for the areenwav if the alignment crosses the oropertv."
Please use your leadership to support Hawaii's Bike Plan, Hawaii's SB1402 and the WMCP to modernize Hawaii's ground
transportation infrastructure by providing additional metrics, considerations, and assistance to the department of
transportation in order to move Hawaii forward Into the twenty-first century. Please Implement a comprehensive plan
for the establishment of any portion of the following on Maui as required by SB1402.
"https://www.capitol.hawaii.gOv/session2021/bills/SB1402_.HTM"
(1) A contiguous network of bicycle and pedestrian pathways connecting all public schools and libraries in each school
complex area to one another, and to its respective state and county transportation infrastructure, in which intersections
with other modes of transportation shall be minimized; provided that the pathway network shall be separated and
protected from vehicular traffic by physical or natural barriers, or by meaningful distance or elevation;
(2) A contiguous network of bicycle and pedestrian pathways connecting commercial business and shopping hubs to
residential areas, and to its respective state and county transportation infrastructure, in which intersections with other
modes of transportation shall be minimized; provided that the pathway network shall be separated and protected from
vehicular traffic by physical or natural barriers, or by meaningful distance or elevation; and
(3) Pedestrian exercise and active health pathways of meaningful length in which intersections with other modes of
transportation shall be minimized; provided that these pathways shall be separated and protected from vehicular traffic
by physical or natural barriers, or by meaningful distance or elevation, and easily accessible to residential and high
density communities where appropriate.
I Support the West Maui Greenway.
Sent from Mail for Windows
1
Comit^Clerk RCGCI'v'gDFrom:
Sent:
Lorrie Betsill Nielson <lorrie@unveiledhawaii.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 5:45 PM
County Clerk
"Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109".
Z0?l NOV 18 PH S* ^9To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from iorrie@unveiledhawaii.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha!
Please let this serve as a message of support for the West Maui Community Project! As a West Maui resident for
over a decade, I truly believe this project will benefit our community immensely, and most importantly, provide
AFFORDABLE HOUSING for our West Maui Residents! I really hope to see this project and all it's permissions
passed!
With Warm Aloha,
LORRIE NIELSON
^ 181 Lahainaluna Rd. Suite B. Lahaina, Hawaii 96761
iSa IOfrie@unvei(edhawaii.com
2 +1 (808)372.2936 | Q-H (808)446.8811
UNVEILED
@ www.unveiledhawaTcom
CONFiDENTiAUTY NOTICE:
imemlf-'.i solely for tn. addresser
'd froi’iin ai’d in:
' no conlenlb oi ihis cm:Ll
and may coruain r.ciii
disMOMire. If you
hj:- been addres.sed i
I
n-.ii (
■lessage or-i ai *
.!', be iegaity tiriL
i'lC inteni c;
you ii
‘ this message: and any
itotitled that any use, dibsri i i'ndliuf! , co;
strictl'y prohibited.
(
i■ :-T l i'it
iI. duchrmc 1
■ I mji r I , lu
ill of tfiis riiessPi;-: or :heA .3ger:l, or << thi:. messa.yf;
cii! and thenV aL I  ●r t' I ‘ ■ 'n I
●●M
.'ti liu- ‘.V ^der L"-'.e irnmeui.
ts If you til!’ noi tlie ini-. nded recipient, you are hereby
●us i‘-or storage of this mc.ssage o( ils dti
1
Count^leHc
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 11:06 AM
County Clerk
Fwd; West Maui Community Plan Testimony Supporting Housing Requested
To:
Subject:
ooGet Outlook for iOS
= 5FR
O -Tir- -n
r bZoFrom: Peter Martin <Peter@westmauiland.com>
Sent: Tuesday, November 16, 20214:59:10 PM
To: Peter Martin <Peter@westmauiland.com>
Subject: West Maui Community Pian Testimony Supporting Housing Requested
-Hm '1w I
<
oo
mm
73 X
::s: m Oo
Aloha,
if you haven't aiready heard, the Maui County Councii is having a pubiic hearing on the West Maui
Community Pian (WMCP) this Thursday, November 18^^ at 6:00 pm via BiueJeans. This is our iast chance to
let the County Council know that we want {affordable/workforce) housing in the areas of Olowalu and
Launlupoko.
The Maui Island Plan, which took 6 years to complete, was finished in 2012. This plan prioritized housing,
and included these areas for homes. For reasons I don't fully understand, the WMCP has designated these
areas as "areas of stability," euphemism for no housing for our Maui familiesi See Maui Island Plan Figure
8-13 below with areas for future homes outlined in red {urban growth boundary, UGB) and blue (rural
growth boundary, RGB).
It has been my goal for the last 25 years to try to get single family homes on these lands for our residents. 1
need your help. Our citizens and our children should be able to have homes with a yard for their families
on this beautiful land . If the WMCP is adopted in the current form, there will be no housing for our
families in the next 20 years on the lands of Olowalu and Launiupoko.
THIS IS A CALL TO ACTION - WE NEED YOUR HELP!
Let the County Council members know we, the residents of Maui want housing in these areas!
Please write a short message in support of housing in Olowalu and Launiupoko and email to:
countv.clerk(5)mauicountv.us with the subject "Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109".
Testimony may also be submitted via fax to 808-270-7171 or live (video conf) beginning at 6:00PM
Thursday Nov. 18. Agenda and instructions to call
in: httP5://mauicountv.legi5tar.com/View.ashx?M=A&ID=90492Q&GUID=65501CFB-5D3B-4FE9-BA30-
FCC5B5B82FD8
If you have any questions, please contact me via email at peter@westmauiland.com, or my cell (808) 283-
1273.
1
z
'DMy p»uuv]j - UMOX njoMOjo :£is
From:
Sent:
Dylan Payne <dylangpayne@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 4:50 PM
County Clerk
Testimony regarding the West Maui Community Plan update
im NOV 18 PH 57
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from dylangpayne@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers,
I am writing to you today to share some thoughts on the proposed West Maui Community Plan. This plan is intended to direct growth over the next 20 years, meaning it
will affect me, my children and my future grandchildren and their ability to live in West Maui.
I hope you are all keenly aware of the dire housing situation on the West side. Attached is a list showing the 10 lowest priced homes currently for sale in West Maui as of
11/18/2021.
Number of Properties: 3Residential - Active
LP/TFLSI
$798.56
$661.37
$734.18
$694.93
$971.97
$724.93
$994.52
$544.66
$2,370.69
$624.62
YrBItH TTLSF DOM LP
1,246 3 $995,000
2,138 42 $1,414,000
1,975 1 $1,450,000
2,288 :2 $1,590,000
1,7^ 234 $1,699,000
2,752 65 $1,995,000
2,006 162 $1,995,000
3,672 149 $2,000,000
928 55 $2,200,000
4,321 14 $2,6M,000
Num Address
LJ 1 35HakuHalePI
O 2 _ 55 Poindana Rd
O 3 214 Kahana Ridge Dr
1406 Front St
5  3843 Lower htonoapiilani Rd
n 4
6  62 HALELO St _
7  1133 Front St
, 8 _ 1426 Front St
1334_Front St
Q 10 116Hale!oSt
[  ' 9
Bds Bths Liv-SF
1,246
2,138
1,975
2,288
1,748
2,752
2,006
1,944
MLS#
393671
District
Napili/Kar^ana/Honokowai
Napill/Kahana/Honokowai
Napili/Kaharia/Honokowai
Lahaina
Napili/Kahana/Honokowal
Kaanapali
Lahaina
Lahaina
Lahaina
Kaanapali
Lnd-SFStatus
ACnVE
ACTIVE
ACTIVE
ACTIVE
ACTIVE
AOIVE
ACTIVE
ACTIVE
ACTIVE
ACTIVE
19972.003965 3
19997414 4 3.00393263
3.00 2001393714 16453 4
20044.00393701 6307 4
195525343
11539
4 2.00390908
19773.50
391836
392077
393096
4
19977505 3 3.00
3.00 199811234 2
19693 1.00 9285392
3,571 1974393564 4.0010472 4
If the community plan is adopted in its current form this problem will continue to worsen over the next 20 years. To be sure, there are a lot of positive components that
have been captured in the West Maui Community Plan draft. However, if we do not address the shortage of housing I believe all of the positive intentions of the community
plan will be overshadowed by our loss of community due to unaffordability and outmigration.
Specifically I am urging the Council to remove Policy 3.4.2 from the plan as this will severely limit the ability to create housing for Maui families.
Thank you for your consideration
1
Dylan Payne
Count^Clerk F?iLiC5IVGD
From:
Sent:
Jade Chihara <jchihara@hawaii.edu>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 4:51 PM
County Clerk
Public hearing 11/18/2021 WMCP CR 21-109
?0ZI NOV IS AH 8: 3i|
To;
Subject: orricE OF T
'.:CU,\'TY/-V
U  I \
IYou don't often get email fromjchihara@hawaii.edu. Learn whv this is important
Aloha Council Members,
My name is Jade Chihara and I am born and raised in Lahaina. I do not support the development of homes in
Olowalu or Launiupoko. The water and traffic infrastructure within this moku is in dire need of reconsideration
before creating permanent change to the landscape of these historic and culturally important areas.
The West Maui Community Plan should be revised and implemented after the Water Use Development Plan is
approved in order to move forward from an informed stance of water availability and true community
consent. Mahalo to each of you and your council staff for the hard work you folks do.
Jade Chihara
1
From:
Sent;
TERESA ADAMS <radams4t4@aol.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 4:58 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR2M09''.
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from radams4t4@aol.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I OPPOSE housing in these areas fo the same reasons as we have fighting these subdivisions for the past several
years-THERE IS NOT ENOUGH WATER!!! The reefs are at risk as well
Peter Martin owns thousands of acres on West Maui he can build affordable homes closer to won where more
infrastructure is available.
We definitely need affordable housing on West Maui but this is not the place.
Teresa Adams
So0*nC-n :dCD m5o om■< CO
CO ■n ~p
m -i mvp
DPn m oo
1
Count^Clerk P F r ●'
From:
Sent:
Myrna Ah Hee <myrna.ahhee@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 3:34 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109".
ZflZl NOV 18 PH 3- 59
To:
FFICE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
/*>Subject:
[You don't often get email from myrna.ahhee@gmail.com. Learn \why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification.]
To whom it may concern,
I have lived in Lahaina my entire life since 1962. 1 am sad that future generations will not be able to get affordable and
work force housing that is being offered by developers like Peter Martin. I have seen multiple families live in homes
with 20 people because of lack of affordable housing. Now they plan on even not allowing development for 20 years on
these lands, are you serious. It is crazy that we don't work with finding a solution to having the majority of working
people have a affordable home. With excellent mortgage rates today and affordable prices, would you rather see home
ownership for our community or see families move away. All this developable, open land, why not put it to its highest
and best use for our people and community. I urge you to consider allowing development of affordable housing in
Olowalu and Launiupoko. Think not only of now but the future of my generations. The highest and best use to have
working families live on the land. Families that work deserve an opportunity to own a home. Please allow affordable
housing be a number one consideration.
Sincerely
Myrna Ah Hee
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Jeff and Sue Anderson <smander@pacbel!.net>
Tuesday, November 16, 2021 4:34 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for 11/18/21 Meeting re: West Maui Community Plan
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from smander@pacbell.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha Councilmembers,
I \want to say a quick THANK YOU to the folks who participated in creating the new West Maui Plan, especially the
volunteer CPAC committee members. I sat in on a few of their many long meetings they held over literally years. The
committee put in lot of work and the plan is quite an accomplishment. I admire their passion and commitment to
reviewing every aspect and to upholding key values that should serve us well in the future. The plan's focus toward
locating new development near infrastructure, employment and services is great. I'm especially fond of the new "Areas
of Stability".
Jeff Anderson, Lahaina
OO
O "Tl
CZ!
^ m
73
mCD
om-<
oo*n 3:
mm
a7; ni ro
1
Count^CIerk RFn"iVFO
From:
Sent: Debbie Arakaki <debbie@debbiearakaki.com>202| f(}0V j7 7^
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 6:44 AM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR21-109'-'Fr ICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from debbie@debbiearakaki.com. Learn why this is important
To the WMCP committee,
Please do not allow the blocking of more affordable housing on our West Side community with this plan. Olowalu and
Launiupoko are both great areas for families to live and be a part of our community in Lahaina. Our west side
communities need more affordable housing for our children, our younger generation, and our hard working community
members so they can actually afford a home here in West Maui.
Why would precluding building on these lower lands for 20 years possibly be a good thing for Maui? We are
experiencing growth as is everywhere else in our state. With no new housing emerging, where would we expect our
next generation to live or afford their homes? If the affordable housing only exists in Central or Upcountry, then it will
always be a commute over the Pali.
As of today, 11/17/21, the lowest priced home in West Maui is $995,000 and there is only one available. The Median
home price is $5,087,500. This paints a more accurate picture of what West siders have to deal with for their housing pricing.
Please do not allow this WMCP to pass, it will truly hurt the future of West Maui.
Mahalo,
Debbie Arakaki
808-283-7214
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Tom Blackburn-Rodriguez <tominmaui@icloud.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 8:42 AM
County Clerk
Public Hearing November 18, 2021, WMCP, CR 21-109
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from tominmaui@icloud.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Dear County Clerk,
I am writing in strong support for the inclusion of single family housing, in particular affordable housing, in the West
Maui planning area of Olowalu and Launiupoko. Areas the Maui Island Plan designated for housing.
Removing these area from housing allocation is in error and reduces the opportunity for single family homes and reflects
a bias toward the northern end of the Lahaina planning area and against single family homes.
The crisis in housing for our people is, in part, the result of such poor policy decisions.
Respectfully,
Tom Blackburn-Rodriguez
808-283-4570
Tominmaui@icloud.com
O
O-nC“'1
H
mom●< ●"sj moo <T! zss
mm 00
Tcm O
1
County Clerk BfeCtaiV5P
From:
Sent:
Mikey Burke <michae[lyn.burke@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 8:23 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing 11/18/21 WMCPCR 21-109
ZOZi NOV 18 AH 805
To:
Subject: O-riCE OF THE
● :n!!NTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from michaellyn.burke@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha mai kakou,
This email is for Public Hearing 11/18/21 WMCP CR 21-109. 1would like to acknowledge all the hard work, long hours,
brain power, tired eyes, and mental and emotional fatigue that went into the WMCP. The committee members, Planning
Dept, personnel, and community members gave of themselves so willingly, for the sole purpose of developing  aplan
that most resembles the voice of the West Maui community.
While no Community Plan will be perfect, I believe that the final iteration in front of you is the result of the best efforts
of the committee members, who listened and internalized the community's concerns. I support the WMCP in this
iteration. I support the designations for each of the areas of West Maui. I support infill and not sprawl. I support
affordable/workforce housing near existing infrastructure and economic centers.
I do not support large land owners trying to rally the troops in the 11th hour to go against the hard work and voices that
went into the WMCP. The community has spoken. The WMCP is the literal documentation of the community's voice.
Please do not turn your backs on the community's hard work and vision for our own backyard. Accept the WMCP as it
has been diligently crafted.
Mahalo for your consideration,
Michaellyn Burke
Lahaina, Maui
Sent with aloha
1
Count^£leH«
From:
Sent:
Paul Causey <paulcausey@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 1:32 PM
County Clerk
West Maui Community Plan — Growth Framework maps are too pixelated
To;
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from paulcausev@gmail.com. Learn whvthis is important
Hello,
Would it be possible to get higher resolution images for your West Maui Community Plan -- Growth Framework maps? I
am unable to read the legends and the images are too pixelated.
Here is a link to the download I am referring: http://mauicountv.us/wp-content/uploads/2021/ll/West-Maui-
Communitv-Plan-3.pdf
Thanks, Paul Causey
Resident
73o -7"
mC3
OH m mCO
pOm -3
<-azs:
mfS> aro1
1
RECEIVED
TESTIMONY
TO THE COUNTY COUNCIL'S PUBLIC HEARING ON THE DRAFT WEST ^N
November 18, 2021
From: DAVID DELEON, 335 Waiama Way, Haiku, Hi. 96708, dpdeleon@ba^^snirg,l;ne;t '^08
575-9711 r,OUNTY CLERK
This is testimony to request an amendment to draft West Maui Community Plan to follow the
recommendations of the 2012 Planning Director, the 2012 County Council, and the Maui Island
Plan, to change the land use planning for the Kapalua Plantations Estates to Rural-2 acre.
I support the proposal because:
The proposal to change the Kapalua Plantations Estates neighborhood from agricultural
classification to 2-acre rural classification, accurately reflects the community's actual
current and historic use. After over two decades of occupation, this area is clearly not,
and will never again be, farm land.
Kapalua Plantations Estates actually matches the description of rural use found in state
law - a non-urban development pattern characterized by low-density, scattered
homesteads and occasional farms.
Once the subdivision for these properties was approved, the property that composes
the subdivision ceased being viable farm land: the lots are too small to be viable farms.
That was the reason the Maui Farm Bureau actively supported this proposal during the
Maui Island Plan process.
Once rezoning to rural is accomplished, the wasteful cat-and-mouse game between
these property owners and the County Planning Enforcement Division - in which a
dozen papaya trees or three goats constitute a "farm" - can end.
The impact of this change will only be seen on paper. The size and use of these
properties will not change, and anyone who wishes to farm, can. The only functional
change will be the state's odd requirement that people who occupy agricultural land
must farm that land, will no longer apply. (Question: has anyone ever demanded that
the grantees of 40-acre homesteads at Hoolehua, Molokai be required to farm?)
The County Council created a spectrum of rural zoning classifications, from the
traditional half-acre, to 1, 2, 5 and 10 acre lot scales. The purpose for creating this
spectrum (2010) was so the County could accommodate exactly these types of Ag to
Rural transitions. Kapalua Plantations Estates 2-acre lots can transition to rural 2-acre
classification. There would be no change in the character of the community.
The Department of Planning in 2012 supported and proposed this change in the Maui
Island Plan. The then-director saw the wisdom of ending the unnecessary waste in
attempting to force homeowners to conduct an economic activity they really have no
intention of conducting.
This Ag to Rural concept was actively debated and approved by the County Council for
inclusion in the Maui Island Plan in 2012 - nine years ago.
The intent of the Maui Island Plan should weigh heavily on this question and indeed the
decision making for all six Maui community plans, starting with the West Maui plan. Well
over a million dollars and 15 years of effort went into the creation of the Maui Island Plan,
with the intention of setting the planning parameters for the Maui community plans,
ignoring that now will amount to a mammoth waste of County resources and a serious
insult to hundreds of Maui citizens who diligently participated in that effort just a decade
ago, in good faith.
There is nothing sacred about state agricultural land use classification. When the LUC
maps were created in the 1960s, there were only three classifications: urban, agricultural,
and conservation. Any lands that were clearly not urban or conservation were lumped into
the agricultural class. The rural classification was added long after the initial boundaries
were set. As a result, many lands that should have been classified rural were not.
The problem facing agriculture in Hawaii is that it never successfully transition-ed from
industrialized plantation mono-crops to more mixed-crop farms. A 2015 State Department
of Agriculture report said there were 200,000 acres of fallow farm land in Hawaii. The
problem is finding enough farmers and the necessary capital to put those lands to good use.
Whether the Kapalua Plantations neighborhood is classified rural will not impact those
economic realities one iota.
It is my belief that this decision, proposed by this Council, really has nothing to do with
preserving agricultural lands and everything to do with who these Kapalua Plantation
Estates residents are. I make that statement based on decades of experience. When a
decision this irrational and determined is made, without facts to back it up, its underlining
rationale is personal.
Count^CIeiJ<
From:
Sent:
Brian Egan <brianegan24@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 6:36 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee
PUBLIC HEARING NOV 18TH WMCP CR-21-109 O "nc
H
To:
XISubject: cs mom VMM
i > Ioo 3^~n
m -IDear Clerk:
OX m XS
W
DISTRIBUTE TO MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL MEMBERS...MY TESTIMONY MESSAGE
If u want to help our work force please give your total support for a plan to build housing and workforce housing
in Launiupoko,ukumehame and Olowalu
WORKERS LEFT MAUI WHEN COVID HIT AND CANNOT RETURN BECAUSE THERE ARE NO PLACES TO LIVE
THIS IS AN URGENT NEED FOR MAUI PLEASE BE WISE AND ALLOW THIS TO HAPPEN
Thank you
Brian Egan, CEO
EGAN REALTY AND CONSULTING, INC
P.O. Box 10487
Lahaina, HI. 96761
808-214-2402
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Robb <rafinberg@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 9;11 AM
County Clerk
Peter@westmauiland.com
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 2M09
OC
On-
C
"in
73To: mCD
Cc: -c
oSubject: CO
OO TJ
mrn[You don't often get email from rafinberg@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification.]
'O
O\jj
o
Aloha Kakou,
Please do what you can to increase the housing inventory on Maui to ease the shortage. As we are all aware, local
families are deserting Maui and the other islands at the rate of 5000 per year. No Hawaiians (Locals)  -No Aloha.
Solutions to this attrition are really quite simple, although not easy, since it takes clear communication and proper
political will. Over regulation, stifling zoning restrictions, and the unreasonable limitation on developable land statewide
are the problems. A single session of voting in the State Legislature and the County Council could remedy these.
Please, help keep Hawaii - Hawaii. Unless we can preserve the local population and culture, the newly arriving
transplants (who we love as well), will not be able to perpetuate it.
I am in support of the Oluwalu and Launiupoko areas to be developed for residential housing.
Sincerely,
Pastor Robb Finberg
Grace Church, Pukalani
1
received
ZOZI NOV 17 PM 1: 02
‘  J
Gi- NC.V
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I Wr'ycpr
November 17, 202)
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8lh floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai'i 96793
Re: Concerns Regarding West Maui Community Plan
Dear Chair Lee imd Councilmembers:
My name is Fred Findlen and 1 am the General Manager at the Hyatt Regency Maui Resort
and Spa in Ka’anapali. I write to express my concerns regarding new policies in the West Maui
Community Plan (“WMCF') that I believe will be detrimental to the community. Specifically,
there are three policies within the WMCP that will negatively impact our resort, employees and
guests.
First, Policy 2.1.2 incoiporates the Sea Level Rise Exposure Area (“SLR-XA”) model as
shown on the Hawai‘i Sea Level Rise Viewer (“Viewer”)- Policy 2.1.2 provides that
permanent .structures must be located landwaid of the State-recognized SLR-XA for coastal
erosion, except a minimum buildable area must be provided.” This Policy is concerning because:
new
● Policy 2.1.2 is vague. One, the WMCP does not explain what “SLR-XA for coastal
erosion” means. It appears that the SLR-XA and the coastal erosion models are distinct
models on the Viewer. As a result, it is not clear which line new structures must be
liindward of. Two, the policy allows for a “minimum buildable area,” but the WMCP
docs not define that term, explain when it will be available or how it will be
administered. From a business perspective, the indefiniteness of the policy will make
compliance difficult and expensive.
● Use of the SLR-XA and coastal erosion models to establish a shoreline setback for
new permanent structures is inappropriate. The modeling was not developed to apply
to Maui’s coastlines. For example, the models use the same formula to project erosion
regai'dless of whether the shoreline is all-sand or a rocky cliff. The Policy does not
recognize the limitations of the modeling or make any exceptions where the
projections are clearly wrong.
November 17, 2021
Page 2
● The Policy conflicts with the current Shoreline Rules for Maui. If the WMCP is passed
in its current form, there will be two different schemes that apply to development near'
the shoreline. What is permitted under the Shoreline Rules will not necessarily be
allowed under the WMCP because, in effect, the Policy establishes a shoreline setback
that is different than that established by the Shoreline Rules.
● Specific shoreline management policies belong in the Shoreline Rules. It is not the
Council’s role to develop shoreline management policy. The County has given that
responsibility to the Maui Planning Commission. See Maui County Charter § 8-8.4.
The Planning Department is already considering a change for the Shoreline Rules that
will account for sea level rise. The Council should, consistent with the law, allow the
Maui Planning Commission to carry out its duty and craft a uniform shoreline
management policy that applies equally to all community plan areas.
● Policy 2.1.2 will inevitably take property and the County will have to pay just
compensation for its taking.
Second, Policy 2.1.3 illegally requires developers to “make efforts” to waive the ability to seek
protection of property or compensation for development or redevelopment. By contrast, under the
current version of the Shoreline Rules, a property owner is only required to record a unilateral
agreement not to seek shoreline hardening for a new structure within the shoreline setback area.
Policy 2.1.3’s requirement to agree to waive the right to protect structures, repair existing
protective sti-uctures, develop new structures and obtain variances illegally imposes a prospective
waiver in return for the exercise of present rights.
Third, Policy 2.4.2 requiring one new affordable housing unit for each new transient
accommodation unit is unconstitutional. The Policy violates due process and equal protection, and
constitutes an unconstitutional condition. Policy 2.4.2 is also problematic on a practical level.
These days, high-spending visitors (i.e., the “quality” visitors that “the visitor industry must focus
on” under the WMCP) expect updated and modern accommodations. The high quality of our
accommodations is what provides a consistent and reliable source of revenue that allows our
Resort to be an economic resource for the West Maui community. Unduly restricting the ability to
develop or redevelop accommodations will inhibit our ability to continue to be that resource and,
ultimately, will negatively impact our workforce.
November 17, 2021
Page 3
Given these concerns, I respectfully request the Council revise its draft of the West Maui
Community Plan as follows:
1. Remove Policy 2.1.2 requiring new development be landward of the SLR-XA for
coastal erosion.
There are a variety of issues with Policy 2.1.2 and, for that reason, the Policy should be
removed from the WMCP. Removing Policy 2.1.2 will not have a detrimental effect on the
community, nor will it leave shoreline property owners without proper guidance in the face of a
changing climate. The Planning Department is currently working on proposed new Shoreline Rules
for consideration by the Commission. If adopted, those rules will implement a significantly greater
shoreline setback for the entire island that will take sea level rise and coastal erosion into account.
Allowing the Commission to can-y out their duties unimpeded by conflicting provisions from the
Council will ensure there is a clear and equitable shoreline policy for those in West Maui.
2. Revert Policy 2.1.3 to the language in the Maui Planning Commission’s draft of
the WMCP and remove subsections (c) and (d).
Subsections (c) and (d) of Policy 2.1.3 requiring developers to “make efforts” to waive the
ability to protect their properties and seek compensation are illegal. The Council should revert
Policy 2.1.3 back to the language of the Maui Planning Commission’s draft of the WMCP, which
provides:
For redevelopment and new developments within the State-recognized Sea Level
Rise Exposure Area, developers shall proactively:
a. Coordinate with the Maui County Planning Department and adjacent or near
by property owners to understand possible collective relocation of at-risk
stmctures, and
b. Incoiporate results of coordination into development plans by siting any new
planned structures out of hai'm’s way.
3. Revert Policy 2.4.2 to the language in the Maui Planning Commission’s draft of
the WMCP.
November 17, 2021
Page 4
The Exaction is legally flawed and is not a proper use of the County’s planning authority. The
language of Policy 2.4.2 should be reverted to the language in the Maui Planning Commission’s
draft of the WMCP, which provides:
Additional Transient Accommodation units in the West Maui Community Plan area
shall comply with the County’s affordable housing requirements, and developers
of Transient Accommodation units shall prioritize fulfillment of affordable housing
obligations within the boundaries of the West Maui Community Plan.
I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on WMCP and hope the Council will
carefully consider these issues before voting on the final version of the plan. I recognize the
importance of The West Maui Community Plan and applaud the efforts to plan for our future.
Very truly yours,
Fred Findlen
Count^^CleH<
received
ZO?l NOV 17 PH 12: OH
From:
Sent:
Gordon Firestein <gfirestein@seapact.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 11:59 AM
County Clerk
West Maui Community Plan
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
[You don't often get email from gfirestein@seapact.com. Learn why this is important aCOUNTY CLERK
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha, Councilmembers,
I am delighted that the West Maui Community Plan Is before you now for final approval.
This represents the culmination of countless hours of community meetings and official hearings. I participated in
some of them, but the CPAC members attended all of them! What a fantastic contribution to the community. I am
confident the plan represents the desires of the vast majority of West Maui residents, especially when it comes to
the challenging issues of where to locate affordable housing and which areas should be protected from future
development.
You can be sure that adopting the plan as presented is the right thing to do.
Sincerely,
Gordon Firestein
Launiupoko
1
Count^Cler^ R
Cesar JW Cameron Center <cesar@jwcameroncenter.org>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:36 AM
County Clerk
From:
Sent: 2021 NOV 17 AH 10 01
To:
Subject: West Maui Community Plan Testimony Supporting Housing Qpp|Qg qF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from cesar@jwcameroncenter.ora. Learn why this is important
Dear County Clerk,
I am writing in support for the inclusion of single family housing, that is
affordable housing, in the West Maui planning area of Olowalu and
Launiupoko. Areas that are included in the Maui Island Plan designated for
housing.
Getting rid of this these areas from housing allocation is a mistake and
diminish the opportunity for single family homes that are affordable and it
shows unfairness to West Maui planning area and against a solution to
provide an opportunity for affordable housing.
The predicament in affordable housing for the community of Maui is, in part,
the result of making policy decisions against those in need.
Cesar E. Gaxiola
Executive Director
J. Walter Cameron Center
95 Mahalani Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
(808) 244-5546 Office
(808) 298-8428 Mobile
1
RECEIVED
Donald R. Gerbig
6 Tulip Place
Lahaina, HI 96761-8322
m\ NOV !5 PH 3- 25
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKNovember 14, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai'i 96793
TESTIMONY - Legal Issues with the West Maui Community Plan (CR 21-109)
THURSDAY - NOVEMBER 18, 2021 - 6:00 PM
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
After reading Peter Martins testimony, I found that he has brought up some excellent points that
should be evaluated before adoption. I have selected several points that Peter also considered
important and should be evaluated prior to adoption of these new rules
First, the WMCP is inconsistent with other documents that comprise the general plan. For example
the elimination of Project Districts renders the WMCP inconsistent with the Maui Island Plan.
As another example, the WMCP designates the entire area South of Puamana largely Open Space
and Agriculture, while the Maui Island Plan expressly provides for Urban and Rural growth in this
area. Any inconsistency with the current plan should be corrected or identified as a change.
The WMCP designates the entire area South of Puamana largely, if not entirely, Open Space and
Agriculture, while the Maui Island Plan expressly provides for Urban and Rural growth in this area.
Another inconsistency that should be evaluated before accepting the WMCP
These inconsistencies are contrary to current law and will make compliance with the general plan,
which is comprised of the Countywide Policy Plan, Maui Island Plan and applicable community plan,
impracticable or impossible.
The WMCP should evaluate these inconsistencies and amend them so as to provide consistency with
the general plan.
Veiy truly yours,
7
Donald R. Gerbig
Concerned Resident - West Maui
received
ZOZI NOV 17 AH II: 05
Donald R. Gerbig
6 Tulip Place
Lahaina, HI 96761-8322
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKNovember 17, 2021
Maui County Council
Kaiana O Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
TESTIMONY NO 2 - Legal Issues with the West Maui Community Plan (CR 21-109)
THURSDAY - NOVEMBER 18, 2021 - 6:00 PM
Couny.cierk@mauicounty.us
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
I want to express my desire that the current WMCP includes housing in the Olowalu and Launiupoko
areas. It is imperative that these areas be designated future housing. These areas are
Ideal low income housing areas. Please seriously consider it
The WMCP should evaluate these areas for future housing on West Maui.
Very trulyjours,
Donald R. Gerbig
Concerned Resident - West Maui
received
m\ NOV 17 AM 9: 09
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
November 17, 2021 HAWAH HOTEL\  I L I A \ r L
Gerard C. Gibson
President
Hawaii Hotel Alliance
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai'i 96793
Re: Concerns Regarding West Maui Community Plan (CR 21-109)
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
My name is Jerry Gibson, and I am the President of the Hawaii Hotel Alliance ("HHA"). I write on
behalf of the HHA to express our concerns regarding new policies in the West Maui Community Plan
("WMCP") that we believe will be detrimental to the community and our industry.
There are three policies in the WMCP that are particularly concerning. The first two—Policies 2.1.2
and 2.1.3—seek to adopt the Hawaii Sea Level Rise Exposure Area Viewer ("SLR-XA") and implement
specific shoreline management measures through the community plan. On a broader level, these policies
(and the WMCP) seek to implement the concept of managed retreat in response to sea level rise and
climate change. However, while the WMCP outlines  aplan for retreat—the "managed" portion of
managed retreat is not clear and requires significant additional research and outreach before becoming
County-wide policy. The third policy. Policy 2.4.2, seeks to add a 1-to-l affordable housing requirement
to the development of transient accommodation units. These policies face numerous legal issues, as well
as many practical issues. I strongly urge the Council to consider the legal impediments facing the WMCP
and the appropriateness of attempting to adopt a widespread policy of managed retreat through
community plans.
Under the Maui County Charter, the Maui Planning Commission, not the Council, is given the authority
to regulate the area embraced by SLR-XA. In practical terms, managed retreat can mean any combination
of the methods of planned obsolescence, eminent domain, demolition, voluntary buyouts and relocation,
and/ortransferring development rights. Each of these methods presents its own practical and legal issues.
Does managed retreat mean that affected owners have to tear down their property? Can they
repair/rebuild if their property is damaged? Where do they retreat to? What if there is no good option for
"retreating"? What happens and who is liable when properties succumb to sea level rise and/or coastal
erosion if owners aren't allowed to protect their property?
What consideration has been given to managed retreat's impact on: (1) businesses in the SLR-XA; (2)
the tax base for West Maui; (3) the ability to insure property in the SLR-XA; (4) the ability to obtain
financing {e.g., a mortgage) on property in the SLR-XA? Implementing other strategies, such as adaption
and protection, in addition to managed retreat, can address these indirect effects by balancing the
HAWAH HOTELA 1. L I A N C E
Maui County Council
Page 2
economic and practical impacts of addressing sea level rise and climate change, while also ensuring
resiliency for the future. What consideration has been given to options of adaptation and protection?
Policy 2.4.2's 1-to-l affordable housing requirement also has legal and practical issues. From a legal
perspective, this requirement would appear to directly conflict with state law and may also violate
federal law. As important as affordable housing is. Policy 2.4.2 is not an effective means of realizing that
goal.
Given these concerns, I respectfully request the Council revise its draft of the West Maui Community
Plan to (1) Remove Policy 2.1.2 requiring new development be landward of the SLR-XA for coastal
erosion; {2} Revert Policy 2.1.3 to the language in the Maui Planning Commission's draft of the WMCP
and remove subsections (c) and (d); and (3) revert Policy 2.4.2 to the language in the Maui Planning
Commission's draft of the WMCP.
I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on WMCP and hope the Council will carefully consider
these issues before voting on the final version of the plan.
Very truly yours.
5Gerard C. Gibson
President
Hawai'i Hotel Alliance
Count^£Ieij<
From:
Sent:
Kelli Rios <mommakellll.11@gmaiLcom>
Tuesday, November 16, 2021 8:44 PM
County Clerk
Public hearing Nov 18,2021 WMCP CR21- 109
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from mommakellll.ll@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
<http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
County Clerk, I am for housing in olowalu, anywhere on the west side. I am a mother of 3 grown adults and they have
family's.. 1 want my Ghana to live on Maui. Own there house to raise there Ghana.. Please we need housing.
Please we NEED housing from Olowalu, west side...
Aloha,
Kelli Gomes
C=3
oo 73-.1w
mcz C3
Zo om moo -n
mrr. -1
11 roX-
1
RECEIVED
I6Z1 NOV 18 PH 5= 50Nov, l8, 2021
45 Kai Ala Dr,, Apt, 122
Lahaina, Maui, HI g6y6i OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing to support lands in the West Maui Community
Plan (WMCP) to be designated as “affordable/workforce
housing^’ in the areas ofOlowalu andLauniuopoko,
Lahaina is my homeland, I am a product of the Plantation
Era, Graduated from Lahainaluna High School, Maunaolu
Community College (now extinct). The University of Wisconsin
River Falls, and University of Portland, I have taught
Sophomore English and served as a Curriculum Specialist for
the DOE, After 47 years in education, I retiredfrom the HI DOE
(2015).
I have seen my homeland evolvefrom a plantation
community, to a tourist destination community. Also
flourishing are local businesses and service minded
establishments. It goes without saying that ctffordable housing
for West Maui has always been an issue. Workers need housing
to remain in West Maui, affordable housing, Covid 19 has only
exacerbated our housing problems,
I implore you to designate the areas ofOlowalu and
Launiuopoko as “affordable/workforce housing,” To do
otherwise would be to see an influx of locals and worlrforce
employees leave Maui,
Malama pono,
Lori Gomez-Karinen
Count^£letjc D.
From:
Sent:
Steve Goodfellow <steveg@goodfellowbros.com>.
Tuesday, November 16, 2021 8:20 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing 11/18/21 WMCP CR-21-109
20?l NOV 17 AH 7*. 43
To:
Subject: 'jmCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from steveg@goodfellowbros.com. Learn whv this is important
Dear Council Members,
1 am writing in regards to the West Maui Community Plan.
Housing for the working men and women of Maui is our most critical need. They are the backbone of our community
and are in desperate need of affordable housing.
Our community spent several years and thousands of hours to put together our Maui Island Plan. This plan is
comprehensive, thoughtful and gives us the direction and guidelines we need to build our community.
I believe that the housing units shown on the island plan for Launiupoko and Olowalu are critical to meet the needs of
our community.
The draft West Maui Community Plan does not include this much needed housing and should not be approved in its
current form.
With aloha,
Steve Goodfellow
Disclaimer
The information contained in this communication from the sender is confidential. It is intended solely for use by the recipient and
others authorized to receive it. If you are not the recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution or
taking action in relation of the contents of this information is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
This email has been scanned for viruses and malware, and may have been automatically archived by MImecast Ltd, an innovator in
Software as a Service (SaaS) for business. Providing a safer and more useful place for your human generated data. Specializing in;
Security, archiving and compliance. To find out more Click Here.
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Tamar Goodfellow <tamargoodfellow@me.com>
Tuesday, November 16, 2021 7:29 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing November 18, 2021 WMCP CR 2M09
m\ NOV 17 AH 7: 43
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from tamargoodfellow(5)me.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Dear Council Members,
The single most critical issue for the health and well being of our island is housing for our work force.
We desperately need to attract more nurses and doctors, but they cannot afford to buy homes, so won't come. The fail
out will be a devastating lack of care providers.
Similarly, our teachers, fire fighters, police officers, construction workers and hospitality professionals are the heartbeat
of our community, and they cannot afford to buy homes.
I strongly urge you to support work force housing in Olowalu and Launiupoko.
Do not adopt the West Maui Community Plan in its current form!
Tamar Goodfellow
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^OeH<
From:
Sent:
Joshua Guth <jguth@westmauiland.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 10:56 AM
County Clerk
West Maui Community Plan Testimony Supporting Affordable and Workforce Housing
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email fromjguth@westmauiland.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha my name is Joshua Guth,
i was born, raised and currently work here in Lahaina. !attended and graduated from the Kamehameha School
Kapalama, then went to the University of the Pacific where I graduated with a degree in business with a
concentration in Financing. After college I returned home to Maui and worked with West Maui Land for 8
years. In 2016 I was fortunate to be hired into the Maui Fire Department. I am currently assigned to Lahaina's
Ladder Company on the 3rd watch. On my days off i still work in a part time capacity for West Maui Land
doing land maintenance.
I am writing today in support of affordable and workforce housing in ALL areas of West Maui. I have concerns
that the specific areas of Olowalu and Launiupoko are not being given more consideration specifically when
the developer is proposing these very designations. To date on the Ladder Company 3rd watch we have cycled
through 5 drivers in just under the last 4 years, why? None of our drivers live on the west side. To paint a
larger demographic picture, of the 33 fire personnel assigned to Lahaina, only 11 of us actually live on the
West side of Maui, 6 of these 11 live in some sort of affordable or workforce housing. I think you would be
pleasantly surprised with how many fire fighters have bought and moved into West Maui Land affordable and
workforce housing across the island.
I think this discuss should actually be based around 2 questions: 1- Do you support affordable and workforce
housing in these areas of Launiupoko and Olowalu? 2- Do you support these "gentlemen" estates in
Launiupoko and Olowalu? If you do NOT support affordable housing in these areas, you are perpetuating
these gentlemen estates and solidifying these neighborhoods for luxury not the locals. How many of you
know a local family that can afford to buy and build on 15-20 acres? It's clear that their are many that are
opposed to lower income housing especially when it's in their backyard, sighting safety concerns or the
diminishment of their personal property values. More and more high end homes on the West Maui and being
bought up by out of state buyers, investment groups and corporations, these homes sit vacant for a large
portion of the year and are enjoyed occasionally by the privileged. What is the council trying to accomplish
and who or what are you trying to protect? Are you protecting outside investor interests? High end property
values? Are you ok with not providing the local community with affordable housing options? Have any of you
talked to the West Maui Community at large and asked if anyone would be interested in an affordable option
in Launiupoko or Olowalu? I strongly support affordable housing options in these areas, 1 DO NOT own or have
not ever owned an affordable/workforce home through WML or any other entity, I do not and will not benefit
financially from these projects but I believe that our local community deserves these opf^ortunitie^lease
vote on the development and not the developer. O ^
-im
3E
mC3
oMahalo for your consideration, n~!oo
Joshua Guth OO -n
mm -IMcChaXo-, OTJX o
1
Joshua Guth
808-870-7634
*My email has changed,
j guth@westmauiland.com
●k ★
k k
Please update your address hook to
 k
2
c>RPENTEfls
RE EiVEDI
Hawaii Regional Council of m nov i 7 ph i= 03
Carpenters OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
November 18, 2021
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Statement of the Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenters - Comments for A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING SECTION 2.80B.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO ADOPT THE UPDATED WEST MAUI
COMMUNITY PLAN."
Chair Lee, and members of the County Council,
The Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenters would like to offer their support comments regarding the
West Maui Community Plan, and these are references to sections in the Plan that we feel should be
changed.
Section 2. Policy Framework
Goal 2.2 - A complete, balanced and connected transportation network
Policy 2.2.8 | Require new development, redevelopment, and Chapter 201H, Hawai'i Revised
Statutes, and Chapters 2.96 and 2.97, Maui County Code, housing projects to include facilities
and programs that support connectivity, biking, walking, and public transit,
(page 39)
Goal 2.3 - Responsible stewardship of resources, culture, and character
Design Polices for Lahaina Town
3. New Construction
New buildings must be limited to 30 feet in height, (page 47)c.
Goal 2.4 - Economic opportunity through innovation and collaboration
Policy 2.4.2 | No additional visitor units, except Bed and Breakfast Homes, will be permitted in
STATE HEADQUARTERS & BUSINESS OFFICES
OAIIU: 1311 HoughtailingStreet,Honolulu Hawaii96817-2712 ● Ph.(808) 847-5761 Rix(808] 440-9188
HILO OFFICE: 525 Kilauca Avenue, Room 205, Hilo. Hawaii 96720-3050 ● Ph. (808) 935-8575 fex (808) 935-8576
K0^A OFFICE: 75-126 l.unapule Ro.id, Kailua-Kona, Hawaii 96740-2106 ● Ph. (808) 329-7355 R»x (808) 326-9376
MAUI OFFICE: 330 llookahi Street,Wailuku.Maui 96793-1449 ● Ph. (808) 242-6891 Rax (808) 242-5961
KAUAI OFFICE: Kuhio Medical Ctr Bldg.,3-3295 Kuhio llwy.Suite 201, Lihue, Kauai 96766-1040 ● Ph.(808)245-8511 fex (808) 245-8911
West Maui unless an equal number of workforce housing units are concurrently developed in
the same subarea. Developers of transient accommodation units must comply with the
County's affordable housing requirements and prioritize fulfillment of affordable housing
obligations within the boundaries of the West Maui Community Plan Area, (page 52)
Goa! 2.5 - Safe, healthy, livable communities for all
Policy 2.5.11 I Require affordable housing projects, including projects using the Chapter 201H,
Hawai'i Revised Statutes, or Chapter 2.96 or Chapter 2.97, Maui County Code process, to be
near jobs, schools, transit, and services, when possible. If not possible, projects should at least
be near transit. Projects should include sidewalks, parks, bus stops and other infrastructure and
pedestrian-oriented design elements that create walkable and livable communities for all.
(page 58}
Policy 2.5.13 | Prioritize projects that provide housing for resident households earning 100
percent Area Median Income (AMI) and below, and support projects that provide housing for
resident households earning between 100 and 140 percent AMI, according to the needs
identified by the Department of Housing and Human Concerns, and that are consistent with
other Community Plan policies, (page 58)
Policy 2.5.14 1 Prioritize infrastructure for 100 percent affordable housing developments for
resident households earning 100 percent AMI and below that are supported by the community
and the Community Plan map and policies, (page 58)
Section 3. Growth Framework
Maos
The land use maps (figures showing community plan designations) are of very poor quality,
and very difficult to read. (Starting at page 85)
For your information and review
There are two (2) concrete batching plants in West Maui being leased by HC8iD and Hawaiian
Cement from the landowner (Kaanapali Land Management Corp.). Although the existing
permits for these operations are until April 20, 2034 (for Hawaiian Cement) and August 4, 2032
(for HC&D), the landowner had requested that these sites be designated as " Industrial". The
proposed West Maui Community Plan designates these sites as "Agriculture". The CPAC
designated these sites as "Park and Open Space" and Maui Planning Commission left the CPAC's
designation, due to insufficient time for a thorough discussion.
Designating these areas for other than "Industrial" use could jeopardize the approval of future
special use permits for the continued use of the concrete batching plants beyond the expiration
dates.
The concrete batching pants have been in operation for decades, for about 50 years.
The HC&D plant has the following land use designations:
State Land Use District-Agricultural
Current WMCP - Agriculture (+/-80%) and Open Space (+/-20%)
Maui Island Plan - Urban Growth Boundary-
County Zoning- R-3 Residential (primarily) and Agriculture (small portion)
Surrounding uses:
North -Agricultural lands and Honokowai Stream
East-Agricultural lands
South - Lahaina Wastewater Treatment Facility; Agricultural lands
West - Lahaina Wastewater Treatment Facility; County Department
of Public Works Highways Division Baseyard; Honoapiilani Hwy.
The Hawaiian Cement plant has the following land use designations:
State Land Use District-Agricultural
Current WMCP - Project District 3
Maui Island Plan - Urban Growth Boundary
County Zoning - R-3 Residential
Surrounding uses:
North-Agricultural lands
East-Agricultural lands
South - Agricultural lands
West- Light and Heavy Industrial uses
Reasons in Support of Industrial Designation:
When mixing concrete, there are requirements that the product needs to meet in
order to be used for construction. Ready-mix concrete is a perishable product by nature (90
minute set time) and requires the proximate location of the batching equipment to the intended
pour sites.
The concrete batch plants are in a convenient location and allows for acceptable delivery time
requirements to meet industry standards and customer specifications.
Having Batch plants in West Maui assures timely delivery of concrete for residential, commercial
and government construction projects in West Maui.
The concrete batch plants operate responsibly in compliance with applicable State and County
requirements.
Mahalo for your consideration.
i '■ /!/-I '
From:
Sent:
Jim Haynes <jimhaynes@mauipetroleum.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 3:17 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCPCR 21-109
2021 NOV 17 PH 24To:
Subject:
OR'iCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from iimhavnes@mauipetroleum.com. Learn why this is important
Maui council members,
Tm writing in support of zoning changes to allow affordable house in the Olowalu and Launiupoko districts. Home
prices on Maui are the direct results of lack of supply and high demand. We need more supply. Please approve
zoning to facilitate affordable housing in Olowalu and Launuipoko.
James Haynes
Sent from Mail for Windows
1
R  uT n / pv
Zfl/I NOV 18 Pf^ 2-' 27
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Attention: Maui Counciimembers
Subject: Written Testimony
Re: West Maui Community Plan
Aloha Counciimembers,
My name is Mel Hipolito Jr and I am representing myself on this testimony...
I am writing in support of affordable and attainable single family housing for our workforce and general
community members. I respectfully request that you reconsider the areas of Launiupoko and Olowalu as
future lands to accommodate these desperately needed affordable single family housing projects.
Yearly, we are losing local families, talented individual (s) and potential leaders to other US states due to
not being able to economically afford to purchase  aproperty/home on Maui. When opportunities
present itself it should be thoroughly reviewed and processed base on situational needs...
Please consider opportunistic lands on Maui as a future potential for affordable and attainable housing
projects for Maui and its community.
Respectfully submitted.
Mel Hipolito Jr.
Count^CleHc
RllCiJv: Cr
From:
Sent:
Aine Kaahui <akaahui@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 5:13 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
20ZI NOV 18 PH 5- 15To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from akaahui@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear County Council Chairperson and Councilmembers,
My brother, John, and I wish to again thank each Councilmember for the kind and informative
responses to our previous letter{s).
Since submitting to you our letters earlier this year--which expressed our interest in seeing a
community once more established in Olowalu-we have continued researching the topics which
were brought to our attention through your responses. It appeared to us that the objections of
the council fell into two main categories: one was environmental--in which you addressed
concerns including sanitation and waste removal and the impact of construction on the reefs of
Olowalu; and the second was a concern regarding the direction of stability given by CPAC, despite
the GPAC designation for urban and rural zones.
We have written letters and emails to follow up and research these areas of your concern. We
have found that the developer of the Olowalu lands. West Maui Land, Is aware of the sensitive
and fragile nature of the environment—particularly with Olowalu's unique reefs and marine life--
and has sent us information regarding environmentally friendly septic system options and
responsible building practices which they would implement in Olowalu.
We also received information detailing that 7 of the 13 members of the CPAC support residential
areas-urban and rural zones-for Olowalu lands. This reinforces the designations which were
established by the GPAC.
We ask you, as our representatives who are guiding the foreseeable future of these lands, to
consider the unanimous direction set forth by GPAC and CPAC members and that the
environmental stewardship can be continued even while permitting a community to again be
formed in Olowalu.
While my brother and I are currently busy in school and sports activities, we hope to continue to
be involved with the future of Maui, and most especially with Olowalu. Thank yoU for all of
your assistance and guidance.
Sincerely,
1
Kai and John Kaahui
Seabury Hall Academy, Students
2
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Soncy Kaahui <skaahui97@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 6:37 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR2M09
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from skaahui97@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Good evening,
My name is Soncy Kaahui and lam writing in support of the proposed housing project in the Olowalu and greater West
Maui areas. As a 24 year old who was raised in Olowalu, it pains me to think that I may never again have the opportunity
to live near my childhood home because of the current trends in housing costs. While growing up here, I was inspired to
study marine biology and conservation to help protect such amazing natural areas like the Olowalu beaches and coral
reefs. However, I have come to realize that regardless of the importance and relevance of this type of work in Olowalu, I
would never make enough money to ever dream about living in Olowalu again. Despite this sad realization, it's worse to
think that other children and families of similar socioeconomic backgrounds as me will never get the chance to
experience the beauty and serenity of living in Olowalu as 1 was so lucky to experience. I truly hope that this affordable
housing project will be passed so that the amazing experience I was lucky enough to have growing up in Olowalu may be
shared by those of all socioeconomic backgrounds.
Mahalo,
Soncy Kaahui
noO ”n 73C"n mC3
Om 00 moo **o <T1 zz
mm —I
::dxm O
O
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
bkakihara@gmail.com
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9:03 AM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from bkakihara@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I urge County government to work with the land owner/developers of property In Olowalu and Launiupoko to
develop a community with work force housing in that area. Creating a new community in the Olowalu and
Launiupoko will help provide housing in the every tight West Maui real estate market. I am sure many West
Maui employees spent up to 2 hours a day computing from other parts of Maui to work on the Westside.
Living in Olowalu and Launiupoko will reduce commute times and greatly improve the lives of these
employees families. County government can strengthen families by supporting a new community in this area.
Too often the silent majority is left waiting housing while a vocal minority criticizes and holds up projects.
Government responses to this vocal minority and projects don't happen. No project will be perfect but think
about the silent majority that are waiting for the housing.
OOOTi 73
mC3
o-im rn*<oo a»-●^1
mm >o;t}X Oom/s 00
1
¥
RECEIVED HiHon Grand Vacations
5323MIHenia Lakes Boulevard. Suite 120
OrteTdo, FL 32839
GRAND VACATIONS
m\ NOV IS A!i 8: 3^
OFFICE OF THF3
COUi'-^TY CLERK
November 17,2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HawaiM 96793
Re; Concerns Regarding West Maui Community Plan (CR 21-109)
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony concerning the above-referenced West
Maui Community Plan {“WMCP’). My name is Derek Kanoa, and I am the Hawaii Senior Vice
President, Sales for Hilton Grand Vacations As members of the Council may know,
HGV recently acquired the Ka‘anapali Beach Club property in North Ka‘anapali, as part of its
acquisition of Diamond Resorts. We write to express our concern regarding new policies in the
WMCP that we believe will be detrimental to the community and our industry.
The first of our concerns has to do with the WMCP seeking to adopt the Hawaii Sea Level
Rise Exposure Area Viewer (“SLR-XA”) and implement shoreline management measures,
specifically through Policies 2.1.2 and 2.1.3. These policies and the WMCP seek to implement the
concept of retreat in response to sea level rise and climate change. Although the WMCP lays out
a plan for retreat, more work needs to be done to flesh out the “managed” portion of a managed
retreat Significant additional research and community outreach are needed before retreat can
become County-wide policy. Moreover, the Council does not have the authority to regulate the
area within the SLR-XA; that authority is given to the Planning Commission under the Maui
County Charter.
To date, retreat has not been adopted as policy for the County, nor has it been adopted as policy
for the State. Further, retreat is not the only too! to respond to sea level rise and climate change.
All tools in our toolbox (i.e., adaptation, protection, and retreat) need to be utilized in addressing
sea level rise and climate change. Many practical issues also need to be addressed before a policy
of retreat can be implemented. I’ve seen maps of the SLR-XA, like the one attached to this
testimony. What does retreat mean for businesses and structures that are in the SLR-XA? What
happens to our employees? Do we have to demolish in order to retreat? Can we repair or rebuild
if the property is damaged? If we can’t protect our property, who is liable for damage and
environmental harm if properties succumb to sea level rise and/or coastal erosion?
Our next concern is Policy 2.4.2, which seeks to add a 1-to-l affordable housing
requirement to the development of transient accommodation units. Policy 2.4.2’s 1-to-l affordable
housing requirement also has legal and practical issues. From a legal perspective, this requirement
November 17,2021
Page 2
would appear to directly conflict with State law and the Maui County Code, and may also violate
federal law. As important as affordable housing is. Policy 2.4.2 is not an effective means of
realizing that goal.
We respectfully ask the Council to remove Policy 2.1.2 from the WMCP and use the Planning
Commission’s version of Policy 2.1.3 so that the County (and the State) can address important
practical issues regarding retreat before such a policy is officially adopted. We further respectfully
request the Council revert Policy 2.4.2 to the language in the Planning Commission’s draft of the
WMCP.
I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on WMCP and hope the Council will
carefully consider these issues before voting on the final version of the plan.
Very truly yours,
Derek Kanoa
Shalia Keahi <ShaliaKeahi@KingsCentral.net> RFHEIVED
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 1:17 PM
Clerk I 7 22Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCPCR21-109^‘ '
OFFiCE Or THE
TCUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from shaliakeahi@kingscentral.net. Learn why this is importaht
I am in support of being able to PURCHASE affordable HOMES in West Maui
Blessings, 5KaXta/KecUxt>
King's Cathedral and Chapels
Finance Department
CATHEDRAL
& CHAPELS
1
From:
Sent:
Doris Lang <doelang@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 3:38 PM
County Clerk
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN
RECEIVED
To:
Z02I NOV 17 PH 3: 45Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from doelang@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members,
I am relieved that the Maui Community Plan before you has finally reached to final approval.
Too many people have worked hours upon hours behind the scenes, educating the community with townhouse
meetings and in official hearings. I know because  Ihave been to many public gatherings.
I truly believe this plan does represent the vast majority of West Maui residents. Especially when it comes to the
most suited locations for affordable housing and future protection for development.
And I believe adopting the West Maui Community Plan before you is the right thing to do.
Mahalo,
Doris Lang
Launiupoko
1
REC E/EDE-
Count^^eHc
m m 18 PH 6:55
^^FlCE OF THP
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Clifford Libed <betterwaymaui@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18,2021 6:52 PM
County Clerk
Pubic Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCPCR 21-109
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from betterwaymaui@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Dear Maui County Council
This letter is in support of the aforementioned project WMCPRR21-109 designating land for affordable housing. We had
earlier testified that land could be designated as employee housing for west Maui employees.
Why is this being not acted upon after the presentation was accepted and approved by the Maui Land Commission.
Please consider the need for housing for Maui Residents working on the Westside of Maui.'
Sincerely
Clifford R. Libed
1
RECEIVED
im NOV 16 PH 12: 35October 8, 2021
Michele Lincoln
Protect and Preserve Kahoma Ahupua'a Association
452 Aki St
Lahaina HI 96761
FFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
u
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Maui County Council
200 S High Street
Wailuku HI 96793
Draft West Maui Community PlanRe:
Dear Councilmember Paltin,
On behalf of the Protect and Preserve Kahoma Ahupua'a Association, I write you today
requesting that the Draft West Maui Community Plan be revised to insert the below underscored
language after the existing language in the Subarea 3 as an Area Specific Policies policy on page
69:
Policy 3.2.x
For the area between Front Street and Honoapiilani Highway from Kahoma Stream to Kenue
Street, the following policies and objectives shall continue to apply from the 1996 West Maui
Community Plan:
- Concentrate multifamilv dwelling units around the central commercial district fp 17]
- A new community-oriented park along the south bank of Kahoma Street and between
Front Street and Honoapiilani Highway, [pi 8]
- The new park alone the south edge of Kahoma Stream sould be recognized as major
entry features to Lahaina town with appropriate landscape planting treatment. [p33]
- The south-side of the Kahoma Stream channel should incorporate a 20-foot-wide
landscape linear park or greenwav. including pedestrian and bikewavs. to provide visual and
open space continuity between Front Street and the Honoapiilani Highway. [p33]
- Establish major recreation wavs for pedestrians and bicvcles along the southern side of
Kahoma Stream. [p37]
- It shall be a project district intended to provide a mixture of commercial/business and
multi-family and senior citizen residential uses. There shall also be 6 acres of park land within
the project district, including a linear park or greenwav adjacent to the south bank of Kahoma
Stream, from Honoapiilani Highway to Front Street, at least 60 feet wide and approximately 1.5
acres in size. The extension of Waince Street from its present terminus at Kenui Street to Front
Street, as well as the realignment of Kenui Street shall also be considered. Said roadway
improvements should be developed and funded in conjunction with appropriate government
agencies. The remaining acres in the project district shall be evenly divided between the
commercial/business uses, and the multi-familv and senior citizen residential uses, to the greatest
extent practicable. [p50]
The Kahoma Villages project was approved by the Maui Planning Commission and
developed in violation of our constitutional rights. This was recognized by both the Intermediate
Court of Appeals and the Hawai'i Supreme Court. We are presently awaiting the Maui Planning
Commission to schedule the procedural steps to conduct a contested case hearing over the matter.
The proposed Draft West Maui Community Plan proposes to substantially altered the
current community plan designation for the area with virtually no public discussion or attention.
I have included the page references to the current community plan in brackets above. The
developer should be required to go through a separate community plan amendment process with
appropriate community input and review including, but not limited to, discussing what the
developer should be required to do in lieu of building a park within the area.
If the Maui County Council intends to erase Protect and Preserve Kahoma Ahupua'a
Association's vindication of its and the community's constitutional rights before the Hawai'i
Supreme Court and allow the administration and the developer to not be held accountable for
failing to follow the law, the Council should do so clearly, honestly and expressly and not simply
allow it to occur through silence. Otherwise, the Council should keep the current Community
Plan language intact and require the administration and developer to go through a community
plan amendment where the change can be appropriately scrutinized.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Michele Lincoln
MICHELE LINCOLN
Protect and Preserve Kahoma Ahupua'a Association
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Ali Martin <Ali@westmauiland.com>
Tuesday, November 16, 2021 2:32 PM
County Clerk
WMCP TESTIMONY for Nov 18 Council Meeting
2fl/( NOV 16 PH 3=06To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from ali@westmauiland.com. Learn why this is important
I am testifying on the proposed bill to adopt the West Maui Community Plan. I do NOT support the current plan because it denies
Maui residents the opportunity to own their own home in what could be future workforce housing projects. I was born and raised
on Maui and am now raising my two young daughters here, ages 1 and 3 years old. I have lived in my home in Olowalu for 11
years. I am also a Realtor and primarily work with Maui residents to buy a home in Workforce Housing Projects. I have seen how
owning a home can change a Maui family's life - and future generations. I especially support more housing in Olowalu. I live here
and have a family here and it is an ideal location for families to live. I want other families to have the opportunity to live here - and I
know many Maui families who would love to live in Olowalu. Therefore I do NOT support this West Maui Community Plan because it
hurts our Maui resident's ability to ever own a home.
Thank you for considering my testimony.
Ali Linder
(808)280-8981
1
Count^CleH«
Peter Longhi <peterlonghi@mac.com> REC^^ VPP)
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 11:07 AM ~
mv 17 iH II-n?Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCPCR 21-109
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OF THE
[You don't often get email from peterlonghi@mac.com. Learn why this is importanJaiHTY CLERK
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I am writing in support of affordable/workforce housing in Olowalu, Launiopoko and the West side in general. The
housing shortage on the west side is the worst I have ever seen. Asking rent for small a 3 bedroom house is
$5,000.00 a month or more. I don't know many working families can afford that. I just opened a new restaurant in
Kaanapali and the labor shortage is critical forcing us to close certain days and shifts. Potential employees will not
make the drive from the other side because of the traffic. If there were housing options on the west side employees
can live close to work and the traffic from the other side would be lessened.
Please approve more affordable/workforce housing for the west side if is badly needed.
Peter Longhi
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Brian McCafferty <brian.teensoncall@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 6:17 PM
County Clerk
Testimony WMCP CR21-109
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from brian.teensoncall@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha
I would like to support workforce housing in the Olowalu and Launiupoko Ahupua'a areas.
As 1 recall from years ago...this type affordable housing was called for with the 2012 Maui Island Planjn these areas
too.Has this changed?
This new WMCP is for the next 20 years,correct? Please allow this workforce housing to be included if it is not
already.Too many workers on Westside are currently forced to live in Central or South Maui.
Mahalo and God Bless
Brian McCafferty
2812154
SOO T1
c"n
H
73
mCD
om< CO moo “O
<
mm —i
Jj X
2^ m Q\-no
1
County Clerk D.
Brinton Meadows <brinton@tylercoonsmauLcQcat» , q hm 7* U 1
Thursday, November 18, 2021 8:27 PM ®
office of the
COUNTY CLERK
County Clerk
West Maui Community Plan
From;
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from brinton@tylercoonsmaui.com. Learn why this Is important
am writing as a Maui resident to voice my support for single-family housing in the areas of Olowalu and
Launiupoko. Maui’s families need quality, affordable housing, and these areas offer the opportunity for more
Maui locals to become homeowners; please don’t take that opportunity away from the community.
Mahalo
Brinton Meadows
1
Count^Cleij<
From:
Sent:
david medina <david.w.medina@gmail.com>
Sunday, November 14, 2021 2:43 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing on WMCP - Thursday, 11/18/21 6:00 p.m
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from david.w.medina@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
My name is David Medina and I am a resident of Maui but not a lot owner at Plantation Estates. I am strongly
in favor of designating the Plantation Estates community as Rural Residential in the West Maui Community
Plan (WMCP). This would be consistent with the most recent Maui Island Plan which designated Plantation
Estates within the Rural Growth Boundary. There is no reason to overrule the Maui Island Plan. PELOA is low-
density residential in character and the community is committed to remain low density. From a land-use
perspective, PELOA is located within the Kapalua Resort and surrounds the Plantation Golf Course. This
significantly distinguishes our the PELOA subdivision from other non-resort agricultural neighborhoods. PELOA
was never developed to be a neighborhood that conducted active agriculture. The initial PELOA development
was developed in 1990, before the Rural zoning category (Chapter 19.29 MCC) was adopted. The only
"agriculture" that was done on the initial 53 lots was "agricultural land conservation (of the gulches)" and "the
cultivation of Norfolk Pine Trees". When MLP completed the 50 lots on Honolua Ridge almost 20 years ago,
these lots were incorporated into one, 103 lot community — "Plantation Estates". Based on the very definition
of Rural residential In the WMCP, the Plantation Estates neighborhood should be properly designated on the
WMCP's land use map as Rural Residential, which is described as follows in the WMCP as: "The Rural
Residential community plan designation is intended to preserve rural character. Rural Residential areas are
generally developed with large-lot subdivisions, family farms and estates. This designation serves as a
transition between agricultural areas and more urban development. Rural Residential areas are generally
developed with large lot subdivisions and family farms. This designation may serve as a buffer area between
agricultural areas and more urban development. Clustered development is encouraged to preserve sensitive
natural features, common open space, or working agricultural lands. The primary use in this designation is
low-density residential, and may include support uses such as parks, schools, and farming.
Sincerely, David Medina
355 Front Street
Lahaina, Hi 96761 O "n
C
2 5H
C=3
70CD-c
m-< j
Oo s».T1 rtc
m-o:^jx OUJHi Ov
1
Count^Cledc
RrOZi'^dDFrom:
Sent:
Ken Moore <kenmoore@live.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 6:14 AM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
m\ HOV !7 AH 7: 43To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from kenmoore@live.com. Learn why this is important
As a property owner in Launiupoko, I want to register my opposition to more housing in the Launiupoko and Olowalu
areas. There is not enough water nor roads to support increased development. We should retain these lands as areas of
stability to protect the environment and quality of life.
Please do not allow more housing in these critical areas.
Ken Moore
1
CountyClerk
Mark Nigh <menigh@gmail.com> RECEIVED
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 2:16 PM
CountyClerk NOV l7 PH 2= 40
Testimony for 11/18/21 Meeting re: West Maui community Plan
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from menigh@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Councilmembers,
I would like to thank all of the people who participated in creating the new West Maui Plan, especially the volunteer
CPAC committee members. The committee put in lot of work and the plan is quite an accomplishment. I admire
their passion and commitment to reviewing every aspect and to upholding key values that should serve us well in the
future. The plan's focus toward locating new development near infrastructure, employment and services is
great. I'm especially fond of the new "Areas of Stability".
Mark Nigh
Lahaina resident
1
From:
Sent:
Nyla Nolan <nyla888@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 3:41 PM
County Clerk
West Maui Community Plan dated October 2021; Poli
RECEIVED
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
[You don't often get email from nyla888@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important at COUNTY CLERK
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Dear Members of the County Council,
Hi my name is Nyla Nolan. I am a resident of Maui. I have the pleasure of calling Maui my home and growing up
here.
I am writing this letter regarding the proposed West Maul Community Plan dated October 2021 relating to the policy
2.3.2 Gulches.
I think it is great that the Council is wanting to take action to protect the ocean and streams of West Maui, but the
requirement to have a setback of 100 feet from the top of a gulch for any building doesn't really resolve the
stewardship issue. It just makes a lot of people have unusable land or greatly diminishes the use of the land and its
value. The original proposal dated January 19, 2021 with the now omitted language of, "unless low impact strategies
are implemented to prevent storm water run-off' should be reincorporated. This language will ensure there is
accountability and stewardship.
A setback of 100 feet with a sloping property towards the gulch will make no difference of the potential of runoff,
but "strategies implemented to prevent storm water run-off' will make all the difference which I think is the purpose
of this policy.
I believe most West Maui landowners are all for protecting the ocean and streams as it is the right thing to do and
benefits everyone including the landowner.
Thank you for your time and consideration in this matter.
Sincerely,
Nyla Nolan
1
County Clerk
RlZOriVCD
Lucie Legault Ormsby <mauilucie@msn.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 11:15 AM
County Clerk
Housing for community
From:
Sent: mi NOV 18 AH II' 22To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from mauilucie@msn.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I just \A/anted to take a moment to express that
YES, we need affordable housing for the work force
On West Side.
1 have been on Maui for 36 years and miss opportunity to purchase back in the 1980.
Since than, the Real
Estate market has been
Out if reach for my financial situation as a single mother.
I applause everyone making an effort to assist the community.
Thank you so much
Happy Holidays
Sincerely
Lucie Ormsby
Sent from my Verizon, Samsung Galaxy smartphone
Get Outlook for Android
1
RECEIVEDTestimony of
Pacific Resource Partnership im NOV 18 AH » 26
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice L Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice ChairCOUNTY CLERK
OFFICE OF THE
Updated West Maui Community Plan
Thursday, November 18, 2021
6:00 P.M.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council.
Pacific Resource Partnership (PRP) is a non-profit market recovery trust fund which represents approximately
7,000 men and women union carpenters and 240 large and small contractors. With our expertise in research,
compliance, marketing, and project advocacy, we are committed to building a stronger, more sustainable
Hawaii in a way that promotes a vibrant economy, creates jobs, and enhances the quality of life for all
residents of Hawaii.
PRP provides the following comments regarding the bill to adopt the updated West Maui Community Plan:
● Policy 2.2.8. Require new development, redevelopment, and Chapter 201H, Hawaii Revised Statutes, and
Chapters 2.96 and 2.97, Maui County Code, housing projects to include facilities and programs that
support connectivity, biking, walking, and public transit. {Page 39)
We are concerned that this policy may add costs to the development of affordable housing units, which
are passed down to the buyer. The County should be responsible for building infrastructure that would
support connectivity, biking, walking, and public transit in order for developers to keep the cost of
housing at affordable levels.
● Policy 2.4.2 No additional visitor units, except Bed and Breakfast Homes, will be permitted in West Maui
unless an equal number of workforce housing units are concurrently developed in the same subarea.
Developers of transient accommodation units must comply with the County's affordable housing
requirements and prioritize fulfillment of affordable housing obligations within the boundaries of the
West Maui Community Plan Area. {Page 52) This policy will prevent the development of additional visitor
units, and will not equate to the construction of additional workforce housing units. We supported and
continue to support language approved by the Maui Planning Commission regarding affordable housing
requirements for additional transient accommodation units, which states: "Additional Transient
Accommodation units in the West Maui Community Plan area shall comply with the County's affordable
housing requirements, and developers of Transient Accommodation units shall prioritize fulfillment of
affordable housing obligations within the boundaries of the West Maui Community Plan."
● Action Item No. 5.12, Identify and propose amendments to remove existing barriers in laws, rules, and
processes that prohibit the construction of safe, sanitary, and affordable on-farm employee housing for
Q)PRpXy
THF POWER OF PARTNERSHIP WWW.PRP-HAWAII.COM
n WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/
PACIFICRESOURCEPARTNERSHIPPHONE 808.528.5557110DAUKEASTREET/4THFLO0R Q TWITTER:HONOL.ULU/HI968I3 ^ l(5PRPHAWAII
(Continued From Page 1)
farmworkers, with special consideration given to non-permanent, modular housing solutions. (Page 150)
PRP supports the construction of more affordable housing and believes that government can make it
more feasible for all homebuilders to accomplish this by removing existing barriers in laws, rules and
processes that frustrate the County of Maui's efforts to build more housing for its workforce. However,
we do not support policies that give special preference to modular housing over other types of homes.
As a matter of principle, it is inequitable for the County of Maui to create a special pathway for modular
housing, allowing modular housing to bypass regulatory requirements, while other types of
homebuilders must comply with these requirements when they construct any building or structure.
Laws, rules, and processes should not be changed to provide special policies for companies seeking to
gain an advantage over their competitors. All homebuilders should be treated equally under the law.
●  PRP requests that the sites of the two concrete batching plants in West Maui being leased by HC&D and
Hawaiian Cement from Kaanapali Land Management Corp. be designated as "industrial". These two
concrete batching plants have been in operation for decades, for about 50 years. Having these batching
plants at the current locations assures timely delivery of concrete for residential, commercial and
government construction projects in West Maui. Designating these areas for other than "industrial" use
could jeopardize the approval of future special use permits for the continued use of the concrete
batching plants beyond the expiration dates.
Thank you for this opportunity to submit written comments.
THC FOWCn Df PAPiTNERSl ilP ''.r r4«iTi«>iSH#
RECEIVEDCount^£lerk
From:
Sent:
piotrowskOOl @hawaii.rr.com
Tuesday, November 16, 2021 6:38 PM
County Clerk
■'Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
2021 NOV 17 /IM 7: 43
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don't often get email from piotrowsk001@hawaii.rr.com. Learn whv this is important
I write in support of the need for affordable (workforce) housing in the areas of Olowalu and Launiupoko. The
proposed plan designates those areas as "areas of stability/' which appears to b euphemism for no housing in
those areas. Maui families need more single family homes. The Olowalu and Launiupoko area is ideal for
future develoment of such homes. To close our the possibility of future home development in those areas is
short sighted. The need for low cost housing is clear. It has taken over six years to draft the current
WMCP. It will take many years to change the plan. If the WMCP is adopted in it's current form, there will be
no housing for many years on the lands of Olowalu and Launiupoko.
Karl P Piotrowski
Colonel, US Army Corps of Engineers (Retired)
1
Lic.#22463
?0?l NOV 17 PM 3^ qsPifzer BuiltConstruction, LLC
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKNovember 16, 2021
Fr; Douglas G. Pitzer
142 Kupuohi St F-4
Lahaina, HI 96761
Re: Gulches
To: The Members of the County Council
Hello, my name is Doug Pitzer, owner of Pitzer Built Construction, LLC. I have had
several businesses on Maui with my current company established in 1999.1 am the
Owner/RME for the corporation.
I am contacting you on behalf of the proposed changes to the West Maui Community
plan dated 10/2021 related to new policies and referred to in section 2,3,2 Gulches
Pitzer Built Construction has several projects that are affected by this proposed
amended law. There would be several law suits with the County of Maui if this goes
through for pre-existing lots in approved sub-divisions. There has to be a condition set
forth that it is only for new sub-divided lots. I don’t know how this would be interpreted
by the County of Maui.
West Maui reefs and oceans are so important to our Ghana, keiki and community.
Better Management Practices need to be enforced on all projects. Other ways of green
management need to be brought to the table and implemented. Save our reefs, but
when we get 10” of rain in two (2) hours, the island sheds off all debris from valleys,
highlands and gulches, we are all in God’s hands at that point.
I implore the Members of the County Council to once again include the policy which was
omitted, to allow for low impact development strategies to be implemented to prevent
storm water run-off for existing property owners who in good faith purchased property inWest Maui.
Douglas G.m r
142 Kupuohi St. F-4 ● Lahaina. Hawaii 96761 ● Tel: (808) 669-1317 ● Fax: (808) 665-0988
RECEIVED
Count^Clerk
WWWWT77From:
Sent:
Lori Powers <Iori@loripowers.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 1:45 PM
County Cierk
Peter Martin
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
K-s r- r* I r' r;r ITo:
Cc:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from lori@loripowers.com. Learn whv this is important
To whom it may concern:
I am in favor of implementing the Maui Island Plan. It has been my experience as a REALTOR in West Maui, there is a
serious lack of housing available for working residents. 20-30 families have to make their best offer for  1barely
affordable house that comes on the market and only 1 will win the bidding war. The offerings are few and far between,
meanwhile families are leaving the state and their ohana for better opportunities on the mainland. It's a disgrace that
the county council cannot or will not approve improvements to the land that will improve the lifestyle of our working
residents, keep more cars off the Pali (commuters) and keep generations of families here on Maui to preserve the way
of life that they have grown up knowing and loving.
Please make the right choice for our future generations. This land needs to be loved and cultivated, not ignored.
Mahalo foryour consideration!
Aloha,
Lori
Lori Powers, CRS, R{B)#23242
Island Sotheby’s Int'l Realty
5095 Napilihau St Suite 113a Lahaina, HI 96761
Lori@LoriPowers.com
808.344.4427 direct
www.islandsothebvsrealtv.com
1
Count^£leH< D-% ; « /
From:
Sent:
Barrett Procell <barrett@tylercoonsmaui.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 5:47 PM
County Clerk
West Maui Community Plan Testimony Supporting Housfrj^ FiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
m\ NOV ! 8 PH 5: 49
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from barrett@tyiercoonsmaui.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am writing as a Maui resident to voice my support for single-family housing in the areas of Olowalu and
Launiupoko. Maui’s families need quality, affordable housing, and these areas offer the opportunity for more
Maui locals to become homeowners; please don’t take that opportunity away from the community. Mahalo
X
BARRETT PROCELL
Keller Williams Maui Realtor (S) RS-80527
Tyler Coons Maui
Phone: (808i 359-0149
Email: Barrett@ExoticEstates.com
Website: www.ExoticEstates.com
1
RECEIVED
im MOV 13 m B-inDecember 7, 2020
Lawrence Carnicelli, Chair
Maui Planning Commission
VIA EMAIL; planning(5)mauicounty.gov
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CL
SUBJECT: WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN
I was a member of the West Maui Community Plan Advisory Committee (CPAC). I would ask that the
Maui Planning Commission consider the following during your final review of the Plan.
First the current version of the West Maui Community Plan (Plan) should be consistent with the Maui
Island Plan (MIP). The MIP reflects several Urban and Rural Growth Areas, especially in Subarea 4
(Launiupoko to Ukumehame), while the current Plan leaves out the community plan designations that
match the MIP growth areas. The current Plan shows only Park/Open Space and Agriculture
designations in these growth areas. This would effectively eliminate any chance for working local
families to have a home in this area. Most of the parcels in this area are larger than two acres and can
no longer be subdivided. Therefore, what you see is what you get, meaning the potential for "gentlemen
estates."
Second, the Plan doubles down on eliminating any chance for home ownership by working local families
by including Policy 3.7.2 Gentlemen's estate projects and projects following the State 201H or County
2.97 process shall not be approved within this Area of Stability. In the Plan's current version. Subarea 4
falls within an Area of Stability. This Policy would then seemingly remove the opportunity for homes in
this Subarea that would be affordable in a rural setting. I would remind the MPC that 201H and County
2.97 processes allow for public review and Council approval, thereby vetting the merits of a project.
Please consider adding the community plan designations to match the MIP and remove Policy 3.7.2.
Sincerely,
Leilani Pulmano
CPAC Member
December 3, 2020
Dear Chair Camicelli and Members of the Maui Planning
Commission,
Thank you for your efforts in reviewing the West Maui
Community Plan draft that the CPAC transmitted. We know the
tremendous commitment it takes to provide a comprehensive
recommendation for the community.
We realize that we each may differ on the projects and areas
which should be supported for development. The common
ground we all have is the realization that an extraordinary
number of affordable and workforce homes are warranted for the
West Maui community.
Along those lines, we believe that landowners should not be
prohibited from proposing housing developments south of
Puamana or north of Kapalua. The CPAC never talked about
not allowing 201H or other affordable housing projects in these
areas. The Planning Department inserted that language without
a specific discussion on the policy. We do not believe that the
policy would have been supported if we discussed it.
We all recommend that the Maui Planning Commission delete
the Areas of Stability policy as we need much more affordable,
housing in West Maui and we cannot be so restrictive on ^
prospective housing development. To say the community
absolutely does not support affordable housing in these areas is
not true.
There are many tools required to solve our existing affordable
housing crisis. The 20IH process is just one of those tools and
should not be eliminated. Please consider deleting the Areas of
Stability policy that prohibits affordable housing opportunitiesf
and allow projects to be evaluated on their own merits. /
Aloha,
Hans Michel
1970
z1Don Gerbig
Ain A ^ 9^0
Together, the above signed comprise a majority (seven out of the
13 members) of the West Maui CPAC.
R
'ccu'mhfi/
ZOZI NOV 17 PH 3M 6
(VllCHAEL PYE
AREA GENERAL MANAGER. HAWAII AND GENERAL MANAGER. FAIRMONT KEA LANI
'-:~r!CE 01- ' r-n
COUNTY Ci |-RK
Fairmont Kea Lani
4100 Wallea Alanui
VVailea. Maui
Hawaii 96753
T + 1808 875 2256
F+1800 8752247
November 17,2021
Maui Coimty Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai‘i 96793
Re: Concerns Regarding West Maui Community Plan
Dear Chair Lee and Council members:
My name is Michael Pye, and I am the General Manager at Fairmont Kea Lani in Wailea,
Maui. I write on behalf of Fairmont Kea Lani to express our concerns regarding new policies in
the West Maui Community Plan (“WMCP”) that we believe will be detrimental to our
community. The South Maui Community Plan (“SMCP”) is currently in the early stages and will
be moving into the draft planning and Community Plan Advisory Meetings in 2022. While the
policies in the WMCP will not directly impact us in South Maui, we know that if passed, similar
policies may make their way into the SMCP.
There are three policies in the WMCP that are particularly concerning. The first two—
Policies 2.1.2 and 2.1.3—attempt to implement specific shoreline management measures through
the community plan. Policy 2.1.2 incorporates the Sea Level Rise Exposure Area (“SLR-XA”)
model as shown on the Hawai'i Sea Level Rise Viewer (“Viewer”) and provides that new
permanent structures must be landward of that line. Policy 2.1.3 requires developers to “make
efforts” to waive the ability to seek protection of property or compensation. Together, these
Policies attempt to adopt a widespread policy of managed retreat.
It is our position that managed retreat is not the only option for addressing sea level rise and
climate change, and it does not need to be implemented as the sole option. Yet, the WMCP does
not discuss the other options of adaptation or protection. Integrating adaption and protection
policies in addition to managed retreat will balance the economic and practical impacts of
addressing sea level rise and climate change, while also ensuring resiliency for the future.
Managed retreat will have a number of indirect effects. More research is needed to
understand the impact of managed retreat on: (1) businesses in the SLR-XA; (2) the tax base; (3)
fairmont.com g? 0 o ro S
November 17, 2021
Page 2
Third, Policy 2.4.2 requires one new affordable housing unit for each new transient
accommodation unit. There are clear legal issues witli this Policy. The Policy is also problematic
on a practical level. Visitors have come to expect updated and modern accommodations, which
means hotels and resorts must be able to repair, maintain, redevelop and develop new and
remodeled accommodations. The high quality of our accommodations is what provides a
consistent and reliable source of revenue that allows our Fairmont Kea Lani to be an economic
resource for the community. Limiting or restricting the ability to develop accommodations will
detrimentally impact our ability to continue to be that resource.
Given these concerns, we respectfully request the Council revise its draft of the West Maui
Community Plan to (1) remove Policy 2.1.2 requiring new development be landward of the SLR-
XA for coastal erosion; (2) revert Policy 2.1.3 to the language in the Maui Planning
Commission’s draft of the WMCP and remove subsections (c) and (d); and (3) revert Policy
2.4.2 to the language in the Maui Planning Commission’s draft of the WMCP.
I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on WMCP and hope the Council will
carefully consider these issues before voting on the final version of the plan.
With gratitu^
Count^Clei^
KtCL'VED
m\ NOV 17 AM 7: 43
From:
Sent:
Pamela Reader <pamelareader@hawaiilife.com>
Tuesday, November 16, 2021 7:29 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
v.;OUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from pamelareader@hawaiilife.com. Learn whv this is important
To Whom it May Concern,
1 am writing to show my support for affordable housing in Launiupoko and Olowalu.
I have been a Maui resident for 20 years, and a Realtor for the past 9. I have lived in Lahaina since I moved here. Both
of my girls are born and raised on Maui. There is no other place ! would want to raise my children. But I do not see how
they will ever be able to afford living here if there are no affordable housing options. What would be  astarter home for
them is currently $1,000,000.
I truly believe we need more options for young, hard-working Maui families. I hear all of the time everyone's
frustrations with people on the mainland buying all the properties. I get it! I agree! But this will never change if there
are no other options for our local community.
With respect and aloha,
Pamela Reader
Pamela Reader
Realtor-Broker, Hawaii Life
(808) 205-3995 [ www.PamReader.com
PamelaReader@HawaiiLife.com
500 Bay Drive. Lahaina. HI 96761 1 RB-23238
%More About Pam ^i
Create your own email signature
1
received
?OZI NOV 18 A!'! 8; 33
c,-rlCE OF TEE
'OUNTY CL: r-i ■ y
I r\ N
r-
November 17, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Re: Concerns Regarding West Maui Community Plan
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmcmbers:
My name is Karl Reul and I am the General Manager at the Kaanapali Golf Courses. I write
to express my concerns regarding new policies in the West Maui Community Plan (“WMCP’')
that I believe will be detrimental to the community. Specifically, there are three policies within
the WMCP that will negatively impact our ability to repair or add structures and continue to
service our customers.
First, Policy 2.1.2 incorporates the Sea Level Rise Exposure Area (“SLR-XA”) model as
shown on the Hawaii Sea Level Rise Viewer (“Viewer”). Policy 2.1.2 provides that “new
permanent structures must be located landward of the State-recognized SLR-XA for coastal
erosion, except a minimum buildable area must be provided.” This Policy is concerning because
of the following points:
● Policy 2.1.2 is vague. One, the WMCP does not explain what “SLR-XA for coastal
erosion” means. It appears that the SLR-XA and the coastal erosion models are
distinct models on the Viewer. As a result, it is not clear which line new structures
must be landward of. Two, the policy allows for a “minimum buildable area,” but the
WMCP does not define that term, explain when it will be available or how it will be
administered. From a business perspective, the indefiniteness of the policy will make
compliance difficult and expensive.
● Use of the SLR-XA and coastal erosion models to establish a shoreline setback for
new permanent structures is inappropriate. The modeling was not developed to apply
to Maui’s coastlines. For example, the models use the same formula to project
erosion regardless of whether the shoreline is all-sand or a rocky cliff The Policy
does not recognize the limitations of the modeling or make any exceptions where the
projections are clearly wrong.
● The Policy conflicts with the current Shoreline Rules for Maui. If the WMCP is
passed in its current form, there will be two different schemes that apply to
development near the shoreline. What is permitted under the Shoreline Rules will not
November 17, 2021
Page 2
necessarily be allowed under the WMCP because, in effect, the Policy establishes a
shoreline setback that is different than that established by the Shoreline Rules.
Specific shoreline management policies belong in the Shoreline Rules. It is not the
Council’s role to develop shoreline management policy. The County has given that
responsibility to the Maui Planning Commission. See Maui County Charter § 8-8.4.
The Planning Department is already considering a change for the Shoreline Rules
that will account for sea level rise. The Council should, consistent with the law,
allow the Maui Planning Commission to carry out its duty and craft a uniform
shoreline management policy that applies equally to all community plan areas.
● Policy 2.1.2 will inevitably take property and the County will have to pay just
compensation for its taking.
Second, Policy 2.1.3 illegally requires developers to “make efforts” to waive the ability to
seek protection of property or compensation for development or redevelopment. By contrast,
under the current version of the Shoreline Rules,  aproperty owner is only required to record a
unilateral agreement not to seek shoreline hardening for a new structure within the shoreline
setback area. Policy 2.1.3’s requirement to agree to waive the right to protect structures, repair
existing protective structures, develop new structures and obtain variances illegally imposes a
prospective waiver in return for the exercise of present rights.
Third, Policy 2.4.2 requiring one new affordable housing unit for each new transient
accommodation unit is unconstitutional. The Policy violates due process and equal protection,
and constitutes an unconstitutional condition. Policy 2.4.2 is also problematic on a practical
level. These days, high-spending visitors (i.e., the “quality” visitors that “the visitor industry
must focus on” under the WMCP) expect updated and modem accommodations. The high
quality of our accommodations is what provides a consistent and reliable source of revenue that
allows Kaanapali Golf Courses to be an economic resource for the West Maui community.
Unduly restricting the ability to develop or redevelop accommodations will inhibit our ability to
continue to be that resource and, ultimately, will negatively impact our workforce.
Given these concerns, I respectfully request the Council revise its draft of the West Maui
Community Plan as follows:
1. Remove Policy 2.1.2 requiring new development be landward of the SLR-XA for
coastal erosion.
There are a variety of issues with Policy 2.1.2 and, for that reason, the Policy should be
removed from the WMCP. Removing Policy 2.1.2 will not have a detrimental effect on the
community, nor will it leave shoreline property owners without proper guidance in the face of a
changing climate. The Planning Department is currently working on proposed new Shoreline
Rules for consideration by the Commission. If adopted, those rules will implement a
significantly greater shoreline setback for the entire island that will take sea level rise and coastal
November 17, 2021
Page 3
erosion into account. Allowing the Commission to carry out their duties unimpeded by
conflicting provisions from the Council will ensure there is a clear and equitable shoreline policy
for those in West Maui.
2. Revert Policy 2.1.3 to the language in the Maui Planning Commission’s draft of
the WMCP and remove subsections (c) and (d).
Subsections (c) and (d) of Policy 2.1.3 requiring developers to “make efforts” to waive the
ability to protect their properties and seek compensation are illegal. The Council should revert
Policy 2.1.3 back to the language of the Maui Planning Commission’s draft of the WMCP, which
provides:
For redevelopment and new developments within the State-recognized Sea Level
Rise Exposure Area, developers shall proactively:
a. Coordinate with the Maui County Planning Department and adjacent or
near-by property owners to understand possible collective relocation of at-risk
structures, and
b. Incorporate results of coordination into development plans by siting any
new planned structures out of harm’s way.
3. Revert Policy 2.4.2 to the language in the Maui Planning Commission’s draft of
the WMCP.
The Exaction is legally flawed and is not a proper use of the County’s planning authority.
The language of Policy 2.4.2 should be reverted to the language in the Maui Planning
Commission’s draft of the WMCP, which provides:
Additional Transient Accommodation units in the West Maui Community Plan
area shall comply with the County’s affordable housing requirements, and
developers of Transient Accommodation units shall prioritize fulfillment of
affordable housing obligations within the boundaries of the West Maui
Community Plan.
I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on WMCP and hope the Council will
carefully consider these issues before voting on the final version of the plan.
Very truly yours.
. -Kaanapali Golf Courses
received
ZI12I NOV 18 AH l|: 22
November 18, 2021
Aloha kakou:
Or MCE OF THE
My name is Hinano Rodrigues and ! am a resident of Kapaiki, Olowalu. My fahh^^'^^vfe'be&lH£l5tHi
Olowalu and Ukumehame since time immemorial. Both my residence and familial origin is the basis of
my standing.
I was also a member of the General Planning Advisory Committee (GPAC) that, in my mind, served as
the umbrella structure of the Community Plan Advisory Committee (CPAC). It is with that logical and
rational perception that 1 make my comments below.
Aside from the fact that the Lahaina CPAC was conducted in a somewhat autocratic way, I find it
challenging to understand how the CPAC process would result in a product significantly contrary to the
results of the GPAC. More specifically, GPAC identified the rural and urban growth areas, and the
subsequent CPAC redefined those.
Enough about process and procedural protocol.
Mainly for political reasons, affordable and workforce housing development has been kept extremely
low by both past county and council administrations. The result cannot be made any clearer now. The
purchase of homes and its inventory has made home ownership beyond the reach of our local people,
whether they be native Hawaiians who have been here since time Immemorial, to local families who are
descendants of immigrants but have nevertheless called Maui their home for generations.
Our current policy allows for low density development only. While at face value it may seem like a good
policy, it has resulted in areas like mine (Olowalu) to be a neighborhood of outsiders and millionaires
who view land as a financial investment, not an investment Into a community. (There are a handful of
newcomers whose testament is that they wish to live in Olowalu for the rest of their lives). There has
got to be thousands of longtime Maui families that want to live in Olowalu. Just look at who is at the
beach on weekends.
Without rural and urban boundaries as determined by the GPAC process, our Maui children will have to
move away or live in already tight neighborhoods that has its social ills.
Remember the words: And then there were none.
Hinano Rodrigues
Count^CleHc
From:
Sent:
Rick Ryniak <ryniak@icloud.com>
Monday, November 15, 2021 8:50 AM
County Clerk
Maui County Council Public Hearing on WMCP - 11/18/21
2021-11-15_WMCP Ryniak Itr.pdf; 2020-02-27_Will Spence Testimony.pdf
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
IYou don't often get email from ryniak@icloud.com. Learn whv this is important
Dear County Clerk,
Since I will be off-island during the meeting, I would like to submit the attached letter and attachment as written
testimony.
Thank you and Aloha,
Rick Ryniak, AIA
Rick Ryniak Architects
50 Pu’u Anoano #2104 - Lahaina, HI 96761
Tel: 808.661.9448
Email: rvniak@icloud.com
noO Tl
c 'n mCO
om
Oo-n oc
mm-f
Pv f ‘ I Ov-n
o
1
Wlliam Spence & AssociatesLAND USE PLANNING AND CONSULTING
February 27, 2020
Kai Nishiki, Chair
And Members of the West Maui CPAC
Re: Rural Designation for Plantation Estates
My name is William Spence and I am a former Planning Director. The representatives of
Plantation Estates in Kapalua asked me to speak regarding their request to be
designated "Rural” in the community plan.
Why designate to rural? What community benefit Is there?
We have a land use pattern on Maui, indeed it within the state, where agricultural land is
subdivided into large lots and luxury homes are built. We called them things like
gentlemen's estates and fake farms. It’s an objectionable land use pattern to most of us,
including myself, yet it repeats over and over again. The latest luxury subdivision is
going in on the east side of Hali'imaile on what used to be rolling pineapple land.
This land use is objectionable because we call it “agriculture" when it is anything but
that. Yes, the county can require a bunch of citrus and avocado trees but for most
people, the 5,000 square foot home with three car garage and infinity pool is hardly a
“farm.” So instead of perpetually pretending they are agriculture, let’s start calling them
what they are: rural residential.
The concept of recognizing these subdivisions as rural is nothing new as it has been
talked about for decades. 1 give Dick Mayer credit as he brought it up during the
formulation of the Makawao Pukalani Kula Community Plan in the early 1990's. That
CPAC said to: "Eliminate pseudo-agricultural lots such as Kula 200 and Kula Glen,
through recognition of such lots as rural residential subdivisions." (Pg. 20, MPK CP).
When I was Planning Director the other county directors discussed this as well, noting
that Rural is the proper district for this kind of housing. The agricultural working group
formed by former council member Guzman discusses this at some length and supports
the concept.
Let's stop repeating the same bad practice over and over again. If we can start a new
pattern of recognizing these subdivisions for what they are, we can start requiring district
boundary amendments and a changes in zoning for new subdivisions. The Maui Island
Plan reflects this thought by including policies toward this end;
7.1.1.1 Encourage future community plan efforts to identify lands within the
County Agricultural zoning district that are primarily being used for large-lot
residential or rural use and consider such lands for reclassification to an
appropriate County Rural zone. (pg. 7-8)
7.1.1-Actlon 5 Revise existing land use regulations to ensure that Prime
Agricultural Lands are distinct from rural (primarily residential) land uses. Pg. 7-8
P.O. BOX 880267 ● PUKALANI III 96768 ● (808) 280-2724 ● MAUIWILL@GMAILCOM
Kai NishikI, Chair
And members of the West Maui CPAC
February 27, 2020
Page 2
7.1.1.C Discourage developing or subdividing productive agricultural lands for
residential uses in which the residence would be the primary use and any
agricultural activities would be secondary uses.
Looking at it the opposite way
Not designating to Rural perpetuates the shibai. Continuing to call Plantation Estates
“agriculture" Is not going to make these properties into farms, nor will it make the owners
into farmers. The homes will not somehow become “farm dwellings," they will continue
to be luxury estates. A glance at the current MLS listings shows the highest offering In
Plantation Estates is $7,800,000 dollars. Planting a whole bunch of citrus trees isn't
going to turn that property into a farm.
Concerns over Additional Density
Some may have a concern that designating to Rural will lead to additional density. I'm
not at all concerned about that and for two reasons.
1. Additional density can be simply prevented by making a specific requirement or
condition in the community plan. These specific conditions are very common in
our planning documents - the Maui Island Plan has numerous “stories" for
properties that must be followed, almost every existing community plan has
explicit details for individual properties.
It is simple enough to say, “Plantation Estates will be zoned no smaller than two-
acre rural, and no further residential subdivision shall be allowed. ” That would
essentially be limiting Plantation Estates to what is currently there. And If you are
concerned about too many ohanas, you can also say limit one ohana per lot.
2. Given that kind of limitation, adding density would be nearly impossible to do. It
would require changing the language of the plan, which much more difficult than
changing the map. It would also require a change in zoning.
These are utterly miserable processes that make it extremely impractical to allow
more development. The processes have no guarantee of success and take three
to ten years of very public criticism and stress to do. There are multiple hearings
before planning commission and council committees. It is very expensive to
undertake, $100,000 to $300,000 or more. These are extraordinary
disincentives, making It impractical to create more development
Respectfully,
William Spence
RICK RYNIAK ARCHITECTS
November 15, 2021
RE: Public Hearing on West Maui Community Plan, Thursday 11/18/21 6:00pm
My name is Rick Ryniak, and I am a resident of West Maui, currently living in Kaanapali
Hillside. I am an architect and have lived and worked her for the past 35 years. During
that time, I have also been fortunate to have designed projects on Oahu, Kauai, Lanai,
the Big Island and on the mainland. In doing so,  Ihave worked with many different
Planning Departments, Building Departments and with various County and Building
Codes and their local Amendments. Over the years  Ihave watched as issues have come
and gone and how negotiations have often led to real progress that affected the lives of
those who lived there.
Regarding the proposed WMCP, I strongly feel that the Council should recognize that
where large parcels of agricultural land have been subdivided many years ago and high
priced homes have been built, the land use truly is no longer Agricultural but a Rural
Residential. Older subdivisions such as Kula 200, Kula Glen, Kapalua Plantation Estates,
and newer ones such as on the east side of Hali'imaile and Kula To, much better fit the
purpose of Rural Districts, as stated in the County Code 19.29.010:
The purpose of the rural districts is to implement the goals and policies of the Maui
County general plan and community plans; to provide low density development which
preserves the rural character of certain areas; to allow small-scale agricultural uses
and the keeping of animals; and to serve as a transition between standard residential
or other urban density development and agricultural lands.
I whole-heartedly agree with the testimony previously presented in the letter from
former Planning Director Will Spence on 2/27/20. In part, he wrote, "We call it
"agriculture" when it is anything but that." He goes on to say, "Let’s stop repeating the
same bad practice over and over again. If we can start a new pattern of recognizing
these subdivisions for what they are, we can start requiring district boundary
amendments and a change in zoning for new subdivisions. The Maui Island Plan
reflects this thought by including policies to this end...” His full letter is attached.
I strongly support the Rural Residential designation in the WMCP for all of
Plantation Estates (all 103 lots) consistent with the Maui Island Plan.
t: 808.661.9448
K 808-661.9445
e: ryniakcpicloud.com
w: ryniak.com
50 pu’uanoano St #2104
lahaina, maui. hawaii 96761 1
RICK RYNIAK ARCHITECTS
I would also like to comment on proposed Policy 2.3.2, regarding Gulches. The version
of the plan dated 10/21 has a major revision. Following the words, "and no new
permanent structures shall be developed in or within 100 feet of the top of the bank of
identified gulches”, the following was deleted, “unless Low Impact Development
Strategies are implemented to prevent stormwater runoff. Without this potential
remedy, it could make some narrow, parcels of land almost unbuildable. There are
engineering solutions to most of these situations, and 1 would encourage you give them
a chance to be reviewed, approved and implemented.
I also think the current map [Figure 2.3] is of such a scale that it is hard to determine
what is or is not in a gulch and there seems to be inconsistencies. Perhaps adding a
Layer in the Maui County qPublic.net website would make it much clearer and
informative.
Thank you for your consideration.
Aloha,
Vj
Richard A. Ryniak, AlA
Rick Ryniak Architects
Enel.
so pu'u anoano st #2104
lahaina, maui, hawaii 96761
t: 808.661.9448
t: 808.661.9445
e; ryniak0icloud.com
w: ryniak.com 2
RECtziVFn
m 18 8:
Count^£led<
From:
Sent:
Judy Siracusa <lauleajudy@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 5:00 PM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR21-109
To:
nfi-lCE OF TlJE
■OUMTyclerk
Subject:
I You don't often get email from !auleajudy@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
To Maui County Clerk,
I am writing this email in TOTAL SUPPORT of the low cost housing project for local Maui families that West Maui Land
proposes to develop in Olowalu and Laniopokujl! The county and community has been begging for more affordable
housing and here is a developer who is ready, willing and able to provide it. West Maui Land is a locally owned/operated
company that has deep roots in the Maui community.
My husband and 1 have been residents of Maui since 1986. We are so indebted to the Hawaiian culture for what it has
brought to our life and our children's lives that we are committed to giving back to this community in all the ways that we
can. We believe that providing housing that local families can afford is incredibly important in maintaining and continuing
the Hawaiian culture. Too many of our local families are moving away because they can no longer afford to live on Maui.
We urge you to approve these projects!!
Aloha,
Judy and Pete Siracusa
1
RECEIVEDCount^£lerk
From:
Sent: im NOV 18 AH K> 38matthew smith <smitty036@me.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 10:05 AM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
To:
●-^rFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don't often get email from smitty036@me.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
To whom it may concern;
The fact that I have to write a letter in support of affordable housing astounds me. I have lived here my whole life and I
have consistently seen hard working local families being squeezed out of the housing market. In the last two years the
median home price has shot up $200,000+ and is still climbing. It is driven by second home buyers and remote workers
that do nothing to fill the workforce vacuum created by the pandemic . The people who work the jobs that fuel the
economy are forced to live in cramped quarters, some have long commutes and many are afflicted by both overcrowded
living and having to drive long distances.
Affordable, quality workforce housing is desperately needed. Please fast track these developments and allow those who
have been waiting the longest to be the first ones to get them.
Tensions are running so high right now because of the overwhelming resentment towards all of the newcomers
snatching up multiple properties and then renting them for top dollar. Also the hopelessness of the situation and the
realization that they will probably never own a home. Take care of local families first!
Thank you for your time.
matthew smith
smitty036@mac.com
808.276.2509
1
RtCEIVED
Z5?! NOV 18 AH 8; 3NMaui Land & Pineapple Company, Inc.
-■‘ICE OF T
COU,\'ty CLF f'.
November 17, 2021
Alice L. Lee, Council Chair,
Maui County Council
County of Maui
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai'i 96793
county.clerk@mauicounty.us
SUBJECT: TESTIMONY REGARDING THE UPDATED WEST MAUI COMMUNITY
PLAN.
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments on the proposed Updated West Maui
Community Plan.
Maui Land and Pineapple Company, Inc. (MLP) appreciates the coundess hours of work the many
community members, the Community Plan Advisor}^ Committee (CPAC), the Planning Department,
the Planning Commission, and the Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee, put in to in the
process of updating the West Maui Community Plan (Plan).
During the process MLP submitted written testimony to, and testified before, the Maui Planning
Commission to express concerns regarding the elimination of Project District designations and
replacement with community plan designations may not be consistent with current Project District
zoning and ordinances. The Kapalua Resort includes two Project Districts:
1. Lahaina Project District 1 (Kapalua), related Project District ordinance codified as Maui
County Code (MCC) Chapter 19.73
2. West Maui Project District 2 (Kapalua Mauka), related Project District ordinance codified as
MCC Chapter 19.92
Through the Planning Commission hearings, and working with the Planning Department, the two
undeveloped areas within Project District 1 were designated Small Town Center on the Plan. Wording
was also added to clarify that for lands formerly designated as Project District, the boundaries between
designations can be adjusted, provided the total acreage of each designation remains the same
MLP’s understanding at the time was that the Small Town Center designation would permit all the
uses permitted under Chapter 19.73, MCC which includes a list the specific permitted uses within
200 Village Road ● Lahaina, Maui, Hawai'i 96761 ● 808-665-5458 ● Fax 808-665-0641
Maui Land & Pineapple Company, Inc.
Lahaina Project District 1. MLP also understood that the Plan designations for West Maui Project
District 2 would permit all the uses permitted under MCC Chapter 19.92
Before the Plan is adopted MLP would like a clear, a definitive statement in the Plan that the uses
permitted under Chapter 19.73, MCC and Chapter 19.92 MCC would still be permitted under the Plan
designations without being required to seek a community plan amendment.
Thank you for your time and attention to this matter and the opportunity to provide comments.
Maui Land & Pineapple Company Inc.
Paul Subrata
Vice President
200 Village Road ● Lahaina, Maui, Hawai‘i 96761 ● 808-665-5458 ● Fax 808-665-0641
Count^Cled< ■ ●●p:n
2021 NOV 17 AH ©NO
● t
From:
Sent:
GT <gerald.tanaka@hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 10:41 AM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don't often get email from gerald.tanaka@hawaii,rr.com. Learn whv this is important
My name is Gerald Tanaka. I was born and raised on Maui, graduated from Baldwin High School, attended the
University of Hawaii and now live and work on Oahu. I moved back to Maui for a few years but employment and
housing opportunities on Oahu resulted in my having to move back here.
It is my hope that the West Maui Community Plan scheduled for public input shortly not be adopted. It is my belief that
this proposed change to the 2012 Maui Island Plan, which included plans for housing in this area, will hurt families in
Maui County and make the dream of homeownership impossible. This dream is already difficult throughout our State
and Maui County is not immune. I currently have 3 grand children and remain hopeful that they too will have future
opportunities to remain in Hawaii, similar to those families who want to remain on Maui. We need to help our residents
by not making dreams more difficult or maybe impossible to achieve.
Appreciate the opportunity to submit this message. Mahalo.
Sent from Mail for Windows
1
Count^Oei^
From:
Sent:
Tiffany Teruya <tiffany.teruya@yahoo.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 12:01 PM
County Clerk
Public hearing 11/18/2021 WMCP CR 21-109
20?l NOV 18 PH 04
To:
Subject: ;;rPICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from tiffany.teruya@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha kakou,
My name is Tiffany Teruya and I do NOT SUPPORT this project of any development regarding Olowalu or Launiupoko.
The damage this will cause to our natural resources not to mention the SACRED areas this project will will affect.
Please do not let this happen!!!!
The West Maui Community Plan should be revised and implemented after the Water Use Development Plan is approved
in order to move forward from an informed stance of water availability and true community consent. Mahalo to each of
you and your council staff for the hard work you folks do.
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Cleijc
From:
Sent:
Wallace Tom <wallyjt@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 9;05 AM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from wailyjt(S)hotmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
To the Maui County Council,
This is to inform you that I am in support of Affordable/Workforce housing proposed for the Olowalu and Launiupoko
areas. With the rising costs of housing today it has become unrealistic for the current and next generation to afford
housing on Maui. Average families don't qualify or have the monies to pay for a home today. We can't afford to let
"Mainland" or "international" buyers to continue to out-price our local Families, so once again, Please Support the
proposed project.
OO
Onn 73Sincerely,
rnc=>
oWallace Tom
879 Haunani Place
Wailuku, HI 96793
(808) 856-6994
210
<—
"1 m♦<
o
mr*
-p o'xm oCO
1
Countj^£lerk R€CL'7r;D
From:
Sent:
Dave Ward <dave@fwmaui.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 9:03 AM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109
W\ NOV !8 AH 9: 05
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from dave@fwmaui.com. Learn why this is important
Council Members,
Please accept this email as testimony on Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 on WMCP CR 21-109. From 2006-2012,1 attended
most of the meetings for the establishment of the FIRST Island Plan for the County of Maui. This process included
meetings \with GPAC, Planning Commission, and County Council over a 6 year period. Many community members gave
countless hours and County employees spent years of time to create this Island Plan. As part of the General Plan, the
framework for the Island Plan was for the County to work together to establish Urban and Rural Growth Boundaries for
the Island of Maui. These Urban and Rural Growth Boundaries would provide the overall framework for future growth
on Maui as a roadmap for growth. The Planning concept is to have look at the entire island with input from all regions
to all agree on future growth areas. Everyone agreed during that process that future Community Plan updates would
follow consistently under the Island Plan by "filling in" the specific uses within the Urban and Rural Growth Boundaries.
We are now addressing the FIRST Community Plan update which is for West Maui. This very first plan, as currently
recommended to the Council, discredits all of the hard work and recommendations of the Island Plan. The fact that the
Urban and Rural Growth Boundaries in Olowalu and Launiupoko have not only been abandoned but completely denied
any chance of future development to be consistent with the Island Plan is reprehensible to the Planning process and the
future plan for Maui's growth. The Island Plan also identified areas for Parks and Open Space. The update of the West
Maui Community Plan has disregarded these recommendations and determined alternative large parks in conflict with
the Island Plan. If each Community Plan continues to disregard the island Plan, there is no purpose in the island Plan or
General Plan.
If the West Maui Community Plan is adopted as currently drafted, please include a companion ordinance that abolishes
the General Plan and Island Plan since they clearly are in conflict with the Community Plans. The goal of Planning is to
provide a consistent vision not to create inconsistencies throughout the various land use entitlements. On this very first
community plan update since the Island Plan adoptions, be consistent with the Island Plan or get rid of the Island Plan.
Thanks,
Dave Ward
F&W Land LLC
2035 Main Street, Suite 1
Wailuku, HI 96793
(808) 249-2224-Office
(808) 357-1952-Cell
1
Anita White <anita@islandsothebysrealty.com>
Thursday, November 18, 2021 4:28 PM
County Clerk
Peter Martin
In favor of West Maui Affordable Housing
From:
Sent: received
?fl?l NOV 18 PH fj: 27
To:
Cc:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from anita@isiandsothebysrealty.com. Learn why this is important
To whom it may concern:
I am in favor of implementing the Maui Island Plan. I have been a full time Realtor here on West Maui for more than
20 years and over the past several years have found the lack of affordable housing become critical. I have watched
young families move off Island, the rental market sky rocket, and the quality of life deteroriate all because of our lack
of housing.
I encourage the County Council to accept the Maui Island Plan which I see having a positive impact on our
community and increase the quality of life for families and generations to come.
Mahalo for your consideration!
Anita
Anita L. White, R(B) #21022
808.345.7654
Island Sotheby’s International Realty
1
RECE-'iVEDCount^Clerk
Amy Wisthoff-Martin <amy.martin@corcoranpacific.com> j^QV 18 W 37
Thursday, November 18, 2021 10:00 AM
County Clerk
Public Hearing Nov. 18, 2021 WMCP CR 21-109 ● jf-FlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from amy.martin@corcoranpacific.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members,
While I'm a proponent of affordable housing on Maui, Launiupoko and Olowalu are not the ideal places for these
developments. Both areas have been dealing with water restrictions for several years, adding hundreds of homes to
these areas will only exacerbate the problem. (As  aside note, the developer also being the private water company in
the area is part of the problem.) The developer wants to build more homes - some being affordable, the others being
market rate. This is about making money - not looking out for the greater good of our island. While the developer tells
the current residents that there is a lack of water and restricts use, they also tell you that adding hundreds of homes will
not be a problem. You can't have it both ways. Please consider not allowing these developments.
Mahalo,
Amy
Amy Wisthoff-Martin
Realtor RS-76077, Corcoran Pacific Properties
808.269.6833 | amy.martin@corcoranpacific.com
www.mymauihawaii.com
nmn
IMPORTANT: The contents of this email and any attachments are confidential. They are intended for the named recipient(s) only. If you have received this
email by mistake, please notify the sender immediately and do not disclose the contents to anyone or make copies thereof.
Corcoran
PACIFIC PROPERTIES
1
RF n.. J
From:
Sent:
Lee Anne Wong <leeanne@papaainamaui.com>
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 2:35 PM
County Clerk
CONCERNS REGARDING WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN
m\ NOV 17 PH 2: 40
To:
Subject: OFFICE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from ieeanne@papaainamaui.com. Learn why this is important
November 17, 2021
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RE: CONCERNS REGARDING WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN (CR 21-109)
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
My name is Lee Anne Wong, and I am the Executive Chef and Owner of Papa'aina located at
the Pioneer Inn. I write to express my concerns regarding new policies in the West Maui
Community Plan ("WMCP'T that we believe will be detrimental
to the community and businesses like mine.
If passed, the WMCP will adopt the Hawaii Sea Level Rise Exposure Area Viewer ("SLR-XA")
and implement a policy of retreat from rising sea levels and climate change via Policies 2.1.2 and
2.1.3. My first issue with these aspects of the plan is that the policy of retreat isn't fully fleshed
out. More work and outreach need to be done before adopting such an approach.
I've looked at the maps, like those attached to my testimony, that show the projected SLR-XA
for Front Street and Lahaina—the areasthatthe WMCP would have us retreat from. If the retreat
is supposed to be a managed retreat, I'm not clear on what the management plan is. What is the
plan for business owners, like me, for retreat? Who pays the cost of moving away from where
business and customers are? What happens to the employees of businesses that can't survive
retreat? What happens if my business is damaged? How will retreat impact the market and local
economy? Why aren't we taking a more comprehensive approach to living with the land and sea
level rise, and doing things like adapting to the future environment instead of running from the
problem and leaving local businesses and their employees to drown?
My second issue with the WMCP is that it singles out West Maui for retreat. Such a drastic
change in policy should be for the whole Island, or even all of Maui County or the State. We can't
adapt to sea level rise and climate change in a vacuum and the same applies to retreat. Varying
and inconsistent policies across the Island can only lead to confusion, losses for business, and
harm to the economy.
1
In light of these issues, 1 respectfully request that the Council remove Policies 2.1.2 and 2.1.3
from the WMCP until the "managed" portion of managed retreat is more developed. 1
appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony on WMCP and hope the Council will carefully
consider these issues before voting on the final version of the plan.
Very truly yours.
Lee Anne Wong
Sent from my iPhone
2