MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2021-07-02
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1316,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MlMyiiS
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
July 2, 2021
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, JULY 2, 2021,
BEGINNING AT 9:02 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
CHAIR LEE: Will the County Council meeting of July 2, please come to order.
Madam Clerk, we're going to have roll call right now, but let me start off by saying to
everyone, we're still helping our Councilmember get ready for her trip to France, to
Europe and so we continue with the French language; bonjour and vous etes
fantastique.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Bonjour, Chair and Council.
ROLL CALL
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, KELLY T. KING, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA,
VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
EXCUSED: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Bonjour everyone, again and I look forward to a wonderful meeting and hopefully
a quick one. Alright, everyone is here.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine Members present, and a quorum Is present to
conduct the business of the Council.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 2
For the record, ! am County Clerk Kathy Kaohu. Also present from the Office of the
County Clerk are Deputy County Clerk James Krueger; and our Legislative Division
staff Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CFIAIR LEE; Opening remarks will be provided by Council Pro Tern Tasha Kama.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Council Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Pro Tern. That was beautiful.
Now, Members, please join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you, Members. Before we proceed with today’s agenda, may I
please request that everyone keep their microphones muted unless it's your time to
speak. Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
Also, we will be setting the Consent Calendar, are there any requests to add or remove
items from the Consent Calendar, Members?
No? Are there any objections to setting the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. Alright. Apparently, we don't have anything for the Consent
Calendar. I don't see it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; It's the first six items.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 3
CHAIR LEE: Nobody is adding. Pardon me?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's the first six items. I'm sorry, I don't have it in front
of me. It's the first, anyway.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. I’m sorry. My pages are out of order. My pages go straight to
testimony. Now the Consent Calendar comes after the Minutes. Right? Madam
Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Correct. That's correct. Right now, we're just setting the calendar and
then we'll follow it with testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Exactly. And there's nothing to add. Nothing to add. Okay, very good.
So, at this time, shall we begin with testimony, Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for
three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting through BlueJeans. All other individuals will
be disconnected. The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Channel 53
or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting
at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person to testify is Keisa Liu and Keisa will be followed by Bret Gobar.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 4
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. KEISA LIU (testifying on County Communications Nos. 21-298 and 21-305):
Good morning, Chair Lee.
Councilmembers, and members of the public. My name is Keisa Liu, and I am here to
testify on two agenda items, CC 21-305 and CC 21-298.
Good morning, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
So, I'd like to start first with CC 21-305. Really simple, I support this. I would have
even supported a stronger proposal, honestly.
Councilmember King put on and I listened to Orion Cruz, who I remember from when
I was at Seabury talk about how Palau has successfully put in some of the strictest
sunscreen laws in the world. And all I could think was, let's do that here, let's push to
be a little like Palau in this, right?
I was in that town hall that
You know, Hawaii is one of the top travel destinations in the world and we got a lot of
sunscreen in our waters. I mean, at the very least, we should do all that we can to
make sure it's not toxic for our ocean. And maybe it would help us open up the
conversation to a wider topic of, let's figure out how we can protect our skin without
sunscreen? Maybe we wear some cotton or linen, bamboo like Jordan Mocker said.
Put some shea butter on. Maybe we don't go out and get burnt, because we out there
for like 15 hours ... the water and all that kind of stuff, maybe we change our behavior
a little bit, so we don't have to wear so much sunscreen. You know, some of us saying,
you know, keep going with this, I like this. And you have residents out there who are
happy to support even stronger measures to protect our environment and frankly,
ourselves.
Now moving on. I'd like to speak on 21-298. I'm going to go ahead and say, boo, to
this amendment. No, thank you. I oppose. I saw that little bit of fiber that was put in
there for 50 percent affordable housing, 50 percent visitor accommodations, stays
affordable for 30 years, etc. You all got me looking at this like, really? First of all, we
are asking developers to stop feeding us visitor accommodations, plain and simple.
Out bellies are full. Now they over here telling us to eat more. Telling us, oh you all
need vegetables, right? We'll put some vegetables in here for you. We cannot digest
and process if we keep being feed. Trust me, I know. That was one embarrassing
Christmas in Mexico.
But when has it ever worked in our favor to make these kinds of deals with developers
of visitor accommodations? What have they done to get us to trust them? Have they
been caring about the environmental impact that tourism in an authentic way? Have
they been fairly sharing water with us? Have they been leaving them iwi alone? Now
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 5
this isn't about me not wanting affordable housing, I have a clear stance on that, we
need affordable housing.
What I have a problem with is making deals with players in an industry that is crushing
us. And let me remind you that we are victims in an abusive relationship here. And
now our abuser is telling us that they'll give us  alittle affordable housing project, if we
come back to them cause they know we starving for that. You all better walk on over
there and tell them we ain't that hungry.
We're strong enough, to try to figure out how to build without them. And we are busy
surrounding ourselves with people who want to build with us, without exploiting us. Tell
them we don't want their no-face money. If y'all too scared to walk over to these
developers and tell them, no thank you, trust and believe, I'm happy to do that for you.
In fact, I'll start right now. We said, no thank you. Now y'all need to know the difference
between a little give and take and being taken advantage of. Remember that your work
is to protect us from abusers of our resources and our people. Do not let them step on
us. Mahalo for your time and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Liu. Any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk, is the timer working?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. She had about 19 seconds left.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Brett Gobar.
MR. BRETT GOBAR ftestifyina on Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Testing. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Mr. Gobar.
MR. GOBAR: Aloha Friday to the voices elected to represent my voice and protect the Maui
environment. That is you. Councilmembers. Water resources need to be returned to
the people rather than the corporations like Mahi Pono and A&B. I'm testifying
regarding the proposed moratorium Bill No. 60, I believe. I ask each Councilmember
including those who generally don't favor these things, to vote yes, in support of this
temporary moratorium to allow us to make better plans.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 6
It's now clear to all of you that tourism is destroying what was once one of the most
beautiful places on earth. So I'm exceedingly surprised that some Councilmembers
still believe tourism and construction helps local residents, when in fact, they're costing
us money out of our budgets. More money than is coming in. Small organic farming
must be the focus of truly healthy and sustainable jobs for the benefit of local residents
and all of Hawaii, for safe and healthy foods. Tourists will stop visiting if you continue
to allow further environmental destruction. Mahalo, for all the energy you put into all of
these difficult issues. Aloha Friday.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Gobar. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier, please.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Christopher Delaunay, followed by Mike Moran.
MR. CHRISTOPHER DELAUNAY. PACIFIC RESOURCE PARTNERSHIP [testifying on Bill
No. 60 (2021)1:
Aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. Chris Delaunay with Pacific Resource Partnership
registered lobbyist.
We're in opposition of Bill 60. You know, our State has been, has the highest cost of
living in the Nation, and COVID-19 only made things worse, you know, at a time when
unemployment has just skyrocketed. Maui has taken  alarger hit with higher
unemployment rates in the State and a slower economic recovery. Imposing a
moratorium on the construction of visitor accommodations will only further hurt Maui's
economic recovery and it will also make it more difficult for Maui, Hawaii born residents
to stay in Maui.
You know, we provided a graph in our testimony stating from, showing from 2010-2019,
there has been a decline in Hawaii born residents and an increase in U.S. citizen born
and foreign-born residents on Maui. The moratorium will likely accelerate this trend
causing Hawaii born residents and their families to leave Maui for more job
opportunities and a better life elsewhere.
I also like to point out that, urn, you know, Bill 60 would unfairly penalize Maui's visitor
industry in an attempt to mitigate the impacts of climate change. Climate change is a
complex global issue with many contributing factors. This bill provides no
documentation, scientific studies, or evidence to suggest that a moratorium on building
permits for visitor accommodations will lower carbon emissions or mitigate climate
change impacts. Furthermore, there is no evidence supporting the assumption that a
moratorium will limit the number of visitors coming to Maui. Instead, a moratorium will
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 7
likely keep visitors out of hotel districts, causing them to seek accommodations in
residential neighborhoods. This would unnecessarily harm the quality of life for local
communities. And again, we oppose Bill 60 and thank you for this opportunity to testify.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Delaunay. Any questions? If not. thank you, again.
Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mike Moran, followed by Patricia Gardner on last four
digits, 7950.
CHAIR LEE: Bonjour, Mike.
[testifying on CountyMR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION
21-294. 21-295. 21-297 & 21-305 and BillCommunications Nos. 21-288
No. 60 (2021)1:
Mike Moran for the Kihei CommunityBonjour, Chair and Committee Members.
Association, Happy Aloha Friday to all. We’re submitting testimony on six items this
morning, so we'll try and be brief on each one because we can see the list of testifiers
is growing exponentially.
Starting with Bill 60, which I think everybody is familiar with by now, we see this as the
last step at Council to, and we ask you to please approve it. Just a couple of brief
comments on it, those of us who have been supporting it, have all frequently used the
word pause. This is, that's all we're asking for is a pause in this movement and now
recently, we hear some government executives starting to use that same word pause.
We heard our Mayor saying he was asking the airlines to pause coming here, which I
get, we would all be happy with that. But is that  arealistic action, just asking a for profit
business to pause. And when we see the airlines are seemingly out of control, they're
quickly adding flights and then next minute they're cancelling flights in a chaotic system.
We would love to think that would work, but we don't think it will. Just asking a polite
Hawaiian ask, we don't, taking action that the Council is doing passing a bill, making a
law, we think that's a good thing to do, and we ask you for your support on that.
Moving on to CC 21-305, we support that also, Councilmember Paltin, to, yes, let's
take that next step. You know, again, this Council over the past, over the years has
been very strong on environmental actions, as you continue to be and we're trying to,
you know, we took a step and said let's, let's not have this stuff, let's get rid of it. What
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 8
about the people who brings it in, you know, so they not buying it here? But if we make
that prohibit sale, use or distribution, taking that next step forward, and as you’ve all,
most of you again have often said, we want to educate the people coming in, so let's
educate them on that.
And just one example of that, several years ago at ‘Ahihi-Kma'u, that's what the rangers
were doing. They set up a big, I believe a 55-gallon drum, and when visitors would
come on to the preserve, they would say to them, you know, look at this great, big
drum, that's how much is accumulating of these sunscreen products was accumulating
here. You think it's only a dab, but when you multiply it out, it's this one big drum. And
the other use for the drum was, we ask you to get rid of that stuff you brought, we'll
give you a free sample of reef friendly, and the drum would slowly fill up with people
wanting to do the right thing. So, we see this as an example of, of asking everybody
to do the right thing, so we're in complete support of that.
Moving on to CC 21-297, to Council Chair Lee, asking our State to address
overcrowding on the State highways. Yes, I mean,  Ithink we all see that right now, the
visitors are back seemingly, right back to pre-COVID standards. The big emphasis is,
of course, on the very narrow, winding highway, where we see that. But it's ail the
highways, all the highways, you know, our Pi'ilani Highway here is jammed, you know,
we saw what happened years ago. We restriped it to make it four lanes, but we made
it so narrow and reduced the speed limit.
And as development continues, the development that we want, the high school, and I
think we have at least a half dozen affordable or workforce housing projects in various
stages in South Maui, but it's all going to increase traffic. So, yes, we ask the State to
help us. You know, we can't do anything with the State roads, we ask for your help, as
the Chair is asking for here.
Okay, I don't want to lose my place here. Going on to item four, 21-295. Those of you
that participated or watched the regenerative tourism town hall. We were very
impressed with that. We took the recording, with the help of Councilmember King's
staff, and we posted a recording on our website and keep urging people, if you didn't
see it, go watch it. And we believe this is the first of these town halls and
Councilmember King, you've set a very high standard for the next guys coming along,
but we thought that was great and we know some of you watched or participated in
that.
Number five, 21-294, true, that was an excellent thing, the groundbreaking at the
wastewater, trying to do something with this, this named wastewater, we figured as a
resource, it's not a waste, it's a resource and that's what we're trying to do with it here.
Use it for irrigation, you know, the community has tried to advocate for that for years,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 9
but we get the expense. How much is it going to cost to run the purple pipes for miles
and miles to golf courses and so forth? And here we can use it, very close by, and
perhaps start growing something that can be used here. One suggestion was hemp,
if we're going to grow something, why aren't we growing hemp and we can use that in
building, and stop wasting that other resource, sand, to make cement and other
products that we can use here. Maybe food product, if the Department of Health lets
us do that.
Okay, so that was five and the last one, the number six, 21-288. We understand the
process, this is not a Q&A that we can ask you a question and you answer it. But we
would please ask, when you get to that item, we had met with the Director of Public
Works and had a, about a month ago, and had assurance that the, at least the first
portion of that Kihei Road pavement from Lipoa down to around where the fire house
is, was definitely going to begin construction this year, you know, this year. And our
understanding was the funding was there for the second half, maybe not construction
in 2021-2022. And now we see this, seemingly that they need approval for Federal
funds, and we hope this is not something that's going to delay. Maybe we're misreading
it, we all don't understand it, so we would just hope there might be some clarity when
you approach that topic.
Whew, okay, I tried to zoom it in as quick as 1 can. Thank you. Chair Lee and
Councilmembers for the opportunity. I think you're muted, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair, you’re muted.
CHAIR LEE: Sorry. Mike, thank you for covering all those six items so efficiently.
Member King, questions?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. That was a great testimony, covered a lot in a short
period. I just wanted to go back to the sunscreen ban and ask you if you were following
it back in my first term, which was in 2017? We tried to pass a pretty strict sunscreen
ban at the County level, we never got to second reading and then the State passed
But if you were following, the KCA was, were you supporting it back then? Theone.
ban as well.
MR. MORAN; Absolutely, Chair King. And that's why I'm saying, this is, looks like it's
progress. And that's what we ail know that sometimes you start something and okay,
it didn't, it didn't get approved, but you don't quit, you say okay, well we learned
something now and go on.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 10
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just wanted to let you know, because it was preemptive. The
County was preempted from passing our own law, but that preemption has expired so
that's why I'm hoping to bring it back and hoping that you guys can dig out your
testimony and bring it back to us.
MR. MORAN: I think we can do that, without, not me, but we have some very efficient Board
members who can probably dig that back up for us and thank you for asking and thank
you for trying before.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, are there any more questions? If not, thank you again, Mike. Have a
great weekend.
MR. MORAN: You too guys. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our testifier is Patricia Gardner on last four digits, 7950 and Patricia
will be followed by Rod Antone.
MS. PATRICIA GARDNER [testifyina on Bill No. 60 (202111:
Aloha, this is Patricia Gardner with We Are One Ministries, and I am supporting this
moratorium against visitor accommodations. I feel that we are going over the edge of
building for visitors and hotels. We need to care for the people, we need to care for
our ‘aina.
And the element of sunscreen has been brought up, and this is so very true. It is killing
the coral; the fish have tumors on them. And 1 look at Maiuaka, the old Maui Prince
and how beautiful that was to snorkel out there. Just, a bit of heaven, turtle town with
turtles. Now there are no turtles, there's no coral, the coral is dead and there’s no,
really no schools of fish.
And our island is changing, and we have to be proactive. This is my belief. We have
to be proactive with coming together, as residents here and care for our ‘aina. I believe
that there needs to be a stronger participation with what is good for our ‘aina at the
hotels with the visitors that are, that are staying there and also on the planes. Not just
listening or watching it on the screen, but also  ahandout so they can look at it and if
they're not paying attention, getting ready to get off the plane, that they have something
to look at.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 11
I think the people will, will accommodate that, if we’re strong enough, if we're clear
enough about what's good for our ‘aina. And the way that building is happening for
high-cost housing and the sale of property is in, it's in the millions, it's beyond our local
residents can afford. And we have homeless out in the streets, more now than ever
before, it is becoming like a little Oahu. And I think that we need to come together as
a, as an ohana and really look at the important things that are needed to save our
island. It is being destroyed, and it's all about commerce, having more money, visitors.
And if we're going to have visitors here on the island, then we need to educate them.
We need to educate them, what is good for our island? What is good for us? What we
prefer for them to come here, for them to do? And so, I am a strong proponent of
opposing more vacation rental buildings, put a moratorium on it and focus on the
people. Focus on what we need as residents here.
I really appreciate you listening to me and hearing me, and I trust that it will be heard
in a very deep way. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Oh, yes, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Could you ask the testifier what organization again? I didn't
hear the organization.
MS. GARDNER: We are One Ministries. I work with spiritual teachings with groups and
individuals and do counseling.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MS. GARDNER: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Rod Antone, followed by Shay Chan Hodges.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 12
[testifying on BillMR. ROD ANTONE, MAUI HOTEL AND LODGING ASSOCIATION
No. 60 (2021)1:
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
MR. ANTONE: Can you see and hear me?
CHAIR LEE; We can hear you.
MR. ANTONE; Okay. Let's, I, sorry, okay, let's just go with the, the audio, not sure what's
wrong with my camera. But-
CHAIR LEE: It came on.
MR. ANTONE; Oh, there.
CHAIR LEE: Now we can see you. Now we can see you.
MR. ANTONE: There we go. Okay. Aloha, folks. Good morning, Council. It's been a while.
Nice to see all of you. Rod Antone, registered lobbyist. State and County for the Maui
Hotel and Lodging Association and this testimony is for Bill 60. As stated, as I stated
a couple months ago when this, this bill first appeared, the number of visitor units for
hotels, timeshares, and condominiums has not increased since the early 2010's with
Courtyard Marriott. And visitor numbers have gone way up from 2.3 in 2012 to 3 million
in 2019, all the while, you know, visitor units hit about 16,000 in 2015 and then they
decreased. So, if people aren't staying at the hotels, condos, and timeshares, where
are they staying? And maybe we should look at those accommodations and apply a
moratorium there. If you press pause on a movie that is not playing, nothing happens.
So, 1 have these numbers, I sent it to you guys before, I'll be happy to send it to you
again.
Also, in speaking with Planning, there is a concern that, I don't know if you folks know
about the Shoreline Setback Rules that are, they're trying to pass these boundaries,
these new boundaries. If the, a moratorium passes and these boundaries passes, and
there's a hotel that wants to bring one of their structures back behind the boundaries,
will they be able to build, or will the moratorium force them to wait a year? And, you
know, the Administration is telling us one thing. Council is pushing us in another
direction, I think that should be addressed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 13
Also, and forgive me, I'm not a 100 percent on this, I've heard that Corp. Counsel has
not reviewed Bill 60, which I know it's not a requirement for a bill to pass Council, you
don't need Corp. Counsel's approval. But they do review bills to make sure the County
is not open up to lawsuits, and as a taxpayer, it seems, that seems legally perilous not
to have them review this bill.
We understand that tourism impacts our community.  Ilive in Paia, you guys know that
I can't even find parking at Mana Foods sometimes. But it's not just on Maui, it's all
across the globe and the moratorium in my research ... oh, sorry, I will wrap up.
We oppose the moratorium. We'd like to work together on another bill, they're doing
moratoriums, they've done them in Amsterdam, Barcelona, I saw they mentioned
Ashville, North Carolina. Ashville, North Carolina has a, has an urban plan for hotels.
I didn't see that mentioned in this bill. Anyway, thank you all and good seeing you all
again.
CHAIR LEE: Rod, perhaps you could share that information with us, by sending it to the
Council.
MR. ANTONE: I will. I will.
CHAIR LEE; We have a question for you.
Member King.
MR. ANTONE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Rod. Nice to see you. You're looking
well.
MR. ANTONE: Aloha, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We just had another Marriott open in South Maui in the last couple
of years, and so you might have missed that in your statement that no new hotels have
been opened since 2010. You know, we've had proposals for other expansions, and
we got other hotels in the works here, under construction, including the Hilton, which
is where the old Maui Lu used to be. So, there has been a lot of activity in the last few
years and some of it has already opened and brought new tourist.
MR. ANTONE: Yeah. I'm sorry, 1 should. I'm sorry,  1should clarify. Go ahead. I'm sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 14
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, in your, in your review. And then, we've also gotten quotes
from the HTA about the increased numbers, so I'm not sure where your numbers are
conflicting, but we're working off a lot of reports from DBEDT, from HTA, from Hotel
and Lodging Association, from articles . . . even the Mayor saying, you know, it's time
for a pause. So, there is a lot of conflicting information, not sure, but if you have, I don't
know where your information is coming from, but we'd like you to send that in and we
can compare it to what we've been reviewing.
MR. ANTONE: Yes. Let me clarify. We hit a record high in 2019 before the pandemic, it's
3,059,000 visitors. And at that time our accommodations units were actually lower
because of timeshare conversations, but again, 1 will send, I've got a great graph here,
1 will send that in to all Councilmembers as long as some other information I found
about moratoriums internationally.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay and just to understand that timeshares are also visitor
accommodations, so converting them doesn't. . . keeps the numbers the same. But,
you know, I appreciate that and my last question for you is do you, do you believe we
should follow the Maui Island Plan that prescribes the number of tourists that should
be on the island, which we have exceeded?
MR. ANTONE: Ido. 1 just don't think this moratorium is going to, going to reduce it. Look at
the rent-a-cars.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's not meant to reduce it. it's meant to put a pause on it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I think, I think we've had enough clarification on the testimony. Member
Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Nice seeing you, Rod.
MR. ANTONE; Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I wanted to, your testimony, just for clarification, did you
say that you would be willing to work with us on looking at the hotel industry, visitor
moratorium? What did you say in your testimony?
MR. ANTONE; We'll be willing to work with you folks on any bills, and actually I apologize for
not being around these last two months and a half, I mean I think most of you know
why. But 100 percent. I'd love, we'd love to sit down with all the stakeholders and let's
work, let's look at what's been done in other, that’s worked and let's take the solutions
and find something that works for Maui.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 15
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Rod. I'll call you on that. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions? If not, thank you, Rod. Madam Clerk, how many
more testifiers do we have?
COUNTY CLERK; About ten more, right now, signed up. Our next testifier is Shay Chan
Hodges, followed by the caller on last four digits 6309.
CHAIR LEE: Alright let's try move along.
MS. SHAY CHAN HODGES. MAUI ESG (testifying on County Communication No. 21-300):
My name is Shay, bonjour, my name is Shay ChanBonjour, Councilmembers.
Hodges, and I am testifying in support of County Communications 21-300, entitled
"SUPPORTING THE SUBMISSION OF A LETTER OF INTEREST FOR THE WATER
INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE AND INNOVATION ACT PROGRAM", also known as
WIFIA.
I am a Co-Organizer of the Maui ESG Project which was approved for a third year of
funding by this Council, the objectives of which include supporting participative
governance through transparency and accountability about community resources,
including streams. Engaging the community in developing community based,
community driven, financial and governance investment structures that benefit
residents. Establishing equitable, sustainable, and culturally appropriate 21®* century
solutions based in Native Hawaiian perspectives and practices, including supporting
cultural practices, and kanawai when accessing ahupua'a water systems.
This reso before you helps us to accomplish the first step in achieving the goals of this
year's grant by expressing Council's support for submission of a letter of interest for a
Federal WIFIA loan application. Some priorities of this ERA loan program include
economically stressed communities; protection against extreme weather events;
repair, rehabilitation and replacement of aging infrastructure and conveyance systems;
and new or innovative approaches.
In early May, with our partner Gita Swamy from loTask, the Maui ESG Project met with
WIFIA staff in Washington D.C. to determine the eligibility of various potential water
projects in Maui County. Upon determining that the purchase and repairs of Wailuku
Water Company and Molokai Properties Water Systems would qualify, loTask
identified water engineering firm, Woodard & Curran as an investor partner. Woodard
has specific expertise in designing solutions to water related challenges and is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 16
interested in being an equity investor. The projects would include ESG objectives and
will be designed to ensure financial sustainability that is compelling to outside investors.
In additions to the purchase and repairs. WIFIA funds can finance rehabilitation of
water systems and water sheds, conservation, and the support of traditional and
cultural practices. The project will adhere to UN ethnic standards which enshrine
indigenous people's rights to free, prior and informed consent on projects affecting their
lands, resources and cultural heritage.
Woodard & Curran which has the credit worthiness to demonstrate its ability to repay
the loan over its term will be the lead partner in submission of the letter of interest and
will incur the loan. Maui County will not have a financial obligation to the project and
only stating its support for submitting a letter of interest. Private perspective
borrowers must have public sponsors and must demonstrate support of the local
government in the project's municipality.
Please note that this is the very first step in the process, which will require some initial
leg work and an engineering assessment by Woodard. Following submission of the
letter of interest on July 23, we will begin working with residents on development of
community ownership, financial and government structure, identifying community
priorities, reaching out to investors and other funders, and beginning to map out what
a full application would look like, if we were invited to apply for financing in the Fall.
Mahalo for your time and mahalo again for your support of the Maui ESG Investment
Project. We really appreciate you folks. Aloha.
CFIAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions for Shay Chan Flodges?
Yes, Miss, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you for the explanation, Shay. So, is this, could
this, because Upcountry, right, we have the most cesspools, so can this be used for
residents for cesspools?
MS. CFIAN FIODGES: I believe WIFIA funds could. The application that we're submitting
does not look at cesspools because it has to address the specific water system. But
they do, do wastewater, so the County could submit for WIFIA funding, for sure, for
that. And it's very good loan terms.
I'm sorry, I can't hear you.
IS
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 17
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, you're muted, now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sorry, so you're not talking about the whole program,
you're only talking about the water side for infrastructure, but not the wastewater side
too. Is that what you're saying?
MS. CHAN HODGES: This specific application, we weren't intending to look at the. the
wastewater aspect. The way the application process is, however, is you can adjust it,
so there could be the potential, if there was an interest in that, to do that. Part of, what's
really kind of cool is the EPA works with you, so you submit an initial application, you
sort of provide certain options, so if, if it did apply we could look at that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. I think she clarified that this, she's not referring to wastewater.
Any more questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thankyou, Chair. Yeah, just, 1 too, noquestions, ijustwanted
to ask Ms. Chan Hodges if she wanted to stay on, if Members had other questions
when we get to the item, Chair? If there are no objections?
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any more questions for Ms. Shay Chan Hodges? She's
welcome to stay on, but 1 don't think anybody has any questions, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh. okay. I was just anticipating her as a resource. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I would have no objections.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members? If not, Shay Chan Hodges, would you be able to
stay on when, when we bring this item up as a resource?
MS. CHAN HODGES: Yes, I'd be happy to.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So ordered. Thankyou. Next testifier, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is calling in on last four digits 6309. 6309 will be followed by
Jordan Hocker.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 18
MS. STACY MOKE ftestifyinq on Bill No. 60 (2021)1;
Hi, my name is Stacy Moke and I'm a long time resident here on Maui and I've raised
my daughter here and I am in full support of Bill 60, of the moratorium on building new
visitor accommodations. Our island is overrun, we are losing our quality of life for
visitors and for our residents here, and it's just too much. And thank you for all that
you're doing, and I'm finished. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions. If not, lets have the next testifier, Madam
Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jordan Hocker, followed by Niniau Kawaihae.
MS. JORDAN HOCKER ftestifyinq on County Communication Nos. 21-294, 21-297, 21-298,
21-305. 21-310 & Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Aloha, Councilmembers. Bear with me today. 1 have several agenda items, I'm going
to try to go through them quickly. I have things prewritten, so I won't tangent off.
Okay, so first agenda item is CC 21-305. I really support this measure and I actually
encourage it to go even further. Instead of allowing sunscreen companies to come up
with these alternative chemicals, like avobenzone, in response to the oxybenzone ban.
And to whatever end, I think we need to outline what sunscreens are approved and
allowed like zinc oxide, which is considered reef safe sun protection. Because we don't
really have the time to be going back and forth with these commercial entities while we
wait for the science and the impact to catch up. So, I fully support this initiative and I
actually love to see it to go a longer distance in reef protection.
So, I'll move onto 21, CC 21-297, and 21-310, I guess can go together in terms of
transportation infrastructure. I want to thank you, Councilmember Lee for the resolution
and acknowledgement of how it would take the State's cooperation to solve our traffic
problem. I support problem solving our transporation and overcrowding, and in turn,
infrastructure changes. We are going to need the State's support, but we do need to
do something yesterday.
In terms of 21-310, in terms of regulating tourist traffic on the road to Hana. While I
think that either of those solutions are a good idea, I'm leaning towards Option A,
having designated tours, and really having, having the behavior of tourist, tourist rests
on shuttles or companies that are taking them out there. One provides more guidance
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 19
for how they need to behave themselves in East Maui, but also, I think it will take rental
cars off of the road.
In groups like Maui Bound, which is just purely a tourism group that I'm in to sort of give
them alternative information to their viewpoint,  Isee like many are renting cars to do
the road to Hana. So if you make it easy for them to do it without a car, that might be
a good option? And really, as we see the road needs so many updates and
advancements, more rental cars is a heavier impact. So, 1 just want to thank
Councilmember Lee and then also, Shane Sinenci for puting the ball moving on this.
And so, I'll move on to CC 21-294, on the wastewater treatment plant. ! think it's a
fundamentally important process to manage our wastewater resources particularly in
areas that are heavily desert, irrigated deserts.  Ihope to see more of these projects
particularly with the hope that some of our larger water consumers will have more
accountability for how they consume or possibly move them to, have to reclaim their
own wastewater.
So, then I'll move onto Bill 60. I support Bill 60. I would like to see it applied to the
entire County, but I have said that to you all many times and I’m getting the sense that
that's not going to happen. So, I think that we have all of these infrastructure issues to
handle before we press ahead and this moratorium is pause. So, infrastructure
examples that we desperately need to address before bringing more people here or
offering more visitor accommodations, is transportation, as you all know. Sustainable
water management, the visitor accommodations, hotels and such, are our largest water
consumers, and without water we don't thrive and it's not properly managed as it is.
We could do affordable housing or the tourism industry could have some time to deal
with the fact that they don't really pay all their employees a living wage. Contrary to
the statement of previous lobbyists 1 don't think that this will cause more people to have
to move away. If anything, I think that tourism is highly likely and very responsibly, very
responsible for the high property values and thus, our residents having to move away.
Right now, it's not people who live here buying homes, it's people who have been here
before on vacation, snatching up our homes and driving up our median house prices.
Again, the moratorium is not a doomsday scenario, this is pause. And the industry is
one of excess growth, they have never said this is our intention to mitigate our own
growth to the point where it's more important, the money coming in, then as actually
preserving the resources that they rely on to make the money. It's kind of a, it's a thing
I really don't understand.
So no doubt that we need over tourism management and I think this is an issue that
will take addressing on many sides and I think that Bill 60 is a way, just addressing one
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 20
of the issues. I know there's a concern with this not reducing the number of visitors
coming here, but I think the logic is pretty simple and I've seen it in these tourist groups
with the rental car shortage. Many people are waiting to come here until it's less
crowded, until they can find a car to rent for not an exorbitant price and I think the same
can be applied to visitor accommodation.
So I'll move onto my last agenda item that I'm testifying on, which is CC 21-298. In this
I understand why the amendment was put forth to maybe propose some middle ground
and work with developers so they don't feel like the Council is just stonewalling them
with this bill. But I'm really concerned with developers having a loophole to Bill 60. I
think we have more than enough examples of developers saying that they are going to
build affordable housing and then it not actually being affordable when it comes out or
not building the whole units that they say that they are.
When I, when developers are limited, when initiatives come forward to limit developers,
they always promise affordable housing, it's like the thing they come out of the bat with.
They do it for zoning changes and I just don't honestly think that's their intention.
Developers on this island are such that they have the power they want and then deal
with the consequences after. We see this in many cases, with buildings literally falling
into the ocean. We've seen this with affordable housing not getting built in West Maui,
when they said they were going to build it. And so. I'm concerned that, you know, this
amendment doesn't have the teeth to follow, to address what happens if developers
don't follow through. So really. I'm against this amendment, 1 think that Bill 60 as it
stands, even though it does not apply to the entire island, I'm still in support. So that
is the end of my testimony. Thank you, Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Jordan.
Member King has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Just a clarification for Ms.Mocker, that we did hear
you loud and clear, even others, that we, you want a moratorium for the entire island,
so there's another bill moving through that will be complimentary, not conflicting with
this current bill. So, just wanted to let you and others know that we heard, we heard
the public loud and clear.
CHAIR LEE; Any other comments or questions?
Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Nice seeing you Jordan? What building or hotel fell into
the ocean? I think that's what you said in your testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 21
MS. MOCKER: Yeah, yeah. So there is, I believe the home that's owned by the Maui Jim
guy, that's falling in. There’s the issues, Greg . .. building on the westside. I just think
that we, I think that people who have enough money to not follow the rules, don't worry
about actually following them. So that's, that's where that statement comes from.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more questions, Ms. Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, Jordan. Have a great weekend. Madam Clerk.
Oh, one more question, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Ms. Mocker for your
testimony on all those items this morning.
Yeah, I just wanted to reiterate that I'm sorry you felt unheard, but as Member King
stated, that 1 did introduce a resolution that would be islandwide and it's going to be
heard by the Planning Commission first before it comes back to Council. So you can
keep that on your radar. Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
MS. MOCKER: 1 will follow it then. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Niniau Kawaihae, followed by Lani Eckart-Dodd.
MS. NINIAU KAWAIHAE. DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS (testifying on
County Communication No. 21-296):
Aloha. Good morning. Madam Chair, Members of the Maui County Council. My name
is Niniau Kawaihae, special assistant in the Office of the Chairman at the Department
of Hawaiian Home Lands. I'd like the Chair's indulgence to bring up in joint testimony
with me, our Commissioner from Maui, Randy Awo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Is he there?
MS. KAWAIHAE: He is. Randy. Commissioner Awo, you can unmute and turn on your video.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 22
CHAIR LEE: Which item will you be discussing?
MS. KAWAIHAE: I am testifying on CC 21-296, in support of the County of Maui's resolution
honoring the centennial of the the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act. Next week
Friday, July 9, marks the 100th Anniversary of President, U.S. President Warren G.
Harding signing the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act of 1920 into law. And so we
have been throughout this pandemic, reflecting and thinking upon the last several
decades of the attempt to rehabilitate Native Hawaiians across the State with trust
lands, that of course, because of the times, when plantations had most of the good
fertile agricultural lands in the Territory of Hawaii, the Hawaiian Homes Commission,
you know, kind of got second and third grade land classes.
And of course, as we know from the Nelson case that went through the Hawaii court
system more recently, the Department has been severely underfunded, and
insufficiently funded for a number of decades. However, despite all of those
challenges. I think Native Hawaiians on the homestead, the Department has been able
to issue almost 10,000 residential, agricultural, and pastoral leases statewide, as well,
as provide bare minimums in the term, in terms of what Native Hawaiian rehabilitation
was meant during the time that Prince Kuhio advocated and, and brought forward this
bill. So [ want thank all of the Members for consideration of this resolution and look
forward to its passing.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. I see we have Randy, here. Hi.
(testifying on County CommunicationMR. RANDY AWO, COMMISSIONER. DHHL
No. 21-296):
Hi. Aloha. Aloha. Chairwoman Lee, Members of the Maui County Council. Again, my
name is Randy Awo, I serve as the Maui Commissioner for the Hawaiian Homes
Commission. Today, I'm writing in strong support of the aforementioned resolution
celebrating the centennial of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act of 1920, as
amended. As you may know, this July 9, will mark the 100th Anniversary of the signing
of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act into law by then U.S. President Warren G.
Harding.
The passing of this act was the culmination of several years of hard work by the Ahahui
Puuhonua o Na Hawaii and the Territorial Legislature to address the poor living
conditions of many Native Hawaiians, disenfranchised from their lands, after the Great
Mahele and the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii. Since that time, the Hawaiian
Homes Commission Act has awarded nearly 10,000 leases to residential, agricultural.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 23
and pastoral lands despite decades of insufficient funding to develop adequate
infrastructure or programming to address the Native Hawaiian rehabilitation efforts.
We want to thank Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez for introducing this very
important resolution honoring the hard work and the legacy of our Prince Jonah Kuhio
Kalaniana'ole and we strongly urge its passing. Mahalo. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Awo.
MR. AWO: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Good to see you. I just wanted to, I wondered if you had been
able to contact any of our Congressional delegation if they were planning to do anything
on July 9? I just wanted to offer that myself and Member Sugimura will be in D.C.,
hopefully in close proximity to our Congressional delegation during that week for the
NACo Conference. So if there's anything that we can do to get them to do a recognition
. . . and I hope I speak for her, you know, we can, we can try to make that push as well.
MR. AWO: Thank you, Councilmember King. I deferthatto Niniau. There has been contact
made with our delegation and . . . further responses?
MS. KAWAIHAE: Yes, I, I'm really happy to say that we will be having a small socially
distanced ceremony at our Kapolei offices next week Friday, at 9:00 a.m., that will be
livestreamed. And we are honored and pleased that our senior Senator Brian Schatz
will be in attendance providing remarks.
The Deputy to the Chairman, Tyler Gomes will be traveling to D.C. as well next week
with a contingent of Native Hawaiian Trust Representatives, as well as the Executive
Directors of the Papa Ola L5kahi and the Native Hawaiian Education Council. And on
Friday, July 9, in D.C., they will be doing the office blessings for Congressman Kai
Kahele and Congressman Ed Case, and also making efforts to tour the capitol privately
and socially distanced to see where Prince Kuhio's original office space was located.
The building he was in has been renumbered so it took a while for the staff to figure
out where, where his original office was, but they located it and the current member, I
believe, is allowing them to make a visit.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great. Well, if you have any additional invitations. I'm sure
Member Sugimura and I will make an attempt to attend that blessing as well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 24
MS. KAWAIHAE; I will, I will pass that along.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
MR.AWO; Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Questions? If not, thank you very much. Appreciate you coming.
MR. AWO; Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I see one hand.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just, I wanted to quickly thank
Commissioner Awo and Ms. Kawaihae for their help in crafting the resolution and for
their strong testimony in support this morning. Mahalo. Aloha. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you, again for coming.
Madam Chair, I mean Madam Clerk, may we have the next.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Lani Eckart-Dodd and followed by Lucienne de Naie.
MS. LANI ECKART-DODD Ftestifyinq on Bill No. 60 (2021)]:
Aloha kakahiaka kakou. I'm Lani Eckart-Dodd. Hi, aloha. Sorry if there s a little bit of
noise, I’m actually down at the . . . at Waipuilani down in South Kihei. The children in
my son’s program are down here surveying the reef, checking out what life is here, the
limu, the fish. It’s a beautiful day, and the children are beautiful over here. But 1 have
a little bit of ‘eha, you know, hurt in my na'au because I'm tired of telling our children
this is where we used to do things, this is where we used to pick limu. And to drive
past parks and say, oh, that’s where we used to go surfing, but now too crowded,
cannot go. Or go past hotels and gated-communities and say that’s where we used to
go fishing, but that’s, there's no more access.
Drove out to Hana last week and 1 had to tell them that's where we used to go swim in
the ponds, but cannot, because it’s too crowded with tourist. It’s, it’s so painful. The
tourism has exploded out of control in my lifetime, from the time I was their age till now,
and it's time to take a pause. It occurs to me as we're sitting over here at the beach.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 25
you know, traditionally, if resource was in distress or endangered, there would be a
kapu placed. And I feel like this Bill 60, moratorium on visitor accommodations is doing
just that. It's putting a pause, something, a resource that is in distress so that we can
take a step back, take a look at the systems in place that are, are or may not be working
to make adjustments and to allow us to recover a little bit.
So, I fully support Bill 60, you know, the beaches are full, the parks are full, there's
traffic on Maui, the grocery store sometimes the shelves get bare and the hospital is
full. There's so many people here, so you know, there's been capacity, carrying
capacity studies, you need to heed them. There's community island plan, we need to
follow it. I think we're past the one to three ratio at this point. So, let's take a pause, I
support Bill 60 and mahalo to the Council for passing this and pushing this through.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? If not, thank you, again.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Lucienne de Naie, to be followed by Pamela Tumpap.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Ms. de Naie.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE, SIERRA CLUB ftestifvinq on County Communication Nos. 21-299.
21-300. 21-305. & 21-309 and Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Aloha. Let's see if 1 can get an image here. Good Morning. Bonjour. I'm testifying on
behalf of the Sierra Club Maui Group on two of the items and then the rest I'm testifying
as a private citizen.
The first is Bill 60, and Sierra Club Maui does support this. We really need a time out
to figure out what we're doing. Our resources, we're really never quite designed to
accommodate as many tourists as we have ended up with. If a moratorium helps a bit,
it could help us learn how we want to better shape this part of our economy. But time
outs are a traditional way to figure out what you are going to do, whether you're playing
basketball or trying to plan the future of the whole island. So, we're very, very strongly
in support of this and thank all the Council people and members of the community who
have put so much time and effort into crafting something that has a chance of informing
us for the future, and giving us a potential better path forward.
I would just say as a resident of East Maui, it's crazy out here, you know, on this
highway. It's like people were yelling in front of Twin Falls cause the car was just
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 26
stopped on the road, and people who were monitoring the parking lot were going get
off the road, get off the road. Cars were backed up behind this thoughtless tourist who
wanted to take a picture. It's crazy, you know, we are not Disneyland, so we need to
think about how we going to do it better.
Moving on to bill, um, County Communication 21-305, having to do with the sunscreen
prohibitions. We also are in strong support of this. The Sierra Club worked with the
last round to try to get better laws in place about what sunscreens really will do as little
harm as possible. So, we're very glad that this is being brought up again and
refinements are being made and so, please accept our support as it's referred to
Committee. We will weigh in again but this is, this is a good step forward.
And then moving on to the other matters, the Communication 21-299, the proposed
amendments to Bill 62, the zipline bill. I’m just speaking as a private individual now,
who lives in the vicinity of a zipline. Yes, commercial activity, of course, is one phase
of kind of exploiting a neighborhood. But non-commercial activity or activity that hides
as not being commercial, because maybe it’s a meet up group that goes to rappel a
waterfall every month, it's like, eh, you know, let's have some way of looking into this if
neighbors are concerned, at least there's some way to call and say, is this really, you
know, permitted, is this really allowed. So, I'm supportive of the amendment and I'm
very supportive of passing Bill 62 today and getting some regulation out there.
On County Communication 21-300, really greatful that Ms. Shay Chan Hodges has put
this forward and given the County an opportunity. We do need to look at how we can
transition from the aged state of some of our infrastructure and our water infrastructure,
the part that diverts streams is very aged. The youngest ditch in East Maui is a hundred
years old, and that's the youngest one and some of them are much older. So this is
an opportunity, and I hope that the Council will support the resolution, just saying that,
you know, the County doesn't have to apply for money, but is interested in seeing what
could be, come out of this in terms of, you know, some proposals and some funding.
And then, the County Communication 21-309, which has to do with shoreline access.
I didn't see any direct information on it, I know it's going to be referred to Committee.
But we definitely need all the clarity we could get with shoreline access. 1 have so say,
as president of the community association in Haiku, I have fishermen calling me going,
how come 1 can't get down to, you know, this spot anymore, there's a locked gate?
And yet 1 know there's a subdivision there, so there’s supposed to be access, you know,
there's supposed to be under our coastal law access. So, thank you to Councilmember
Kama for putting this fonward and hopefully during the discussion we'll find out more
and be able to support it in more detail. But just the idea of bringing up shoreline
access for recreational purposes for our residents is very important. So, mahalo to you
all and have a good short meeting. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 27
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. We have a question.
Member Paltin.
You're muted. You're muted. Staff, can we help her. Can't hear you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Try pressing "M".
CHAIR LEE: What is that for? Press "M" to make it happen.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mute and unmute.
CHAIR LEE: I wonder what, let's go to another question and come back to Member Paltin. I
saw another hand, Ms. Sugimura, was it? And you're muted as well. You're muted as
well, What’s going on here? Did I see another hand? Did I see Mr. Sinenci's hand?
Yes, Mr. Sinenci, please say something. He's muted as well. I almost heard
something.
Member Paltin, were you able to fix your audio?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, perhaps we can take a quick recess?
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, I was going to suggest that, giving them 30 seconds more. Lucienne,
would you be able to stay on for a few minutes while we try and connect with the other
Members?
MS. DENAIE: I’ll be happy to, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, good. Members, we'll take a five minute break. Just five minutes. Let's
make it 10:25, 10:25, little over five minutes. Recess.
AND WAS(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:16 A.M.
RECONVENED AT 10:25 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER
KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of July 2, please reconvene. Now, we don't want to
keep our testifier waiting. So, questions?
Member Paltin for Lucienne.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 28
COUNCILMEMBER PALTiN; Dm, thank you. I was, my question was in regards to the zipline
situation bill that you testified on. We had a lot of testimony to pass that legislation
today and I just was wondering, which is more important, if there is a loophole for a
bad actor to correct the loophole today and maybe pass it in a couple of weeks? Or
was it to pass it today? I can't hear you.
MS. DE NAIE; Sorry. Mahalo for your question, Councilmember Paltin. That is a tough
question. I would say pass it today, and then amend it, because that loophole was
probably not something that is going to affect things in the, in the near-term, it will be,
you know, longer-term. And meanwhile, we just have people that you know, are in this
grey area of the law and people in the neighborhoods have no recourse, you know.
The Planning Department said, well, we don't really have a law about it. So, that's why
we all worked so hard to, to get something in place, you know. Who knew, these
weren't a big deal, you know, 20 years ago, but they are now, so.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
MS. DE NAIE: And there are good faith operators, so, we, we, I think you have a fair bill that's
crafted fairly. I would say pass it today and do the amendment, which is a good
amendment, later. I saw that a lot of the amendment is just, you know, housekeeping
sorts of things, dashes, and paragraph indents and things like that. But I think those
are insubstantial changes that can be changed even if you pass it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I'm sorry. It wasn't the posted amendment. The Director
brought to our attention a different issue that exempts one of the bad actors from the
bill, which was I thought the point of the bill.
MS. DE NAIE: Oh. I'm sorry. Yeah, I'm sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, we're going to try, we weren't able to post the ASF because
we just found out about it yesterday, so I just was wondering, it was--
MS. DE NAIE: I see. That's why you asked me this question because I haven't seen the
other amendment. Okay, well, if it truly would be necessary to have this in, to, you
know, make sure that one of the bad faith operators is included, then I think, you know,
you should take the time and get it in.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Question, Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 29
COUNCiLMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you, Lucienne for hanging out as we had our
technology issues. So, this is also about 21-299, which is the, I'm sorry, which is the
zipline, second and final reading bill. And I know that you're with the Haiku Community
Association and part of that was, um, we were, I was hearing, which was, which caused
me to start the ball rolling with Member Molina about this, that there was a zipline that
was planning on putting a zipline across Jaws. Did you hear that?
MS. DE NAIE; Yes. I definitely, well, I don't know if it's across Jaws, it was one that was
proposed on a property that's just a little bit to the east of Jaws and maybe one of the
gulches involved was Manawaiiao, which is the gulch that leads down to what people
call Jaws, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, is it still happening? Since you're
MS. DE NAIE: You know, it's been very, it's yeah, it's been very quiet recently, so I think the
Planning Department could answer that question better than I could because-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, I thought-
MS. DE NAIE: -they would know if there's still a valid, you know, a concern for the, it's in the
SMA zone, so they would need to get some sort of an SMA thing to do anything in the
SMA zone, I know. 1 don't think the ziplines are categorically exempt or anything. But
I kinda think that they are waiting to see what, what the bill is like to see if they would
move forward. There was a tremendous amount of community opposition, a hundred
people attended a meeting, and I don't think any, not one person was for it. So, that's
what I know about that. But, yes, that was a concern.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I mean, cause I think all of those things were the nemesis
of getting this all, you know, put together for this bill that you're seeing today. So, thank
you very much for your testimony and clarification.
MS. DE NAIE: Yeah, thank you all for your work.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
MS. DE NAIE: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you, Lucienne for answering those
questions.
And Madam Clerk, do we have another testifier?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 30
Our next testifier is Pamela Tumpap, to be followed by Scott Shapiro.COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE; Pam, are you there? Let's go on to Scott Shapiro.
MR. SCOTT SHAPIRO [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-298 & 21-305 and Bill
No. 60 (2021)1:
I'm here. Can you hear me? Is that--
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead. Scott.
MR. SHAPIRO: Sorry. I just have a question. Do you guys have a quorum right now? 1 don’t
know what the number--
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we do.
MR. SHAPIRO; Okay. My math is not great, so. Urn, so I wanted to. I'm in Maine, actually,
the state of Maine. So bonjour from Maine, visiting family, you can see the cross
country skis behind me. I wanted to testify on Bill 60 and 21-298.
Real quickly, starting with 21-304, urn 305, prohibition of sunscreens. I'm in support of
that. I like the idea of Jordan Hocker, brought up about maybe looking into further
which types would be acceptable, so there is no runaround by companies until this,
you know, gets sorted out. So, maybe not jump into it super fast, but I definitely, as
most of us, would support that.
So, Bill 60 and 21-298, they go together, yet I think, Councilmember Paltin's 21-298
needs to be held back after a moratorium is put in place, so we can look at that more
closely, to see if it fits. So, I would support that, but with, 1 think we need more
consideration of what that might mean. Bill 60, I'm in full support of. I'm very happy to
hear that another resolution was formed to include the other parts of Maui besides
South Maui and is it West Maui, right now?
CHAIR LEE; Yes. South and West Maui.
MR. SHAPIRO; Yeah, so, thank you for that, again. I'm in full support and I just wanted to
touch base with you guys while I'm here, because  Ireally think it's very important to
voice my concerns. So, thank you very much. Have  agreat holiday weekend,
everyone. And that's it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 31
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Scott. Hope you have a wonderful vacation. Are there any
questions? If not, thank you. Happy of July.
MR. SHAPIRO: Thank you. See you soon.
CHAIR LEE: See you soon.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Pamela Tumpap is back on the call.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: So, we can call her up, to be followed by Randy Sakumoto.
CHAIR LEE: Pam.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP. MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE [testifying on County
Communication No. 21-310 and Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Awesome. Okay, aloha, good morning, bonjour and Happy Aloha Friday, Chair Lee,
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers.  Ican see we're having some
BlueJeans issues.
First, you know, we know theI would like to testify on Bill 60 and CC 21-310.
importance of protecting our environment, a sustainable visitor industry and economic
We understand residents are frustrated, businessowners, we're alldiversification,
residents, our staff are residents. You know, we're frustrated with the infrastructure
traffic, overcrowding. We believe though, there are other ways to addressissues
these issues without instituting a moratorium, and that we have been working in that
area for quite some time, creating plans to work toward that direction and yet we're not
seeing the same level of focus on moving those plans forward.
We encourage Council to study the issues and work with all stakeholders before putting
moratorium. As Rod mentioned earlier, he wants to jump in and help. We'vein a
expressed our interest in helping. And we'd like to see many other industry groups
included while we work to solve these problems. So, you know, we want to see
opportunities where we come together to set strong programs in place to address the
key issues, while not hampering our economic growth.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 32
We again share that restricting growth will not restrict the number of visitors traveling
to Maui, and by not allowing growth in these areas, specifically zoned for visitor
accommodations, we're concerned it will drive people to illegal rentals in residential
areas. And there was a comment made earlier that  Iwant to make a point on, and I've
shared before. You know, when it comes to green initiatives, many of our hotels and
resorts are leaders in these, and we're trying to get a handle and get stories, and they're
coming forward, wanting to share more of those things that they've been doing. So I
think it’s important that we tap into that resource and get a, and get a good handle on
all the things they're doing.
I think Councilmember Paltin, you know, with her amendment was trying to do a good
thing and pushing fonward affordable housing and rentals with some creative thinking.
We just don't think that, that proposal will work at this time, the properties would be
able to purchase the land for residential use and build residential workforce housing
units in an equal number to the amount of accommodations. I think that needs to be
brought up more with the industry. It's not the time to hamper economic activity.
Accommodations were some of the hardest hit in 2020, many are trying to catch up
from a year of loss and as shared before, Paul Brewbaker, estimates the moratorium
forecast for just a pause for two years would have significant revenue loss.
We are also hearing that, you know, as it was brought up at the last hearing, that
businesses are looking for employees and we understand concerns about not having
enough workers, particularly if there's growth. So, while many people are reporting job
numbers and openings, it's important to look at the source and correlate the data with
our County. According to Hirenet Hawai'i's Hawaii Workforce Infonet, Maui County had
800, excuse me, 8,350 unemployed individuals in May of 2021. If we compare this to
the average from 2019, which was approximately 2,000 unemployed individuals, and
we still have about 6,350 unemployed people from this pandemic. Recently, after our
last hearing, we asked the Maui Hotel and Lodging Association, how many of their
members, you know, had openings. And surveying their members with about half
bringing in, there are about 558 open positions. We strongly feel that as extended
benefits run out in the next few months, and in-person school is back in session, we
will see these job openings quickly filled and there will be opportunities to grow.
Lastly, we are concerned that if this is passed, the bill may face legal challenges. We
urge you not to put the County in a precarious position and ask that you defer this bill
until you have a legal opinion rendered by Corp. Counsel. If they feel the County is
protected, we feel their opinion should be publicly shared.
We also sent you today an updated letter, we have more signatures, there are now
111 signatures on that asking that this moratorium be held. So, we appreciate and
thank you for the opportunity to testify.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 33
I'll just move forward to item CC 21-310. We too, have great concern over what is
happening on the road to Hana. We are seeing pictures on the news of tremendous
overcrowding, and we are hearing stories from both local residents, as well as tour
organizers that people are going off into areas they're just not supposed to be going
off into, in addition to blocking the roads, even though we've started to institute a
reservation system at Wainapanapa.
We like plan A and I’ll tell you why, while I know there's issues and you have to get
approval from the State, it seems fora toll road, even if you do a toll road, you still have
people once they pay, meandering around Hana. With the tour guides and the tour
plan, you've got managed tourism, you've got people who are getting on and off tour
vehicle at certain periods of time. You've got people who can't park and know the
appropriate places to park, and you've got a lot of local residents running those
companies. We'd be happy to share a number of Chamber members who are tour
providers with you, but the reason we like this is because the tour operators can help
to manage where people are going and we believe that will not only help clear up
blockages, but also save County and State resources. And we appreciate again the
opportunity to provide testimony today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Members, any questions? If not, thank you, Pam.
Oh, one question here. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering to clarify, when you said that school goes
back in session, that the jobs will fill up and being that the elementary school kids are
ineligible for the vaccine and the Delta variant, is the Chamber doing anything proactive
to get ahead of that?
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you so much for asking. Yes, the reason we say that is because we
hear so many parents are still caring for their children at home and of course, during
the pandemic, they were educating them from home and as school opens up, that will
help. What we're doing currently, and we've published it many times and continue to
publish it, is we’re partnering with Minit Medical. They are working with businesses,
also any organizations or groups. We're trying to get to those remote areas or areas
where maybe parents don't have time to, to drive into the clinics, reach out, they can
go to businesses across Maui County, but, well, excuse me, not Maui County, Maui
island, this is Minit Medical, and with Hana they would need a certain number of people
who can be vaccinated, but they're trying to get to remote areas and they will drive out,
they just need a small room.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 34
If anybody has any questions about how to schedule Minit Medical, you can reach out
to the Chamber office and we will give you the contacts. They are going on the road,
so they're going out to, if there's a cluster at schools, or there's a cluster at businesses,
and it's not just for the business employees, it could be their spouses, their children,
their significant others, it could be associates of the business or the organization. And
you just need to give them some sense of, they have all three vaccines available, what
vaccine would be preferred and the number of people and then they can schedule a
time to come out to your remote location and assist.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I guess ! was, I was concerned about the elementary
school that the school kids that aren't old enough for the vaccine, if they're all in,
together in one room.
MS. TUMPAP: Well, you know, unfortunately, we don't handle school services, or pre, you
know, kindergarten or primary school services but you know, we could talk to people,
like maybe MEO, might be a helpful resource on that. But we are concerned about the
kids who are not old enough to get the vaccines, but we don't coordinate school
services, but we are in strong support of seeing other service providers come forward.
Daycare is being looked at at the State level and we support daycare options and other
schooling options with social distancing and--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, I guess the reason that I asked that is that's a concern
with kids going back to school and then people going back to work if it explodes again
with our children, then you know, with your statement that, oh, the kids are going back
to school, and everyone will go back to work, it's, um, I just have questions and
concerns about that general statement.
MS. TUMPAP: I hear, I hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Alright.
MS. TUMPAP: Yeah. So, we have been working on, of course, encouraging vaccinations,
and the closer we get to herd immunity helps reduce some of those concerns. But we
do also understand there are a number of people that just don't believe in it, and, and
so, that's going to be an ongoing challenge. But for those who are on the fence about
getting vaccination and helping us get to those herd immunity numbers, we've been
doing several education programs with special business matters segments with Kaiser
doctors and others.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 35
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. Good morning, Ms. Tumpap, thank you
for joining us today.
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you. Good morning.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; I saw, you know, I hear you loud and clear, that the Maui
Chamber of Commerce does not support the moratorium and instead, you pivoted to
the idea of managing our infrastructure. So, my question is a clarifying question on
your infrastructure points. Recently some of our Councilmembers, myself and Kelly
King have met with the airlines and one of the ways we can manage, another way to
manage the tourism is to look at the way we run the gates at the airport. So, maybe a
cap on how many people pass through an airport gate? Do you, does the Chamber of
Commerce support that idea? Do you have a stance on managing people going
through an airport gate?
MS. TUMPAP: So, not at this time, but we are bringing together a committee to look at this
and work on it.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Well, when you come up with a stance, I would love
to hear from it. So, thank you, Ms. Tumpap. I have no further questions.
MS. TUMPAP: Our pleasure. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member, Member Molina, then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good Morning, Pam. You know,
you mentioned Paul Brewbaker’s assessment, economic assessment. Did that
assessment also include the impacts to quality of life and what kind of cost it could
have on the community as well? I know he's kind of looking at it from the perspective
of a economist and in terms of revenue generated and what a moratorium could cost,
but was the cost to impacts to our quality of life considered in his assessment, if you
know?
MS. TUMPAP: Actually, I think this came up the last session as well. I know that Paul is
actually working on a broader study, but I, we're not involved in that, we didn't engage
him. I just know that he's working on it, so I don't know what all is going to be included
in that. But I know it's something that's actively in the works now.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 36
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you very much, Pam. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Pam.
MS. TUMPAP: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thanks for being here today.  Ijust wanted to clarify, you, you,
you, I keep hearing that you folks want to work with us, and I did invite Sherry Duong
and yourself to be involved in the initial. . . of the Climate Action Advisory Committee.
You both dropped off fairly early on, so, you know, we would love to have that
involvement if you're willing to stay involved, there is a sub-committee of that
organization on sustainable tourism, and I was really disappointed-
MS. TUMPAP: We just saw that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah.
MS. TUMPAP: Wejust-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I would request your participation. So you know, you’re welcome
to join again, it's all voluntary, you know, people giving us their expertise. But you
know, we tried.
MS. TUMPAP: I apologize. Well, I appreciate that you tried, to be honest with you, Kelly, I
apologize. We did see the sustainability email, just the other day come through and
Amber is going to reach out to you, we definitely want to make time for that. I, I, you
mentioned that we dropped off, I don't know that  Iever participated once because I
don't recall being invited.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: This is the whole Climate Advisory Committee last year, you know
Sherry came to the first, one meeting and then she just said, she wasn't going to come
back again, so.
MS. TUMPAP: Okay, so I didn't, I didn't even realize I was, to be honest with you, I didn't
realize we were invited, and I don't believe I attended anything.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You were, you were on the original list, but we'll try to involve you
again. And the other thing I wanted to ask you is, did you see the posting from HTA,
the Hawaii Tourism Authority, that Governor Ige put on his Facebook page that says.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 37
while it's not legal to put a cap or limit on number of people who visit our State, limiting
the lodging supply may be just as effective. So this is the Governor, this is HTA's
statement that the Governor reiterated on his Facebook page.
MS. TUMPAP: No, I haven't seen that yet, but we'll look it up. And we know that the Governor
is looking at the veto on HB 862, we've been working with him on that. But I haven't
seen that Facebook, but we'll have Amber look it up.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay.
MS. TUMPAP; So, I appreciate that reference. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? Questions? If not, thank you, Pam and then let's move on to the
next testifier?
MS. TUMPAP; Thank you. Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Randy Sakumoto, followed by Dick Mayer.
MR. RANDY SAKUMOTO. HAWAII HOTEL ALLIANCE ftestifyinq on Bill No. 60 (2021)1;
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
MR. SAKUMOTO; For some reason, 1 can't get my video on.
CHAIR LEE; That's okay. We can hear you clearly.
MR. SAKUMOTO; Okay, I apologize for that. Aloha, Councilmembers, my name is Randall
Sakumoto and I represent the Hawaii Hotel Alliance. I'm here to testify in opposition
to Bill 60. Earlier my client submitted a copy of  alegal memorandum which I prepared
when this measure was introduced, and the memo raised a number of legal issues
relative to the moratorium on building permits.
Today, however I'm going to limit my testimony solely to the potential due process
violations that will result from the enactment of this bill. Government action violates
substantive due process rights when that action is not rationally related to a legitimate
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 38
governmentally purpose. In other words, a law is invalid on substantive due process
grounds if it is arbitrary and irrational.
Here Bill 60 fails to advance a legitimate governmental interest because of the means
set forth to achieve the bill’s objectives. The stated purpose of the bill is to "stop
increasing carbon-emission levels, mitigate climate-change impacts, and limit the rate
of global warming." However, the bill cites no evidence or empirical data to support
the conclusion that the means applied in the bill will actually serve such purposes. It
unclear how prohibiting the acceptance of building permits for visitor
accommodations for the next two years will stop increasing carbon-emission levels or
have any noticeable impact on global warming. Without a factual basis justifying that
the moratorium is necessary or reasonably calculated to mitigate climate-change
impacts, the proposed moratorium is an arbitrary act of government.
Bill 60's other governmental objective which is to temporarily maintain the status quo,
largely rests on the assumption that a moratorium on building permits will deter tourism.
This moratorium however will do nothing to prevent airlines and cruise ships from
continuing to bring tourist to Maui, many of whom stay in existing visitor
accommodations or illegal short-term rentals. Without the obvious lack of fit between
the stated purpose of the bill and the chosen means to advance its objectives, the bill
simply fails to further its own objective through rational means. Thank you for allowing
me to testify today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any clarifying questions? If not, thank you very much.
IS
May we have next-
MR. SAKUMOTO: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: -thank you. May we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Dick Mayer.
MR. DICK MAYER [testifying on County Communication No. 21-298 and Bill No. 60 (2021)]:
Bonjour. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Bonjour, Mr. Mayer. Yes, we can. Welcome.
MR. MAYER: I'd like to testify on Bill 60 and also CC 21-298. With regards to Bill 60, as you
know, I strongly support that bill and I want to give two major things I think that bill will
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 39
accomplish. One is, it will allow us to recalculate what we want to do on Maui to
manage the tourist industry, the overtourism, the quality of life issues, and I don't have
to go into any more details, I think you are well-aware of the issues there. The second
thing is, which hasn't been mentioned is that I think it will protect the existing tourist
industry from more competition. And so many people have said they're concerned
about the effects on our business community, well actually, by having a moratorium on
new construction, we're actually protecting the jobs of existing workers, ranging all the
way from those who do the, the landscaping and the waiting and the waitressing and
chambermaids, and all those all the way up to the top managers. We're keeping out
competition from them. So, I think we'll actually strengthen our tourist industry on Maui.
With regard to the statements just made by Mr. Sakumoto a minute ago regarding due
process, I think the due process argument can be said that the Maui Island Plan, which
is a legal plan of the County, has said that we should have a one to three ratio and
we're over that level. So I think you're very capable of defending this proposed bill on
the basis of the fact that you are realty implementing what the Maui Island Plan has
said, and what you should be doing.
I'm sorry that the Planning Department and the Planning Commission have not been
following the Maui Island Plan and have been continually adding more and more
residents, despite the fact that we're out of whack with our numbers. So, I think that
you folks are doing the right thing on that regard.
With regard to CC 21-298, 1 want to applaud Councilmember Paltin's initiative to get
that put on the agenda as an amendment, but I'm opposed to it. And I'm opposed to it
not because I'm opposed to affordable housing, but because I don't think that the
amendment will get what you want. There are too many ways that developers have
found to get around the affordable housing requirement. They buy credits from existing
units, and no additional affordable housing is done.
We need to get the affordable housing for the lower income residents and what this bill
does not do is specific, specifically indicate what will happen if a developer comes in
and buys credits and then says, 1 don't have to put up affordable housing, and that
group doesn't get attention, that lower-income group. So, I'm hoping that you will all
find a way to do some of the things that Ms. Paltin has suggested, but do it in a separate
ordinance, to get the lower-income people affordable housing and also, be considerate
of the one to three ratio that's in the Maui Island Plan.
What we should be really having is three affordable housing units for every new
vacation or hotel or timeshare unit that ratio, so we have a ratio, so that when every
new additional tourist or tourist family comes in, one of Maui's local families will be able
to get the housing that they need. So, please draw up an ordinance to that effect and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 40
then I think people would be happy after the moratorium is over, that you then be able
to get the affordable housing you need and also not have it in the interim, when we
don't have a proper ordinance to do that. I want to thank you, and merci.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Dick. Are there any questions? If not, thanks and have a great
weekend.
MR. MAYER: You too. Happy 4'^ to all of you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is the last four digits of 7394. 7394 will be followed by
last four digits 9460.
MS. LAURA LOUIE HARRELSON ftestifyinq on County Communication No. 21-310 and Bill
No. 60 (2021)1:
Hello. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, we can.
MS. HARRELSON: Great. Hi, my name is Laura Louie Harrelson. I am a resident of Keokea
and Kipahulu. I'm calling as a private citizen. First of all, I just want to say how much
I  appreciate this opportunity to speak with you all and a special shout out to
Councilmember King for bringing Bill 60 to all of you. I am in full support of 60, and in
hearing today's testimony, it's obvious that many people feel the same. And the hotel
industry has put forth a willingness to cooperate and all of this just speaks to me as an
opportunity. We live on a very small island, a very special island, and I'm hopeful that
we can all work together to create a sustainable tourism plan as put forth by
Councilmember King and I'm hoping that that is going to get further discussion.
And I also wanted to comment on CC 21-310, the East Maui tourism and management
of traffic flow. Thank you, Councilmember Lee and Sinenci for putting your attention
on that. And we had such an amazing time during the pandemic on the east side,
where I've been for a little more than 20 years now, and for the first time got to see a
glimpse of what 1 believe Maui used to be. And I even commented on that to our
daughters. And since traffic and tourism have started back up again, I've nearly been
run off the road more times than I want to comment on. And its tourists as well as tour
buses. So if we are talking about a tourism plan that limits rental cars and restricts it
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 41
just to tour buses, I hope that there are some guidelines put on speed limits as well as
monitoring their performance because I have many complaints to file on that.
And lastly, I would like to put my attention and feel it's my responsibility as a resident
to participate in however you need me and that is the end on my testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions, Members?
If not, Ms. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha Laura, nice to hear your voice.
MS. HARRELSON: Aloha, Kelly.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thanks for calling in with the time difference. So, I just wanted to
foliow-up and see if we could tap your, your experience for the sustainable tourism
issues, since you said you wanted to remain involved, you know I would love to be able
to get you on that sub-committee of the CAAC that's looking at sustainable tourism.
MS. HARRELSON: You can count on me, Kelly, always.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Great. Thank you and have a great time, be safe over there.
Aloha.
MS. HARRELSON: Happy 4^^ everybody.
CHAIR LEE: You too. Any more questions. Members?
If not. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is calling in from the last four digits of 9460, and to
be followed by Nick Drance.
MR. DANIEL KANAHELE [testifying on Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Bonjour, Mademoiselle Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 42
MR. KANAHELE: (Spoke in French.)
My name is Daniel Kanaheie. I am speaking as a individual. I will keep it short, lam
in strong support of Bill 60. The last time the Maui County Council did not pass a bill
on second reading as I recall is when the earth was threatened by reports of a collision
with a large asteroid. That never happened. Today we have reports of another asteroid
heading towards planet earth, specifically in the Pacific region. I believe those reports
are also erroneous. So, I am highly optimistic that this bill will pass on second reading.
Merci beaucoup. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Kanaheie. Good to hear from you. Are there any questions? If
not, thank you. Appreciate that French lesson.
Madam Clerk.
MR. KANAHELE: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Nick Drance, to be followed by Dave Jorgensen.
MR. NICK PRANCE rtestifvina on Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Good morning, Chair and Council. Nice to see you. This moratorium gives us a
breather in order to ramp up solutions to serious well-documented problems. Not doing
this seems like speeding ahead on the road, not being sure if we're on the right one
and the map is in the trunk. We need to pull over so we can find it there. I and others
believe this bill should extend at least to our entire island, if not the County. There are
some solutions, but the challenge is that they'll take some time to execute. By the time
we're close to ready, we'll be right past our turnoff and unable to go back.
And then it goes through the contents of three large reports in three minutes. I know
some Councilmembers indicated the need for specific, specifics and data, so 1 went
through these reports page by page. Two studies done by the University of Hawaii in
2018-19, also Hawaii Tourism Authority 2021-23, Destination Management report for
Maui County. So I annotated the side with my notes .  . . Here are highlights of
12 common topics through all three studies which are discussed in-depth. Resident's
sentiment alike, today's Maui News had an article about longstanding resident
complaints, even in May when we had 30,000 less visitors from pre-pandemic levels.
Visitor levels in March and April were 175,000 and now it's obviously more than that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 43
So, I will give you these topics and then I'll cite specific comments with page numbers,
where they appear in the report if I have time at the end.
So, these studies mentioned resident's sentiment six times. High visitor to resident
ratio twice. Impact on resident's quality of life four times. Impact on the health of the
visitor industry and sustainability of tourism twice. Economic vitality three times, input
from the communities plans twice. Benefits for residents four times. Regenerative
tourism once. Natural resources twice. Climate change, sea level, infrastructure repair
and maintenance twice. Infrastructure once. The need for fresh new thinking and new
management model six times. How am I doing?
Highlights from a couple of them. Those reports actually indicated that some residents
demanding absolute reduction in tourist numbers and were organizing to
intervene, I'm surprised to read that. The UH chart said, well, it indicated the tourist
spending relative to residents was down $17,000 in 1989 to $11,000 in 2017 and
relative 1989 dollars so in otherwords it said, in some, to some extent adding ... under
these circumstances is like a cat chasing its tail. The majority of residents feel tourism
benefits the industry more than them.
And okay, in summary, the need for this moratorium, to me, seems well-documented.
We need time to evaluate and execute some of these strategies. These reports
indicate that continuing on the same path is not the way forward. So, seeing no other
alternative proposed, and in recognition of the legitimacy of these reports and studies,
I think it's right to follow the advice of experts. So, I ask you to please vote yes on this
bill, execute it islandwide and please do so unanimously. Mahalo nui.
were
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Drance.
Member Sugimura, question.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Mr. Drance. Did you say, you submitted that?
The details ... the page numbers and you mentioned the report in general, but I wonder
if you could submit it to us in, in more detail.  Iknow three minutes is short time to say
ail that.
MR. DRANCE; Sure. Sure. I distilled it three times. The original written testimony was huge,
then I distilled it, then 1 distilled it, then I distilled it so, I'll figure out. It's a lot to go
through. So, I will send you two distilled things and you can pick out which one you
want to read, depending on how much time you have. So, thank you for asking. Yes,
I'll send them.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 44
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions? If not, thank you Mr. Drance.
MR. DRANCE: Alright. Thank you. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Dave Jorgensen, to be followed by Stephen Beidner.
CHAIR LEE; And then how many after Stephen?
COUNTY CLERK; We have eight pending.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. We have to take lunch. Can we have the testifier, please?
Mr. Jorgensen. Or is it the phone number?
COUNTY CLERK; Mr. Jorgensen.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNTY CLERK; He's in the meeting. He needs to unmute on his side.
CHAIR LEE; Let's go to the next one.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, he's on, is he on the line? Is he on the call?
COUNTY CLERK; He's on the call. He needs to unmute on his side. We can, we can try
Stephen Beidner.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
MR. STEPHEN BEIDNER [testifying on Bill No. 60 (2021)1;
Hello.
CHAIR LEE; Hello.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 45
MR. BEIDNER: Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, would you like to start your testimony, Mr. Beidner?
MR. BEIDNER: Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think it’s Beidner.
MR. BEIDNER: It is.
CHAIR LEE: Beidner.
MR. BEIDNER: My name is Stephen Beidner. Yeah, good morning, Chair. Good morning,
Councilmembers. I'm testifying today in favor of Bill 60. I testified recently at the town
hall on overtourism about, not only the managed tourism but... I don't want to repeat
my testimony.
I just want to talk about one issue today, which is water. Today, July 2, which is the
first day of water restrictions in Upcountry, other than Kula, where residents are being
asked or mandated to lessen their water use. At the same time, we're welcoming plane
loads of tourists that are going to use enormous amounts of water. Their getting off
their plane, their plane may be washed. Their getting in their rental car which is just
washed for them. Their driving to their hotel where their towels and sheets are being
washed and sometimes on a regular basis. They're eating out where there are pots
and pans and dishes and produce are being washed.
So, with you know, climate change being real and droughts going, droughts going to
be, becoming probably more prevalent, we're probably going to have more restrictions
on water use not just Upcountry, but islandwide, maybe Countywide. So at a time
when that's happening, I think we need to take a pause and stop creating avenues for
more tourism and more accommodations, which will use more precious water
resources.
I would ... I'd just like to also mention that I think the one to three ratio from the Maui
Island Plan really is very good and needs to be enforced, but actually maybe need to
even be looked at in a different way. I think we need to find a, a sustainable amount
of people that can be on the island at any one time, because under the one to three
ratio as residents go up, that means more visitors can go up, and I don't think that's a
really good idea either, I think we need to have  acertain amount that should be here
at any one time, no matter who they are. And that's about all I have to say.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 46
CHAIR LEE: Oh, no wonder, I'm muted.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Dave Jorgensen.
CHAIR LEE: Dave, are you there? Apparently not, so let's go on to the next one.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Mark Deakos.
CHAIR LEE: Mark, are you there?
MR. MARK DEAKOS [testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-298, 21-300 & 21-305
and Bill No. 60 (202111:
Councilmembers, yeah. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. DEAKOS: Okay. Thank you. Thank you for, my name is Mark Deakos, West Maui
resident, twenty-five years. Bonjour.
First, I want to talk, I do support Bill 60. We're definitely way over capacity and we
need to pause and try to emulate some of the sustainable tourism practices that are
successful elsewhere. And there's no question of the impact of the additional tourism
is having on our carbon footprint from jet fuel, rental cars alone, and of course, the
water quality and the water resources that are depleting, so no question there.
1 don't support the amendment 298, because I do think we need to break away from
the mindset that this idea, that we need to trade-off bad for good. So it's kind of like
our 201H program, you know, we just incentive the wrong things to get a little bit of
good done, and i think we can do all good without offsetting that with, with bad. I do
have one exception, if they do want to build the first living building hotel. I'd be in
support. Living building is a regenerative design, brainworkthat results in a net positive
energy, water, eliminates all waste, addresses food security, health, and equity.
So, Mr. Molina raises a critical point about quality of life. You know, just more money
being made doesn't equate to increased quality of life. So, we need to use a different
currency when we're measuring success.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 47
Moving on to 21-225 [sic]. I support the sunscreen bill. 1 think everyone can agree on
that.
21-300, regarding water. Just a spend a little bit of talk about water and I just want to
raise awareness how living buildings actually address water. They first, they eliminate
all black water with dry toilets, cause it makes no sense to flush 40,000 gallons of
potable water, perfectly good drinking water, down the drain each year. When you
combine waste with water, that's where we get issues with pathogens, . . . vector, and
we get problems. So, there's no need to mix potable water with our waste.
It also captures, this living buildings, they capture and treat all water on-site. They
recharge aquifers, manages stormwater, produces no wastewater, so every discussion
should ask, you know, why are we using potable water in our, in our waste system?
So, this will eliminate all of that water that can be used for other sources. We don't
have to treat it, addresses injection wells, all that kind of stuff, so, that's all I have today.
Thank you. Council.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Deakos.
MR. DEAKOS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is calling in with last four digits of telephone number
8154, to be followed by Faith Chase.
MS. JENNIFER FRIEDLANDER [testifying on County Communication No. 21-299 and Bill
Nos. 60 (2021) & 62 (2021)]:
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. FRIEDLANDER: Aloha. Good morning. My name is Jennifer Friedlander, and good
morning to Chair and Councilmembers. Thank you so much.
I'm calling in regard to two of the bills, Bill 62 and Bill 60, and there's one point where
they cross over. I'm a resident of Haiku for well over 25 years, lived down a road which
is substandard. It's a local resident access road and unfortunately this zipline's using
these roads, which they just don't belong down our little roads to be honest. I have
written already quite a few emails to everybody and thank you for any response.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 48
We've been trying to close down this illegal zipline for many years now and we're
waiting to please have this, these ziplines stopped. And even if they are on SMA land
and they just go ahead without permits, they somehow just push ahead. They've been
making money for years, so now they also have, guess what, a so-called eco-
adventure. And so I'm really concerned that they use the word sustainable eco, and
maybe their tour is wonderful, they have a little tour bus, but the tour bus also comes
down our substandard roads, and they also use this illegal zipline. And so. I'm really
looking forward to have Bill 60 passed and I'm not quite sure exactly what you have to
change on it? But it is so overdue, Bill 62, rather, on the zipline.
And Bill 60, I'm supporting, because I just see the mess here on the north, the north
shore. It's so overwhelmed. Tourism is wonderful, I've worked in the tourist industry
before, but it's overwhelming, the way the traffic is over here right now. I made it to
Hana for the first time, and since well before the COVID arrived and I was shocked at
just the overcrowding of everywhere I went, and I really appreciate all your work and
thank you so much. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Thank you very much. Questions, Members? If not, thank you.
May we have the next testifier. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Faith Chase, to be followed by Dave Jorgensen.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Chase.
MS. FAITH CHASE [testifying on County Communication No. 21-310 and Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Good morning, Chair Lee. Good morning, Council.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. CHASE: Hi. I'm not as prepared as I have been in the past, but 1 do want to make a
comment, thank you for, just thank you for working together, Chair King's moratorium.
You know, I just, this is going to be a great thing in history books about this Council
working towards this, I just wanted to say that. It sounds like you guys are making
good decisions on your own, you don't need, I just wanted to say, I'm super deep
grateful. It's so nice to have a good day and be grateful about collaboration and positive
moving forward and just, if anybody is a little, one. I'm sorry, testifier Sakumoto, it looks
like perhaps maybe he had a lawyer help him write that, but none of that to me. I'm not
worried about that at all, like the government purpose, are you kidding me, absolutely.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 49
If you want to talk government, I mean, all governments would agree that this is a
necessity. So, anyway, thank you for that.
I just wanted to make a quick comment on CC 21-310. This is a new read for me. I
haven't been, like I said, up to date, but I fee! like it's a little bit of a reach, but it's
important to keep the conversation going. And I understand that the Infrastructure,
Transportation Committee had Hana Highway regulation, I understand they put forward
a grant. 1 just wanted to give you a little bit of background, that has been a family
commitment for three and a half years and just to let you know, the scribe, the editor,
the administrative forefront, Napua Hueo, you know, she was raised at the fruit stand,
you know, taxi, tourist, banana bread, you know, from the time she was two-years old.
She was also in a head-on collision, right before the Jaws fruit stand store, whatever
they have over there. And since then, guardrails and speed limit signs have been
improved. But she, she has, she, you know, survived, and came back really strong,
and she has been, you know, paying attention to every single intricacy on the Hana
Highway.
And if you want to talk Hana Highway, you guys know most of my friends here on this
Council know how passionate I am about Amala Place and everything that’s going on.
I'm a commissioner. I'm proud to be on Healing Solutions on Homelessness.
Technically, the Hana Highway starts at Amala, you understand, like right there at that
corner. And Napua Hueo is also concerned with those people down there, and those
unshelter, all the way, all the way, her whole life. So I just need to give you guys that
backg round.
So, I really hope DHHL when they have, there's some grants that Department of
Hawaiian Home Lands puts out or Hawaii Community Development Corporation, HDC
is the acronym. Anyway, they held hands of the grantees, they hold their hand, if they
get nervous. Aunty doesn't know how to fill out the application, and I would really beg
that I watched the whole grant workshop with Inamasu from OED and I really hope the
County really does start to say what they, do what they say in regards to grantees. I
mean good ideas come from grassroots, you know, residents and so, anyway, please
look at that grant submission, because it answers  alot of questions and quite frankly
its proprietary, so it took a long time to get to this place, you know. The data, the steps
and I think that it's your solution for Hana Highway, wholeheartedly, 1 think it's a good
solution that will have a shelf life, so to speak. Thank you for your time today.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Faith. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you again and may
we have the next testifier.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 50
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Dave Jorgensen, to be followed by last four digits
8479.
[testifying on County Communication No. 21-298 and BillMR. DAVE JORGENSEN
No. 60 (2021)1:
i apologize for prior technical difficulties. Good morning and bonjour, Chair Lee,
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, Councilmembers, and staff.
My name is Dave Jorgensen. I'm an attorney in Wailuku and I'm testifying on behalf of
the American Resort Development Association of Hawaii, or ARDA Hawaii. I'm a
registered lobbyist. I'm here today to testify on two items, Bill 60 and Communication
21-298 and the proposed, including the proposed amendment.
I'm testifying against the proposed moratorium and the amendment. ARDA Hawaii
believes there are inherent flaws in both bills. The stated purpose of Bill 60 is to reduce
Mau's effect on climate change, however, there continues to be no data, even
suggested stopping the development of transient accommodations will decrease the
number of visitors to Maui. The mitigated environmental impacts would actually
improve residents' quality of life. So far everything has been based on anecdotes and
innuendo. There's no evidence the proposed moratorium will abate C02 emissions or
significantly reduce the impacts of climate change. And in any event visitors will
continue to come to Maui.
In addition, limiting hotel and timeshare units will force visitors to seek accommodations
elsewhere, including staying in illegal short-term rentals in Maui's residential
neighborhoods. The fastest growing segment within the visitor accommodations
industry is short-term rental units. This proposal attacks the wrong targets at the worst
possible time. If the purpose of the bill is to ultimately decrease the visitor count,
perhaps further regulation is needed on the number of legal short-term rentals units
that are allowed. Halting the issuance of permits for short-term rental units in
residential neighborhoods will prevent an increase in visitors per year and would
eliminate overtourism. And it's clear that greater enforcement of illegal short-term
rentals is needed.
It's surprising that the County would want to stop timeshare visitors from coming to
Maui. The timeshare visitors has the exact profile of the type of visitor we should
welcome, with higher income levels, more spending off-property in restaurants and
stores. And they are more likely to take care of their property, which for most is a home
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 51
away from home, as they are owners, not transients. We should be mindful that the
timeshare industry could be part of the solution.
Furthermore, the timing of the moratorium, excuse me, is illogical from an economic
perspective. It's concerning that the County would deter capital investment in the time
where it is still recovering from the impacts of the pandemic. The County would risk
foregoing substantial amounts of investment from being injected into the economy,
creating jobs and vital tax revenue.
The timeshare industry is a strong contributor to Maui's economy, providing more than
$73 million per year in State and local taxes, in addition to employment of and income
to Maui residents. Additionally, ARDA Hawaii and the hotel industry support the
community through substantial charitable donations to on island organizations, such
as the Food Bank, the Maui Memorial Medical Center Foundation, and the Boys and
Girls Clubs of Maui. Additionally, we have concerns about this bill related to process
and constitutional issues raised at previous hearings.
CHAIR LEE; Dave, can you please wrap it up? Please.
MR. JORGENSEN: Yes, and then I'll switch to County Communication 21. We've previously
detailed the concerns about the legal issues. I would note that Mr. Mayer's position on
due process contrary to Mr. Sakumoto was incorrect and I hope you'll consult with
Corp. Counsel on that.
Turning to County Communication 21-298, ARDA Hawaii is strongly opposed to that
amendment, which would create an exemption if the development of new visitor
accommodations includes affordable housing units. ARDA Hawaii supports the
apparent intent of this amendment to incentivize the development of affordable
housing, however, we oppose the amendment as it is unduly burdensome and will not
result in additional affordable housing units.
The visitor accommodation industry does not have the expertise to properly build
affordable housing. The cost of constructing the required amount of affordable housing
units is excessive and unreasonable, making construction of new visitor
accommodations impossible, moreover new affordable housing won't actually be built
due to the cost and time frame associated with utilizing the exemptions.
Furthermore, ARDA Hawaii is concerned with the manner in which Bill 60 and County
Communication 21-298 are being pushed through the Council. The bill for the
moratorium is being heard on second and final reading so the proposed amendment
will immediately become law in the same hearing that it was introduced. There should
be another hearing after an amendment is made to provide additional opportunity for
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 52
the public to weigh in. ARDA Hawaii respectfully requests County Communication
21-298 should be deferred and that the proposed moratorium with any amendments
should be sent to the Planning Commission for further vetting. Thank you for allowing
me to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions, Members?
Member King and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Dave.
MR. JORGENSEN: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We can hear you but not see you. Were you present for any of
the testimony that was given on climate change from the climate experts from the
Climate Reality Project or the Climate Action Advisory Committee?
MR. JORGENSEN: I've read summaries of what they testified. No, I was not present.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so there's a ton of data there. So it sounds like you don't
believe that the built environment contributes to the greenhouse gas emissions.
MR. JORGENSEN: I do not believe there's sufficient data that the reduction of tourism, or the
reduction of accommodations--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm not talking about the reduction of tourism, yeah we're talking
about eliminating new construction. So, if the built environment is causing greenhouse
gas emissions, then more built environment causes more greenhouse gas emissions.
So, I'm not sure what, what data you, what actual data you need to show that, you
know, the stopping of additional construction would stop the additional greenhouse gas
emissions.
MR. JORGENSEN: The concern is that the extent to which change would be, would occur
as a result of construction is our problem. That the data, I would consider it more
anecdotal that the data implies that there is some effect on it. The amount of the effect,
and the reduction of that effect by less construction is still a question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, so we will, you know, that's some of the data we will be
looking at during the moratorium once we put a pause on it. But I’m glad you agree
that the built environment is a climate issue. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 53
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think Ms. Paltin's next.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh, sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paitin and then Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I just was wondering, Mr. Jorgensen if you
watched the last Council meeting, cause that's kind of what we did. We introduced the
amendment last Council, and then to give people a chance to testify on it, we put it on
the agenda this time, so I just was wondering if you watched that last Council meeting?
MR. JORGENSEN: Yes. Thank you for that question. Yes, I participated in that last hearing
and testified.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, so you just missed that going down? Or you didn't see
it last time?
MR. JORGENSEN: No, no, it was brought up. I, I apologize, no, it was brought up at the
meeting by you, and I appreciate that. And then it was presented today as a formal
bill, as a formal communication for the first time.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well-
MR. JORGENSEN: The written bill, we did not see the written bill until after the last hearing.
The written communication.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. okay. Got it. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, Mr. Jorgensen, you referenced the legal
issues brought up by Randall Sakumoto and he says, arbitrary, it’s an arbitrary act of
government. So, I wonder if you, if that's what you're talking about and if you have a
statement based upon that and your experience with this bill.
MR. JORGENSEN: Well, the issues we had raised before, there were four legal issues, four
constitutional issues as far as the violation of due process, the lack of a rational basis
that this would end the moratorium, the violation of, potential violation of vested rights,
and potential violations of an equal protection clause. As far as what you're referring
to, the potential is that different segments of Maui that-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 54
CHAIR LEE; Dave, Dave.
MR. JORGENSEN: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Dave, don't feel a need to clarify another testifier's testimony.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I only asked because he mentioned it as part of his
testimony, Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so-
MR. JORGENSEN: Yeah, yeah, I guess I'd say I don't really. I'm not in a real position to
qualify what Mr. Sakumoto said, but there are the four issues and, and we had
previously submitted written testimony to the Council detailing those issues.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
If not, Madam Clerk.
MR. JORGENSEN: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK; We're down to the last, we're down to the last final four signed up for
testimony. Our next testifier is calling from the number 8479, to be followed by
telephone number 2205.
MR. PAUL CARTER [testifying on Bill Nos. 60 (2021) and 62 (2021)1:
Aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. CARTER: Okay, great. Thank you so much. My name is Paul Carter, I live out here in,
also on West Waipio Road, right near the very infamous Jungle Zipline now doing
business as Aloha Eco Tours. I wanted to give a little testimony on both Bill 60 and
62.
Quickly, just on Bill 60, I'm in full support of it, as I think almost all of Maui residents
are. It certainly gives us, as the data clearly shows at least a temporary help and, on
reducing our carbon footprint and difficulties with our infrastructure. And in the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 55
meantime then, hopefully, you know, we'll work out some better solutions for all these
different problems that are coming from just too much, too much, too much, too much,
too much tourism, you know.
It’s so beautiful to have visitors when it's not too much. It's such a wonderful thing,
yeah, for the visitors and for us. But it's so bad when it's too much. So we really need
this as a temporary measure, stop more building of those kinds of structures until we
really have a way to limit and figure out numbers that can work where everyone is going
to be happy and the environment, the culture, the ohana, the residents, everybody,
tourists will be happy again, yeah. So, thank you very much for considering this bill
and passing it today, I hope.
Secondly with Bill 62, also I'm very much in support of you passing that today. I think
you've heard lots of testimony about the problems specifically to do with the zipline that
is here in our neighborhood in Waipio and what's happened now for years. So, we've
been waiting a long time for this. My one concern  Iwant to ask you to pay attention to
the enforcement. If you pass this ordinance, and  Ireally hope, because we've been
waiting so long, that there will be a way to enforce, to shut down the ones that don't
have permits, like the Jungle Zipline now called Aloha Eco Tours, and that are just not
in compliance with any kind of, or any kind of pono, let alone this ordinance.
And they should be absolutely required to shut down for a time. How are we going to
enforce that? Are we going to get finally a way that we can, when we see them,
because we're right here, we hear them? They built it right within a hundred feet or so
of homes here and our barns here. And yeah and we call, and someone will come
from the whichever department it is and come out, and have them stop, actually
physically say no you cannot do this and arrest people if they don't comply or so on.
You know, fines are not just enough, because they've already been fined . . . and they
haven't paid anything. You know, we what to know that this is really going to be
enforced, so the quality of life here can be respected again.
So, thank you very much for listening. I know you've listened to more than I could ever
listen to. So many different agenda items and I really appreciate you listening to that.
Thank you. That's my testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Let's see, are there any questions? No questions. Thank you for
coming, and may we have the next testifier, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is calling from telephone last four digits 2205, to be
followed Mr. Albert Perez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 56
MR. TOM COOK [testifying on Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Aloha, Councilmembers. My name is Tom Cook, resident of Kihei. Thank you for all
of your service and your patience and tenacity. I'm calling, I am not in support of the
moratorium. I'm very in support of a bunch of us working together to control tourism. I
live in Kihei, there's entirely too many people visiting.
Unfortunately, a vast majority of them are not staying in hotels and that's why I feel that
this bill has good intention but misplaced. And some of the data that other people have
quoted of the increased numbers of tourism, of increased number of tourists, but not
being increased occupancy of the hotels.
So, I applaud the effort and I'm hopeful that we can work with the industry, the hotel
industry supplies jobs, and designed appropriate place for visitors to stay and I would
like to see that the transient vacation rentals be phased out and ail conditional use
permits not be, have a sunset clause. Corp. Counsel will have a hard task to figure out
how to do that, it was a mistake having visitor accommodations in residential
neighborhoods. This was not the plan over the last 40, 50 years when I lived there,
was keep everybody out of the residential areas.
So, anyway. I'm in my truck. I've been trying to connect with you all day and I'm on my
way to a meeting. Thank you for the opportunity to share my perspective. I want to
work with the community in any way I can and once again, I applaud your efforts.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Tom. Any questions. Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Tom, are you okay to answer a question? I
don't want to compete for your time.
MR. COOK: Oh no, I have my, I have both hands on the wheel. I'm legally driving on the
road.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay, don't get in an accident while I'm asking you this
question, okay? But you were mentioning data, where did you, do you have data that
shows the vast majority of tourists are not staying in hotels?
MR. COOK: I don't have the data. Other people who have given testimony before and my
conversation with people who work in the industry. I welcome, I hopeful, hopefully
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 57
Councilmember Kelly King that you can do just that, sort of work with the industry and
research what is the occupancy of the hotels? What is the--
COUNCILMEMBER KING; We do have that, yeah, we do have that Tom. We do have the
occupancy rates, they look like they have been going up, but I don't see any data other
than the anecdotal statements like you just mentioned that shows a vast majority of
tourist aren't staying in the hotels.
MR. COOK: Well, I think my answer is where are they staying? They're staying in transient
vacation rentals or someplace else. There's a lot more people on the island that's
tourist that are, that are staying, not staying in hotels, and that to me is the challenge.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, that's, that's the part that we don't have data on. If you can
get, if you do have data or can find it, can you send it to us?
MR. COOK: I will gladly work on that. Thank you for the opportunity to, to be of assistance.
Thank you for the question and I will work on that. Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thanks. Tom.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions, Members? If not. thank you, Tom.
Madam Clerk.
MR. COOK: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Albert Perez, to be followed by our final testifier signed
up, Junya Nakoa.
[testifying on County Communication No. 21-298 and BillMR. ALBERT PEREZ
No. 60 (2021)1:
Aloha. Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. PEREZ: Alright. Good morning. I think it's still morning. I'm testifying today on Bill 60,
as well as County Communication 21-298. And I'll start with Bill 60. I've seen recently
that Mayor Victorino has come out in favor of limiting additional airline seats, but the
airlines don't seem to be very receptive. The County doesn't control the airports, but
we do need to stop giving visitors more places to stay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 58
Those who say that we need to keep building more hotels to keep visitors from staying
in illegal short-term rentals, they're actually advocating for enforcement against illegal
short-term rentals and that would be poor public policy. We need to do both and stop
building more visitor accommodations and continue to crack down on illegal short-term
rentals. And once again, this moratorium will not reduce the existing number of
accommodations. Sorry, will not reduce the number of existing jobs.
Hotels are already taking advantage of increased demand by raising their rates and
this is what we want, more revenue without increasing the impact. I don't want to repeat
myself. I'll just say, you know, as the OCS presentation showed, the County has a
strong legal basis to pass the moratorium as long as the parameters that they outlined
are followed and I urge you to pass Bill 60.
ril move on now to County Communication 21-298. I'm opposed to this, I, I put a lot of
thought into how this could work, I don't think it's going to work. There's already a
provision in Bill 60 for the Council to make exceptions, instead of a blanket exception,
it would allow the Council to give extra scrutiny to proposals on a case-by-case basis.
We already have more than enough visitor accommodations, and the proposed
amendment would provide an exception that determined hotel developers may be
willing to take advantage of, which would result in more visitor accommodations that
we don't need. And I think they'd be, we heard that they don't like it, but 1 think that
they would be more able to than regular housing developers, more able to afford that
extra expense, so we don't want that.
Any additional wastewater from hotel units will add to the amount that's being sent
down our injection wells. The only exception that we should make for that is for
100 percent truly affordable housing projects. Any more hotel rooms will take us further
away from the one to three visitor to resident ratio, further in the wrong direction. And
also, we have no idea what type of housing would be built by hotel developers. Cheaply
built housing is not truly affordable housing in the long run.
You know I was reading the proposed amendment and the reasoning, but 1 realize that
similar language is proposed in Resolution 21-98, which has been referred to the
Planning Commission. And the Council will have an opportunity to review that
language when it comes back. So, just reminding you, the County has a strong legal
basis per OCS to pass the moratorium as long as the parameters they outlined are
followed and that there's already provision in Bill 60 for the Council to make exceptions
using extra scrutiny. I urge you to pass Bill 60 as is, unamended. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Questions? If not, thank you, Albert. May we have the last testifier
please. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 59
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we had three more sign up during that testimony. So, we have
Junya Nakoa next and the testifier calling from telephone 2280.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Nakoa. Okay, we're not talking about Napili today. We can see you; I can
see you, can't hear you yet. Oh, I just heard you, and then something went off. Try
again, Junya, please.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA ftestifyinq on County Communication Nos. 21-296. 21-298, 21-305
21-306 & 21-310 and Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, now we can.
MR. NAKOA: Okay. My bad. Okay, first I going talk about six, but couple of'em will be real
fast. Okay, the 21-305, you know the sunscreen one. Try listen to the commercial.
Archie Kalepa, he stay telling for go get the good kind to protect the reefs, like that, so
change 'em, okay. Go talk to Costco, maybe they can put that kine inside there instead
of the junk kine, yeah. You know with the long kine wording for why the buggah junk.
Change that, I pau with that. Sorry, 1 get one phone call. You guys can hear me? Can
hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can. You took a phone call?
MR. NAKOA: Yeah, somebody called me. Too bad, gun funit. But, urn, where the hell I was?
Oh, okay 21-306, the public beach access. Yeah, you know over here, I go check out
the, the sandbags down here in Kahana yea cause the buggah stay running away and
all that stuff. Oh,! steady get flack from the condo owners, you know, but they see me
every time so they no bother me anymore cause they know I going come about the
sandbags. So go fix the beach access, make sure we get plenty public beach access.
What else get, i pau with that one.
21-310, traffic to Kahakuloa and Hana. 1 know everybody know about the Hana one,
but the Kahakuloa one, 1 talk little bit about 'em. But my friend he one fireman over
here in Napili Station and he said get plenty troubles brah out here at the Honolua Bay.
You know the . . . they parking all over the place. They grumble when the, when the
fire truck come, and they even grumble to them, they tell oh how long you going be,
how long you going be taking the parking. Oh boy, if I was a fireman, 1 slap em. But
yeah we gotta check that one out. Okay, that one  Ipau.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 60
Okay, 21-298, the building of affordable homes, you guys know how much I support
the building of affordable homes. But yeah, like couple people was saying, you know
these hotels, they going use this as a phew, I going build for the people, local people
and then they going do that credits thing and then we stuck with nothing, you know,
then we stuck again with zero homes being built here in Lahaina, zero. So, yeah, good
try, no get me wrong, anything, anything we can try for go, give 'em, give 'em the effort,
no scared urn. Okay, that one I pau.
Okay, now I going to the Bill 60. Okay, you know the, the Rod Antone and the Pamela
Tumpap, they said they like be part of the solution, well they should have been doing,
being part of the solution all this time. You know what I mean, why, why they like do
now? You know, they getting paid for do this thing, that's what they are suppose
to be doing. They, you know, they should have been doing 'em, yeah. They should
have been doing the buggah.
And then you know, to hear the numbers, the TVR units over here on Maui, we get like
almost 25,000, like 24,500 or something like that. Get 8,000 hotel rooms; you get
almost 2500 timeshares; you get the Minatoya apartments like that, 13,000 of those
buggahs; you guys get houses in the hotel zone, oh, that one we talking about big . . .
ones, 134 of'em, you know, so get plenty, get plenty, get plenty of these units yeah so
can put one pause on the buggah. Can put, can put. Cause you know like, you know
you was saying about the occupations yeah, 1 talk story with all the workers, yeah, 1
not like ILWU, no talk to their members, urn, the thing is, is even though they get like
80 to 90 percent, 80 to 90 percent they still get room, still get room for the buggahs.
So I mean you know, you get 24 other units and ail that kine stuff, so get plenty, get
plenty. We get nuff for now, okay, we get nuff.
We no have to make nice to these buggahs cause to tell you the truth, they, they
overpay this buggahs and they go inside there and they like strap us locals. Some,
time they going meet up with the wrong people and watch out, they going get
lickens, they going get dirty lickens. But urn, yeah, and so you guys get the power to
do this bill, just do em, no scared um.
You know the Planning Department, they, they no scared, they, they pass, they pass
projects for one person and then they still get legal legalities, yeah. This buggah you
guys doing um for the people of Maui, for the local, so no scared em, fight um, make
the Corp. Counsel do their job. Yeah, no scared. Do it for the people, this the one,
this the one you go do, you no scared take um to court, give em the gas. Oh, boy,
okay.
Then the last one, 21-296. This the one the centennial for Hawaiian Homes
Commission Act on July 9. Whew, that buggah is my birthday, so double celebrate
em
one
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 61
that buggah. Oh, my god, you guys have a good one, yessah, thank you guys for all
that you guys do. You guys can go eat lunch pretty soon, so nobody else sign up.
Yeehah!
holiday. Members, anyCHAIR LEE: Very good, Junya. Hope you have a wonderful
questions for our colorful testifier? No. Thank you.
MR. NAKOA: Yessah. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Happy Birthday.
CHAIR LEE: Don't get into any fights now.
Okay, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Ann Pitcaithley, to be followed by Aja Eyre.
CHAIR LEE: Ann, are you there?
MS. ANN PITCAITHLEY [testifying on Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. PITCAITHLEY: Hi. Bonjour Council Chair and Councilmembers. I'm calling to commend
Kelly King and give my strong support for Bill 60, visitor accommodation moratorium
bill. It's expected that people calling from the lobbyists, the hotel and the tourist industry
will be in strong opposition to this bill but, and they say you have to have absolute data
for proof of, that it's causing climate change. But I think it's pretty obvious that ail the
C02 emissions that come from airtravei, the increased cars, hotel building, wastewater
and more, absolutely contribute to climate change.
And I really appreciate that you are not only taking into account the environment, but
the quality of life for the residents. And I have lived here for 32 years. I think it's a real
crisis. It's a global issue as well. It's unfortunate that we cannot limit the flights, which
are on an increase to Maui. That would be, that would be the best solution, but we're
left with the tools that we have, and I think tourism must be professionally managed.
I think this visitor accommodation moratorium bill is an example of best practices
addressing overtourism. And that the Maui Island Plan should carry the force of law,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 62
which it doesn't seem to have been doing because we have exceeded the ratio of
tourist, or visitors to, to residents here. So, thank you very much for hearing my
testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Aja Eyre, to be followed by Jonny.
CHAIR LEE: Aja, are you there? Let's go to Jonny.
Madam Clerk.
MR. JONNY ORLANDO [testifying on County Communication No. 21-305 and Bill
No 60 (2021)1:
Are you there?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we are. Jonny, what's your last name?
MR. ORLANDO: Aloha, Council. My name is Jonny Orlando, I'm testifying here. I'll start out
with one that I can provide a lot of good information on. So I'm actually a pharmacist,
I've been serving Maui County my entire career both Maui and Lanai. First thing I will
talk about is No. 21-305, the sunscreen. That is great. Thing, thing 1 would recommend
on that, so it won't be a problem, so . . . going to ban oxybenzone and octinoxate, so
that's two chemicals that they put in these sunscreens. That's a great start. So, this is
the thing, I educate tourist about this all the time. All of those ingredients are toxic to
reefs and to us and to fish, anything basically .. .on a baby's face. So, what I would
recommend for this, 1 think it's a great amendment, but what happens is the company's
as long as they don't put oxybenzone into the sunscreen they can put these stickers
on it that say reef safe. The problem with that is, a lot of people they've got good
intentions, they stay buying the reef ones, but it still has all these other ingredients.
. . . than go through the whole list, you can find them, so just look on the back . . .
So, what I recommend for that one is to only allow the sale of. . . that has titanium
oxide or zinc oxide, like 1950's white zinc oxide. Those are the only two ingredients
that are not toxic, it's called a mineral sunscreen. That's what I'd recommend for that,
it's just instead of, I mean oxybenzone and octinoxate are great to ban, but I would just
say ban them all except for those two, titanium oxide and zinc oxide are the two mineral
mass-produced ones that are not harmful. That's my testimony on that one.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 63
Generally, just Bill 60, I don't want to beat to death. The last testifier was great. It's
definitely a global issue and there you go. I support it of course. One of the testimony
earlier mentioned that visitor themselves are upset and that's very true and then they
tend to put that on all of us here and then they stay driving around angry. I been ran
off the road close, almost hit on my motorcycle. Another thing that one of the testifier
mentioned the timeshares, I wisely disagree. A lot of the timeshares, he says that
those people are super wealthy and that may be true and that they're spending more,
but what we mentioned too is a lot of these folks at these timeshares have kitchens,
full on basically a house. ... as an example. Okay what they do is they come, they
just buy one big thing at Costco, like two grand, two grand at Costco and they eat out
because of all the lines and everything. They are not contributing as much as it maybe
seems. Like an example of that is the pre-pandemic report. . . much more visitors to
Maui but they were spending less. And a lot of those people were finding that a lot of
the timeshare folks would come, drop big G's at Costco and then not spend anything
at all when they were here.
So I just.. . The last issue with this is not exactly Bill 60 but as far as .. . like the things
.. . are going up everywhere or have been like, I don't know if anyone's been down like
White Rock, East . . . Makena lately, but it's like heartbreaking down there to see all
the local places just being, mansions where people . . . here and I know . . . and I just
wanted to bring that up just to be a consideration. That's all.
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry, are you done with your testimony?
MR. ORLANDO: Yes. Mahalo. Yes, I pau.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. We have a question for you, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Jonny. I forgot your
last name because your box says Disco Cat.
MR. ORLANDO: Oh. I thought I changed that. The last name is Orlando.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Orlando. I knew it was something memorable. Okay, so I really
want to thank you for your testimony, and I wanted to kind of go back to the sunscreen
bill. And because you mentioned, and this one came up in the town hall the other day
too, that they're doing this on Palau to focus on what is good, the titanium and zinc
oxides but their other, other, I mean, by itself it's usually not a sunscreen, it usually has
other additives that help make it into a cream, you know, something that's viable, a
cream or spray. Are there other additives that could be harmful that could be used with
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 64
titanium or zinc oxide that we need to look at? And you don't have to list them all, but
maybe you could help out with that bill.
MR. ORLANDO: Absolutely. I'm excited to do that.  Ican leave like a email, or however you
want to contact me, phone number. But yeah, so for example, like when you look on
the back of these, they can put in whatever they want to put in.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, I know there's a lot of other potential ingredients. But
if you can contact my office, the office of Kelly King and the office of Councilmember
Paltin, who drafted the new bill, the new proposed bill. Maybe you can give us some
of your professional input.
MR. ORLANDO: Sure. Yeah, no problem. You want me to email you?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. Email me, my staff will start looking at, we'll put you on
that bill.
MR. ORLANDO: Okay. I can do that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Orlando. Oh, is he still
there?
MR. ORLANDO: Hi.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh. okay, good. Very good.
MR. ORLANDO: Can you hear me?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. yes. I love your sign-in name. Disco Cat. Staff
has requested if you would please spell your first name for staff?
MR. ORLANDO: J-O-N-N-Y.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Perfect. Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
MR. ORLANDO: Okay. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 65
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Madam Clerk, may we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Tiare Lawrence, and Tiare will be followed by
Aja Eyre. And that will complete our signed up testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: For now. Hello, Tiare.
MS. TIARE LAWRENCE ftestifyino on Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Aloha. Councilmembers. I just wanted to take a brief moment to testify on Bill 60. I
wanted to testify in strong support for the following reasons. First, is to mainly so we
can protect the tourist experience when they come to the islands. As you know,
reservation systems and limited parking are on the, on the to do list, I know I'll be
advocating hard for that. And so in order to protect their quality, the quality of their
experience, I think we should limit the amount of tourism on the island. Have it more
managed and I think a moratorium is a great start in the right.
I also feel like it's important that we send a strong message to the tourism industry and
developers alike, that the community is frustrated, you know? We had a meeting with
a hotel management a few weeks ago and I expressed to them, where are you guys?
Like we go to these meetings and we've been advocating for the realignment of
Honoapi'ilani Highway and a lot of that is because of the backlog, the backed up traffic.
And we could be such a force together, advocating together. But they're, so you know
I just feel like it just sends a strong message and there are certain things that should
be completed before we ever talk about adding on any more hotel rooms especially of
the West side, and that realignment of Honoapi'ilani Highway has to be priority because
safety is becoming a major factor.
And, I'm just going to keep it simple, you know, enough is enough. We need to protect
the quality of life for our local residents. I know i feel pushed out. I feel like friends and
family are moving like away weekly and a lot of that had to do with just feeling that
sense of you can't live here anymore, there's too much people moving here, there's too
many tourist, and so, you know, enough. And then, at the end, I just want to say people
like myself are depending on you folks to help protect our quality of life for our keiki and
their keiki so, just please support Bill 60. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions, Members for Tiare? If not, thank you for
your testimony. May we have the next testifier.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 66
COUNTY CLERK: Our final testifier signed up right now is Aja Eyre.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I got a text from Aja, oh there she is. Okay, I got a text that
she’s actually at a wedding right now, but here she is.
MS. AJA EYRE Ftestifying on Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Hi. So, I just, I just want to briefly testify in support of Bill 60, the moratorium. My
concern is just that we don’t understand the environmental impact. I mean, I know we
suspect there's high environmental impact from the increase in tourism over the last,
you know, five to ten years, but before we allow more development in the tourism
industry, 1 feel like we need to just really beef up our information gathering on the
environmental impact.
I'd also like to see, I’m going to sound like a broken record, I really like to see timeshares
looked at in the moratoriums as well, because I feel like they've taken advantage of
loopholes to continue to expand the timeshare holdings in our County. And I just
support you guys, I really appreciate the Council taking these things seriously. And
. . . pass these votes so I appreciate that, I appreciate all the testifiers and it's not
something perfect, it’s not going to fix everything, it’s going to make people angry, but
i still think that this is, right now, is the right time for this. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions?
If not. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, Chair. We have no other testifiers noted. If an individual connected
to the meeting has not testified, but would like to do so, please unmute and identify
yourself now. This is the last call.
MR. JOHN BLUMER-BUELL (testifying on County Communication Nos. 21-398 and 21-296):
Aloha. Can you hear me talk?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. What is your name?
MR. BLUMER-BUELL: It’s John Blumer-Buell, calling in from Hana.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, hi John.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 67
MR. BLUMER-BUELL: Hi. I'm sorry I couldn't get signed up earlier, I've been on most of the
meeting. As you know, I've testified in support of the Bill 60, numerous times. The
reason I called was I really hadn't heard any testimony about the proposed amendment
by Counciiperson Paltin. Now I respect Councilperson Paltin enormously and I know
the intent is good, but when I first heard that talked about, I immediately went, this is in
conflict with the 20/30 Island Plan. And I helped to write that document it is, and so it's
not a criticism. I look forward to discussing the issues, Tamara is concerned with,
which we all are during the moratorium.
And I think Dick Mayer did a very, I'm glad him and Albert Perez called up, they both
did a better job than me about getting into the details of the rationale. So, I just think it
would be best to, you know, to put that in Committee, or send it where it will be dealt
with. So, I do mahalo Tamara for, you know, introducing it, I don't think it's the right
time and I get the impression she's going to France, so have a great trip.
Last couple of things, Alice. I just want to say  Isupport the testimony of Randy Awo.
I'm so glad he's on the Commission. That's such an important issue for Hana, for all
over, so I know Randy, he's a good man and I'm glad he's, I didn't know he was a
commissioner, so I support his testimony. And I support and thank you Councilperson
Shane Sinenci for working with Shay Chan Hodges and Ian on the water issues. You,
i support her, their work, and their testimony. I think that's very important that we're
looking into that.
So, that's all I have to say and mahalo and have  agood weekend. And I, and last
thing. I'm thinking about the long testimony and  Iknow we were hoping for a short
meeting, but you know what, this is what makes democracy work. It's the only thing,
when lots of people get, participate, if not, we don't have one and we've almost lost it,
so, you know, I appreciate everybody for calling in, and the Council in particular. So
have a good weekend.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. You too, John. Any questions, Members? If not, aloha John.
MR. BLUMER-BUELL: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have one more individual signed up and that's, they're calling
from the telephone number 9385.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Please state your name, 9385.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 68
MS. CAROL LEE KAMEKONA [testifying on Countv Communication Nos. 21-296 & 21-305
and Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
MS. KAMEKONA: Can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. KAMEKONA; Oh, mahalo. Bonjour... Carol Lee Kamekona. I am not a paid lobbyist;
however, I am an EA on staff. I am calling regarding the HHCA, Hawaiian Homes
Commission Act of 1920. I commend Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez for bringing it
fonward. Mahalo for that. We support.
Regarding the sunscreen amendment, I echo what the testifier Orlando said.
Mr. Orlando regarding the ingredients. Not that I am endorsing, but I do know of a
company who does sell a lot of the sunscreens which are good for the reef. I do caution
however regarding verbiage. I, what I read, and this talks about health, okay. So, what
I read from the FDA, is if there is a certain percentage lower than five percent on
ingredients, then it’s claimed to be okay, you know, for them to say that it's like, gluten-
free, or you know, sugar-free, or that kind of thing. So, I'd like to caution you to see
and ensure that that may not be part of the verbiage for sunscreen, in other words,
make sure that it does not include any of those ingredients that Mr. Orlando talked
about in any type of percentage at all, to make sure that it is good for our coral reef.
The third and final item I'd like to report on or testify on, is the moratorium. I do support
the moratorium. I mahalo Councilmember Kelly King for bringing this forward. My
understanding is this is for the West and the South Maui area and it is require, it is
inclusive of hotels and resorts and the expansion of, although I believe the bill does not
include STVRs. TVR's they need quite a bit of enforcement. I think we all agree on
that. However, baby steps for now. Let's support the moratorium as it is. I understand
Vice-Chair has also proposed a bill to include other areas of our County, I mahalo you
for that Vice-Chair. Again, baby steps.
As I've always, always continuously said in our contested case with the Grand Wailea
expansion, I am not against development, however,  Iam against the desecration of
our cultural, historical sites and our iwi kupuna. So, I strongly call upon the Planning
Department to do more in-depth studies of any permits that come before them that
require any type of digging for any kind of development, inclusive of hotel, resorts and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 69
expansions, and also to include in that conversation, our County Archaeologist Janet
Six. So, again I do support the moratorium and mahalo Councilmember King for
bringing it forward.
That is my testimony for today and I wish you all  avery blessed day, holiday season.
Ke Akua pu a hui hou. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha, Carol Lee. Any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Bonjour mon ami. Your French is really
excellent, I wish I could keep up with that. But  Iwanted to ask you just to clarify in your
testimony, you were talking about sunscreen ingredients, did you say that it was the
FDA that allows up to five percent of any ingredient to be-
MS. KAMEKONA: What I read was, you know, on your food labels how it has like, your,
60 percent or five percent sodium, something like that. From what I read is the FDA
allows as long as it's under five percent, they can claim that it's like sugar-free, you
know what I mean?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MS. KAMEKONA: You know how they list the sodium, the vitamins, all that kinds of stuff on
your labels.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I know, I just wondered ifyou-
MS. KAMEKONA: So, if it's below five percent, then they can say it doesn't include it at all.
And that's all I'm saying with regards to the sunscreen is make sure that there's no
language to that effect with sunscreen. That's all.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great. Thank you for alerting us to that. We'll check into
that with the FDA regulations. Thank you. Chair.
MS. KAMEKONA: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you, Carol Lee.
Madam Clerk. Who's the next one.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 70
COUNTY CLERK; This is, nobody has signed up and this is the second last call for testifiers.
Please indicate if you would like to testify. Unmute yourself and identify yourself now.
Not seeing anything. Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we
have received written testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the record
and to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Sorry, I don’t have objections. I just, ! saw
on the log there was one more call, and I know that if people call in and if they're muted
on our end, that they cannot unmute themselves, if they do want to testify. So, I don't
know if the Clerk would like to unmute them and then ask for a last call?
COUNTY CLERK; Excuse me.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, did you see that person on the call?
MR. JEFF MUNOZ [testifying on Bill No. 60 (2021)1:
Yeah. I’m a latecomer to the meeting and I just was listening in. I'm new to this so I'm
not good, so forgive me. I would like to testify, but I feel I'm a little late in context.
CHAIR LEE: You know what? We'll give you, we’ll let you testify. Go ahead.
MR. MUNOZ; Well 1-
CHAIR LEE: What is your name?
MR. MUNOZ: Yeah, my testimony is in regards to the moratorium which I agree to and 1 think
it's well, well done and very much needed. That's, you know, there’s a lot to be said
about it, but I just wanted to put my, you know, my mana'o forward in that regard that 1
support the moratorium. I think it's very important.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. What is your name, please?
MR. MUNOZ: My name is Jeff Munoz. M-U-N-O-Z.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 71
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
MR. MUNOZ: I'm a 50-year long resident of Maui.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Jeff. Any questions, Members?
MR. MUNOZ: No, I don't because I'm just, I kind of had to quickly look over the bill and I
agree with the wording. 1, 1 wish that I was a little bit more prepared for this and 1 do
thank everybody for their attention and allowing me to even speak at this time. And I'll
try on the next time, if this comes up again, I will try to be more present for it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Alright, Members.
Madam Clerk, can you doublecheck that there's nobody else.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. It's confirmed that there's nobody else.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, if there is, if you have no objections to receiving written
testimony into the record, and to closing public testimony at this time. Any objections.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Chris Delaunay, Pacific Resource Partnership:
Rod Antone, Maui Hotel & Lodging Association;
Randy Awo, Hawaiian Homes Commission;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Nick Drance, The Maui Miracle;
Robert and Jennifer Friedlander;
Paul Carter:
Ann Pitcaithley;
Ann Bassel;
Bette Belanger;
Hannah Bernard, Hawaii Wildlife Fund;
Ann Blyde;
Jody Bowman;
Bradbury Family, Garden of Eden Arboretum LLC;
Judith Carroll;
Chris Collins:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 72
17. Sara DiGrazia;
MJ Duberstein;
Jerry Gibson, Hawaii Hotel Alliance;
Mark Hyde;
Carmen Jimenez-Schellhammer;
Louise Lambert;
Travis Liggett, Reef Power LLC;
Ryan Nobriga, ARDA Hawaii;
Jessica Pearl;
Sherry Pollack, 350Hawaii.org;
Charles Reppun;
Katharine Romanchuk;
Ryan Sakuda, General Contractors Association of Hawaii;
Frederic Steineck, The Electrical Construction Company;
Johanna Kapomaikal Stone;
Dean Stelow;
Allen Tom, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries;
Rakan Zahawi, Charles Darwin Foundation; and
Henry Cobos Zavala, Mayor of San Cristobal City.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
CHAIR LEE So ordered. Well, it's about 12:20 or so. Members, you want to take lunch till
1:30? That sounds good. 1:30. Alright. This meeting is in recess untill :30.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:19 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:32 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT. EXCEPT MEMBERS
KAMA AND SUGIMURA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of July 2 please reconvene.
Madam Clerk, proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's public hearings of April 16, 2021 and
May 14, 2021 were presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 73
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
approve the minutes.
Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, discussion? Any discussion? No? You're muted, yea.
Okay. All those in favor of approving the minutes, raise your hand and say "aye"
please.
{Councilmember Sugimura returned to the meeting at 1:34 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: One, hwo, three, four, five. Gabe are you an "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes, Chair. I'm an "aye".
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Mike Molina, are you an "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yup, Chair. I'm an "aye".
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Seven.
Yuki, are you an "aye" on the minutes?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 74
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes". Zero"noes".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, thank you. Oops.
CHAIR LEE: Zero"noes". Motion carries. One "excused": Tasha Kama.
Okay. Ms., Ms. Clerk. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 21-287
(dated June 17, 2021)
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for April 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
- ROWENA DAGDAG-ANDAYA. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKSNO. 21-288
(dated June 14, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the Request for Project Authorization, and/or Modification
approving the Federal funds to advertise for bids for the South Kihei Road Pavement
Rehabilitation, Lipoa Street to Auhana Road, and Keonekai Road to Kilohana Drive
Federal-Aid Project No. STP-3100(016).
- ROWENA DAGDAG-ANDAYA, DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.NO. 21-289
(dated June 14, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the FFY 2019-2022 Maui Transportation Improvement Program
Revision #12 Administrative Modification, which includes the Mill Street Pavement
Reconstruction Project, Federal-Aid Project STP-3840(001).
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 75
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR
(dated June 21, 2021)
NO. 21-290
Informing of a vacancy on the Maui County Commission on Persons with Disabilities
due to the resignation of Melody Uchimura, effective June 21, 2021.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 21-291
(dated June 10, 2021)
Informing of the acceptance of Sewerline Easement "1". 65 Manako Street, affecting
Lot G, TMK: (2) 5-3-002:158 POR.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 21-292
(dated June 10, 2021)
Informing of the acceptance of Sewerline Easement "U-6'’, 308 Dickenson Street^
affecting a portion of Old Mill Street, TMK; (2) 4-6-016:038 POR.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 21-293
(dated June 10, 2021)
Informing of the acceptance of Sewerline Easement "U-7", 300 Lahainaluna Road
affecting Old Mill Street, TMK: (2) 4-6-016:004 POR.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO FILE ALL THE ITEMS ON THE CONSENT
CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 76
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernan, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to file the items on the Consent Calendar.
Any discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? No?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: These communications are
informational, and no further action is required by the Council. Mahalo, Chair.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any further comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion to
file these items on the Consent Calendar, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: I see one, two, three, four, five, six.
Gabe, are you an "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: "Aye". Yes, I'm an "aye".
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can you see him. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. I can see him.
CHAIR LEE: I can hear him. I can hear him.
Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. One "excused"; Pro Tern Kama.
Madam Clerk, next. Communications.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with County Communications.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 77
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 21-294 - KELLY TAKAYA KING. CQUNCILMEMBER
(dated June 22,2021)
Relating to Councilmembers' report on the groundbreaking and blessing of the Kihei
Wastewater Disposal Pilot Project on June 10, 2021.
CHAIR LEE; Councilmember King.
CQUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION CC 21-294.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to file County
Communication 294.
Discussion, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Councilmembers Molina, Sinenci, and myself,
attended a groundbreaking and blessing of the Kihei Wastewater Disposal Pilot Project
on June 10, 2021.
I'm making this report under the Sunshine Law, specifically Section 92-2.5(e) of the
Hawaii Revised Statutes.
The discussion focused on how this green infrastructure low-cost project will help Maui
County get closer to its goal of moving to 100 percent reused R-1 wastewater.
Discussion at the event included the following topics: nature-based solutions to help
Maui County reach its goal of better managing and reusing its treated wastewater;
County plans to construct infrastructure to bring R-1 water to more users; and reducing
the amount of wastewater that needs to be placed in the environment, with less need
for disposal through injection wells.
A quorum of the Council was not present at the meeting.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 78
The groundbreaking and blessing of the Kihei Wastewater Disposal Pilot Project event
was not specifically or exclusively organized or directed towards Members of the
Council. No commitment relating to a vote on any Council business was made or
sought at the meeting.
I welcome any additional comments fromChair, that concludes my report.
Councilmembers Molina and Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE; Any additional comments. Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I was also at the event. I got there, I
guess, on the second round, supposedly of the gathering. But appreciate you making
this report. I am having them present on July 22 at my Infrastructure, Transportation
Committee meeting and I look forward to their presentation. But thank you. Member
King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. Thank you, Member Sugimura. I think I might have seen
you arriving as we were all leaving, so, but at the end of the event. So, I didn't, I didn't
think you heard any of the presentation. But I'm glad you were there.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. All those in favor of the motion to file, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; "Aye", Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Okay. Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: "Aye".
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 79
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. One, ex-
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, are you asking a question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You can ask me after or call on me after you do the
vote for the record.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. I thought you were trying to stop me from taking the vote.
one "excused": Member Kama. Motion carries.Okay. So, eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If you cannot see Member Molina
and Member Johnson, then perhaps Member Molina and Member Johnson, when we
take the vote, you can verbally say "aye". Would that be helpful?
CHAIR LEE: They have been. They've been saying "aye".
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair, this is Member Molina. Would it be helpful when we
say "aye" or "no", we just say our names as well? You know, "aye, Member Molina'
"no"?
CHAIR LEE: No, it's okay. Cause there's only two of you and I, I can tell who's who.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, you can? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Very distinctive voices.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 80
CHAIR LEE; Especially when I go, Gabe are you an "aye" and he goes "aye". And I go
Mike, are you an "aye", and he says "aye". So, I can figure it out. Thank you.
Alright, where were we? Madam Clerk, next one.
NO. 21-295 - KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated June 24, 2021)
Relating to Councilmembers' report on the Sustainable and Regenerative Tourism
Town Hall meeting on June 21, 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION CC 21-295.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Councilmember King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to file
County Communication 21-295.
Discussion, Councilmember King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Councilmembers Johnson, Sinenci, and I
attended the Sustainable and Regenerative Tourism Town Hall event on June 21
2021, held virtually.
I'm making this report under the State Sunshine Law, specifically Section 92-2.5(e) of
the Hawaii Revised Statutes.
The discussion focused on the future of sustainable regenerative tourism in Maui
County. Discussion at the event included the following topics: increased concern in
the community about the impacts of the tourism industry: residents' desire for action to
ensure a future for the visitor industry that protects the people, culture, and
environment of Maui Nui; possible incentives to encourage visitors to give back to the
community and help the environment while learning about Hawaiian values.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 81
A quorum of the Council was not present at the meeting. However, I just want to report
that the Sustainable Regenerative Town Hall was, included 138 unique viewers in
Zoom during the webinar. And the Facebook video has 1,472 unique viewers as of
this morning.
The Sustainable Regenerative Tourism Town Hall event was not specifically and
exclusively organized for or directed toward Members of the Council. No commitment
relating to a vote on any Council business was made or sought at the meeting.
Chair, that concludes my report.
Councilmembers Johnson or Sinenci. Mr. John, Mr. Sinenci, has his hand up.
I welcome any additional comments from
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And yea, I think, mahalo to Member King for
putting on the event. I think our constituents felt that they were part of a town hall and
a community. They could hear data that was presented, as well as a chance to speak
to some of their specific concerns. And of course, our, and also looking forward to the
TIG that will follow as well. So, but our, our office has agreed to, to participate in the
next town hall. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Johnson, did you have anything to add?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Sure. Thank you, Chair. Yes. !, I, to, to piggyback on what
Councilmember Shane Sinenci just said is I'll do the third town hail after him, so we
can really kind of spread the message and that we’re taking this, this body takes this
issue seriously. So, I, I stand in strong support and I thank Councilmember Kelly King
for all the effort that she's done. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Congratulations, Member King. Looks like you had  avery highly successful event.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Highly successful-
CHAIR LEE: Alright, all-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: --because everyone's so concerned, so. You know, and I think
everyone appreciate, I think everybody on the call appreciates this Council and this
Council taking the issue seriously.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 82
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good.
All those in favor of the motion to file, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mike Molina, is it an "aye"? Member Johnson, an "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: "Aye". Chair.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused": Member Kama. Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
NO. 21-296 - KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR
(dated June 25, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "RECOGNIZING THE CENTENNIAL
CELEBRATION OF THE HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION ACT OF 1920, AS
AMENDED".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-296.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember Kelly
King, to adopt the resolution in County Communication 21-296.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 83
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I WOULD, i MOVE TO AMEND THE SIXTH "WHEREAS"
CLAUSE WHERE, WHERE IT READS: "WHEREAS, THE
HAWAIIAN REHABILITATION BILL LAID THE FOUNDATION
FOR THE HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION ACT ("HHCA") OF
1921", SO THAT IT WILL READ "1920". AND THAT’S MY
MOTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci
to amend the motion to correct the year from 1921 to 1920.
Any further discussion, or any discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I believe it was a, just a typo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the motion, the amendment, raise your hand and
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: ’Aye", Mr. Molina? "Aye", Mr. Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: "Aye", Chair.
CHAIR LEE: "Aye", did you say "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes, that’s correct. Chair. "Aye", Chair, for Gabe Johnson.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 84
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Member Kama. Motion
carries.
Now, that's amendment, Now, the main motion as amended.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May  Iplease request the Clerk to
read the resolution, with the amendment, in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Madam Clerk. It's
always powerful to hear the names of our ali'i in this virtual chambers spoken. E ola.
It's also important to remember the struggles and sacrifices of so many to make the
Hawaiian homestead program possible.
I stated this resolution recognizes the Centennial Celebration of the Hawaiian Homes
Commission Act of 1920, as amended. And acknowledges the tremendous
contributions of Ke Ali'i Jonah Kuhio Kalaniana'ole made on behalf of the Hawaiian
people, the State, the County, through the Act's passage. The Hawaiian Homes
Commission has truly been a blessing for many families over the last 100 years.
I am especially proud to know that this program started on Molokai as a pilot program.
While it was difficult at first, our people were able to endure the hardship and make the
program work, and I'm forever grateful to them. While we have much to do to provide
housing for our kanaka, I want to pause to celebrate this important milestone.
I would also like to extend my deep mahalo, again, to Commissioner Awo for attending
and for testifying this morning. And mahalo to Ms. Kawaihae for also attending and for
inviting Commissioner Awo. And we, it, it's such  ascramble sometimes to make sure
everything is done before the posting deadline. And then, to remember to also let, you
know, those advocates know when a resolution or legislation is posted. And so, a
particular mahalo to Ms. Kawaihae for, you know, getting Commissioner Awo to testify
on short notice.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 85
And it wasn't until this moment that I, I realized that I dropped the ball on not inviting
Commissioner Zach Helm, who's the Commissioner from Molokai and who is also a
resident of Kalamaula, and who’s ohana was one of the first in Kalamaula that helped
to make this program possible. And for that reason, I, I apologize deeply. I would like
to amend the resolution one more time. My apologies.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE "BE IT RESOLVED" CLAUSE, THE
SECOND CLAUSE, TO ADD "ZACHARY HELM, HAWAIIAN
HOME LANDS COMMISSION MEMBER".
So, it would look similar to how Randy Awo's looks. But it would just have Zachary
Helm's name as well. He's also a commission, so,  acommissioner. So, that's my
motion.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to add
Zachary Helm's name.
Any further discussion? All those in favor of the amendment, please raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. heard Member Molina.
Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: "Aye", Chair.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 86
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Pro Tern Kama. Motion
carries.
Any further discussion? Nowthe--
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 9-17, 19.C. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL, SO THAT WE CAN PASS THIS RESOLUTION
TODAY.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Really? We have to invoke the Rule. Alright. Second to that motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I second.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member King.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King seconds Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez' motion to amend
the Rule, I mean to invoke the Rules of the Council.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The Rule is necessary to be waived
so that we can take final action today. Mahalo, Chair, because we amended it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye" and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 87
CHAIR LEE: I heard, okay, I heard both Member Molina and Member Johnson. Eight "ayes’
zero "noes"; motion carries. One "excused": Member Tasha Kama.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, just for the record, that was to waive the Rule, cause I think
you said, you stated it was to invoke the Rule, but we-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Okay, to waive the Rule of the Council.
Now, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, anything else?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I believe that completes it all. And
apologize profusely to Commissioner. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, let’s vote on the, the motion as amended, main motion as amended.
Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your
hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I heard both of you this time. Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
One "excused". Member Kama.
Alright. Madam Chair. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: For the record, that’s RESOLUTION 21-103.
NO. 21-297 - ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR
(dated June 25,2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "URGING THE STATE TO ADDRESS
OVERCROWDING ON STATE HIGHWAYS ON THE ISLAND OF MAUI".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 88
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-297.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCiLMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci,
to approve the resolution, adopt the resolution in County Communication 21-297.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May  Irequest the Clerk read the
resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, could you read the resolution?
COUNTY CLERK; Certainly. Yes.
(The resolution was read in part.)
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, oh oh, BlueJeans attack.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yea, hopefully BlueJeans is still monitoring.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, BlueJeans, you have to discount our bill.
Okay, anybody from the Clerk’s Office, please speak up; James, anybody, Joyce. I
guess BlueJeans attacked the entire Clerk's Office.
Let’s take a 10-minute break; 10:20, 2:20. 2:20, so 1 can find out where they are.
Maybe they went home. I don't know. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; 1 see Deputy.
CHAIR LEE; This meeting is in recess.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 89
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 2:07 P.M. ,AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2:23 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of July 2 please reconvene.
Madam Clerk, could you continue where you left off?
COUNTY CLERK: I will continue on page 2, with the third "WHEREAS" of the resolution
urging the State to address overcrowding on State highways, County Communication
21-297.
(The rest of the resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, any discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo. Madam Clerk, for
reading the resolution in its entirety. And I think it definitely speaks for itself. And we
also heard lots of support in testimony. So, mahalo to you, Chair, for introducing this
resolution. And I would happily defer to you for any additional comments.
CHAIR LEE: Like, you said, it's rather self-explanatory. Why are we getting this feedback?
And, you know, the sooner we send this out, hopefully, you know, we'll get it, this will
get the attention of our State Representatives and counterparts. And we will follow up
as much as we can to, to make sure that, that solutions are found right away. Because
the problems are mounting, and we just have to do something as quickly as possible.
Okay. Any other comments? Yes, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: This is more a protocol.
BUT I'D LIKE TO AMEND THE RESOLUTION SO THAT
BRIAN E. SCHATZ IS FIRST ON THE CERTIFIED COPIES OF
THIS RESOLUTION BE TRANSMITTED TO THE HONORABLE
BRIAN E. SCHATZ, UNITED STATE SENATOR, AND THEN
MAZIE AFTER. BECAUSE THE TERMS OF PROTOCOL,
BRIAN, BRIAN HAS HIGHER SENIORITY. THOSE THINGS
MATTER. AND THAT'S IT. SO, I'D LIKE TO MAKE THAT
AMENDMENT.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We'll, we'll consider that a nonsubstantive change that staff can do, okay
if there are no objections?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 90
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; No objections. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, Mr. Sinenci, has his hand up.
CHAIR LEE: So, i-
Oh, Mr. Sinenci, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. I too just wanted to mahalo you for acting
expeditiously as this, as part of the Hana Highway is, is under State jurisdiction. And
it's no wonder that we are a small rural, we're zoned rural country town and not a urban
district, because we are just at capacity and we simply lack the bathroom and. and
traffic infrastructure. It's become a safety issue when emergency vehicles, buses, and
utility vehicles cannot pass by bridge, bridge approaches due to illegal parking. So,
again, mahalo. Appreciate your moving this forward. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. There's no question that the traffic conditions are deplorable on
Hana Highway, as well as in Kahakuloa. So, we need to do something as soon as
possible. And hopefully. Member Sugimura, you will continue this subject matter in
your Committee? Okay, very good.
All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused". Member Kama. Motion carries.
Thank you. Members.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: For the record, that's RESOLUTION 21-104.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 91
NO. 21-298 - TAMARA PALTIN, CQUNCILMEMBER
(dated June 23,2021)
Relating to a proposed amendment to Bill 60 (2021), relating to a moratorium on
building permits for visitor accommodations.
- TAMARA PALTIN. CQUNCILMEMBER
(dated June 24, 2021)
NO. 21-299
Relating to a proposed amendment to Bill 62 (2021), relating to zipline, canopy
rappelling, and bungee jumping.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin, did you want to move this, these two items? Member Paltin?
CQUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yea, if there's no objections, I would like to ask that County
Communication 21-298 and 299, as well as an additional floor amendment, be taken
up with the relevant bills at the end of the calendar.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; No objections. So, ordered.
Madam Clerk.
- SHANE M. SINENCI. CQUNCILMEMBER
(dated June 25, 2021)
NO. 21-300
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "SUPPORTING THE SUBMISSION OF A
LETTER OF INTEREST FOR THE WATER INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE AND
INNOVATION ACT PROGRAM".
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci.
CQUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Chair.
i MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION, AND TO
FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-300.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 92
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND
CHAIR LEE: It's been moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to adopt the resolution in County Communication 21-300.
Member Sinenci, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. May I please request the Clerk read the
resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Certainly.
CHAIR LEE: Why are you smiling? Is it five pages?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No, it's-
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Madam Clerk. Members, to date, the Water
Infrastructure, Finance and Innovation Act ("WIFIA") program has closed 50 loans
totaling 9.4 billion in financing. And in Fiscal Year 2021, the Environmental Protection
Agency has an appropriation of 55 million, allowing WIFIA to land approximately
$5.5 million.
In April, Responsible Markets and loTask met with WIFIA staff in Washington D.C.
about the program. loTask has begun reaching out to investors in Responsible
Markets through the Maui ESG investment project and has been reaching out to Maui
community groups regarding development of community-based and community-driven
financial and governance investment structures that benefit our residents.
This partnership, along with science and engineering firm Woodard & Curran as a lead
applicant, is planning to submit a Letter of Interest for a Maui County based investment.
As a part of this Letter of Interest packet is necessary to demonstrate support of the
local government, which is the purpose of this resolution. And I believe part of their
involvement would be an engineering report of the current systems.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 93
As stated in the resolution, Maui County would not have a financial obligation to the
project, is only committing to providing this resolution to demonstrate support of the
project.
So, Members, we do have a July 23 deadline, so I ask for your full support of this
resolution. We also have Ms. Shay Chan Hodges should the body have any questions.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Sinenci.
Members, do you have any questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So. I, I heard Member Sinenci say
there's a deadline of July 23. And i was hoping, aloha Ms. Chan Hodges. Mahalo for
being on to answer some of our questions. So, I was hoping you'd be able to expound
a biton the July 23 timeline for us. And, and if you could also let us know why Woodard
& Curran would want to do this on our behalf. Mahalo.
MS. SHAY CHAN HODGES: Thank you. Thank you for the question. And thanks for having
me. Yes, as Councilmember Sinenci said, the, the due date for submitting the Letter
of interest, which we will be doing, or Woodard & Curran will be doing as the lead, lead
partner in this, is July 23. So, we, because it's required that the, the County express
support for the Letter of Interest, we definitely want that as soon as possible so that we
have time to put this letter. Letter of Interest together. And it's not just like a one-page
hey we're interested. We have to do an engineering assessment. Woodard & Curran
would come out here, actually, probably, and take  alook at the systems. And we need
to, we’ve done some financial modeling, but we need to flush it out more.
And again, this is just that first step. But it needs to make sense so that when the EPA
looks at it, they see that it's financially doable that we, Woodard & Curran is credit
worthy. And yes, we're very glad that that Woodard has agreed to do it, because they
are credit worthy. They, they have the ability to pay back the loan if, you know, if we
get it. And they also have all this engineering expertise, as Councilmember Sinenci
said. And we've met with them. We've provided with publicly available information
about the systems.
And they are extremely excited, particularly with Molokai, about how there's already a
strong community infrastructure in place, as far as community members who want to
see this kind of thing happen, who already have, as we talked to you folks about many
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 94
times, like the community-owned company model. They're already, the, the community
is so well organized.
And the way that Curran, Woodard & Curran, even though they're engineers, they fully
appreciate that it's not just about the engineering. It's about how you implement it,
what things look like on the ground. Obviously, there's many interesting things about
Hawaii's water systems that are very unique. And so, they're really excited because,
and, and even like the fact that the Water Use Development Plan has just begun on
Molokai. That's a lot of work that's being done for them that they can help, they can
build on by getting that information and then coming up with innovative ideas. So,
they're, they're super excited about what can be done in Hawaii and, you know, from
the point, perspective of climate change and those kinds of issues. Basically, the
potential of creating new models. Does that answer your question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes, it does. Mahalo, Ms. Chan Hodges. Mahalo
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I have a question. Let's see, do these engineers do the work for free?
MS. CHAN HODGES: No. Well, yes and no. So, they're, historically, what they normally do
is, so like the County of Maui could hire them to do the work. In this particular case,
they're partners. So, they have, you know, it's all about creating a financial
infrastructure and a map or model that in the end-
CHAIRLEE: Okay. Well, let me, let me stop you right there. I just wondered about how this,
how the procurement laws would come into play with regard to these consultants.
MS. CHAN HODGES. So, this is not a count, this is not a County project. This is a private
project. So, there's no County money. There's no County hiring of anybody. We just
need, because, the way WIFIA works is, for example, the County of Maui could submit
their own proposal for, as like Councilmember Sugimura says, for our wastewater, for
any kind of project that they want. But they also accept applications from private
parties, which we are. But when a private party applies, they can't just come in and
say, oh we're gonna do this water system in Maui County. They have to show that
they've gone and talked to the County and that the County supports it. So, all you're
doing is expressing support for us submitting this Letter of Interest. But there's no
obligation for anything from the County.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, it sounds like a good idea. It's just that, remember, we, we don’t
have Administrative powers.
MS. CHAN HODGES: Right.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 95
CHAIR LEE: So, they would, at some point, have to work with the Administration.
(Councilmember Johnson was excused from the meeting at 2:41 p.m.)
MS. CHAN HODGES; Oh, absolutely. And, and we have met with the Managing Director.
And we have asked the Mayor to also submit a letter. So, we would like to see both
the Administration and the Council show support, ideally.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright. That takes care of me.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just wanted to doublecheck if any of the proposal
involves 5G technology or the internet of things.
MS. CHAN HODGES: Not that we know of. No.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. Are you familiar with the project?
MS. CHAN HODGES; Well, we haven't developed a proposal yet. And it’ll be based on the
community, so it's not likely to.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions?
Yes, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. So, this is very interesting. This is a loan
right? It's not a grant? So, whatever comes out of this has to be repaid, correct?
MS. CHAN HODGES: Exactly. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, I guess there's a whole financial plan and there's other
things that will happen before you can go further than this one letter.
MS. CHAN HODGES: Exactly. Exactly. So, this is, like we said, it's the-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The-
MS. CHAN HODGES: Oh, go ahead. Sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 96
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: No. Go ahead.
MS. CHAN HODGES: Oh, I was just going to say, so this is just the Letter of Interest. If the
EPA likes our Letter of Interest, then they will invite us to submit an application and
that would happen in the Fall. So, that would be, but the Letter of Interest, I mean, I
don't know how long it'll be, but I assume it's, it'll be like 40-50 pages, right? It's not
just one page. But then, if they think it looks, makes sense, then they'll ask us to do a
full, and we have, we'll have up to 12 months, so it'll be very detailed. And that's where
the, you know, all the communities' priorities come into play, and the financial model
that ensures that the loan can be paid back and that whatever investors are involved
will have a return on investment.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, prior to that then, in order to pay back the loan, you're
did you say you're looking at the island of Molokai to do this project?
MS. CHAN HODGES; Yes. we are. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You are? And so, whatever water or wastewater system,
1 guess you're not looking at wastewater, you're looking at only water. Is that correct?
By your previous response to--
MS. CHAN HODGES; Yea, most likely, most likely. There, there is a wastewater system
there too. So, we're, we haven't figured out all the details of it. But like you said, we'l!
have to have ancillary projects that bring in other revenues. For example, renewable
energy. And one of the ideas is to build on the renewable energy work that's already
being done in the community, because there's an interest in being self-sufficient. And
then whatever other ideas that we work out that work for the community and bring in
revenues.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Interesting. Okay.
MS. CHAN HODGES: And in, oh, just want to note too that the, the actual loan terms are
extremely favorable. So, they're based on Treasury rates. So, currently, it's two
percent. It's a 40, I want to say, I think it's 40 or 45 year loan term. So, that's a very
long loan term. And then, you don't have to begin, or we don't have to begin paying it
back 5 years or once the project gets started. So, for us, as a, as the group working
on it, that makes it, you know, it's one of the easiest loans you can take on, right? So,
we're not super concerned about that.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 97
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions, Members? if not, thank you, Shay Chan Hodges, for your
information.
MS. CHAN HODGES; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Mr. Sinenci. anything
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Ms. Chan Hodges, for
answering our questions. That's all the questions  Ihave. I just wanted to speak in
strong support of the resolution and the motion on the floor to adopt the resolution.
And I am thankful to the Maui ESG project, which is now being housed under the Office
of Sustainability in the Mayor's Office. Something like that, I probably said it not totally
correct, but it's something like that. Yea, so I just, I just speak in strong support. And
mahalo, Member Sinenci, for introducing the resolution. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci, any further comments?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair, for my final comments. Yes, just dovetailing
on Member Rawlins-Fernandez. Our ESG investment project, this Council had
supported them to, to go out and, and actually look for, for these types of additional
funding. As you know, in my July 20 APT Committee meeting, we'll be speaking about
the Wailuku Water System acquisition. As, and, and as everyone knows, you've seen
a lotofthe Wailuku water issues in the news of late. So, but we're hoping that this can,
it helps relieve some of those questions and, and some of the issues that we all face.
Mahalo again, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? Does every, does anyone see Member Johnson?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, he's been keeping his video off and only when
we vote.
Member Sinenci's looking in the high seas in a sense.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Yea. Oh, he's in a sailboat. Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, not motorboat.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, all those in favor of approving the, adopting the resolution, raise your
hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 98
COUNCILMEMBERS KING, MOLINA, PALTIN,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON AND KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson? Did you hear an "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: In his chat, that he may drop the call as they get into
the channel. His apologies. So, that, they may be in the channel at this point, and he
may not--
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, we have seven "ayes", zero "noes", two "excused"; Member
Johnson and Member Kama. Motion carries.
Madam Chair. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. That would be 20, RESOLUTION 21-105.
The following CountyChair, proceeding with communications for referral
Communications are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR,NO. 21-301
(dated June 24, 2021)
Relating to amendments to Appendix A, Grants and Restricted Use Revenues -
Schedule of Grants and Restricted Use Revenues by Departments and Programs for
Fiscal Year 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-301 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 99
Urn, I--VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
CHAIR LEE: You're muted.
Oh. mahalo, Chair. I request the item to be referredVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
to the BFED Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. All, all of them?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. They'll serve as umbrella items for the Budget
Office to direct refer any amendments to those sections in the budget.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
Madam Clerk, please proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-302
(dated June 24, 2021)
Relating to amendments to the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget to authorize transfers between
categories of use within a program or department.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-302 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. COUNCIL VICE-CHAIRNO. 21-303
(dated June 24, 2021)
Relating to amendments to Capital Improvement Projects for Fiscal Year 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-303 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 100
- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 21-304
(dated June 23. 2021)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the 2021 Proposed General Obligation Bond Fund as
of May 31,2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication 21-304 be referred to the Budget,
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: To your Climate Action, Resilience-
CFIAIR LEE; Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, \wait. Could you hold on?
Any objections to, to referring these four items: 21-301, 302, 303, 304 to your Budget
Finance, and Economic Development Committee? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, ordered.
Please proceed, Madam Clerk, because some of these next items are going to require
action so I want to move that out of the way, okay?
- TAMARA PALTIN. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated June 25, 2021)
NO. 21-305
Transmitting a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO PROHIBIT
THE SALE, USE, OR DISTRIBUTION OF SUNSCREEN CONTAINING
OXYBENZONE AND OCTINOXATE".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-305 be referred to the
Climate Action, Resilience, and Environment Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: To your Government Relations-
CHAIR LEE; So, no action. Just stop us, you know, on the way down.
Okay. Continue then. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 101
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. CQUNCILMEMBER,NO. 21-306
(dated June 22, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022
OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-306 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-306 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING AND ASSIGNED RESOLUTION NO. 21-106 . COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-306 WAS THEN FILED. See page
nos. 105 through 110 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. It's been so long. I'm trying to find all my notes
now. Okay. Do you want to go ahead and read through? I do have, I do have my
notes on that resolution, and the next one.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But I can wait till we get to the end and then I'll move.
CHAIR LEE: So, 306 and 307?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 306 and 307, I'd like to take action on, because those are time
sensitive.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 102
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated June 23, 2021)
NO. 21-307
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "APPROVING THE HAWAl‘1 STATE
ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE’S NOMINATIONS TO
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES AND WESTERN INTERSTATE
REGION BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-307 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION ATTACHED TO COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-307 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING AND ASSIGNED RESOLUTION NO. 21-107 . COUNTY
COMMUNICATION NO. 21-307 WAS THEN FILED. See page
nos. 105 through 110 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
SO, CHAIR. IF THERE'S NO OBJECTIONS, I'D LIKE TO, I'D
LIKE TO MOVE BOTH OF THESE RESOLUTIONS. IF WE CAN
ADDRESS BOTH OF THEM TOGETHER?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: No objections for me. Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. . . . from my notes. Can you come back to me in a few
minutes?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, I, I assume we are, establishing a sister-city will be referred?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 103
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That, I'm asking for that to be referred to the GREAT Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Madam Clerk. 21-308, referral to the GREAT Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
- KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBERNO. 21-308
(dated June 25, 2021)
Transmitting a proposed resolution entitled "ESTABLISHING A SISTER-CITY
RELATIONSHIP WITH SAN CRISTOBAL ISLAND, GALAPAGOS. REPUBLIC OF
ECUADOR".
theThe recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-308 be referred to
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
- TASHA KAMA. PRESIDING OFFICER PRO TEMPORENO. 21-309
(dated June 18. 2021)
Relating to public shoreline access for recreational purposes.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-309 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
- ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR
(dated June 21, 2021)
NO. 21-310
Relating to tourist traffic in East Maui and Kahakuloa.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-310 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 104
- YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER.NO. 21-311
(dated June 18, 2021)
Relating to the Central Maui Landfill.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 21-311 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE; No action. Okay, let's see. So, we have, can you repeat, before we go back to
Member King, repeat the ones that are going to be referred that we haven't acted on?
COUNTY CLERK: That would be, oh, you mean, the one they're going to take action on or
not?
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no. We're going to take action on 306 and 307.
COUNTY CLERK; Right.
CHAIR LEE: I just want to make sure that I don't skip any that we didn't take any action on to
be referred to Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Starting with County Communication 21-301, 302, 303, 304 to
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee. 305 to Climate Action,
Resilience, and Environment Committee. 308 to Government Relations, Ethics, and
Transparency Committee. 309 to Human Concerns and Parks Committee. And 310,
311 to Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. If not, so ordered.
Okay, now we, we have to go back to Member King.
Did you have a question, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yea, really quickly. I just wanted to hope that the
Members are starting to feel a little more comfortable with the Consent Calendar. So,
all those referral items were not able to be put into the Consent Calendar, because we
restricted what could be put into the Consent Calendar to items that came from the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 105
Administration. And so, this is an example of ail the things that could have been put
into the Consent Calendar for referral that came from the, the Council. So, I just wanted
to take a moment to point that out and hope the Members will reconsider amending
our Council Rules to enable that to happen. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any comments, Members? Okay, Vice-Chair, they're not ready.
Member King.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NOS. 21-306 AND 21-307
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Okay. I, actually, i would like for consideration
of County Communications 21-306 and 21-307.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL FOR COUNTY
COMMUNICATIONS 21-306 AND 21-307.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to waive the
Rule 7.G. of the Council.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, Members, Section 21 of the HSAC Bylaws requires
each County Council to approve the HSAC operating budget for the upcoming fiscal
year.
CHAIR LEE: Weil, we're just going to vote on the, waiving the Rule.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. So, both of these are, are HSAC items that need to be
passed so that we can go forward to this next fiscal year and conduct business,
basically--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2. 2021
Page 106
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; -that's the urgency.
favor of waiving Rule 7.G. of theCHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in
Council, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KING, MOLINA. PALTIN,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson are you back? No.
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON AND KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: So, seven "ayes", two "excused"; motion carries. The excused are Member,
Members Johnson and Kama.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. Thank you, Members. Section 21 of the HSAC Bylaws
requires each County Council to approve the HSAC operating budget for the upcoming
fiscal year prior to the HSAC annual meeting, which this year has been put off from the
usual June date to October. Similarly, Sections 5A and 5C of the HSAC Bylaws
provide the procedure to be followed in selecting the two NACo, WIR Directors, prior
to the HSAC annual meeting.
Since our HSAC annual meeting is scheduled for Thursday, July 22. approval of my
motion by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council, well, that's the
motion. That's the motion of the waiver. So, we're beyond the waiver. So, I guess I'll
make the motion for the adoption.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 21-306 AND
21-307, AND TO FILE THE COMMUNICATIONS.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 107
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to adopt the resolutions
contained in County Communications 21-306 and 21-307.
Alright. Discussion, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. As mentioned, Section 21,5A, and 5C provide
the procedure for County Council approval of the HSAC operating budget and selecting
the hA/o NACo and WIR Directors prior to the HSAC annual meeting, \which will take
place in October this year. The next meeting of the HSAC Board of Directors is on
July 22.
The HSAC Executive Committee approved its Fiscal Year 2022 proposed operating
budget and its nominations to the NACo and WIR Board of Directors and just needs
this last step to finalize in order to set the actions in motion.
Regarding the NACo Board of Directors, the current representatives are Hawaii County
Counciimember Tim Richards, as a Presidential Appointment; Kauai County
Councilmember KipuKai Kuali'i; and Honolulu City Council Chair Tommy Waters. The
proposed nominations keep the same directors. Likewise, the current WIR Directors
myself and Hawaii County Councilmember Tim Richards. And the proposed
nominations would keep us in our seats.
Copies of the budget and nominations are attached to the respective resolutions as
well. I respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support of my motion. Thank you.
Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any discussion or questions. Members? If not, all those in-
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
are
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo for this presentation. Member King. I just
have a question on membership fees. So, before, so it looks like each County paid
$43,680 in 2020, 2021, and then again in 2022. And so, in last year, so last fiscal year
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 108
because of the pandemic, the things that was budgeted for in 2020, when, you know,
we didn't know that there was going to be a pandemic, like travel to the different
conferences, ground, lodging, registration for all these things, that ultimately wasn't
used. That, that money via membership fees wasn't used. So, I was just hoping you
would be able to explain a little bit why membership dues or fees would be the same
for this year instead of, you know, like a, some kind of a discount because the money
last, last fiscal year wasn't used for the things that was allocated for. Cause 1, I do see
a pretty large carryover.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, our, our intent in going forward is to try to hire a support
staff. And, you know, we've been talking about an Executive Director for a long time.
We decided to, because we don't have quite enough extra in there to hire an Executive
Director, we decided to start with a part-time administrator; someone who could set up
the books and keep the website and do all the things that we normally transfer from
County to County. And then sometimes stuff gets lost and that's why we have this
issue with these outstanding audits. So, the intent is to, to budget about 40,000 for a
part-time administrator. And then, while we're working on the full job description for an
Executive Director, and then fundraising to try to figure out how we're going to keep
that. We don't, you know, if we can do fundraising, then we don't have to look at raising
each Counties dues beyond what it, what it is and has been. So, that's the goal, is to
have this upcoming conference include a larger fundraiser and fundraising efforts.
And in the past, there's never been really a budget for the conference, because the
conference, whoever, whichever island is hosting it gets $5,000 to. as seed money.
And then, all the money to run the conference has to come from sponsors. So, the
conference that we put on, on Maui in 2019, folks are still talking about it. It was a
really great conference. We were able to raise enough money to cover all the
expenses and bring experts in. But we did not operate it like a fundraiser. So, we
didn't end up, we ended up I think it was 5 or 10,000 extra. And the Council had
previously, I think, brought in 25,000 extra, because it used to be an event that was
more focused on fundraising than content. And we flipped it. We focused more on
content.
So, we're trying to find a happy medium so that we can hold, continue to hold, you
know, meaningful content rich conferences, but still do some fundraising so that we
might, we might reach a level where we can sustain an Executive Director. So, that's
kind of what we're expected to do with that extra funds this year.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for that explanation, Member King. And I, I
fully support that work, especially since that burden was shouldered by our County for
what, the past three years, more?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 109
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-FERNANDEZ: Doing the treasury, we, treasury work and trying to
balance the books. So, you know, a big shoutout to Ms. Espeleta for doing a lot of that
work. And yea, the 2019 conference was, was amazing and I look forward to this
year's conference.
(Councilmember Paltin was excused from the meeting at 3:03 p.m.)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: One last quick question. And that’s, do you, does
HSAC plan to have a, an employee or plan to contract this work?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, right now, we're discussing both options. But it looks like
we're, we're leaning more towards contracting it out, because then we don't have to do
benefits and, you know, retirement and all that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Excellent. I would support contracting the work out.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yea. And I didn't and, and you know, eventually we hope to find
somebody fulltime who can do the lobbying work, as well, so we don't have to have a
separate legislative lobbyist and separate administrator. So, someone who can do all
of that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member King. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you for that question.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aye. I think we lost Member Paltin. All I see is her background.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: She said she was going to be right back.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson, are you still on the call?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I, I did text Member Johnson to let
know when he has service again and he's on the call, and then that way you don'tme
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 110
have to keep checking on him. He’s going to text me to let me know that he's back on
the call for you to call on when we vote.
And then I do also want to quickly give a shout out to Ms. Nicole Kahinu for also doing
a lot of that HSAC book balancing work. Mahalo for this opportunity.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, thank you. Thank you for that, Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
(Councilmember Paltin returned to the meeting at 3:05 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You know, she, both of Shelly and Nicole did so much work in
unearthing some of the irregularities of HSAC. And, of course, when you do that kind
of work, you don't get a lot of kudos from the other people because it makes more work
for everybody. But it was, it was, it was work that needed to be done. We needed to
see where we were at before, so we could fix it before going forward. So, you know,
yes, you're right, they did put in incredible amount of work and thank, thank them for
that too.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Now that you're back. Member Paltin, we're ready to vote on
passing the West Maui Community Plan. Just kidding.
Okay, we're going to vote on C 21-306 and C 21-307. Alright? Are you ready? All
those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING, MOLINA, PALTIN,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON AND KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Two, four, six. Okay, we have seven "ayes", two "excused". Member Johnson
and Kama, excused. Motion carries.
Madam Clerk, we're on the one and only committee report.
COUNTY CLERK: Prior to that, that’s RESOLUTIONS 21-106 and 21-107.
Chair, proceeding with the Committee Report.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 111
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
21-46NO. INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:
entitled "ADOPTING THE VISION ZERORecommending that Resolution 21-108
MAUI ACTION PLAN TO ELIMINATE TRAFFIC FATALITIES AND SERIOUS
INJURIES BY 2040," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Thank you.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 21-46.
CHAIR LEE; 44. Is it 46?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
It says "46".
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: 46.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And 1 have 44. Alright Been moved by Member Sugimura, seconded
by Member King, to adopt the resolution in Committee Report 21-46.
Discussion? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Your Infrastructure, Transportation Committee
met on June 7, 2021, to discuss the proposed resolution to urge the Administration to
implement the Vision Zero Maui Action Plan. At this meeting, your Committee was
informed that the intent of the Plan was to identify priorities relating to data collection;
traffic enforcement; and design and construction of safe roadways, intersections,
sidewalks, and paths.
The proposed Plan focuses on addressing seven key goals identified through the
planning process: eliminating impaired driving, creating safe speeds, eliminating
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 112
districted driving, creating a safety culture, building safe streets for everyone,
institutionalizing Vision Zero, and improving data to support decisions.
Your Committee noted the Plan’s development was guided by the Vision Zero
Advocacy [sic] Group consisting of volunteers from various facets of the community
and that the Plan is intended as a guide to improve transportation programs that
promote safety on Maui's roads and serve as an initiative to end fatalities and serious
injuries caused by traffic crashes on May, on Maui by 2040.
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend adoption of the proposed resolution. I
respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion or questions?
Member King, and then Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, I speak in strong support of this resolution. And I think the
Mayor, at some point, had said he supports the Vision Zero. So, you know, so thank
goodness for that. We also, I just also want to mention to all the Councilmembers that
today at 5, 5 to 6 p.m., there's an impaired driving awareness rally at Hoaloha Park on
Kaahumanu Avenue. So, this is an effort being led by Lieutenant Hankins of the Police
Department. And it's really good to be working in concert with the Administration and
this Department on this one. So, thank you for bringing the resolution forward. Member
Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you for that announcement as well.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Ferna, or was it Member Sinenci? Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Just wanted to speak my support. Mahalo
to Member Sugimura; also to the MPO Executive Director Lauren Armstrong for all of
her hard work reaching out to the community, as well as the MPO Board; as well as
the Maui Police Department Traffic Division; MADD, Mothers Against Drunk Driving;
and all the street artists that have been helping around, around the town. So, again,
mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Good. I'm glad you pointed that out.
Anybody else? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 113
COUNCILMEMBERS KING, MOLINA, PALTIN,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON AND KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Seven "ayes", two "excused"; motion carries. The excused are Members
Kama and Johnson.
Ooh, we're on second and final reading. Okay. This is second and final reading. We
don't have to have long drawn-out speeches.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: For the record, the Committee Report21-46 is RESOLUTION 21-108.
Proceeding with ordinances up for second and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 60 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE TO ADD
CHAPTER 40 RELATING TO A MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR
VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS
COUNTY CLERK: And also. County Communication 21-298 that corresponds with that
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: And I can bring that up and read that up.
- TAMARA PALTIN. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated June 23, 2021)
NO. 21-298
Relating to a proposed amendment to Bill 60 (2021), relating to a moratorium on
building permits for visitor accommodations.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 114
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. I move to amend Bill 60, to substitute
Bill 60 (2021) \A/ith the attached proposed bill.
Did that come through for all you guys, the ASF?
CHAIR LEE; Did everybody get the ASF? Okay. Can you give a brief explanation?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I believe we need a main motion on the floor. So, it
would be Member King to move for second and final reading, and then Member Paltin
to amend, or propose an amendment to the motion.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, thank you, Chair. Thankyou, Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
That was, I think that was what Kathy was going to say too. The County Clerk came
on and raised her hand, then she went away after you asked your question.
OKAY, CHAIR, I MOVE TO PASS BILL 60 (2021) ON SECOND
AND FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member King, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to pass
Bill 60 on second and final reading.
You, you want to say something on the motion, or you, shall we go straight to-
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I, I'm going to hold my final comments, you know, for the reasons
you just mentioned . . . getting to this issue. We discussed it a lot and I'll defer to
Member Paltin-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 115
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
SO, I MOVE TO SUBSTITUTE BILL 60 (2021) WITH THE
ATTACHED PROPOSED BILL 21-298 [SIC].
CHAIR LEE: Second? Is there a second?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND. FOR DISCUSSION.
Moved by Member Paltin. seconded by Member Molina, to propose theCHAIR LEE:
amendment.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure. Okay. The proposed exception--
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry. You proposed a substitution of the entire bill.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yea. do you want me to do Section D? What the . . . Section
"D. This chapter does not apply to any development that includes new housing units
built, in an equal number to the new visitor accommodations, that are:
1. Affordable to very low income or low income residents, as defined in the
residential workforce housing policy, for at least thirty years;
2. Made available for occupancy prior to or concurrent with the new visitor
accommodations: and
3. Located in the same community plan area.
The proposed exception will reinforce the Council's desire to encourage affordable
housing for our residents. The bill proposing a moratorium on new transient
accommodations on Maui referred to the Maui Planning Commission by
Resolution 21-98, includes the same exception. We should maintain consistency in
both proposed bills.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 116
Historically, hotels built housing for their workers as they constructed their properties.
The hotel industry will have no one to employ if residents are continually pushed off
island due to lack of housing options. Creating a one-to-one match of visitor and
affordable housing units benefits all parties. The proposed exception also allows those
in the construction industry the opportunity to continue working during the moratorium.
{Councilmember Johnson returned to the meeting at 3:15 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; And so, in response to the testimony today, many of the same
people that were testifying were also the ones that said, let the community plans mean
something. And this is straight out of the West Maui Community Plan. And, you know,
I wasn't consulted on a moratorium for South and West Maui. And, and you know,
nearly every day I have folks calling me up, like, when are the Ikaika Ghana projects
going to open up their waitlist, because people don't have any place to live over here.
And I do think it's kind of dangerous putting all our eggs in the Ikaika Ghana basket.
Numerous times already. I've gotten calls in the middle of the night that they're being
held up by the Water Department, or they're being held up by the Housing Department,
or whatever it is. That, you know, the last time they called, they were ready to pull out
of Maui altogether.
And so, you know, people that can fearmonger either way that, you know, if we don't
pass this moratorium, it's going to happen na, na, na, na, na, na. The economy, people
can fearmonger, oh, if we pass this, the, the housing isn't going to be built anyway,
because it wasn't built in the past. But West Maui has a desperate need for this
housing.
And, and right now, all our eggs are in the Bigley basket. And, and from the multitude
of calls that I get from them, sometimes it's very tenuous that they're going to stay here,
you know. The last call, if the Water Department didn't grant their certificate of
occupancy thing, they were going to pull out of Maui completely. So, you know, this,
this really does tie in to all the traffic coming in and out of West Maui, because nobody
can afford to live in West Maui.
And it's, it's part of the CPAC recommendation. It was signed off as to form and legality
by Corp. Counsel Stephanie Chen. And so that's my amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, I do have a question on procedure. Madam Clerk, are you there?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 117
CHAIR LEE: Okay. When you called up the item, 1,  Ihad, I was advised that Member Paltin
was going to move for a substitution, yea. So, I just wanted to make sure, so if we will
treat that as an amendment or as substituting a whole bill?
Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, the main motion would need to
be made so that a, the proposal to substitute the bill that is relevant to the main motion
is there to substitute. So, if there is nothing to substitute, then the substitution can't
happen. So, the substitution is an amendment to the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I needed to have that cleared up, because when somebody, when she
called up the subject matter, could a substitution be done at that time or would a motion
be made first? So, that was my question. Okay. So, what is your answer, Madam
Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Can you repeat that one more time? When I called up the~
CHAIR LEE: Yea, when you call, ordinarily, when you call up an item and somebody,
somebody wants to make an amendment, the first step is to make the main motion to
pass the item on second reading, that's in this case. Then, somebody will say, I want
to make an amendment. And then, I call that person and we take the amendment first.
And then whatever happens, then we take the main motion afterwards. But in the, in
the case of a substitution, that's what I was asking, is it different than making an
amendment? That was my question.
Now, we already heard from Vice-Chair. We already heard from one parliamentarian.
I want to hear from another one, okay, before I proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Staff on this side is saying, no, it's the same-
CHAIR LEE: As an amendment?
COUNTY CLERK: -substitution and amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Because in the past, we have proceeded on the course, and then what
happens is your staff says, oh, wait, wait, wait, we have to go back to something. So,
in this case, we're not going to go back. I'm going to assume that we are proceeding
on the correct course. Right? Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Correct. Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 118
CHAIR LEE: So, we, we had the main motion. We did that part. And now, we're at the
amendment, which is a substitution. And so is there any more discussion on Members
Paltin’s proposed amendment?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I did see Member Sugimura's hand up earlier,
I'm willing to yield to her if she has a question or comment first.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, did you want to discuss the amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I was just wondering how you do exactly what you
described. But 1 have a comment, that basically, based upon comments that we heard
in testimony from Randall Sakumoto, 1 really wonder about the arbitrary act of
government by doing this moratorium. So, I don't know if it applies—
so
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -to this amendment or if it applies to the motion in general.
I mean, the, the main, the main motion. But I do have that question and I would like
Corp. Counsel to answer that.
CHAIR LEE; You mean on the procedure that we just covered.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No, no, no. Just on the, on the bill, the moratorium bill.
CHAIR LEE: On the, on the proposal.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Point of order. On, on the amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member, Member Sugimura’s question is on the
amendment, right?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Actually, I'm talking about the main motion. But so if we're
talking about the amendment which has now substituted the, the main bill, this is my
general question, and you all can place it where it's supposed to be. But this is a legal
issue of a building permit. The due process violation law is invalid and the, and the
comment made was arbitrary act of government.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Okay. Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 119
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Yea, you are talking about the main motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: But we will come back to it. We will come back to it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay, so what happens with this--
CHAIR LEE; Right now, we're, we're on, we're not on the main motion right now. We're on
the proposed amendment. The housing one.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, even if this, the moratorium, right? So, even,
yea, with housing added to it. So, I guess my question is that if you're going to
substitute the bill, right, for Tamara's bill for the main bill, then this question that I have,
I would like Corp. Counsel to answer it at the appropriate time then, since we're doing
the substitution. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So, are you saying, what, can you succinctly repeat your question so I can, 1
can ask Corp. Counsel?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea. So, on the moratorium bill, what was mentioned was
the legal issue of due process violation. And 1 guess the, the general term is an
arbitrary act of government. So, I would like Corp. Counsel to comment about that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, I, 1 really believe you're talking about the main motion. Alright? So,
we will have that question asked of Corp. Counsel when we go back to the main motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Right now, we're on the proposed amendment. So, anymore discussion on the
proposed amendment?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Chair. Yea, just on the amendment itself.
What the, when this bill was written, and they used a lot of case law to write this bill so
that it was tight so that it's defensible. And, and that's why it was tied to the two
communities that are currently working on their community plans. And the idea of
retiring the moratorium when the community plan is accepted, is that gives it, the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 120
communities the opportunity to put in their plan the policy on this, which West Maui
did, did agree to. So, they put that in their plan. When that's accepted, that will become
the policy for West Maui.
The, the proposed, the proposal to put it in a moratorium then puts the same stipulation
South Maui. And South Maui is right now going through its community plan and
should be allowed to decide for ourselves if we want that same stipulation to be the,
the driver to end the moratorium. And we haven't had that discussion in South Maui.
So, I'm glad that it's in the West Maui Community Plan and I will support keeping that
in the plan, because that's what the community members there want. But I don't want
to see this imposed on South Maui at this time, because the whole point of the
moratorium is to take that pause so that the communities can decide what, what they
wanted to see in sustainable tourism in their districts. And our community hasn't made
that decision. People from our community did come out today against the, against the
amendment. So, I, I would speak against this amendment for the, the bill, but I do
support it being in the West Maui Community Plan.
And once we do approve the West Maui Community Plan, then the, this moratorium
will end for West Maui because their community plan will take over and become the
law. So, I fully support what Member Paltin is doing for her community, but I will just
ask, please don’t put it in this bill and impose that on South Maui when we haven't had
a chance to have that same discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? Did I see any other hands up? This is only on the
amendment now.
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
on
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I. I, I appreciate Member Paltin s
proposed amendment. I know it's coming from a place of need and the West Mauiand here we are in thisneeds affordable housing yesterday, last year, years ago
problem now. And it's just completely exacerbated because of the unfulfilled promises
of developments pulling their end to build the affordable housing that they committed
to or that were, that was part of the conditions of their development. And I fully support
the policy being in the community plan. And I think we all supported that, so it is in the
community plan when we hear it at first reading.
I, I think it doesn’t quite match to take that out of the community plan as a policy and
then stick it into this moratorium bill. It, it will apply as a policy come August. Hopefully,
we, we get it passed first and second reading. So, it will be a standalone policy, you
know, in accordance with the West Maui Community Plan, updated 2021
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 121
But for this, for this moratorium, as Member King stated, it's, it's cleaner to not have
too much gray area; to keep it as black and white for the Directors as possible. As we
heard from Director McLean and Director Dagdag-Andaya, it's hard for them to have
that kind of discretion with this moratorium. That it's easier for them to not accept
applications, really at all, so that, that burden isn't placed on them to try to figure out,
you know, who gets an exception and who doesn't. And that it's just, one, you know,
black and white, a strict no and not a maybe.
And thatthere, you know, butthis, this bill as it's written in "4000.5 Exceptions. E. The
Council may authorize exceptions from this chapter by resolution upon request by the
Director of Public Works." So, it, it kind of does give already some discretion. And if
that discretion included affordable housing, that's something that we could take up on
a case-by-case basis, which would enable us more time to really vet out whatever the,
the proposed project is, instead of putting a general statement that opens it up to, you
know, whatever projects.
I think that, you know, Mr. Perez, in his testimony, really was succinct in talking about
the whole point of this whole moratorium, is to stop the building. And so, proposing
this amendment kind of undermines the purpose of this moratorium, which is to pause
the construction of future visitor accommodations,
undermines that, that point of pausing it. Because then we're saying, pause but if
you're going to do this then, you know, then you can. So, you know, there's, it, yea, it
kind of undermines the, the, the bill itself.
So, for those reasons, I, 1 won't be supporting the proposed amendment to the main
motion. I do support trying to figure out how we can get more affordable housing in
West Maui and throughout. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else?
Before I call on you. Member Paltin, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yea, thank you. Madam Chair. Speaking to the amendment.
You know, I applaud Member Paltin, certainly very well-intended. This, while we
certainly would like to see if we're talking initial development, it's attainable housing,
workforce housing. But I'm not sure if this is the right mechanism to, to use. I'm just
concerned about possible developers finding loopholes and that could just sort of water
down what the intent of this moratoria is. And so, I would hope that Member Paltin
maybe someday down the road, look at doing an ordinance on this. And that way
it's more, and again, it would help the Directors as well in determining, you know, what
And so, having this kind of
can
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 122
is appropriate. And I think if you mix this in as an amendment with the moratorium, it
may create some confusion and some misunderstanding and, worst of all, a loophole.
So, you know, this is a tough one for me, but regrettably, I cannot support trying to
achieve the desired goal of additional affordable housing with this methodology or
mechanism. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. So, 1 just wanted to clarify. This is only
going to be for like a couple months moratorium for West Maui. Just letting folks know
that the moratorium is only going to be a couple months for West Maui. Cause I don't
think that was clear the whole process.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now, we didn't hear from Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair, for my opportunity. And yea, I did want to
applaud Member Paltin. I did support her when putting on, bringing this up at the CARE
Committee. I, I thought it was great and, and connected to, to climate change when
she was having one per one versus one per four. The four-one affordable housing for
four units. So, 1 mean, I thought that was.
Anyways, I, 1 am supportive of the bill as is. But I am also supportive in, in looking at
this further if we can refer this for, for a deeper dive. I guess my main concern is we
all received these building industry magazines. And in it, Joshua Berlien said there's
a severe supply meeting demand imbalance. Maui Builders, who have faced many
challenges last year, are likewise looking forward to new developments, as well as
profiting from the 2020 carryovers. As of February, according to recent State reports,
private Maui building permits have increased nearly 58.6 percent since February of
last year. Despite obvious challenges and some projects pause, the majority of
industry companies remain saturated with more work than available qualified
manpower and professionals. During 2020, the production of materials was impacted
by the shutdowns or limited operations at factories and mining businesses. We are
feeling the ripple impact of these shutdowns, as well as severe supply meeting demand
imbalance, resulting in severely inflated material pricing and material shortages.
So, when, when you're looking at the, at it from an industry perspective, you know, the
materials are being is, it's competitive for building materials now, for the developers.
So, I think with the pause, then we could potentially focus on more affordable housing
versus more visitor accommodations. So, I just wanted to share that from the industry's
perspective. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 123
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anybody else who didn't speak yet?
Okay. Second and last, Member King. Second and last, Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Yea, I just wanted to acknowledge, 1 thought
I said this earlier, but I do acknowledge that the moratorium will retire for West Maui in
a couple months after we approve the West Maui Community Plan. And that's why, 1
think this, since this, since this idea is already in the plan, then that works for West
Maui. So, putting this into the moratorium is, is, is imposing it on South Maui without
giving us a chance to decide if that's the way we want to go forward.
And one of my problems with looking at this bill is that we're getting affordable housing
without having to attach it to hotel construction. We've got like four or more projects
coming into South Maui in the next couple of years that we've already approved that
has been 60 percent AMI and lower. So, you know,  Iwouldn't want to have a bill like
this and have someone be able to say, okay, we're going to buy into that affordable
housing project, now I can build a hotel or some other such, you know, loophole that
might be found.
And so, let us, let us decide. I think we're fairly success in west, in South Maui right
now in bringing affordable housing without attaching it to a hotel. And let us decide for
ourselves how we want to go forward or what we want to put into our community plan
before the moratorium ends. That's, that's kind of the position I'm, I'm taking is that, is
that we all support West Maui having this in your community plan, but somehow it
hasn't, hasn't gotten to the point where we had this discussion. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I, 1 just wanted to address the
concern that Member Paltin brought up, which is, you know, a legitimate concern, that
we are expediting the adoption of the West Maui Community Plan. And the moratorium
is tied to the completion and adoption to the two district's community plans. So, the
moratorium would, would, under this bill, would only last for the next, you know,
hopefully two months, because we're, we're going to be adopting the community plan.
And that's why I introduced my bill, which, you know, is island-wide, and is tied to the
purpose of implementing actions to manage tourism. And so, it, it's not to have a
moratorium necessarily go longer. But the purpose of the moratorium would be so that
we have the time to create the TIG, come up with  aaction plan, and propose the
legislation to help us really manage the tourism that has really gotten out of control.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 124
And so, you'll see on the, my projected three-month calendar that I, I have set July for
the creation of this TIG, because I would like to expedite it. Because I don't want the
moratorium to necessarily last two years. But I,  Ijust, we need to manage tourism
now. We need to do that. We needed to do that before the, the pandemic happened.
But here we are. And we all recognize that the urgency of doing it, which is why I'm
expediting the creation of the TIG, so that we can come up with our proposed
legislation to accomplish just that. And so, I just wanted to make that clear. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody for their second and last time?
Okay. Member Paltin, I know you wanted to say something. Did you want to say
something?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh no. I already had my second and last time.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Well, just to let you know, I can’t support this amendment, although I
thought it was pretty clever in a, in a way. And  Ijust don't see a need for it since in a
couple of months we're going to pass the Plan. So, before you, before they set up all
the rules to implement it, it'll be over. So, that's my thinking.
Anybody else? If not, all those in favor of the amendment, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Opposed, raise your hand. Okay, this is opposed now. Okay, so we
have one, two, three, four, five, six opposed.
So, I'm assuming Sinenci, you were in favor of it?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; 1, 1 was, I was opposed.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES;
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
So, we have seven opposed, one in favor, two-CHAIRLEE; Oh okay.
Mr. Johnson, were you on the call?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 125
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes, I am, Chair. I, 1 voted opposed.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Again, seven, seven opposed and two in favor. No, it couldn't have
been. It was six opposed. Six opposed, two in favor, and one, yea, and one "excused".
That makes nine.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; 1 think there was only one in favor; Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. I'm sorry. I, I took your, Sinenci as for it. Okay, so again; one in
favor, seven opposed, one "excused". Motion fails.
Okay, back to the main motion. Now, Member Sugimura, you had a question for Corp.
Counsel?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea, 1 have a question for Corp. Counsel. I see Moana
Lutey on the phone, on the call.
CHAIR LEE: I'd be happy to-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, hi, Richelle.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the question is, as it was brought, as it was brought up
in testimony by Randall Sakumoto. He talked about the legal issues with this bill. I
believe that the moratorium bill was not signed by Corp, Counsel. During our
Committee and deliberations, I tried to go into executive session but was never allowed
by the body.
And I'm concerned about the statement made that this isn't, could be perceived as an
arbitrary act of government by the actions of the bill. And the example he gave was, I
tried to scribble the notes so bear with me if it's not all comprehensive, but no
correlation with the carbon emission, that whole, you know, there was no clear
correlation with all of the environmental statements made to the visitors, impact of
visitors, as well as the building permits and, and that whole process. So, I apologize.
I scribbled my notes. And, and if Corp. Counsel could answer it. And this is my
question on an arbitrary act of government through the passage of this bill. Thank you.
I guess, what does that mean and what is your opinion on that?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Thank you, Chair.
And thank you. Member Sugimura, for that question. So, that's one of several potential
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 126
basis for challenges to this bill that have been brought up through public testimony. We
would welcome the opportunity to discuss this in executive session. But because it
goes directly to the defensibility or the illegal basis for challenge, and our likelihood of
success we're not, we prefer not to do that in open session. But we're prepared to go
into executive if, if the body wishes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you. So, I. 1 would like to ask for executive
session if the other Members would allow it, based upon what Corp. Counsel just
advised us for a bill, and the concerns that were brought up through testimony. And
I'm concerned about the liability of the County and us, Councilmembers, personally, 1
don't know if there will be, if we pass something that has an arbitrary act of government.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Members, is there a consensus to go into executive session?
Apparently not, Member Sugimura. So, your comments are on the record.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I just wanted to make sure that--
CHAIRLEE: What's that? What were you saying?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No. go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Your comments are on the record asking for executive session, and your
concerns about liability, etc., and the other issues mentioned in testimony. So, 1, 1
think, you know, like I, the record will show that you have taken that position.
Apparently, the other Members prefer not to go into executive session. So, we're going
to have to proceed with this.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So, 1, 1 just would like to make my comments
that, again. Bill 60 will temporarily retain the status quo in the development of
hotels and other visitor accommodations in South Maui and West Maui until expected
community plans for the areas are updated, or two years have passed, whichever is
sooner, because of environmental and other impacts. The community plans, more
than 20 years old, is necessary for the . . . visitor accommodations' development until
the updated vision, visions for South Maui and West Maui are deliberated amongst
citizens and approved by the Council. The County has a history of establishing various
types of development moratorium, most recently on Lanai and nobody questioned the
now
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 127
legality of that as states and municipalities have long been afforded substantial
discretion by courts in establishing development moratorium.
From OCS, and we can bring our attorneys on from OCS as well, that maintaining
status quo is a valid purpose for a moratorium. And that's usually what it's used for if
the bill was developed in accordance with case law, and we saw the research that was
done on moratorium across the country. So, I respectfully ask the Council's support of
my motion. Support all of our residents. 1, 1 know it's tempting sometimes to pick out
a phrase or two from a closing testimony, but none of that has been proven. That is
all speculation. So, so 1 ask for the Members continued support of this bill. Thank you,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. Anyone else?
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I speak in strong support of the bill.
I wanted to ask Member Sugimura if she consulted with Corporation Counsel about
the, her questions that she has been asking to go into executive session?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You're asking me if I asked this question before this
moment?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let's, we're not debating this issue.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: I, I had already ruled on it, yea? We're not going into executive session and
those issues she brought up about legal questions are on the record, so we're past
that already, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I, I only asked because I, I consulted
with Corporation Counsel privately, so that I could hear their legal analysis, as Member
Sugimura has shared her concerns. And 1 had an opportunity to talk through those,
their legal analysis to hear, you know, the potential of what arguments have been made
by the opposition. And, you know, that's what court is for. Each side makes their legal
arguments. And the judge decides, you know, what the law, what the interpretation of
the law is. And I think our attorneys, you know, did a good job at crafting it to be as
legally defensible as possible.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 128
And so, I, I think it’s, it's good. And I, you know, i spoke in strong support of it in
Committee and first reading. And I think it's something that our community has, you
know, begged us to do. And so, I, I support this moving forward. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Anyone else?
Member Molina, and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you very much, Madam Chair. You know, I've never
been a fan of moratoriums. 1 sort of look at a moratorium as like having to take a bad-
tasting cough medicine. But if you have a cough and you're sick, sometimes you have
to do what you gotta do. And I think our community is coughing and, and stressed out
with the impacts of the tourism industry, as well as the lack of attainable housing. We
heard it from a testifier this morning, there's a lot of despair and, and almost like no
hope for our younger generation to, to get a house; you know, people moving away.
And certainly, these are things we can't control with the cost of living and supply and
demand. And we have a limited supply of land. We live in an island environment. So,
this is not like California or Texas where we've got a lot of land. We sometimes have
to use measures like this to control an industry, which has been both a blessing, and
to some, also a curse.
And it's interesting that back when we had the Bill 10 hearings, we had a construction
lobbyist telling us that, you know, construction workers get greater satisfaction out of
building affordable housing versus hotels. Well, now is the time to take that pause
and, and reassess what we want to do, not only with this industry but also how we can
expedite more attainable housing, especially for our employees of these very
industries, the visitor industry and construction industry. And this is about hotel
expansion and visitor accommodation. While, true, it will create jobs, but as
Mr. Sinenci read out earlier, there's not enough qualified skilled workers to, to do the
necessary jobs related to hotel and visitor accommodation expansions. So, that means
you're going to have to bring in more workers off-island, you know, from Oahu or the
mainland. More people, more traffic, so, you have that variable to consider.
So, you know, we have to, government, to me, has  aresponsibility. When it comes to
health and safety, and this could be argued that this is a health and safety issue. You
know, if our community starts to get stressed out because of traffic congestion, quality
of life being impacted, you, you, you create a whole different kind of mindset. And it
not only destroys the visitor experience, then local residents will become resentful.
And then you're going to start having altercations. And that's not good for the
perception of our County. What is good is that when government has to step in and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 129
say, hey, let's take a timeout. Let's reassess things. Let's address any environmental
concerns that hotel or building expansion will cause, and let's address the impacts to
our infrastructure.
While the, this does generate revenue, but a lot of money on these hotel properties,
from these hotel properties, which are owned by offshore investors, does not stay here,
okay. And many of these jobs are not sustainable living wages, okay. And these are,
you know, temporary jobs. And then once the job is finished, then, then what next?
So, this is why I, I think that this might be the right time to consider a tool like this,
although it's not something that we all want to do. We did one 30 years ago, and I'm
sure maybe the reasons were the same, or not, but  1see some similarities with this.
So, government is entitled into what it has to do when it comes to a health and safety
issue as well. And which I can see this becoming if government doesn't intervene.
So, I think we, we have the right to do this as government officials. We have to do
something. If we do nothing, then the problem just exacerbates and then that's when
the community is going to get stressed out. And I don't want to see any altercations
or, or having our visitor experience shattered, cause we don't want to see that. So,
sometimes, you know, sometimes the popular thing is not always the, the, you know,
the best thing, but this is the right thing to do at this particular moment in time. And it's
just temporary.
And 1 believe we'll rebound should this thing pass, this moratorium pass. Time will fly
and I believe we'll, we'll come out with flying colors. Call me hopelessly optimistic, but
we came through after the moratorium in the 1990's, everything rebounded after that.
So, it's just, just time for this right now too. Sometimes we gotta walk the line and make
some bold and tough decisions. And this Council has never shied away from that. So,
if litigation occurs, so be it. But my argument is this is a health and safety issue and
also, protecting our environment, After all, this is why, this is part of our economy. We
gotta do what we can to protect the environment and keep that visitor experience a
positive one. So, I will support the, the measure on the floor. Thank you. Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Sinenci, did you speak? You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Just, no, ditto what Member Molina said.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 130
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Then, Mr. Johnson. I saw you peep in a few minutes ago.
Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I, I hope you, the body bared with me as
I did my travels. And someday they'll build a bridge. No. I'm just kidding. No bridges.
Yea, I, 1 believe in the moratorium strongly. I think the, you know, the, there's a lot of
wisdom on this, in this body.
Councilmember Molina's historic Council and the old moratorium, and that really
speaks to me that we are using the powers that we have to protect our community.
And I don't. 1 don't begrudge lobbyists who are basically doing their job to say no, we
want to have, you know, we want to push as far as we can go. But we would be remiss
for us not to do our jobs to protect the folks, to protect our communities from over,
overexploitation of fun in the sun, if I can quote fun in the sun destinations. We're more
than that and we're better than that.
And there’s a culture here. And this is a way that we take a pause, and we look at
what we're really doing. What are we dependent on? We're depending on fossil fuels
to bring people across the ocean. And that's a, that's a burden. There's a burden in
that. There's a cost in that. So, I, I stand strong in the, in support of this moratorium
and I hope the body does too. Aloha. Mahalo, Chair.
Many years, that go back and when I hear
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Paltin, did you want to say something?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just wanted to reiterate for the record, you know,
a lot of these problems that we're dealing with,  alot of the solutions that our residents
are asking for, is held up by the U.S. Constitution who are asking if we can house our
residents first. People are asking if we can stop the planes from coming. People are
asking if we can put this tax on the incoming visitors similar to, like, the Galapagos or
these other places that can do it, because they’re an independent nation like we are.
We're just under a prolonged occupation by the United States. So, you know, whether
this is legal. I’m saying the occupation is illegal.
So, you know, if you have to do what you have to do, you gotta do what you gotta do.
So, i'll vote in support, because we're not being allowed to determine our own destiny.
We're not being allowed to control our own borders. We're not being allowed to even
set our own capacity for an island. You know, you got capacities for the pool now, you
got capacities for buildings.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 131
And us, with our limited land space and our limited resources, we're being infringed
upon by the United States of America. They're setting up the Jones Act to hold us
down, and all of their paper regulations, and they're not following their own
Constitution. So, that's the reason why I'll be supporting this legislation. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, you really didn't have a chance to speak, cause you were
only asking about a question from-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm fine.
CHAIR LEE: -a pre, a previous discussion. Did you want to say something else?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm fine. No, 1,1-
CHAIRLEE: You're good?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That was my major question. And I've tried different ways
through Committee and first reading, and now we're at second. I'm concerned about
the legal aspects of this bill and its implication. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. If you let me, allow me to just say a few words and then we go
straight to the vote? I will be voting "no" on this, again, for the same reasons I gave
you before. Because even though this is a well-intentioned policy and proposal, 1 think
that this is the wrong tool for, at the wrong time.
I have similar concerns as Member Paltin. 1 really believe that we need to do things
now, quickly, concrete solutions, manageable remedies. We, we started with the caps
on STRH's. I think that's great. I wish we could find a way to limit seats on the
airplanes. Don't forget, you talk about history. I'm the only one that's been here
30 years ago. And I was, I voted against the extension of the runway. And boy, did 1
get it for it. All kinds of heat came down on me. But still, I believed in that at that time.
And 1, till today, that stopped a whole bunch of tourists from coming here. But that was
legal.
Finding ways to limit rental cars, coming up with creative suggestions for mass transit,
shuttle, using shuttles and so forth. These are the kinds of solutions I hope we can
come up with, and quickly, because that way we can get to the heart of the problem,
right away. But I understand everybody's point of view, and I certainly appreciate how
you, how you think about these things. I just don't agree with all of it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 132
So, is everybody ready for the vote? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SlNENCl, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE; So, we have one, two, three, four, five, six "ayes".
No?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.NOES:
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Excused" isCHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", two "noes", one "excused": motion carries.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, Members, that takes care of that one.
Now, we just have, Madam Clerk, are you still there?
And we still need a disposition for CountyCOUNTY CLERK: Yes, I am, Chair.
Communication 21-298.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
MOVE TO FILE.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to file
the item.
Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 133
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: It looks like seven "ayes". Oh, thank you. Eight "ayes", one "excused": motion
carries.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 61 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5101,
BILL NO. 66 (2020), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE - ACQUISITION OF
100 MAHALANI STREET BUILDING AND PROPERTY)
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 61 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. seconded by Member King, to move
bills, to pass Bill 61 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Any discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 134
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bill 61, the proposed bill corrects an
inadvertent error in Ordinance 5209, Bill 38 by incorporating the amendment approved
by Ordinance 5203, Bill 20 (2021). 1 ask for the Members continued support of this
motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Oh, there's feedback. All those in favor of the
motion, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson?
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Excused" is Member Kama.one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes'
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 62 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO ZIPLINE, CANOPY, RAPPELLING, AND BUNGEE
JUMPING COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS IN THE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 62 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 135
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice, who? Oh. was it Vice-Chair or
Sugimura? Member Sugimura. Bill 62 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee discussed
the impacts of bungee jumping, canopy tours, rappelling, and zipline operations
throughout the County.
Supporters of the bill stated the, the negative impacts of these recreational activities
caused a significant burden to surrounding properties, permitted uses, including
livestock raising and farming dwellings.
The Committee also discussed the environmental and safety concerns of rappelling in
and around waterfalls, which will now require a 500-foot buffer for special use permits.
Input from existing zipline operators was also taken into consideration to create
reasonable legacy provisions and a pathway to compliance for existing businesses.
I ALSO MOVE TO AMEND BILL 62 (2021), WITH THE ASF
ATTACHED TO COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-299.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Paltin. Member Paltin. you should have done that in
the beginning, the early part. But that's okay. And seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez.
Okay. Now you can speak on the amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT FOR BILL 62 MOVES TO AMEND
BILL 62 AS FOLLOWS:
DELETE "COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS" AND REPLACE WITH
"ACTIVITIES" IN THE TITLE IN SECTION 1;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 136
SECONDLY, DELETES HYPHENS FROM "FIVE HUNDRED
FEET" IN SECTION 4;
CORRECTS THE LEFT MARGIN IN SECTION 6; AND
4) CONSISTENTLY CAPITALIZES "STATE" WHEN
REFERRING TO THE STATE OF HAWAII, CONSISTENT WITH
THE DRAFTING GUIDE FOR MAUI COUNTY LEGISLATION".
IF MY MOTION IS APPROVED, DELETING "COMMERCIAL
OPERATIONS" WOULD ENSURE THE LEGISLATIVE INTENT
TO PROHIBIT CERTAIN ACTIVITIES WHETHER THEY ARE
OF A COMMERCIAL NATURE OR NOT.
1 RESPECTFULLY ASK FOR THE MEMBERS SUPPORT OF
MY MOTION, AS AMENDED, AND TO FILE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 21-299.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, you, you sort of explained it along the way, Any more discussion?
No.
Any more questions or discussion on the proposed amendment? If not, all those in
favor of the amendment, say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE; Okay, eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
You have another amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yea, I got another amendment. 1 hope you guys got it in the
email.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 137
1 MOVE TO AMEND BILL 62 BY:
AMENDING THE LIST OF PRINCIPAL USES IN THE
AGRICULTURAL ZONING DISTRICT IN SECTION 3 TO
EXCLUDE ZIPLINE, CANOPY, AND BUNGEE JUMPING
COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS THAT MAY BE
INCORPORATED INTO THE RESTORATION OF A HISTORIC
SITE; AND
TO AMEND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS IN SECTION 8 TO
ESTABLISH THAT THE STANDARD FOR COMMERCIAL
ZIPLINE OR CANOPY TOURS THAT RECEIVED APPROVAL
AS A PRINCIPAL USE ARE THE SAME AS THE STANDARDS
FOR THOSE THAT RECEIVED APPROVAL AS AN
ACCESSORY USE; AND
(2) WAIVE RULE 19.C. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL TO
ALLOW THE COUNCIL TO PASS BILL 62 ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING, AS AMENDED.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Wait. You, you have that all in one amendment proposal?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, this one is in one. I had two amendments. The other
one. we disposed of.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. No, we didn't dispose of it yet.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. You want me to speak to that second amendment?
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no. That's alright. No.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Usually, usually we handle the Rule separately, but it’s late. Okay. You want
to speak to that, what you just proposed?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 138
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Sure. Okay. If my motion to amend is approved, the bill's text
will be amended as follows;
In SECTION 3, the underscored text will be added to the seventh numbered paragraph
in Section 19.30A.050(A), Maui County Code:
"7. Retention, restoration, rehabilitation, or improvement of buildings, sites, or cultural
landscapes of historical and archaeological significance; this does not include zipline,
canopy, and bungee jumping commercial operations that may be incorporated into the
restoration of a historic site, which require a conditional permit under chapter 19.40."
In SECTION 8, the underscored text will be added to second paragraph.
"A commercial zipline or canopy tour in the County Agricultural District that received
approval from the County as a principal use or as an accessory use as of the effective
date of this Ordinance and that is operated on a parcel or multiple contiguous parcels
smaller than 50 acres must meet the requirements of Section 19.40.080(D), Maui
County Code, within 30 days of the effective date of this Ordinance but may otherwise
continue as a nonconforming use in accordance with Section 19.500.110(C), Maui
County Code; except that no later than one year from the effective date of this
Ordinance, the owner or operator of the commercial zipline or canopy tour must either
obtain a Conditional Permit or cease operation of the nonconforming use."
The Planning Director has advised that these amendments to Bill 62 will ensure the bill
fulfills the Council's stated legislative intent for commercial zipline and canopy tours.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so you also asked to, about Rule 19.C., right? Now, 1 need to just get a
clarification from, oh, did you work with Corp. Counsel on this?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I worked with OCS attorneys on this.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 1 need to ask Corp. Counsel. Corp. Counsel? Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: I think what you're asking is whether it’s proper
to pass this on second reading, and or whether it should come back. And it should
probably come back because this is a pretty significant change.
CHAIR LEE: That's what I thought. The first, the first change was fairly minor. Okay, but.
cause you're talking about whether this was posted and whether people could have
anticipated this type of change, Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 139
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Did I just give you a hemorrhage, Ms. Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, it’s more like a migraine; pounding.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I, I'm perfectly willing to try and work through this. I just don't want to do
anything that, you know, is going to be called back or challenged.
Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This looks like it was worked on by
DMR, so, which is Mr. Raatz, who is also an attorney. And I'm thinking that they
considered this a nonsubstantive change, otherwise they wouldn't have advised
Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: I don't agree with you, I don’t agree with you on that. It's, it's up to us whether
consider something substantive or nonsubstantive. To me, this is substantive,
unless Ms. Paltin tells me otherwise.
we
Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering if this could be a, a thing that we lay on
the Clerk's table and print the ASF in the agenda in two weeks, instead of referring it
back to the Committee?
CHAIR LEE: We could do that.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Member Paltin. it, it wouldn't be
recommitted to Committee. It would, we would just need to have another reading on
it if we deem it substantive, which I still don't think is substantive.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And just for all the people that are emailing me, I tried.
Everybody that wanted it to pass today, it's not my call.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Ms. Paltin,
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 140
CHAIR LEE; What is the urgency for this, passing it today? I have no connection to this at
all. I don't know who is going to be impacted, who's not going to be impacted. I'm just
looking--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, you're not-
CHAIR LEE: -at procedure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You're not getting the same emails that I'm getting?
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Pass it, pass it now.
CHAIR LEE: No, but why? Is there something coming up that it has to be passed today?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, it's just the will of the people that are emailing, I guess.
You know, I'm trying to listen to them, but.
CHAIR LEE: I know, but it's not your fault. We're talking about procedure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, main thing you said that for the record.
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 1, 1 know you think it's substantive,
but may I please call on Mr. Raatz to explain why they advised Member Paltin to waive
Rule 19.C.?
CHAIR LEE: David, are you on the call? David, are you on the call? See, we drove him to
go home. He went home. He doesn't want to deal with this. I wouldn't either.
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES TRACI FUJITA; Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: This is Traci. David is here. I'm not sure why he's
not popping up. But I can, I can help explain.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Please explain.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 141
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: So, the, the issue about the substantive nature of the
revision has to do with the Council Rule. There's  aRule that, that Councilmember
Paltin was going to waive in order to pass the bill on second and final reading with an
amendment. But the issue about substantive doesn't come up when you're applying
the Sunshine Law. So, the Sunshine Law, it has a,  amuch, the revision, revisions can
be substantive under the, under the Sunshine Law. So-
CHAIR LEE: If they're posted. If they're posted
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: No, not even, it doesn't have to be posted even. The
Council has discretion to make revisions on second and final reading, even if they're
substantive. But the, the reason why this issue about substantive comes up, it's
because of your Rule. It's not the Sunshine Law. So, if you waive your Rule, it can,
the bill can be passed on second and final reading today.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, you know, let's be very candid, Tamara, is this substantive or not
substantive? Forget, forget the, the calls and the criticism. Just pretend we're just
talking words.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, so-
CHAIR LEE: Is this substantive or not?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: For me, the reason why it's not substantive is because, you
know, every time that everybody was asking, so will this solve our problem, can the
County enforce it? And every time people are like, yes, this will solve the problem.
Then somebody in the Planning said, oh we just figured out it won't solve the problem
because this person is like doing something this way, and in order to solve it, you need
this amendment.
So, I think all along in every single time we heard it for three hours or whatever, people
were expecting this to be the outcome of the bill as amended. But then, for whatever
Planning mumbo jumbo stuff, they figured out it wasn't going to have the effect that
they had told people that it was going to have. And so, this is, I consider it
nonsubstantive, because it's making the Planning Department not liars, or something.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. This is my perspective, i think,  Ithink this was an oversight by the
Planning Department. But if this is targeting one company, then I think we have a legal
issue here. So, if it can wait two weeks, stay on the Clerk's table where there's
sufficient notice to everyone, then, then we are free and clear, you know? Or we can
handle it today knowing that one company is going to be affected.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 142
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, that's safer, I guess.
CHAIR LEE; Well, that's how I see it, you know. And, you know, if this, if there was some
kind of time deadline on this, or something like that. But is this worth a lawsuit, waiting
two weeks?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, not for me, personally. But, 1 mean, you know we're going
to get some emails.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Chair. Okay, so it sounds
like the discussion is not about Sunshine Law, but whether you feel this amendment
would be unfairly targeting one company or not. Because if that is the concern, then
even if we lay it on the Clerk's table, post the amendment, and then agendize it, and,
and, and do it that way, it would still unfairly target one company if that's how people
are understanding it.
And 1, I don't think it does that, because it's, it's very broad in saying that this does not
include zipline, canopy, bungee jumping commercial operations that may be
incorporated into the restoration of historic site, which require a conditional permit. So,
I think it, it's just reiterating what is currently the process. And so, we're helping to
clarify that enforcement and procedures from the Department's side so that we're, we
as the policymakers, are being responsible in incorporating the necessary language to
bills, so that they are able to carry out the intention of this body.
And so, as far as Sunshine Law goes, I think Ms. Fujita explained that substantive or
not substantive is not relevant to Sunshine Law. It's only relevant to our Council Rules.
And so, if we deem this something that was discussed, and that was the intention when
we discussed it in PSLU which is something that we talked about, that it would be
foreseeable. That someone who would be impacted by this new language would have
had this on their radar their whole time. So, I, Sunshine Law is about notice. Our
Council Rules for Rule 19 is also about notice. And, and I think they've had proper
notice and they've been following this all along. So, I, I think we're in the clear as far
as legal issues go.
CHAIR LEE: I don't think we're in the clear. I, 1 totally disagree with you. I, I totally disagree
with you, because, especially on page 9, I think this is one of the key changes, "as a
principal use or as an accessory use". Now, substant, I asked about substantive
change, and this is a substantive change, yea?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 143
And we have had interpretations from Corp. Counsel in the past, that when there is a
substantive change on second reading and it's not agendized, then it has to remain on
the Clerk's desk until the next Council meeting when you, when there's sufficient time
to agendize the item. Now, so, I, I don't think we can just arbitrarily decide on Tuesday
what is substantive, and on Wednesday change our minds on what is substantive. This
is substantive.
And I bet Ms. Paltin will say it's sub, substantive. That's why she's willing to, to wait
two weeks. Because the only reason why she wants to move it today is because of
the calls she's been getting and people are anxious to make sure that these words are
put into, into the bill, which were left out. So, nobody, because they were left out until
today, nobody would have known that we would have changed it today, right? Cause
it would have, it wouldn't have had notice. So that is--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, they're definitely tracking it.
CHAIR LEE; Huh? What's that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: They are definitely tracking this. I, I, I have no doubt.
But, Chair, the question about substantive or not substantive falls under our Council
Rules, Rule 19.C. And if we waive that, which we have done pretty routinely, then
there, there's no legal issue. That's only, Council Rules is just our, how we operate.
It, it's not a legal issue.
CHAIR LEE: I recall, in recent history, we have laid a number of things on the Clerk's desk.
Why would we have done that? Bill 10, for example. I mean, that laid on the Clerk's
desk, I mean, it camped on the Clerk's desk for a while.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right, and so those had other factors. And so, for
this particular bill, it, we could be setting our own bad precedent if we're stating, you
know, substantive or not substantive is a legal issue. It's, it's our Council Rules issue.
And so, this body has the power to override its operating Rules, which is what the
Council Rules are. So, it's not statute, it's just our Council Rules.
CHAIR LEE; I, I see it differently from you. I see, you know, if this wasn't, to me, substantive,
I wouldn't really, it wouldn't bother me one bit. But I'm really thinking of the Council as
a whole. And I, I have to say that this seems like a substantive change.
And I don't know. Member Paltin, I keep going back to you because you're proposing
it. If you tell me it's nonsubstantive, we'll just go with that. How's that?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 144
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm, I'm not a lawyer. I'm  alifeguard. And this has got just
dropped into my lap. I don't know.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so what you're telling me, it's substantive, come on?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Whatever.
CHAIR LEE: It's substantive.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ms. Fujita is a lawyer. And we can have her speak
again to it about the legality of, of whether we can take it up today.
CHAIR LEE: Tell me, why did Bill 10 sit on the Clerk's desk for several weeks, as well as
other bills? As well as other bills? That wasn’t the only one.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Because-
CHAIR LEE: Why is this so important that we deal with it today? Why is it? Why not follow
procedure?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 1 think Bill 10 requires six votes. And I can't
remember if, perhaps, I mean, Rule, waiving Rule 19.C. requires six votes, and I cant
remember if we had six votes.
CHAIR LEE: Well, we couldn't have not had six votes for several weeks. There were changes
made to the bill, and that's the reason why it stayed on the Clerk's desk. And that
wasn't, and that's one of several. That's just one of several. You know, can't you see
there's a reluctance on the part of Member Paltin?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Well, Member Paltin is, as she stated, she, she just
feels uncomfortable cause she is not a lawyer. But this isn't a legal issue, as Ms. Fujita
pointed out. I do have a law degree, but I'm happy to defer to someone who has a, a
law license. I don't have my license.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But Ms. Thomson just told us it was substantive.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; The question of substantive or not substantive is not
Sunshine Law. I, I can call on, may 1 call on Ms. Fujita again?
CHAIR LEE: Well, why choose the attorney? Our Corp. Counsel said, she told us if it's
substantive that it has to lay on the Clerk's desk or be recommitted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 145
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And we can, ! guess we can, since this is a
procedural matter, we could also call on our Clerk as our parliamentarian.
CHAIR LEE: You mean? Okay, well, Ms. Thomson has her hand up. Go ahead
Ms. Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Chair, thank you. i just wanted to chime in
very briefly. So, we use the word "substantive". In the law, which I'm reading, if this is
about notice, as you were saying, Chair, we use the word "substantive" to, to mean the
same as an item of reasonable major importance. And agendas are meant to be
informing the public, you know, of your agenda items. So, before you change
something or add something that's of reasonably major importance, it's important, it's
obvious to give notice to those who may be impacted so that they may have the
opportunity to participate and offer testimony should they wish to support it or oppose
it. So, that's, that was where my advice is coming from. It's HRS 92-7.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ms. Thomson, the question is for
you. As far as the standard for Sunshine Law, the, whether an amendment, so the
standard is whether an amendment transforms the bill into a completely different law
under the Carlsmith case. And so, this bill doesn't rise to that level of transforming this
bill into a completely different law.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you for the question. Of course, it's a
matter of degree. But the conservative approach would be to schedule this in the next
two weeks and allow whatever public may be impacted via the opportunity to come
and tell you what they think. I do agree that, you know, this, it's not a gut and replace,
but I think there has been a lot of discussion by the Members that this is a specific
inclusion to address a circumstance that is not addressed in the bill that was posted
today. So, I . . . waiting two weeks.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, Ms. Thomson, wouldn't this be just setting us up
for, for bad precedent of just being ultra-conservative in our approach?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you, Member Rawlins-Fernandez. I
don't think so. But, you know, we prefer to err on the side of caution. But this is the,
it's the body's will. So, you know, we can just advise, but we can't dictate.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 146
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Ms. Thomson. And so,
you know, in law school, we're taught that everyone has their opinions. And the same
thing why you go to a doctor and you get a first opinion, you go to another doctor you
get a second opinion, you go to a third doctor you get third opinion, because we're all
humans, right? And we're all trying to do our best.
And as far as intention goes, that's, when you get to court if someone's going to sue
then the legislative history will be part of that record to substantiate whether we
were working in good faith or not. And I believe that we were or are. And I, I would
like to give Ms. Fujita an opportunity to respond to the comments that was made by
Corporation Counsel.
CHAIR LEE: And then we're going to take a vote on this and end it.
us
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Fujita. Ms. Fujita.
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes, Chair. Yea, I, I, I still don't agree that these
amendments rise to that level that would require to Council to not be able to pass the
bill on second and final reading. It, under that Carlsmith case, the Council is given
quite a bit of latitude in making revisions. That's the whole purpose of the public
hearing, taking testimony, is to take into account what the public is saying and revise
legislation accordingly. So, if Council was never allowed to make those types of
revisions before passing this could go on forever. And under that same reasoning, the
budget bill would never get passed on second and final reading cause there's a lot of
amendments that are made in the budget bill at second and final reading. They're all
substantive, but they don't rise to that level.
CHAIR LEE: Yea, but those are time-sensitive, okay. There's nothing time-sensitive about
this.
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yea. The, the standard though on the Sunshine Law
is that it, like Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez said, you have to, it has to transform the
bill into a totally different type of law. And it's, it's just, you know, in all my time in, in
advising Council, I have not seen it rise to that level. We don't do the gut and replace
done at the State Legislature, which to me is a clear example of what's not
permitted. But in all my years. I've not recall,  Ican't recall a time when Council was
not able to revise a bill at second and final reading because it transformed a law into a
totally different law.
as
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 147
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your perspective. I still don't agree with you,
because 1 think this is substantive and we, we've had a number of items that laid on
the Clerk's desk; probably a dozen or more. So, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, why
don't you make the motion. You make a motion, and everybody will vote on it, and we
can dispose of this once and for all.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Member Paltin has made the motion
and I seconded it. And the motion is--
CHAIR LEE; No, no, no, no. No, we're going to make, the motion is to whether this will pass
today or remain on the Clerk's table. Yea.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay, so that-
CHAIR LEE: -to handled first.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That, that would be the motion that's on the floor.
The motion on the floor provides for the amendments. And that will determine, so if
you vote "yes", then that means you don't think that, that it's substantive. And if you
vote "no", then you think it is substantive and that perhaps the amendment should be
posted on the agenda. Either way, it's not a legal issue. It's, it's a matter of preference
of this legislative body. And the second is waiving Rule 19.C., so that we can take the
final vote on, on second and final reading. So, what you're asking for is on the floor
and we're, we're good to go.
CHAIR LEE: What I'm asking for is not on the floor. What I'm asking, what you're talking
about and, and, you know, this is, this conversation is totally unnecessary. We could've
been going home already, 20 minutes ago, okay. And that is the reason why I'm calling
for a vote. Whether I win or lose is irrelevant cause I've made my point. But I don't
want to beat a dead horse. Now, the motion she made was to, to pass this item, before
we had the discussion. So-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Urn.
CHAIR LEE: -I want to put that motion aside, and  Iwant to find out from the Members
whether they want to move forward with this vote today or put this on the Clerk's table.
That's what I'm asking for a vote on that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay. So-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You want me to withdraw my motion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 148
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -Chair. Chair, would you like-
CHAIR LEE: So, she just withdrew her motion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, she was asking if you would like her to.
CHAIR LEE: Yea.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Would you like to take an informal poll? We can do
an informal poll.
CHAIR LEE: Well, let's, let's clear the slate, okay. I just want to know from the Members, if
they want to vote on moving this forward or taking a vote. So, can you rescind your
motion, and then we can deal with this other procedural matter.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I hope you're enjoying this, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? Cause
nobody else is.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm putting my degree to good use. 1 think we can
take an informal poll and we can achieve what you're asking us to do. And we'll, we'll,
we’re setting aside the main motion on the floor, and then the motion to amend, and
then taking an informal poll on whether the Members feel that this is substantive. Or
actually, it should just, do Members feel like this amendment should wait until we take
it up next Council meeting? So, I'll, I'll pose that question and then we can raise our
hand if-
CHAIR LEE: No, you don't have to pose that question. I’m running the meeting, okay?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Just thought i'd remind you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So, my, my take from what I've, what 1 heard
from Traci Fujita is that this is, whether it's substantive or not, it's not a Sunshine Law
issue. It's a Council Rule issue. So, I would think that we would, the next step would
be to vote on waiving that Council Rule. And if we do vote to waive it, then we can go
ahead with the vote. But if that doesn't pass, then it just sits on the Clerk's table. But
1, 1 was, you know, from what I heard. I'm not convinced that this is a Sunshine Law
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 149
1 think it's our Council Rule issue. So. which is something we can deal withissue,
internally.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. That’s fine. My point is, 1 believe this is a substantive matter. I believe,
as a result, that we should wait two weeks because it's not going to hurt anybody by
waiting two weeks. So, this is not a contest. This is a procedural matter, and 1 am
thinking of the best interest of the Council as a whole, erring on the side of caution.
Now, let's, let's cut to the chase and say. those in favor of moving this item forward and
not leaving it on the Clerk’s desk, raise your hand so I can see.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN,
SINENCI. AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE; So, we have three people who want to move this, four people want to move
this forward. Okay, so five people want to move this forward.
And who would want to leave this on the Clerk's desk?
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: And three people want to leave it on the Clerk's desk. So, Traci, how many
how many votes do we need for this? Just a simple majority?
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Not six? Not six votes?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Don't we, don't we need six votes to pass the waiver that we
would need to vote on this?
CHAIR LEE: That's what I’m asking.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yea, so 1 think that's what Traci's confused about.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 150
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Oh. Oh, sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; 1 don't think we're talking about how many votes we need to pass
the motion. How many votes do we need to pass the waiver?
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; The waiver.
CHAIR LEE: Six votes. That's why I'm asking.
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes, six votes. Six votes.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, now, going back to the waiver. You want to make the motion
Member Paltin, about the waiver?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure.
MAKE THE MOTION ABOUT THE WAIVER.
Is that what you wanted me to do?
CHAIR LEE: No, 1-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: You have to talk, go back to your notes when it talks about 19.C.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I WILL WITHDRAW MY SECOND.
And then, Member Paltin can withdraw her motion. And then we can make, make it
clearer for the record.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that's what I had asked earlier, yea? And I thought that’s what Paltin did.
And she did. She did withdraw her-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Motion-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 151
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so now we have a clean set, we have a clean slate. And we're now on
Rule19.C. Okay?
Right, now you make a motion. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE, I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19,C. OF THE RULES OF
THE COUNCIL, TO ALLOW THE COUNCIL TO PASS BILL 62
ON SECOND AND FINAL READING, AS AMENDED.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-CHAIR LEE: Second.
Fernandez, to waive Rule 19.C.
Okay. Any more discussion? All those in favor of waiving Rule 19.C., raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN,
SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: I see one. Member King, Member Sinenci, Member Paltin, Member Vice
Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. And I assume Mr. Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes, Chair, "aye". Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those opposed to waiving Rule, the Rule of the Council 19.C., raise
your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Three; Member Sugimura, Member Molina, and Member Lee. So, motion fails.
So, weTe going to leave this matter on the Clerk's desk, okay, for two weeks, and then
post it for the next Council meeting.
Alright. Let's see, where were we? Madam Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 152
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Madam Clerk, would you like us to, like
clear the slate completely? Because we still have  amain motion with a second. I think
that's easier, cause then we don't have to remember, like, oh, who made the motion,
who made the second? We'll just, we just clear it and then that way there isn't a main
motion and second.
COUNTY CLERK: You can do that. There's the first, the first amendment that is, has already
been approved for action. Butas-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We can do that.
COUNTY CLERK: You can-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Leave the main motion?
COUNTY CLERK: If you can withdraw that second, that second ASF, and, what you did, so
then you can leave the, the main motion open.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody understand that. The first one passed, the first amendment.
That was nonsubstantive.
Okay. So, now we're on Bill 63.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 63 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTERS 19.64 AND 19.69, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE URBAN RESERVE DISTRICT
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 153
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay.
! MOVE TO PASS BILL 63 (2021) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
to move Bill 63 on second and final reading.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. The Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee discussed this proposed bill for the Urban Reserve District and agreed that
although the district is purposefully restrictive, it unnecessarily prohibits benign uses
such as recycling facilities and other governmental structures and accessory dwellings
on small lots.
Your Committee amended the bill to limit government structures to County structures.
And I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Okay. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused"; MemberCHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight "ayes'
Kama. Motion carries.
And that brings us to the end of the calendar. What a day. Okay. Thank you
everybody.
Oh, Kathy, before 1 adjourn, anything else?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 2, 2021
Page 154
COUNTY CLERK; No. I just wanted to confirm that that is no further business before the
Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any last parting comments, anybody? If not, this meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of July 2, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 4:46 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
210702/djy:lks:jm
RlzCtlVED
J(iL -1 22
Testimony of
Pacific Resource Partnership
City Council
Council of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani N.W. Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
OFhICE OF T
COUNTY theclerk
Bill 60 (2021)—RELATING TO A MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS
Friday, July 2, 2021
9:00 A.M.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council.
Pacific Resource Partnership (PRP) is a non-profit market recovery trust fund which represents approximately
7,000 men and women union carpenters and 240 large and small contractors. With our expertise in research,
compliance, marketing, and project advocacy, we are committed to building a stronger, more sustainable
Hawaii in a way that promotes a vibrant economy, creates jobs, and enhances the quality of life for all
residents of Hawaii.
Our state has the highest cost of living in the nation and COVID-19 only exasperated the challenges for many
of our residents at a time when unemployment has skyrocketed. Maui has taken a larger hit with higher
unemployment rates than the state and a slower economic recovery.
Imposing a moratorium on the construction of visitor accommodations will only further hurt Maui's
economic recovery. Maui's economy benefits tremendously from the visitor industry. Between 2020 and
2021, 77% of Maui's property tax contribution came from visitor-use property. Prior to the pandemic,
accommodations were the largest employer for the county employing 12,900 residents, which dropped 60
percent and has yet to rebound. Limiting visitor accommodations through a moratorium will also limit the
growth of other industries like construction, retail, restaurants, and many of our small businesses. These
industries provide important employment opportunities for local residents who depend on these jobs to
survive and raise a family on Maui.
From 2010 - 2019, there has been a decline in Hawaii-born residents and an increase in US citizen born and
foreign-born residents on Maui. A moratorium will likely accelerate this trend causing Hawaii-born residents
and their families to leave Maui for more job opportunities and a better life elsewhere.
pacific ftf$DUot£ PAur^;n^$}llp
THt PnVVFR DF PARTNTRSHIP WWW.PRP-HAWAI I.COM
WWW.FACE0OOK.COM/
PACIFICRESOURCFPARTNERSHIP
TWIHERr
OPRPHAWAIl oPHONE "> 808.528.55571100 AUKEA STREET/ 4TH FLOOR IP)HON01ULU/HI96813
(Continued IVont Page 1)
Maui County population demographic shifts
2010-2019
180,000
ISO.OOO
120.000
90,000
60,000
30,000
Population Hawall-bom US citizens bom elsewhere Foreign-bom
■ 2010 BZOIS
Source- hr»pi://£l«u.cemoi.go»/
Bill 60 would unfairly penalize Maui's visitor industry in an attempt to mitigate the impacts of climate
change. Climate change is a complex global issue with many contributing factors. This bill provides no
documentation, scientific studies or evidence to suggest that a moratorium on building permits for visitor
accommodations will lower carbon emissions or mitigate climate-change impacts. Furthermore, there is no
evidence supporting the assumption that a moratorium will limit the number of visitors coming to Maui.
Instead, a moratorium will likely keep visitors out of hotel districts, causing them to seek accommodations in
residential neighborhoods. This would unnecessarily harm the quality of life of local communities.
Given the above, we respectfully request that this Council to defer this measure. Thank you for the
opportunity to submit written testimony.
TML FO'.VCf! Dr PARTNERSHIP
Count^Clei^
From:
Sent:
rodantone <rodantone@mauihla.org>
Friday, July 2, 2021 10:06 AM
County Clerk; Kelly King; Gabe Johnson; Tamara A. Paltin; Keani N. Rawlins; Shane M.
Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura; Alice L Lee; Tasha A. Kama; Mike J. Molina
Supplemental graph for Bill 60 testimony
Accomodations Units vs Tourist Volume.xlsx
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha Councilmembers, here is the graph I was referring to. Also please note that when a hotel converts into a
timeshare you can lose units depending on what the new design of the building will be. For example, at Maui Ocean Club
they took two hotel rooms to build one timeshare unit so they could have a kitchen in every unit, so they ended up with
half of the original units of the old hotel. That's why overtime we had a decrease in overall units as you can see from my
graph.
Mahalo and let me know if you need anything else.
Rod
73On-,
c: Z;2:0
mcz
o-I Im mro-<
Oo a-n
mm --I
O;ox7;m
1
Island of Maui Traditional Lodging Supply and Visitor Arrivals
20,000
3,059,905
3,000,0002,914,^
18,000
2.757.7
2,634,2:
2,540,16:
16,000
2,500,0002,417,4
2,358,784
2.3ai94
14,000
4 4,317 AMI A4 97 5
2,000,0004,1234,74 312,000
I
I}
U)
(/) TOI
>c
<ir 10,000o I o
1,500,000 S</)
> >i
8,000 I
7.3yj2 7.2958,142 7,742
7,172 I
7.038 1,000,000
6,000 I
I
I
4,000
500,000
2,000 3M3 3fl53,3133,407 3,227 a,1|32113 2,84 5
>.
I0
201920182016 201720152012 2013 2014
■Visitor ArrivalsCondo HotelHotelTimeshare
RECEIVED
m\ JUL -! PH 1= 38 059
\
*■
TDAVID V. ICE
GOVERNOR
STATE Of'HAWAII
WIU.IAMJ.AILA JR.
CHAIRMAN
HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMIS.SION
S
iAit
. \
FiCE Or TH:
COUNTY
Or j
COMMISSIONERS
DAMD a KAAPU, WEST HAWAfl
VICE- CHAIR
RANDY K. A\VO, MAUI
ZACHARY HELM. MOLOKAI
PAULINE N. NAMUO, O'AIIU
DENNIS I, NEVES. KAUAI
PATn- TERUTA. 0-AHU
RUSSELL KAUPU, O'AIIU
MICHAEL KALEIKINL EA.ST HAWAII
JOSH CREE.N
LT CKIVEKNOR
STATE OE'HAWAII
STATE OF HAWAII
HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION
P. 0. 80X1879
HONOLULU, HAWAII 96805
July 1,2021
TESTIMONY OF RANDY AWO IN SUPPORT OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI’S
RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING THE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION OF THE
HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION ACT OF 1920, AS AMENDED
Aloha Chairwoman Lee and members of the Maui County Council. I am Randy Awo and I serve
as the Maui Commissioner for the Hawaiian Homes Commission. I write in strong support of the
afore-mentioned resolution celebrating the Centennial of the Hawaiians Homes Commission Act
of 1920, as amended. As you know, this July 9'*’ will mark the 100th anniversary of the signing of
the HHCA into law by then-U.S. President Warren G. Harding. The passing of this Act was the
culmination of several years of hard work by the Ahahui Puuhonua o Na Hawaii and the Territorial
Legislature to address the poor living conditions of many native Hawaiians disenfranchised from
their lands after the Great Mahele and the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii. Since that time,
the Hawaiian Homes Commission has awarded nearly 10,000 leases to residential, agriculture and
pastoral lands despite decades of insufficient funding to develop adequate infrastructure or
programming to address native Hawaiian rehabilitation. We thank Council Vice-Chair Keani
N.W. Rawlins-Fernandez for introducing this important resolution honoring the hard work of our
Prince, Jonah Kuhio Kalanianaole, and strongly urge its passing.
●  “I*
RECEICtED
2021 JUL -2 AH K> 17
MAUI OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Bill 60
Visitor Accommodations Moratorium
On South and West Maui
Friday, July 2, 2021
Dear Chair King, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We know the importance of protecting our environment, a sustainable visitor industry
and economic diversification. We understand why residents are frustrated with
infrastructure issues, traffic and more, but we believe there are other ways to address
these issues without instituting a moratorium. We encourage the Council to study the
issues and work with stakeholders to find ways to solve these problems. We again
share that restricting growth will not restrict the number of visitors traveling to Maui and
by not allowing growth in areas specifically zoned for visitor accommodations, you will
drive them to illegal rentals in residential areas.
While we appreciate the creative thinking of Councilmember Paltin with her
amendment CC 21-298 and the push for affordable housing and rentals, we have
doubts that properties will be able to purchase land for residential use and build
residential workforce housing units in an equal number to the amount of accommodations.
Now is not the time to hamper economic activity. Accommodations were some of the
hardest hit businesses in 2020 and many are trying to catch up from a year of loss.
We are all hearing that businesses are looking for employees and understand concerns
about having enough workers if there is growth. While many people are reporting job
numbers, it is important to look at the source and correlate data with our County.
According to Hirenet Hawaii’s Hawaii Workforce Infonet, Maui County had 8,350
unemployed individuals in May, 2021. If we compare this to the average from 2019
which was approximately 2,000 unemployed individuals, then we still have about 6,350
people unemployed from the pandemic. The Maui Hotel & Lodging Association recently
surveyed their members and shared that out of a little over half of their member, there
are about 558 open positions. We strongly feel that in the next few months as extended
benefits run out and in-person school is back in session, we will see these job openings
quickly filled with opportunity to grow.
808>244<0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Bill 60
Friday, July 2, 2021
Page 2
Lastly, we are still concerned that if passed, this bill may face legal challenges. We
urge you not to put the county in a precarious position and defer this bill until you have
a legal opinion rendered by Corporation Counsel. If they feel the County is protected,
we feel their opinion should be publicly shared.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 j 808-244-0081 legislation(^auiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
“7T
MAUI m JUL-2 AH 10:17
OFFlC€ OF THF
COUNTY CLERKCHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
July 2, 2021
To the Honorable Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Maui County Council Members,
We are writing to you today and signing this letter because we are concerned about the two
visitor accommodations moratoriums currently being discussed. We all believe in embracing
the Aloha Spirit, responsible tourism, education for our visitors, and respect for our
environment and culture. We also all want to see issues like affordable housing and rentals,
illegal short-term rentals, infrastructure, traffic, protection of sacred places, and education and
protection of our ocean life addressed to better improve the quality of life of Maui’s residents.
We believe these things can be achieved by bringing the right groups together (such as
government officials, industry leaders, organizations, and residents) to find winning solutions
for all. We do not feel that the two moratoriums will help solve these issues and in fact,
believe they will have significant negative impacts to our economy and residents.
Please consider the following:
● The visitor industry is our economic driver and supports many other industries such as
activities, retail, restaurants, transportation, agriculture, manufacturing, and nonprofit
organizations. With this support, other industries can grow and help to further diversify
our economy. We are the most dependent county in the state on our visitor industry.
● Continuing to support this industry, which generated $73 million in real property tax
revenue from hotels and timeshares in FY21, provides the county with resources to
invest in economic diversification while also raising revenue for all other programs like
affordable housing and rentals, social services, infrastructure, etc. Real property tax is
the biggest revenue source for the County and according to DBEDT, hotels/resort
properties account for 20% of expected real property tax revenue in 2021. Additionally,
9 of the 10 largest real property taxpayers in the County are hotels and timeshare
properties.
● Visitor accommodations provide employment for thousands of Maui residents, helping
to provide for them and their families. In fact, the tourism industry accounts for around
75% of all private sector jobs on Maui.
● The bills will shut down opportunities for investment in our economy at a time when we
are trying to recover from the effects of the global pandemic. It is important to
remember the industry is recovering and had huge losses so now is not the time to do
this. According to leading state economist Paul Brewbaker the opportunity cost of
shutting down lodging construction for two years would be about $200 million per year.
808-2440081 legislation@MauiChamber.coiT) MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
r; MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
● We are concerned these moratoriums will create negative impacts by spurring
further illegal shortterm rental operations, which are often in our local
neighborhoods, potentially taking more homes away from residents.
● Hotels and visitor accommodations do their part to address the environmental
impacts of visitors through sunscreen education, reducing waste, switching to
compostable food ware, phasing cutwater bottles and more. There is also no
factual evidence that tourism is a major factor in environmental issues on Maui.
● We would have preferred to see the Council bring all concerned parties together
into a working group to hear all points of view and work towards a sustainability
plan to address both current concerns and create  amap for our future.
● There are potential legal challenges to these bills and any legal challenges that
the County faces impacts residents and business as time and service costs to
address these are recouped through taxes and fees.
We all support sustainable tourism, but we do not believe that a shutdown on the
construction of new visitor accommodations in appropriately zoned and planned hotel
and resort areas is the answer. These bills will have the wrong effect at precisely the
wrong time. In creating legislation, in particular a moratorium, both the positive and
negative impacts must be weighed. We urge you to defer these measures to seriously
consider the unintended consequences and devastating economic impact that measures
like these will have on Maui’s people and fragile economy.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap, President
Maui Chamber of Commerce
Mary Albitz
IndividualJerry Agbanaoang
Individual
Rod Antone
Executive Director
Maui Hotel & Lodging Association
Merlita Agbanaoang
Individual
Kui Aipa
Director of Finance
Ka’anapali Beach Hotel
Joanna Awai
Director of Sales & Marketing
Maui Coast Hotel
Lahela Aiwohi
Aiwohi Contracting
Joshua Berlien, Chair
Construction Industry of Maui
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808>244^81 legislation@VlauiChaniber.com MauiChamber.com
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Joshua Berlien
Berlien Consulting LLC
Michael Cuthbertson
Area Vice President
Destination By Hyatt Residences
Amanda Blakesley
Balance Design Donnie Dadiz
Beach Supervisor
Fairmont Kea Lani, MauiMaryAnn Blanchard
Catering Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui Barbara Dofa
Director of Human Resources
Napili Kai Beach ResortDwight Burns
Hawaii Operating Engineers
Stabilization Fund David Englert
Rentals Maui Inc.
Francis Keoni Cabanting
Pool Supervisor David Eseke
My Perfect Stays
Kyle Caires
Maui County Farm Bureau Thomas Fairbanks, Owner
Old Waiuku Inn at Ulupono
Monica Carpenter
Zippy’s Kahului Paul Felix
Certified Business Appraiser
The Edge Consulting GroupChris Cashabeck
Areas Group Sales Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui Fred Findlen
General Manager
Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and SpaKathy Clarke
Kathy Clarke Hawaii
Ron Gess
President/CEO
PWC Hawaii Corporation
Gazel Correia.
Individual
Kathleen Costello
Director of Marketing/Communications
Wailea Resort Association
Matthew Gray
Revenue Analyst
Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa
Ruth Guiza
Director of Revenue
Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa
Kat Cruz
Hospitality Employee
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
!-244<0081 legislation@VIauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Waiiuku, Hawaii 96793 am:
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Ivan Lay
Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenters
Astrid Heckert
Director of Finance & Business Support
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Angela Leone, President
Professional Rental
Management Association
Wayne Hedani
President
Kaanapali Operations Association. Inc.
Angela Leone, Owner
Coconut CondosBarry Helle
General Manager
Wailea Blue Golf Course David Maleski
StandartPark Hawaii
Sylvia Ho, Treasurer
Maui Chamber of Commerce Perlita Manlansing
Individual
Jeff Hoylman
Hospitality Employee
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Rafael Manlansing
Individual
Jody Joaquin
Assistant Director, Talent & Culture
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Terri Marinas
Individual
Art Marinas
IndividualMarcus Judge
PGA Head Golf Professional
Wailea Gold/Emerald Golf Courses Garrett Marrero
Maui Brewing Co.
William Kamai
Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenters JS Masson
Director of Revenue Management
Fairmont Kea Lani, MauiJohn Kevan
Maui Paradise Properties
M. Elizabeth May
General Manager
AAAAA Rent-A-Space
Charlene Kim
Vice-President/Operations Support
Zippy’s Kahului
Joni McGinnis
Ameritone MauiEric Knez
President & General Manager
eDesign Group, Inc.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Jennifer McNally
Director of Sales & Marketing
Wailea Golf Club
Helen Nielsen
Starr Properties, LLC, Star Equities, Inc.
Market & Main LLC
Dave & Cathy Medina, Owners
A Perfect Vacation Rental
Sutee Nitakorn
Director of Sales
Kaanapali Golf Courses
Shannah Milstead
Director of Sales & Marketing
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Roger Nitta
Hospitality Employee
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Jurg Munch, Proprietor
Lahaina Grill & Lahaina Ice Cream Parlour Thomas Noble
Senior Project Manager
Arita PoulsonJanet Murayama
Revenue Management Manager
Zippy’s Kahului Lowen Okamoto
Construction Manager,
Performance Infrastructure
Johnson Controls
Monica Natividad
Individual
David OIney
Director of Finance
Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa
Jorge Natividad
Individual
Adelia Natividad
Individual Anna Pader
Individual
Joe Natividad
Individual Elpidio Pader
Individual
Rick Nava, Chair
Maui Chamber of Commerce Janette Paguyo
Individual
Gregg Nelson
General Manager
Napili Kai Beach Resort
Tylun Pang
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Michael Petersen
Operations Manager
Waste Pro Hawaii, LLC
Darryl Barret Ng
Darts Properties, Inc.
808-244-0081 legislatk>ii@\/lauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, WaNuku, Hawaii 96793
f-*;; MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Frank “Bud” Pikrone
General Manager
Wailea Resort Association,
Wailea Community Association
Jose Saribay
Individual
Adrianna Schillace
Food & Beverage Coordinator
Fairmont Kea Lani, MauiAaron Placourakis
Owner/Operator
Nick’s Fish Market Maui, Son’z
Steakhouse, Manoli’s Pizza Company,
Koho’s Bar & Grill
Ray Shimabuku
International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers Local Union 1186
Michael Pye
Area Vice President & General Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani,Maui
Jonathan Starr
Starr Properties, LLC, Starr Equities Inc
Market & Main LLC
Michael Pye
Chair
Maui Hotel & Lodging Association
Frederic Steineck
EIcco, Inc.
Patrick Sullivan
Sullivan Properties Inc.Richard Ramirez
Executive Sous Chef
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui Rie Takahashi
Leisure Sales
Fairmont Kea Lani, MauiGina Rausch
Conference Service Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui Melanie Takushi
Individual
Carol Reimann, Director
Maui Chamber of Commerce Amy Taylor
Area Director of Commercial Strategy
Andaz Maui at WaileaDena Ready
Area Vice President
Andaz Maui at Wailea Resort Glenda Tejano
Individual
Leanna Robert
iTrip Vacations Maui Roland Tejano
Individual
Yolanda Saribay
Individual Chuck Thorne
Hana Lava Tube
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChaniber.coni MauiChamber.com
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Jan Tsukazaki
Zippy’s Kahului
Warren Watanabe
Maui County Farm Bureau
John D. White
Director of Sales & Marketing
Ka’anapali Beach Hotel
Lynn Uchima
Individual
Luly Unemori
Individual Tetsuji Yamazaki
General Manager
Sheraton Maui Resort & SpaBruce U’u
Field Representative
Hawaii Operating Engineers
Stabilization Fund
Brian Yano
Vice President, Retail
Jones Lang & Lasalle
Angela Vento
General Manager
Wailea Beach Resort
Jasper Yun
Area Group Sales Manager
Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui
Rick Volner, Director
Maui Chamber of Commerce
808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChaniber.coni MauiChamberxom62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RECEIVED//
m\ JUN 28 PH 12: 28Ml RAC
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKMaui County Council Meeting
July 2, 9AM
Testimony provided by Nick Drance
Bill 60 Relating to a Moratorium on Building Permits for Visitor Accommodations
Chair Lee, you noted, in your objection to this Bill, that other solutions exist, and they can be found.
You’re right but they are few. Reducing the number of visitor accommodations was specifically
mentioned in a recent University of Hawaii recent report. The additional reports and studies emphasize
the need to respond to resident input. My oral testimony is a condensed from a more complete written
testimony which includes citations and links to the reports.
The official HTA Destination Management Plan for 2021-2023 cited significant declining resident
sentiment toward tourism development. It cited 6 Objectives:
● Create positive contributions to the quality of life for Maui County’s residents.
● Protection of Maui County’s natural resources.
● Ensure the authentic Hawaiian culture is perpetuated
● Increase communication and understanding between the residents and the visitor industry. Receive
input from their respective communities
Destination Management Action Plan 2021-3
Hawaii Tourism Authority Report
Noted Declining resident sentiment cited. It indicated that residents must have a voice in tourism
development
Six objectives
● Create positive contributions to the quality of life for Maui County’s residents.
● Protection of Maui County’s natural resources.
● Ensure the authentic Hawaiian culture is perpetuated
● Increase communication and understanding between the residents and the visitor industry. Receive
input from their respective communities
Page 11
Residents felt crowded out because 3-in-10 persons walking around Maui were visitors. Maui residents
felt that tourism created traffic problems and increased the cost of living on island.
Pg. 12
The second greatest threat to Maui’s tourism is Climate Change
Pg. 13
Maui Destination Management Actions
mentioned limiting the number of visitors to the island, as well as the number of rental cars.
Charting a new course for Hawaii Tourism
U of Hawaii Economic Research Organization
February 14, 2019
Page 2
Economic Contributions.
In real dollar terms, over the last 30 years, real tourist expenditures peaked in 1989 and likely fell short
of the most recent peak in 2018. Increasing the number of tourists is in some respects, like a cat
chasing its tail.
It noted the need for an entirely new management model and fresh new thinking.
Increasing costs for visitors
Reduce the number of visitor accommodations we have available
Targeted taxation
Additional information
● Has Maui Reached its Tourism Limit- Maui News Letter to the Editor from Dick Mavcr. Sepl 9. 2018
● 18 Anicles ni imarilv from the Maui News from the last two years
● Rethinking Hawaii Tourism “Time to shift from Marketini; to managing TourisnT^ Dated May
2018 University of Hawaii Economic Research Organization Reports
Note: Updated Visitor Industry Data is available here:
https://data.uhero.hawaii.edu/#/cate»orv?id==36&data list id=52&sa^true&geo^MAU&freq=M
In summary, the moratorium is the main tool we have to attempt and degree of control
over excessive tourism. The Countywide Plan is actually, and law and we must follow
it. It’s right to listen to the needs of residents. Please vote yes on this Bill.
Mahalo nui,
Nick
References and Citations follow
Destination Management Action Plan 2021-3
Hawaii Tourism Authority Report
httDs://www.hawaiitourismautlioritv.org/media/686Q/hta-maui-action-plan.pdf
Pg.7
Resident Sentiment
● The 2019 RSS report showed that resident sentiment had generally weakened compared to the
previous year.
● Providing residents with a voice in tourism development, creating jobs with opportunities for
advancement, and creating shopping, dining and entertainment opportunities are key to improving
resident sentiment
Pg.9
IV. Objectives
There are six objectives to achieve the goals and vision of the DMAP for Maui Nui.
OBJECTIVE 1 Create positive contributions to the quality of life for Maui County’s residents.
OBJECTIVE 2 Support the maintenance, enhancement, and protection of Maui County’s natural
resources.
OBJECTIVE 3 Ensure the authentic Hawaiian culture is perpetuated and accurately presented in
experiences for residents and visitors, materials and marketing efforts.
OBJECTIVE 4 Maintain and improve visitor satisfaction of their experience in Maui County.
OBJECTIVE 5 Strengthen the economic contribution of Maui County’s visitor industry.
OBJECTIVE 6 Increase communication and understanding between the residents and the visitor
industry. Each island within Maui Nui has its unique personality, community, strengths and challenges.
To capture these distinctions, and the input from their respective communities and steering
committees, each island DMAP is presented separately in the following three sections: Maui, MolokaT
and Lana‘i.
Pg.ll
V. Action Plan for Maui
Visitor behavior may also be a cause for concern
● High number of repeat visitors (71%) who are usually independent travelers (81%).
● 83% do self-guided tours or drive around the island.
● Only 21% of visitors go to historic sites and 19% go to museums or art galleries
The community’s perspective on Maui’s visitor industry in 2019 was not as positive. Residents
felt crowded out because 3-in-lO persons walking around Maui were visitors. Maui residents felt
that tourism created traffic problems and increased the cost of living on island. They also felt
that visitors did not have respect for local culture or the ‘aina, and their activities damaged the
environment. However, specific quantitative metrics for resident sentiment of Maui residents are
not published by HTA.
Pg. 12
Situational Analysis Summary for Maui
The second greatest threat to Maui’s tourism is Climate Change
Pg. 13
Maui Destination Management Actions
The community also mentioned limiting the number of visitors to the island, as well as the number of
rental cars.
NOTE: The HTA is not structured to perform the tasks it is charged with
DLNR Chairwoman Suzanne Case points to a social media campaign run by the Hawaii Convention
and Visitors Bureau, one of HTA’s marketing partners.
“I have to throw my colleagues at HTA under the bus, and 1 really like working with them and they’re
trying, but their catchphrase (is) ‘Let Hawaii Happen. ’ I don’t know how many times Tve looked at
that and said. ‘Seriously? The implied consent to do whatever and ‘Let Hawaii Happen.’
“And that’s a branded, big time, multimillion-dollar funded slogan traveling the world right now. And
we’re dealing with the fruits of that perception. It’s happening all right.”
Charting a new course for Hawaii Tourism
U of Hawaii Economic Research Organization
February 14, 2019
https://uhero.hawaii.eduAvp-content/uploads/2019/08/ChartingANewCourseForHawaiiTourism.pdf
Page 2
Economic Contributions.
The economic contributions of tourism have not kept pace with explosive growth in visitor arrivals.
Despite the fact that Hawai‘i received 2.8 million more visitors in 2017 than in 1989, real (inflation-
adjusted) receipts were $1.1 billion less in 2017 than in 1989. Real expenditures in 2017 dollars
peaked at S17.9B in 1989 and then fell and rose with economic cycles, but likely still fell short of the
peak again in 2018. This means that Hawai‘i tourism is a smaller overall contributor to the state’s
economy than in 1989.
Page 5
Opportunities for improving the existing model
The ultimate solution for visitor industry sustainability will require developing a new model that
overcomes this distribution of authority and significantly expands the resources available to effeet
change.
Significant improvements in tourism management will require a new management model that
specifically addresses current structural deficiencies.
What’s the solution?
Increasing costs for visitors to arrive here appears to be the most effective method in reducing their
numbers. The airlines won’t cooperate because they need and want the revenue. The best we can do is
reduce the number of visitor accommodations we have available. The Bill before us is the very best
we can do, at this moment.
Necessary Changes that are Difficult or Impossible to Implement Using the Current
Management Model
Significant improvements in tourism management will require a new management model that
specifically addresses current structural deficiencies
The volume of tourism in Hawai‘i has reached a point where the management of tourism will require
fresh thinking regarding restrictions, fees, or new management technology - including higher or
better targeted taxation to increase the resources available for tourism management.
Marion Joppe
Professor in the School of Hospitality, Food and Tourism Management; Graduate Faculty, University of Waterloo
17 The roles of policy, planning and governance in preventing and managing over tourism
Pg. 7 Governance
“Governance determines who has power, who makes decisions, how other players make their voice
heard and how account is rendered” (Institute on Governance, n. d.).
Pg. 7. The need for planning
Almost all the destinations suffering from over tourism have lost much of whatever power they had to
control development and/or determine tourist flows to exogenous sources of capital (e.g. cruise lines,
low-cost airlines and international hotel chains).
Pg. 9 Conclusion
Over tourism starts with short-term thinking on the part of politicians too focused on reelection and
who have bought into the notion of unrestrained free-market capitalism, and is fostered by the
ignorance of bureaucrats and the lack of courage to confront politicians about long term consequences,
as well as by greed on the part of businesses, which are more concerned with grabbing as much as
possible of the shared resources for their own profit while externalizing as many of the costs as
possible. The backlash to tourism did not happen overnight: it has built up slowly over decades (see,
for example, Doxey, 1975).
(Boztas, 2017). Addressing the issue of over tourism requires a transformation in how the capitalistic
forces driving tourism’s growth are harnessed. The focus must shift from raising tourist numbers and
receipts to improving the quality of resident life and of tourism experiences, with a planning horizon
that is at least 20 years into the future to anticipate the infrastructure, facilities and services needed by
increasing local populations and visitor numbers. These include: “conscious capitalism”, which
proposes to “elevate humanity through business” (Conscious Capitalism, n.d.); social enterprises or
cause-driven businesses, which aim to maximise improvements in social and environmental wellbeing;
Bcorporations (a certification), which “consider the impact of their decisions on their workers,
customers, suppliers, community, and the environmenf ’ (Bcorporation, n.d.); a “circular economy”,
which proponents say will “redefine growth, focusing on positive society-wide benefits. It entails
gradually decoupling economic activity from the consumption of finite resources, and designing
waste out of the system ” (Ellen Macarthur Foundation, n.d.); and the “Economy for the Common
Good”, which “advocates a more ethical economic model, in which the wellbeing of people and the
environment become the ultimate goal of business” (Economy for the Common Good, n.d.). All of
these approaches challenge the short-term, profit motivated approach to business that has greatly
enriched humanity and driven the growth of the middle classes, but has been accompanied by
environmental destruction, social stress and market failures.
Destination trouble: Can over tourism be stopped in its tracks?
https://www.cnn.com/travel/aiticlc/how-to-ston-overtourisin/index.html
Bali “More does not always mean better”
Additional information
● Has Maui Reached its Tourism Limit- Maui News Letter to the Editor from Dick Maver. Scot 9. 2018
● 18 Anicles primarily from the Maui News from the last two years
● Rethinking Hawaii Tourism “Time to shift from Marketing to managing Tourism'^ Dated May
2018 University of Hawaii Economic Research Organization Reports
Note: Updated Visitor Industry Data is available here:
https://data.uhero.ha\vaii.edii/#/categorv?id=36&dala list id=52&sa=true&geo=MAU&freq=M
giVEDCount^CIerk _U£n
Mil JUL-l PH M9
From:
Sent:
Mike J. Molina
Thursday, July 1, 2021 1:16 PM
County Clerk
FW: Zip line ordinance, please pass bill.
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY clerk
Subject:
From: R&J Friedlander
Sent: Tuesday, June 29, 2021 2:15 PM
To: R&J Friedlander
Cc: Alice L. Lee: Gabe Johnson: Keani N. Rawlins: Kelly King: Mike J. Molina: Shane M. Sinenci: Tamara A, Paltin: Tasha A.
Kama: Yukilei Sueimura
Subject: Zip line ordinance, please pass bill.
Aloha all County Council members,
We are asking for you to help with passing the bill relating to ziplines. (Bill 62)
The whole Waipio stream valley is disturbed every day by the noise from the Jungle Zip operating SOfeet
from our house, in the lovely Haiku/Huelo area. The Waipio Stream Valley is narrow, and the zip line is
located in a very narrow strip of land , between houses.
We are urgently awaiting the bill for an ordinance amending the comprehensive zoning ordinance relating to
zip line tours etc.,
Jungle zip were reported years ago, and we, the folks living here, were told to wait till the North Shore Zip was
dealt with. Now, can we please have help to stop this noise.
Tourists have so many other opportunities to ride and scream on legal zip lines that are not close to where
local families live, and are on larger plots of land.
Jungle zip now has another alias they run their zip line under: Aloha Eco Adventures.
Which includes riding on the Jungle zip line!
The zip line started up their business again immediately on October 17th 2020, as soon as tours were allowed.
Now they are busy every single day.
We have lived on and cultivated this land for over 20years. We obtained proper permits. The zip line bulldozed
SMA land, and built the zip line without permits.
We appreciate your help,
thank you.
mahalo
Robert Friedlander
Jennifer Friedlander
1
Jungle Zip line, Lothar Kuster, 50 E. Waipio Rd. Haiku, HI 96708
{only about 12 acres total)
TMK: (2)290050400000 , (2)290050260000 , (2)290050390000
now also; Aloha Eco Adventures , which includes Jungle zip, also based : 50 E. Waipio Rd.
We live on Property on W. Waipio Rd.
280 W. Waipio Rd. Haiku, HI 96708. our TMK: (2)290050690000
(W. Waipio Rd, and E. Waipio Rd are no longer connected by road)
Robert Friedlander
Jenn Friedlander,
Po. box 791597,
Paia , HI, 96779.
USA.
Ph: 808-573-8154
New email: R&J Friedlander: waioioZOZI @amail.com
2
RECEIVED
Count^CletJt ?n?i im -? AH ifli 17
From:
Sent;
Kelly King
Friday, July 2, 2021 9:51 AM
County Clerk
FW; Bill 62 ziplines and
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
Testimony for Bill-62
With Aloha,
Sarah Sexton
On behalf of Counciimember Kelly Takaya King
Office of Counciimember Kelly T. King
South Maui Residency
Office: 808.270.7108
200 South High Street, S*** Floor
Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicountv.us/
From: Paul Carter <paul@tranceandhealing.com>
Date: Thursday, July 1, 2021 at 1:15 PM
To: "Alice L Lee" <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>
Cc: "Keani N. Rawlins" <Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>, "Tasha A. Kama" <Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>,
Gabe Johnson <Gabe.Johnson@mauicounty.us>, Kelly King <Kelly.King@mauicounty.us>, Michael Molina
<Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>, "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>, "Shane M. Sinenci"
<Shane.Sinenci(a)mauicounty.us>, Yukilei Sugimura <Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>
Subj'ect: Bill 62 ziplines and
Aloha all County Council members,
We are asking for you to help with passing the bill relating to ziplines. (Bill 62)
We need this specifically in relation to the Jungle Zipline, now calling themselves Aloha Eco Adventures.
Jungle zip were reported years ago, and we, the folks farming and living here, were told to wait till the North
Shore Zip was dealt with. Now that that case has settled, we need you to pass this ordinance and make sure it
is properly enforced.
Tourists have so many other opportunities to ride and scream on legal zip lines that are not close to where
local families live, and are on larger plots of land.
1
The Jungle zip line started up their business again immediately on October 17th 2020, as soon as tours were
allowed. Now they are busy every single day. In this quiet agricultural area, Our lives and homes are now
disturbed weekdays and weekends at all hours of the day.
We have lived on and cultivated this land for over 20years. We obtained proper permits. The zip line bulldozed
SMA land, and built the zip line without permits, and placed their ziplines within 150 feet of our homes.
We appreciate your help,
thank you.
mahalo
Paul Carter
1 live on the Friedlanders Property on W. Waipio Rd.
280W.Waipio Rd. Haiku, HI 96708. ourTMK: (2)290050690000
(W. Waipio Rd, and E. Waipio Rd are no longer connected by road)
2
RECEIVED
Z02I JUL -1 AH 8: 056/30/2021
Aloha Maui County Council Chair
OFFICE OF THE
I am submitting written testimony re: Maui County Council
King’s final reading of Bill 60. the Visitor Accommodation Moratorium bill. The
visitor resident ratio has exceeded the level outlined in the Maui Island Plan,
which must be enforced. Halting building permits for new hotels, resorts,
timeshares, short-term rental homes, bed and breakfast homes, and transient
vacation rental units for an interim period is a commonsense approach to
limiting tourism in Maui.
Over tourism is a real crisis. It is not only taking its toll on our environment but
impacting the quality of life for residents. Our infrastructure can barely
accommodate its residents, let alone that of up to 8,000 daily visitors.
Travel companies and resorts in Maui will continue to further capitalize on
Maui, treating it as an untapped resource to be mined and its assets funneled
away with few benefits for residents. Local people are priced out of areas of
interest by tourism induced gentrification.
Tourism must be professionally managed, and best practices adopted to
minimize or even discourage mass tourism thereby mitigating the worst of its
negative aspects.
The Visitor Accommodation Moratorium bill exemplifies best practices in
addressing over tourism in Maui.
Thank you, Ann Pitcaithley, Wailuku, HI
808 250-2280
County Clerk
■■BgCCj
®l JUL -2 dN lo 17
office of the
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Kelly King
Friday, July 2, 2021 9:53 AM
County Clerk
FW: Zipline ordinance
To:
Subject:
Testimony for bill-62
With Aloha,
Sarah Sexton
On behalf of Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
Office of Councilmember Kelly T. King
South Maui Residency
Office: 808.270.7108
200 South High Street, 8th Floor
Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicounty.us/
On 7/1/21,12:57 PM, "Ann Bassel" <annbassel@me.com> wrote:
Aloha All,
My deepest gratitude for the work you have contributed to the proposed Bill No. 62 for an ordinance regarding
zipline, canopy, rappelling and bungee jumping operations on agriculture zoned property.
I am writing again to urge the passage of the proposed bill and signature of approval by Mayor Victorino.
Mahalo,
Ann Bassel
Haiku
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clerk
i^cf:! ;r]DFrom:
Sent:
Bette Belanger <belangerblue@gmail.com>
Monday, June 28, 2021 9:49 AM
County Clerk
Bill No. 60
2921 JUN 28 AN 9: 59To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
! fully support a moratorium on building any more new hotels and vacation rentals. We need to preserve what green
space still remains on Maui. We do not need to attract more tourists. In fact, we must do something to control the over
tourism that we are currently experiencing. Please take action before it is too late.
Bette Belanger
Kihei, HI
1
RECEIVED
2021 JUL -1 AH 8: 05
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
July 1 2021
TO; Maui County Council Chair Alice Lee
Vice Chair Keani Rawlins Fernandez
Council Members
SUBJECT; Support FOR Bill 60 "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BUILDING
CODE TO ADD CHAPTER 40RELATING TO A MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR
VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS"
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of the Council
My name is Hannah Bernard and I am Executive Director and Co-Founder of
Hawai'i Wildlife Fund.
Mahalo nui loa, thank you for the opportunity to submit our support for Bill 60 (2021)
60 "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE TO ADD CHAPTER 40
RELATING TO A MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS"
This proposed moratorium on new development is a very important first step in
redefining our relationship with tourism here in Hawai'i nei. The reduction in visitors
in 2020 caused by COViD-19 gave us an extraordinary opportunity to experience
our home in a way that was both poignant and breathtaking. Our nearshore marine
resources thrived in the absence of so many people in the water; and also cast a
light on our own local usage patterns that we might want to address.
Hawai'i Wildlife Fund is deeply committed to the management of our tourism-based
economy, since the impacts of so many visitors to Hawai'i (-10 million in 2019, and
expected to match or exceed that in 2021) has negative effects on nearshore
marine life. These effects include sea turtle disturbance and outright harassment as
well as displacement of our own community from favorite sites. See for example
this recent article; on KITV https://www.kitv.eom/story/44090398/maui-sea-turtle-
photo-causes-uproar-on-social-media
P.O. Box 790637 ● Paia ● HI ● 96779* (808)280-8124 « wild@aloha.net ●
WWW.vvjldliavvaii.org
MCO« A OI»TAH<£
S K<rtvtA P<I9oewoTiwCM
Si.T.
STOP
Do not pass
this sign to
view turtles
A picture posted on social media is making its rounds and turning some heads. A large group of people at
Ho'okipa Beach is seen in the water near two turtles-bypassing a sign reading 'Stop do not pass this sign
to view the turtles'. Jennie Montijo
We have engaged the tourism industry since our inception in 1996 in order to help
manage the impacts on our environment, but we desperately need the County's
help in managing the carrying capacity of Maui. Please allow this bill to move
forward to begin to formulate a better way of life for residents and to better support
the environment upon which we all depend, especially the tourism industry.
Mahalo for your consideration and continued progress in protecting our
environment,
Hannah Bernard
Executive Director
Hawai'i Wildlife Fund
P.O. Box 790637 ● Paia ● HI ● 96779* (808)280-8124 * wilci@aloha.net ●
wvvw.wildhawaii.org
Count^CleH< n^D
From:
Sent:
Ann Blyde <annblyde@hotmail.com>
Thursday, July 1, 2021 8:07 PM
County Clerk
Limit hotel developement
20?l JUL -2 AH 7: 45
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
Sirs ..as 16 yr resident please stop hotel development a moratorium for 5-10 yrs is desperately needed.to restore
some semblance of sanity to an out of control tourism industry.please
Ann Blyde
1
RECEIVFEnCount^CleH<
2021 JliL -2 AH O 17Kelly King
Friday, July 2, 2021 9:24 AM
County Clerk
FW: Visitor Accommodations Moratorium
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFlCc OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
Testimony for Bill-60
With Aloha,
Sarah Sexton
On behalf of Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
Office of Councilmember Kelly T. King
South Maui Residency
Office: 808.270.7108
200 South High Street, S*** Floor
Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicountv.us/
From: Jody Bowman <bowmanjody@hotmail.com>
Date: Friday, July 2, 2021 at 7:25 AM
To: "Alice L. Lee" <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>, "Keani N. Rawlins" <Keani.Rawlins(5)mauicounty.us>, "Tasha A.
Kama" <Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>; Gabe Johnson <Gabe.Johnson@mau icounty.us>, Kelly King
<Kelly.King@mauicounty.us>, Michael Molina <Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>, "Tamara A. Paltin"
<Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>, "Shane M. Sinenci" <Shane.Sinenci(S}mauicountv.us>, Yukilei Sugimura
<YukiIei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Visitor Accommodations Moratorium
Good morning,
1 fully support the Visitor Accommodations Moratorium. I was born and raised in Haiku. Over the last 10 years
or so there has been a strong increase of visitors to the island. It already felt like we were at our maximum
capacity with traffic, parking at beaches, the road to Hana, Twin Falls and many other sites. Now our patience,
our parking lots and our islands' resources are beyond taxed.
Let's bring back the balance. We should appreciate what visitors bring to the island and they should appreciate
this amazing place and its people. We need to restore that balance and the Visitor Accommodations
Moratorium will help with that.
Thank you,
Jody Bowman
1
County Clerk
nrrn—
JUN 28 Mi 9: 59
office of the
COUNTY CLERK
June 28th, 2021
From:
Sent:
Garden of Eden Arboretum <info@mauigardenofeden.corn>
Monday, June 28, 2021 9:53 AM
County Clerk
Testimony for Hana Highway Traffic Management
To:
Subject:
To Whom This May Concern
We’re grateful that the community and council members are coming together to discuss this important matter.
Traffic on the Hana Hwy has escalated since the spring, with this summer being unprecedented.
At the Garden of Eden Arboretum and Botanical Garden (mile marker 10.5) we’re doing our part to educate
visitors, provide restrooms, and an experiential and educational experience with 2.5 miles of walking trails and
waterfall overlooks, and a cafe. We are a small family run business that has been publicly operating since 96'
and growing in popularity over the years. Our attraction breaks up much of the road congestion during the busy
first half of the day.
Having the road shut down last year was detrimental for our business. At the time we were working to diversify
into a plant nursery since tourism dropped off and the National Guard would not let customers through to pick
up or buy their plant orders. We were happy to work with the DOT or the Mayor’s office in creating a better
solution or moving the check point to our location or just before Ke’anae, but we were not given an opportunity
to be heard last year, despite our numerous calls, letters, and meeting requests.
We want to be clear that we do not support another closure of the federally funded highway, nor do we
support a highway reservation system at this time. We need the income to continue operating with the
increased costs of doing business. We cannot rely on tour buses. We have put in 30 years of blood sweat and
tears and considerable resources into making our attraction what it is today. Our business model is founded
around individual parties visiting. We contribute substantially in state tax dollars and community donations. If
there is an anticipated closure or limit, we ask that you please work with us and implement it at or after our
location. We’re 26 miles from Hana and 6 miles before Ke’anae.
With our strategic location, we are happy to work with the community, to better inform our guests through
additional signage, pamphlets, etc. It is our thought that if travel guide books and Road to Hana Apps update
their content with updated information on what is private property and considered trespassing, what attractions
require reservations, and proper road etiquette, this would be a big first step as well as targeting popular travel
blogs or companies such as AAA that are frequently doing articles on the Road to Hana. It would also be
helpful for hotels to educate their concierge so that the concierges can also address this with visitors. The
rental car companies should include a small pamphlet for each season stating the road work that is occuring,
available restrooms, road etiquette for the Road to Hana, and public and accessible stops along the Road to
Hana. It would also be beneficial to have someone specifically posting these updates in the incoming traveler
facebook groups such as “Maui Bound.”
Once the general sentiment is that most popular stops along the road require reservations or have capacity
restrictions, individuals will plan their trips to Hana differently which should help substantially.
While the new parking ticket signs have not alleviated the issues they have helped, especially with MPD
enforcement. It is our recommendation that more signs are put in, where tourists are now parking just further
up the road away from the signs (just past Waikamoi heading towards Hana.) It feels good to see more MPD
1
presence on the highway, which will encourage locals who at times drive recklessly, to slow down, and it will
help in limiting overall crime.
What we’re seeing right now with visitors is a lack of awareness and conscientiousness. Having been cooped
up for a lot of last year likely contributes to this behavior. It would be wonderful if the airlines/ cruise ships could
distribute something like the agricultural form everyone is required to fill out, but in the form of an agreement-
that they will minimize their environmental impact. An agreement that talks about many of the local issues and
concerns and that the guest is committed to not being a part of the problem. Many of our guests do care and
want to do right, they just feel uninformed. Visitor education is imperative.
Thank you and we look forward to working together.
Bradbury Family
Garden of Eden Arboretum LLC
10600 Hana Hwy
Haiku HI 96708
2
Count^Clei^
RECEIVED
1021 JUN 28 AH T- 48
From:
Sent:
Judith carroll <silkangelmaui@me.com>
Sunday, June 27, 2021 6:37 AM
County Clerk; maurice Jean pierre; Carroll Judith
Measure #60
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKAloha
We are a couple, but twenty seven year Maui residents, prior homeowners, current business owners. We have lived
in a rental house in Maui Meadows for the past 11 years. We are excellent tenants, senior citizens who paid rent on
time even through the pandemic. Our home has been sold to some California " house flippers" who gave three
households here 45 days notice to vacate. None of the three households are able to find a place to move. This is
ALREADY a housing crisis on Maui. This bill is SO OVERDUE. If you folks do not start to take action Maui will not have
any workers to serve the thousands of tourist you insist on bringing here because they will not have an affordable
place to live. The fabric of our community is being torn apart. This bill is a big step in the right direction but it will not
solve the bigger problem you folks have on your hands. Maui USED TO BE SPECIAL but it is quickly changing into a
tourist trap. Over tourism with a race for accommodations, a race for a rent a car, a race for a dinner reservation, a
bunch of cheap visitors who have never visited Hawaii racing around causing traffic Jams, accidents, trampling on ,
and in general not respecting the host culture or any rules and regulations. If you don't switch lanes from your
golden goose tourist economy to a more sustainable agricultural economy Maul will be nothing more than hotel
after hotel on every beach, paid parking lots, limited if not charged for beach parking, with constant traffic jams. The
real estate will be only for ultra rich non residents who come a couple of times a year. The lights on, water running
and nobody home. Meanwhile Hawaiians and residents will be forced out as rentals skyrocket making it impossible
to live here if you are not ultra rich. Maui is slipping off the number one island in the world list fast. This over tourism
track you are on is a fast track to Maui becoming just another place on the list of" used to be beautiful but now
trashed" yes trashed that is what is happening trashed! You will be remembered at this crossroads as leaders having
the where with all to take BOLD ACTION to stop the trajectory of the tourism apocalypse or just the ones selling out
Maui to the highest bidder. NEWS FLASH!! Maui residents are having to abandon their animals during a pandemic
because they are being displaced by rentals being bought and sold to highest bidders from the mainland. Rental
prices are untenable, and the Humane Society is at capacity meaning hard working residents are having to abandon
their pets just to survive living on Maui. Please do the right thing and pass this bill or take a lot of photos now.
Mahalo to whomever reads this and may be moved to take action to pass Bill #60.
Judith Carroll RN.
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Chris Collins <utilityresearch@ohmanalytics.com>
Friday, July 2, 2021 1:43 AM
planning@mauicounty.gov
building.permits@mauicounty.gov
Community Solar Project Zoning and Planning Document Request - Maui HI
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Hi,
We are conducting research on solar activity in the U.S. and would appreciate access to potential items if possible.
Please note that our outreach is based on data from various solar interconnection incentive databases showing projects
under development within the area.
1. A list of any planning/zoning hearings and any subsequent planning/zoning decisions/permits and any building
permits related to solar and battery projects between 200KW - lOMW.
2. Additionally, any board meeting minutes or relevant documents associated with these projects, including Special Use
Permits, Site Plan Reviews, or Building Permits would be greatly appreciated as well.
If there is another department/organization that we should get involved with instead, pointing us towards that
organization would be a great help as well.
Thank you!
20O-n 7?Chris Collins
214-789-1846
San Diego, CA 92130
data@ohmanalvtics.com
www.OhmAnalvtics.com
*n1—
m
oH m I
"< NJ moo: Tir
m m●VIXJX O2R m0f KJ1
0
01:
1
RECEIVFDCount^Clerk
Sara DiGrazia <birthandearth@hotmail.com>
Thursday, July 1, 2021 4:27 PM
County Clerk
Bill 60
From:
Sent: 2021 JUL -i PH 4: 27
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
Dear Maui County Council
Please continue the efforts in balancing Maui's tourism and environmental concerns by supporting this initiative.
Thank you
Sara DiGrazia (concerned Hawai'i citizen)
808 295 3525
Kailua, O'ahu
1
RECEiVFn
ZOZI JUL -2 AH a- 01
Count^^CleH<
From:
Sent:
MJ Duberstein <mjduberstein@gmail.com>
Friday, July 2, 2021 7:41 AM
County Clerk
Visitor moratorium
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
Aloha
My name is MJ Duberstein.
I live at 34 Iliwai Loop in Kihei.
I am an economist, with a graduate degree from UCLA, and I spent the final 25 years of my working career as Director of
Research for the National Football League Players Association (AFL-CIO).
I have served as Chair of District Eleven (South Maui) of the Hawaii Democratic Party. And I currently am a Board
Member of Akaku Maui Community Media and the Maui Tomorrow Foundation.
I strongly support Member King's proposed moratorium as well as any amendments to make it Countywide.
I don't clean to be extraordinarily prescient. Nevertheless, a year ago, I began seeing what our economy faced as The
New Abnormal.
That applied then, just as it does today.
This economy cannot be overwhelmingly linked to exogenous factors—but it is. Tourism has a place—but not the only
place.
To go from fields brimming with unrented vehicles to a situation in which folks are buying new or used vehicles to rent
out at huge prices is bizarre to say the least.
To ask airlines to curb service is equivalent to searching for horses who've fled the barn.
And yet, and yet, as you know. The Maui Island Plan contains capital-"P" Policy pertaining to a set ratio between
residents and travelers. Passed nearly a decade ago, the Policy has not been enforced.
Why? That's a rhetorical query. Ask yourselves?
As a start, this moratorium is a positive initial step changing the situation. You should have no qualms passing it.
Obviously, it's no Final Answer. It's the necessary step to take now, today.
Mahalo.
Malama pono.
Malama aina.
Ua Mau Ke Ea o ka 'Aina i ka Pono.
MJ Duberstein
mjd; sent from my iPhone 6s
1
July 2, 2021
IIAWAI'I HOTELCouncil of the County of Maui
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Council Chair
Counciimember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Council Vice-Chair
\  I I I \ \ I
RE: Bill 60 "A bill for an ordinance amending the building code to add chapter 40 relating to a
moratorium on building permits for visitor accommodations”
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Honorable Councilmembers,
I am writing on behalf of Hawaii Hotel Alliance’s (“HHA”) member organizations on Maui and across
the state to oppose the second and final reading of Bill 60.
HHA understands and shares the concerns voiced by those who want to manage the negative impacts
of tourism. We, too, have seen the changing trends in visitor behavior - primarily, tourists shifting from
hotels in resort areas to vacation rentals in residential neighborhoods - and how it is impacting Maui
residents.
In our previous comments on Bill 60, and in response to the numerous other recent moratoria
proposals, HHA has offered our clear commitment to work with the Council to understand and address
the root causes of some residents’ concerns about tourism. However, we cannot support the Council's
efforts to rapidly advance this measure which is unlikely to accomplish either objective.
Instead, we suggest reexamining the number of legal vacation rentals allowed by the County, shutting
down illegal rentals, and prioritizing responsible hotel development in areas intended for tourism. New
projects in resort areas, like parts of South and West Maui, fund new infrastructure and initiatives that
benefit the surrounding communities and the visitors they serve - from workforce housing to new bike
paths, roads, street lights, water and sewer lines, and replenishing beloved beaches.
Maui hotels welcome the opportunity to work together toward a more sustainable tourism future for the
island. But we believe that is possible without passing a moratorium that would jeopardize Maui’s
fragile economic recovery and hurt local families who depend on a paycheck from a job in hospitality,
construction, or a skilled trade.
We respectfully ask the Council to defer the second reading to carefully consider the legal flaws
outlined in the legal opinion submitted by HHA on May 25, 2021, and the potential for costly litigation
to defend the measure at taxpayers' expense. OOO -n
C3i
'I m
mMahaio, omN5
o <o a
5 -n
mrn —I O
Jerry Gibson, President
Hawaii Hotel Alliance
un
Count^Clerk RFr.~ ^ /a
From:
Sent:
Mark Hyde <hydem001@hawaii.rr.com>
Thursday, July 1, 2021 9:43 AM
County Clerk
7/2/21 County Council Meeting, Agenda Item Bill 60
JUL -1 AM 9: 51
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
1 support Agenda Item Bill 60 (Moratorium) in addition to the comments made by Dick Mayer, summarized as follows:
Require every vacation rental and bed and breakfast to have a license number.
Require the license for all the short-term rentals and also for all units covered by the Montoya
decision, mostly condos.
All advertising for short-term rental units must include the license number with appropriate penalties
for non-compliance with the license requirement.
Utilize a license number system that identifies the community plan district. For example all licenses in
South Maui would begin with the letter S, UpCountry units would begin with U, West Maui with W,
Central Maui with C, North Maui with N, East Maui with E, Lanai with a L, and Molokai with a M. This
requirement would make it much easier to conform with district short-term vacation rental limits.
The moratorium will give the executive branch of government time to develop new measures to manage the
number of tourists in Maui County consistent with the General Plan. Should the mayor fail to act appropriately
and effectively, the people will then have an opportunity to elect a new mayor in 2022, one who can and will.
Mark Hyde
4320 E. Waiola Loop
Kihei, HI 96753
1
RECui VED
20?i JUL -2 AM K> 17
Count^^le^
From:
Sent:
PSLU Committee
Friday, July 2, 2021 9:44 AM
County Clerk
FW: Zipline Bill
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
From: Kelly King <Kelly.Klng@mauicounty.us>
Sent: Friday, July 2, 2021 9:32 AM
To: PSLU Committee <PSLU.Committee@mauicounty.us>
Subject: FW: Zipline Bill
Testimony for Biil-62
With Aloha,
Sarah Sexton
On behalf of Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
Office of Councilmember Kelly T. King
South Maui Residency
Office: 808.270.7108
200 South High Street, 8*'’ Floor
Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicountv.us/
From: Carmen Jimenez <maurade95@gmail.com>
Date: Friday, July 2, 2021 at 6:32 AM
To: "Alice L. Lee" <Alice.Lee(a)mauicountv.us>, Gabe Johnson <Gabe.Johnson@mauicQuntv.us>.
"Kanani.Rawlins@mauicountv.us" <Kanani.Rawlins(5)mauicountv.us>. "Shane M. Sinenci"
<Shane.Sinenci@mauicountv.us>. "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin(a)mauicountv.us>. "Tasha A. Kama"
<Tasha.Kama@mauicountv.us>. "Yukilei.$igimura@mauicountv.us" <Yukilei.Sigimura@mauicountv.us>, Kelly
King <Kellv.King@mauicountv.us>, Michael Molina <Mike.Molina@mau icounty.us>
Subject: Zipline Bill
Aloha my name is Carmen Jimenez-Schellhammer. I live at 36 E Waipio Rd, Haiku, HI 96708. My two acre property is
neighbors along the Jungle Fall Zipline.
This email is a request for your help with passing the ordinance relating to the Ziplines.
This Zipline has impacted me and my other neighbors on East Waipio road. A small private road country along the East
Waipio stream.
1
I am emailing out of concern and compassion in passing the Bill that with result in the restrictions/shutdown of the
Zipline. Aside of all the headache that accompanies basically a amusement park right in your neighborhood. People
screaming at the top of their lungs all day is distributive and disrespectful to our community and the country living
culture.
My main concern and complaint is the environment. The Zipline goes right over the East Waipio stream and when the
high volume of tourist in that area raises several questions. Such as what is the bathroom situation? How do we know
what the stream is being exposed to by foreign exposure.
The bottom line is the high volume, high risk of environment damage needs to be addressed.
Since I understand your time I won't go into the issues regarding the disrespect with COVID-19.
Needless to say I've several encounters and one alteration with zipline people coming to my home, and walking around
my property looking for the zipline with out their mask.
My questions are who can 1 call to voice ,my concerns that this Bill be passed and enforced? How do I find out when this
Bill goes into effect?
Mahalo for your time,
Carmen Jimenez -Schellhammer
2
Count^£let^ RFC-::V!jD
ZOZIJUL-I PHI2:i|9From:
Sent:
louiselambertl@gmail.com
Thursday, July 1, 2021 12:46 PM
County Clerk
Support Moratorium Bill 60
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Re: Bill 60
Aloha
I am a 24 year Resident of Maui County and support the moratorium Bill 60, on building new Tourist accommodation.
We don't need more. We do need truly affordable housing for people who live and work here and serve the tourist
business, service industry, sustainable agriculture, health, education and local businesses.
Mahalo,
Louise Lambert
Maui Meadows
Sent from my iPad
1
RECEIVED
m\ JUL -2 AH 7: 45
REEF
May 20, 2021 OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Testimony v2.0
Climate Action, Resilience and the Environment Committee
Regarding the proposed tourist accommodation moratorium.
by Travis Liggett, President, Reef Power LLC, a Maui small business
www.reefpowermaui.com
Below please find a summary of my calculations to help quantify the impacts of
tourism on municipal wastewater pollution loading in Maui island.
The inputs to these calculations were taken from the Maui County Department
of Environmental Management presentation 3/17/2021, as well as UlC Permit
reporting documentation provided by the County DEM. The data in the
presentation provided plant and reuse flows in March 2020 during peak
lockdown, which I compared to average flows from 2019 before the pandemic.
This allows us to quantify municipal wastewater pollution loading comparisons
between periods when tourism was very prevalent, vs. almost totally absent.
What we can calculate from the data is that the volume of wastewater injected
in March 2020 vs. 2019 decreased in Lahaina by 67.05% and in Kihei by 58.61%.
This decrease in flow gives a linear decrease in injected coliform cell count CPU
Most Probable Numbers, which are an indicator of the potential for the
presence of other pathogens that can be harmful. CFU = Colony Forming Unit,
which is a unit of pathogen cells that has the potential to start an infection.
In Kihei, coliform cell counts decreased from >179 Billion to >74 Billion MPN
injected per day, a 58.61% decrease. In Lahaina, injected coliform counts
decreased from <108 Million to <35 Million per day, a 67.05% decrease. Kihei
WWRF does not employ any disinfection process before wastewater injection
and measured cell counts are above the limit of detection for the test at >2419.6
MPN/100 mL water. Lahaina employs UV disinfection before injection and
coliform cell counts are below the limit of detection at <1 MPN/lOOmL In short,
Kihei injectate is too septic to measure with the test used, and Lahaina is so free
of coliform cells that it reads below the threshold of detection for the test used.
Additionally, we see that percent reuse in Kihei increased by 45.81%, and the
percent reuse in Lahaina increased by 96.85% -- almost doubled -- when
comparing March 2020 to 2019 average. In short, the amount of reuse stayed
roughly the same, while the volume injected decreased dramatically. A good
way to think about this is, the majority of wastewater generated by residents
goes to reuse, placing 100% reuse withing reach; but none of the excess flow
attributable to the visitor industry goes to reuse. In my humble opinion, the
capacity of the municipal wastewater system is defined by the level of reuse
attainable, anything less than 100% reuse can be defined as "over-capacity."
The baseline population puts us already "over-capacity" with less than 100%
reuse - adding the visitor industry puts 100% reuse further out of reach.
My recommendation for a criterion for ending a moratorium on new visitor
accommodations? 100% reuse. Before any new accommodations can be built,
make it a requirement to implement 100% municipal reuse for each community.
Then, new construction shall only be approved if the required *expansion* in
reuse is developed, to offset any increases in plant flows attributable to a given
new visitor accommodation development. What you will then have is a very
lucrative industry suddenly compelled to get behind new reuse projects
financially or in other ways. If developers use full cost accounting to fund
expansions in reuse projects with every project, then the market will drive the
migration to reuse with breakneck speed!
On the next page please find a summary of my calculations. Inputs are
highlighted in blue, outputs of interest are highlighted in yellow.
A detailed spreadsheet with references is also attached to this email.
Mahalo for your consideration!
Travis Liggett
www.instagram.com/reefpowermaui
Maui municipal
wastewater
reclamation facility
KIHEI
KIHEl
KIHEI
KIHEI
data designator valuetimeframe units
PLANT FLOW
PLANT FLOW
FLOW REUSED
FLOW REUSED
FLOW INJECTED
FLOW INJECTED
% REUSE
% REUSE
pre-COVID 2019 average
March 2020 lockdown
pre-COVID 2019 average
2020 average
pre-COVID 2019 average
March 2020 lockdown
pre-COVIO 2019 average
March 2020 lockdown
2020 compared to 2019 average
2020 compared to 2019 average
August 2020
3.70 MGO
MGD
MGO
MGO
MGO
MGD
2.60
1.75
1.79
KIHEI 1.95
KIHEI
KIHEI
KIHEI
0.81
%47.24
68.88 %
I ]MarchKIHEI %% increase in % reuse
% reduction in MGD injection
REUSE R1 conform CFU /100 mL wastewater
45.81
KIHEI
KIHEI
March %58.61
MPN/lOOmL1.10<
INJECTED conform CFU /100 mL wastewater MPN/lOOmLKIHEI 2419.6January 5,2021 >
REUSE R1 conform CFU total count / day
REUSE R1 conform CFU total count / day
INJECTED conform CFU total count/day
INJECTED conform CFU total count/day
X decrease INJECTED coliform CFU total count / day
KIHEI
KIHEI
KIHEI
KIHEI
KIHEI
72,884,882
74,576,321
CFUpre-COVID 2019 average
March 2020 lockdown
pre-COVID 2019 average
March 2020 lockdown
2020 compared to 2019 average
<
CFU<
179,022,912,505
74,097,841,903
 ^61
CFU>
CFU>
March %
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
PLANT FLOW
PLANT FLOW
FLOW REUSED
FLOW REUSED
FLOW INJECTED
FLOW INJECTED
% REUSE
% REUSE
pre-COVID 2019 average
March 2020 lockdown
pre-COVID 2019 average
2020 average
pre-COVIO 2019 average
March 2020 lockdown
pre-COVID 2019 average
March 2020 lockdown
March 2020 compared to 2019 average
March 2020 compared to 2019 average
4.07 MGD
MGD
MGD
MGD
MGD
MGD
2.2S
1.20
1.30
2.87
0.95
29.46
57.99
%
%
1LAHAINA 96 Increase in 96 reuse
reduction in MGD Injection
96.85 96
LAHAINA 67.05 96
REUSE R1 coliform CFU /100 mL wastewater MPN/lOOmLLAHAINA August 2020 1.00<
INJECTED coliform CFU /100 mL wastewater MPN/lOOmLLAHAINA January 7,2021 1.00<
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
LAHAINA
REUSE R1 coliform CFU total count/day
REUSE R1 coliform CFU total count /day
INJECTED coliform CFU total count/day
INJECTED coliform CFU total count/day
% decrease INJECTED conform CFU total count/day
pre-COVID 2019 ava-age
March 2020 lockdown
pre-COVIO 2019 average
March 2020 lockdown
2020 compared to 2019 average
45,356,972
49,387,374
CFU<
CFU<
108,618,365
35,784,351
67.05
CFU<
CFU<
March %
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
PLANT FLOW
PLANT FLOW
FLOW REUSED
FLOW REUSED
FLOW INJECTED
FLOW INJECTED
96 REUSE
96 REUSE
pre-COVIO 2019 average
2020 average
pre-COVID 2019 average
2020 average
pre-COVIO 2019 average
2020 average
pre-COVIO 2019 average
2020 average
2020 average compared to 2019 average
2020 average compared to 2019 average
5.64 MGO
MGO
MGD
MGO
MGD
MGD
5.57
0.28
0.52
5.36
5.05
4.97 96
9.30 96
[ ]KAHULUl
KAHULUl
87.15 9696 increase in 96 reuse
reduction in MGD injection 965.72
REUSE R1 conform CFU /100 mL wastewater MPN/lOOmLKAHULUl no data availableAugust 2020
MPN/lOOmLKAHULUl INJECTED coliform CFU /100 mL wastewater January 7,2021 2419.6>
REUSE R1 conform CFU total count /day
REUSE R1 conform CFU total count/day
INJECTED coliform CFU total count/day
INJECTED conform CFU total count/day
96 decrease INJECTED coliform CFU total count/day
no data available
no data available
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
KAHULUl
pre-COVID 2019 average
2020 average
preCOVID 2019 average
2020 average
2020 average compared to 2019 average
CFU
CFU
491,026,099,080
462,919,970,583
CFU>
CFU>
5.72 96
REEF
UER
Reef Power LLC Written Testimony - PART II - v2.0
to the Climate Action, Resilience and the Environment Committee of the Maui County Council
May 24, 2021
Re: Proposed visitor accommodations moratorium
Aloha,
I am now taking one last opportunity to advise you on the proper disposition toward new real estate
development in Maui as relates to municipal wastewater disposal: the existing municipal systems are
operating "over capacity," even with only the baseline loading of the resident population^ so all development,
including real estate development, should be placed in moratorium with the following criterion to resume in
each Maui zip code:
1. Reuse is expanded to 100% current municipal wastewater reclamation plant flowrates
2. After completing #1, all new development must be supported by 100% reuse or some other wastewater
disposal methods that are sane and sustainable.
What this means is that any new residential or visitor accommodations development that proposes to connect
to any municipal system should only happen after 100% reuse is implemented on existing flows. Then, all new
development shall be required to certify that new dedicated reuse projects can accommodate 100% of new
raw sewage produced, 100% of the time. One exception: truly affordable housing is exempt. Then you will
have the entire impetus to develop housing bifurcated into two legally allowable outlets:
1. truly affordable housing dedicated to sheltering and building wealth for existing resident working
populations, or
2. high end housing that is truly sustainable.
Why is this important? Right now, because the County of Maui Department of Environmental Management
has historically never made it a priority, there is no disinfection treatment step employed on injected
municipal wastewater In South Maui, so fecal coliform levels in municipal effluent flowing into nearshore
injection wells test above the detection limit of 2419.6 MPN CPU / 100 ml wastewater^. That means that the
most probable number of fecal coliform cells in the unsterilized wastewater flowing through groundwater into
the ocean in Kihei contains at least 2419.6 Colony Forming Units (CPU = a unit of pathogen cells with the
capability to start an infection in a host organism, or "Infection Forming Unit") of fecal coliform. Fecal coliform
is generally harmless, but it is routinely measured because it provides an indication of the potential for the
^ Reef Power LLC Written Testimony on Visitor Accommodations Moratorium Part I - v2.0
^ KIHEI UlC Permit. UM-1396Tvpe I - IV Testing Results - January 5. 2021
presence of other biological entities that can be pathogenic, or illness-causing, in persons who engage in
recreation in nearshore waters within the injection well plume, such as Cove Park in Kihei. And please
remember, in Kihei, every visitor who poops and pees into the municipal system has just internally
transported an actual zoo of viruses and bacteria from all around the world, rendering the global jet travel
system an extended physical mass transport system that routes disease-forming life forms inside visitors'
bodies from all around the world, into the toilet and shower, through the sewer mains, through the
wastewater reclamation facility where no disinfection is employed, through injection wells then groundwater,
and finally into nearshore human recreation environments and reefs. One can add up the total time it takes a
disease-forming lifeform living inside the bowels of a future Maui visitor from the other side of the world, to
arriving in nearshore waters within the non-disinfected injection well plume in Kihei, to making a resident sick:
1. Visitor ground and air travel time from origin home residence, to Maui accommodations unit +
2. Time from first flush, time through sewer mains, time through wastewater reclamation facility +
3. Groundwater transit time for non-disinfected wastewater to migrate from injection well to reef +
4. Time of local resident swimming to render a Colony Forming Unit into an "Infection Forming Unit" +
5. Incubation time of the pathogen to allow for exponential pathogen cell division and illness or death.
Without disinfection of injected wastewater, it may not be very long before an infected person on the other
side of the world leads to a sick local resident in Maui via non-disinfected municipal injection well discharges.
This is a fundamental cognitive and design flaw, and 100% injectate disinfection must be implemented before
a single new visitor accommodation flushes into the Kihei municipal wastewater reclamation system. The
physical system as it exists presently embodies a deadly nexus of failed leadership, greed, incompetence and
community apathy. As an immunocompromised sufferer of lower limb lymphedema, I have been hospitalized
twice in the past decade with systemic bacterial cellulitis infections that laid me out on an IV antibiotic d rip for
weeks at Maui Memorial Hospital. Now I know the source of my near-death experiences: lack of sterilization
of injected wastewater in South Maui where I was swimming. Now that I know about the absence of any
disinfection treatment of injected municipal wastewater in South Maui, I don't know if I will elect to swim in
nearshore waters within a few miles of Kalama Park, where the injection well plume is centered, until
disinfection is implemented.
Below please find visualizations of this septic plume developed in a USGS publication by Hunt in 2007^. Since
the fecal coliform tests performed for UlC permit reporting came in at above the detection limit of the test, we
can look at a DOH source describing coliform counts for non-disinfected septic tank effluent to see the range
that may actually exist in non-disinfected injected wastewater in Kihei: 40,000 to 160 MILLION CFU / 100 mL'^.
^ Ground-Water Nutrient Flux to Coastal Waters and Numerical Simulation of Wastewater Injection at Kihei. Maui, Hawaii
HI DOH Onsite Wastewater Treatment Survey and Assessment
f ■ Xj
-r -M- *
3 4 S MIUS
X
3 KILOMETERS0 1 2 3 4
KXPI.ANATION
i~~t STUDY ARKAMODfcLfcD WASTHWATKR
INJECTION Pl.UME HKJHWAYS
Figure El. Aerial photomosaic showing the Kihei study area and injected wastewater effluent plume as estimated by numerical
modeling, Kihei. Hawaii. The effluent plume is roughly a mile long and a mile wide (0.93 mi, or 1.5 km) and flows beneath the urban
strip seaward of the main highway. Colors represent effluent concentration, from 100 percent effluent at the plume core to 5
percent effluent at the outer plume margin. The area inland of the highway is mostly dryland forest, with a few farms and rural
homesteads along an upper road at 3,000 feet elevation.
LOCATION
(see figure 201 EFFLUENT-TRACER CONCENTRATION. IN PERCENT EFFLUENT
■'i not 90-100shown
80-90
[ ] 60-80MODELED AREA
40-60
20-40
0-20
STUDY AREA
Figure E3. Cutaway block diagram showing the modeled injection plume, Kihei, Hawaii. View is to the northwest.
The injection plume is visualized as effluent-tracer concentration, and the core of the plume is revealed by
omitting concentrations greater than 90 percent. The small cubes are fluid-source nodes in the model that
correspond to the open interval of the injection well. Injected effluent rises buoyantly, spreads out near the top
of the aquifer, and flows to the coast; it also mixes with surrounding ground water, resulting in the gradation in
effluent concentration shown.
The list of pathogen microbial species commonly found in non-disinfected wastewater is long and terrifying,
shown in the U.S. NIH list below. COVID-19 is also found in non-disInfected wastewater^.
The major pathogens of concern in municipal wastewater and diseases or illness associated with them^
Name of pathogen
Bacteria
Campylobacter jejuni
Escherichia coli
Salmonella spp.
Shigella spp.
Vibrio cholerae
Yersinia spp.
Major disease or symptoms
Gastroenteritis
Gastroenteritis
Salmonellosis, typhoid, paratyphoid
Bacillary dysentery
Cholera
Gastroenteritis
Viruses
Adenovirus
Astrovirus
Coxsackie virus
Echovirus
Hepatitis A virus
Hepatitis E virus
Human calicivirus
Polio virus
Reovirus
Rotavirus
TT hepatitis
Upper respiratory infection and gastroenteritis
Gastroenteritis
Meningitis, pneumonia, fever
Meningitis, paralysis, encephalitis, fever
Infectious hepatitis
Infectious hepatitis, miscarriage, and death
Epidemic gastroenteritis with severe diarrhea
Poliomyelitis
Respiratory infections, gastroenteritis
Acute gastroenteritis with severe diarrhea
Hepatitis
Protozoa
Balantidium coli
Cryptosporidium spp.
Entamoeba histolytica
Giardia duodenalis
Toxoplasma gondii
Balantidiasis
Cryptosporidiosis
Acute amoebic dysentery
Giardiasis
Toxoplasmosis
Helminths
Ascaris lumbricoides
Ascaris suum
Hymenolepis nana
Necator americanus
Taenia saginata
Taenia solium
Toxocara canis
Trichuris trichiura
Ascariosis
Coughing and chest pain
Hymenolepiasis
Hookworm disease
Insomnia, anorexia
Insomnia, anorexia
Fever, abdominal pain, muscle ache
Diarrhea, anemia, weight loss
^ SewaRe poses potential COVID-19 transmission risk, experts warn
® PathoRen and Particle Associations in Wastewater - Significance and Implications for Treatment and Disinfection Processes
You may have noticed tumors on the faces and bodies of sea turtles in Maui. Kihei, Maui, has been called a
"ground zero"forfibropapillomatosis, the disease that is caused by a herpes virus and manifests as tumors in
turtles'^. The virus is injected into the environment, and the ingestion by green sea turtles of invasive ocean
algae, fed by excess nitrogen found in high concentrations in injected wastewater in Kihei^ causes the
unchecked growth of the tumors, a leading cause of death of the endangered species.
Lys (.47K)
Glx (-S3«)
Leu I-37W)
Me (-44%)
Asx (-18%)
Tyr (-44%)
(Viet (-S3%)
Val(-3i%)
Thr (-24%)
Phe (-22%)
His (-35%)
B PVALUE
I< 10*
<10‘
< 10‘
< 10'
● <t0’c
c
c baseline
^ ■ tumor
lAia6  7 8 10 11
c
c
]Ser(«l6%)
Arg (‘ifSli)
Ala (♦STH) □
Pro (*144%)
Gly(«260%)
Arg (% total protein)
-5 0 5 10
A AA (% total protein)
Figure 1: (A) Juvenile green turtle (Chelonia mydas) severely afflicted with
fibropapillomatosis, a tumor-forming disease associated with a-herpesviruses. Photo:
August 2012 Makena, Maui (credit: Chris Stankis, Flickr/Bluewavechris). (B) Amino acid
profiles from turtle tissues show fibropapilloma tumors are notably enriched in glycine,
proline and arginine, and depleted in lysine. Glycine is a known tumor biomarker; proline
aids herpesvirus infections; and arginine and lysine promote and inhibit herpesviruses,
respectively. Bars represent the average difference between tumor and baseline tissue
for 12 individual turtles, percent changes from baseline percent total protein listed in
parentheses, error bars are SEM. Bar color indicates P values from two-tailed paired
f-tests. (C) Underlying histograms for arginine content in baseline and tumor tissue
samples, bars are raw values, curves are smoothed trend.
^ Eutrophication and the dietary promotion of sea turtle tumors
Linking the expiration of a legislated moratorium on new visitor and luxury housing units, to the
implementation of solutions to wastewater goals, such as disinfection and 100% reuse for municipal
wastewater, is a clever way to domesticate the "wild stallion" of capitalism and profits, to pull the "cart" of
quality of life, to realize expensive but absolutely essential outcomes, to preserve the collective sense of place
that drives the very demand at the root of pressure to develop.
My journey on the path to realize improvements in wastewater management goes back to the year 1984,
when 8-year-old Travis became so sick from non-disinfected wastewater that he felt like his fingers would fall
off due to skin infections. What started as eczema evolved into severe impetigo. After some investigation, we
learned through a dye test that my uncle's septic tank was flowing directly into the stream I played in. Then
we found that the mobile home park upstream on the Mississenewa River was discharging their primary
treated wastewater directly into the river that the stream flowed into at the corner of our lot. I was so sick
that we had to sell the house that my parents had built by themselves with their own two hands, and our
entire family of 6 had to move to a new home. That essential trauma of total and complete, 100% loss of
place, drives me to this day. There is no better community than Maui. I want to do everything in my power to
protect you from the trauma I suffer, the trauma of loss of place, because once you lose it, it is difficult or
impossible to get it back within a single lifetime. The limit to one's sense of loss of place can go all the way to
100%, and dramatic action is needed to arrest and reverse the process in Maui. New visitor accommodation
and housing real estate development should resume only when 100% municipal wastewater reuse is achieved
in a given zip code, and then only when new reuse projects are developed proportionally to any new system
flow. The only exception to this moratorium should be truly affordable housing earmarked for existing
resident workforce populations. By linking limits on development to wastewater management goals, you will
unleash the momentum of the real estate development market to push forward the solutions to two difficult
community problems -- affordable housing and injection wells - with the full force of the industry.
in closing, I will refer to the below partial list of downstream species found in nearshore waters in Ma'alaea
Bay, where non-disinfected wastewater flows 24/7. Each year, tens of thousands of whales travel
thousands of miles from their summer feeding grounds to winter breeding grounds. Hawaii, and most
abundantly the shallow waters between Molokai, Lanai, Kahoolawe and Maui, is the largest breeding
ground for North Pacific whales, most of whom are coming from the northwest coast of North America^.
The system we have in place is a global jet travel industry transporting disease-forming pathogens from
around the world inside visitors, into the toilets of Kihei, then the County of Maui DEM collecting
and injecting it without disinfection into the world's most important humpback whale calving waters. With
disinfection and 100% reuse, we can heal our waters and return to a sane world in which further visitor and
luxury housing accommodations make sense. We do not presently live in such a world and it will take a
concerted human effort across all levels of Maui society to prevent a total loss of sense of place, by
residents and visitors alike.
Mahalo for your attention!
Sincerely,
Travis Liggett
President, Reef Power LLC
www.reefpowermaui.com
Humpback Migration to Hawaiian Breeding Grounds
Humpback Whale
"kuapio kohola"
Megaptera novaeangliae
Blacktip Reef Shark
"mano pa'ele"
Carcharhinus melonopterus
Whitetip Reef Shark
"mano lalakea"
Trioenodon obesus
Hawksbill Sea Turtle
"honu'ea"
Eretmochelys imbricota
Green Sea Turtle
"honu"
Chelonia mydos
Night Octopus
"he'e”
Callistoctopus ornotus
Day Octopus
"he'e-makoko"
Octopus cyanea
Broad Stingray
"lupe"
Dasyatis lata
Manta Ray
"hahalua"
Mobulo alfredi
Hawaiian Monk Sea!
Ilio-holo-i-ka-uaua
Neomonachus schauinsfandi
M II
■22*
r -i L57
Turkey Moray
puhi ‘oni’o
Gymnothorax meleagris
If I
Yellow-edged Moray
puhi paka"
Gymnothorax flovimarginatus
II \
1
r y\
Rice Coral
ko’a
Montipora copitota
II II
Hawaiian Blackfoot Limpet
opihi
Cellana exorata
IK I
Blue-Black Urchin
wana
Echinothrix diodemo
I II
Yellow Tang
lau'ipala
Zebrasoma flavescens
II I
Bullethead Parrotfish
uhu
Chlorurus sordidus
IIM
' Kook SteIC.
Reef Trigger Fish
humuhumunukunukuapua'a
Rhinecanthus rectangulus
II rr
Arc-eye Hawkfish
piliko'a
Parocirrhites arcatus
M II
Hawaiian Damselfish
alo’ilo’i
Dascyllus albisella
114 II
A
●> , _
Kookr Stendet
Moorish Idol
"kihikihi”
Zanclus cornutus
Raccoon Butterflyfish
"klkakapu"
Chaetodon lunula
Ornate Butterflyfish
"klkakapu"
Chaetodon ornatissimus
Fourspot Butterflyfish
"lauhau"
Chaetodon quadrimaculotus
(
Millet Butterflyfish t
"lau wihwili"
Chaetodon milioris
Threadfin Butterflyfish
"kikakapu"
Chaetodon auriga
Yellow Longnose Butterflyfish
'lau-wiliwili-nukunuku'oi'oi
Forcipiger flavissimus
0-
Hawaiian Whitespotted Toby
Canthigaster jactator
HLIt
9Achilles Tang
"paku'iku'i"
Acanthurus ochilles
® Keoki Stender
Saddle Wrasse
hinalea lau-wili
Thalassoma duperrey
II II
Tarry Hogfish
a‘awa
Bod ion us bilunulotus
II < II
Orange Band Surgeonfish
na'ena'e"
Aconthurus olivaceus
II
Bluespine Unicornfish
kala
Naso unicornis
IIII
Pacific Orangespine Unicornfish
umaumalei"
Naso liturotus
II
www.marinciifcphotography.com
Black Triggerfish
humuhumu ele ele
Melichthys niger
© KeokI Stencfer
Hawaiian Squirreifish
ala'ihi"
Sargocentron xontherythrum
Mi
Bluefin Trevally
omilu
Caranx melampygus
ti ( M -c
Hawaiian Lionfish
honu pinao
Pterois sphex
fi II
Convict Tang
"manini"
Aconthurus triostegus
Whitesaddle Goatfish
kumu
Parupeneus porphyreus
M tl
Striped Mullet
ama‘ama
Mugil cephafus
lU n
Hawaiian Cleaner Wrasse
Labroides phthirophogus
Manybar Goatfish
moano
Parupeneus multifascatus
M n
Spinner Dolphin
"nai'a
Stenefla longirostris
I
Bigeye Tuna
ahiIII
Thunnus obesus
Hawaiian Flagtail
"aholehole"
Kuhlia sandvicensis
Milkfish
awa
Chonoschanos
Striped Threadfin
moi
Polydactylus plebeius
Bonefish
" ‘0‘io"
Albula vulpes
Regal Parrotfish
'lauia
Scarus dubius
ri
Ember Parrotfish (male)
"uhu ‘ele'ele"
Scarus rubroviolaceus
Ember Parrotfish (female)
"uhu palukaluka"
Scarus rubroviolaceus
Spectacled Parrotfish (male)
"uhu uliuli"
Chlorurus perspicillatus
Spectacled parrotfish (female)
"uhu ‘ahu‘ula"
Chlorurus perspicillatus
Goldsaddle Goatfish
"moano kea"
Parupeneus cyclostomus
Twosaddle Goatfish
"munu"
Parupeneus insularis
Yellowfin Goatfish
"weke nono"
Mulloidichthys vonicolensis
Sleek Unicornfish
opelu kala"
Noso hexacanthus
IM
Blue-green Snapper
”uku"
Aprion virescens
Yellowstripe Goatfish
"weke"
Mulloidichthys flovolineotus
Antler seaweed (edible)
"limu wawae'iole"
Codium edule
red marine macroalgae (edible)
"limu manauea"
Gracilaria coronopifolia
filamentous marine macroalgae (edible)
"limu ele'ele"
Enteromorpha proUfero
Red Sea Plume (edible)
"limu kohu"
Asporagopsis taxiformis
red marine macroalgae (edible)
"limu huluhuluwaena"
Grotefoupia fHicina
Sea Lettuce (edible)
"limu palahalaha"
Ulvafascioto
Prickly Sargassum (edible)
"limu kala"
Sargassum echinocarpum
marine macroalgae (edible)
"limu lipoa
Dictyopteris plagiogramma
It
Mushroom Coral
"Ako ako a kohe
Lobactis scutaria
It
Lace Coral
Pocilfopora domicornis
f
. I
Cauliflower Coral
Pocillopora meandrino
mmm .
Blue Soft Coral
Hawaiian blue octocoral
Sorcothelia edmondsoni
II II
y.
Lobe Coral
pohaku puna
Porites lobota
M M
stony Coral
"ako'ako'a"
Porites evermanni
Finger Coral
"pohaku puna"
Porites compressa
Knobby Finger Coral
Porites duerdeni
Brigham's Coral
Porites brighami
Solid Coral
Porites solida
Plate & Knob Coral
Porites monticuloso
Plate & Pillar Coral
Porites rus
SJriKicr
Lichen Cora!
Porites lichen
svw'.*.’ irinclifopfloJegraphy.com
Hawaiian Porties
Porites howaiiensis
-Keoiti
ludognoju
Click below to learn more
about Reef Power LLC.
REEF Email Reef Power LLC
REEF
UER P#LJER
RECEIVED
Z|l JUL -I PH 3: 19
^5^ice of theCOUNTY CLERK
imeshare with
July 2, 2021
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins- Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members for the Maui County Council
TO:
AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)FR:
Opposition to CC 21-298 (Relating to a proposed amendment to Bill 60 (2021) relating to
a moratorium on building permits for visitor accommodations)
RE:
(Sent via e-mail to county.clerk(@mauicounty.us)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council,
I am writing in STRONG OPPOSITION to CC 21-298 proposing an amendment to Bill 60
(2021) relating to a moratorium on building permits for visitor accommodations in south and
west Maui.
Specifically, the amendment incorporates a new subsection to Maui County Code Section 4000.5
which creates an exemption to the moratorium if the development of new visitor
accommodations includes housing units to be built that are: 1) affordable to very low income or
low income residents; 2) made available for occupancy prior to or concurrent with the new
visitor accommodations; and 3) located in the same community plan area. Under this amendment
the Maui County is attempting to leverage the hotel industry to build affordable housing in
exchange for the ability to develop their own transient units during the moratorium.
ARDA-Hawaii supports that the intent of this amendment is to incentivize the development of
affordable housing for Maui residents. However, ARDA Hawaii opposes the amendment in CC
21-298 as it is unduly burdensome and will NOT result in any additional affordable housing
units. The cost of constructing an equal amount of affordable housing units is excessive and
unreasonable, making construction of new visitor accommodations impossible. Hotel owners
would be required to absorb the costs of obtaining new land and construction of the affordable
units. This form of exaction is unfair, unjustified, and disproportional to impose on hotel owners
looking to add additional units to maintain their competitiveness.
Moreover, NO new affordable housing units will be built due to the costs and timeframe
associated with utilizing the amendment. It would be illogical for hotel owners to absorb the
additional costs of constructing affordable units. The construction of the new visitor
accommodations will not pencil out; therefore, no new affordable units will be created. The
1
proposed amendment would also require the affordable units be "made available for occupancy
prior to or concurrent with the new visitor accommodations" during the 2-year moratorium. The
reality of obtaining land, installing necessary infrastructure, obtaining necessary entitlements,
and actually constructing the affordable housing project will be substantially longer than the 2-
year window. The amendment would essentially be ineffective because hotel owners would not
be able to construct the necessary affordable units that would enable them to build their
additional accommodations under the exemption. Due to the above consideration, CC 21-298
will NOT result in additional affordable units as intended.
Furthermore, ARDA Hawaii is concerned with the manner in which Bill 60 and CC 21-298 are
being pushed through the Council. CC 21-298 amends Bill 60 which will be heard on second and
final reading later in the same agenda. Accordingly, the proposed amendment will immediately
become law in the same hearing that it is introduced. Typically, there would be another hearing
after an amendment is made to provide additional opportunity for the public to weigh in. This
process appears rushed and lacks transparency without adequate time to analyze the impacts of
the amendment prior to becoming binding law.
I respectfully ask that you defer CC 21-298. Thank you for your consideration of my comments.
Respectfully submitted,
Ryan Nobriga
Maui Task Force Chair
ARDA Hawaii
2
RECEIVED
Count^CleHc
m\ JUL-2 AHiaiTTKelly King
Friday, July 2, 2021 9:35 AM
County Clerk
FW: Pass the Visitor Accommodations Moratorium.
From:
Sent:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
Testimony for Biil-60
With Aloha,
Sarah Sexton
On behalf of Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
Office of Councilmember Kelly T. King
South Maui Residency
Office: 808.270.7108
200 South High Street, 8th Floor
Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicounty.us/
On 7/2/21,12:27 AM, "Jessica Pearl" <jessicapearl(a)icloud.com> wrote:
Aloha County Council Members,
Thank you for taking the time to read these emails. I have participated in several of the meetings and I believe that
everyone tomorrow will speak for me.
I am a business owner and depend on tourism. However, I believe that we need to have limit setting for the amount
of tourism on island and that this moratorium will help set those limits.
Thank you,
Jessica
1
RECEIVED
2021 JUL -1 Aff & 05
ffice of theOUNTY CLERKI
July 1, 2021
Council of the County of Maui
RE: MORATORIUM ON BUILDING PERMITS FOR VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS (Bill 60}
Hearing date and time: Friday, July 2, 2021 at 9:00 a.m.
Aloha Chair and Council Members,
I am Co-Founder of the Hawaii chapter of 350.org, the largest international organization dedicated to
fighting climate change. 350Hawaii.org strongly supports the proposed moratorium on building
permits for visitor accommodations. This proposed bill would amend the building code to place a
moratorium on visitor accommodations development in West and South Maui, an action which would
help ensure the County stays on track to implement critical plan action items relating to the visitor-
industry impact on the County's environment. By doing so, this bill would help preserve the County's
environment and efforts towards climate change mitigation and resilience-building.
Earlier this year the State Legislature followed Maui County's lead and officially declared a Climate
Emergency for Hawaii. But it is not enough to acknowledge the crisis we face, meaningful actions to
address the climate crisis must be taken. This moratorium would do just that by providing the County
with clear policy direction to mitigate climate change and work toward resilience.
Mahalo for the opportunity to testify in support of the proposed moratorium on building permits for
visitor accommodations.
Sherry Pollack, Co-Founder, 350Hawaii.org
Count^CleH<
Vivien Lee <leereppun@gmail.com>
Thursday, July 1, 2021 10:58 AM
County Clerk
Bill 60
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
This bill is an important step in dealing with Climate Change, the issue that affects and is affecting everyone's life right
now. Thank you, Charles Reppun
ooO-n
C35
"im
73
m
oI
m-<
oo <TJ
mm -H
OTcm
1
Count^Clerk
Kelly King
Friday, July 2, 2021 10:08 AM
County Clerk
FW: Written testimony re: visitor accommodation moratorium bill
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Testimony for Bill-60
oo 73With Aloha,
Sarah Sexton
On behalf of Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
O-n
ZO
moI
"i fn mK>-<o <o-n
mr
a
00
office of Councilmember Kelly T. King
South Maui Residency
Office: 808.270.7108
200 South High Street, Floor
Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicountv.us/
From: Katie Romanchuk <ohialani@gmail.com>
Reply-To: "ohialani@gmail.com" <ohialani@gmail.com>
Date: Thursday, July 1, 2021 at 10:22 AM
To: Kelly King <Kelly.King@mauicounty.us>, "MauiTomorrow@aol.com " <MauiTomorrow@aol.com>,
"lnfo@Maui-Tomorrow.org" <lnfo@Maui-Tomorrow.org>
Subject: Written testimony re: visitor accommodation moratorium bill
Kelly and Maui Tomorrow, please help me get this to the right place, thank you.
Written Testimony from Katie Romanchuk
Dear Honorable Maui Council Members and Mayor Victorino
Having lived in Maui for almost 38 years, 1 have seen drastic changes to our island and the 'aina and marine health as we
allow more and more tourists to visit. I felt we reached a tipping point decades ago myself regarding new hotels and
over-development in general, but hopefully it isn't too late to save what is left of our precious island. Maui is a small
isolated island and resources are limited. We would be irresponsible to those who reside here to expanded our tourism
industry beyond what it is, as our roads are clearly already overcrowded, fresh clean water is getting more scarce, we
begin water restrictions tomorrow upcountry and Summer is just beginning, for example. Beaches are choke full, parking
is difficult, our environment is compromised as more and more natural habitat is covered over with cement and
pavement that lasts forever.
1
When I drove to Kihei and Wailea recently I was mortified and shocked at the obscene number of concrete buildings
with hundreds maybe thousands of new apartments or hotel rooms that are going up in our most beautiful ocean front
areas. How much can this Island take?! How much is enough? Is the dollar more important than people being able to
drive to work In a timely matter, and kids to get to school, and have recreational areas in which to play and relax and
enjoy beauty, or to have clean water to drink and water our farmlands for food to eat? Can this little island sustain the
number of people visiting and living here when there is a crisis - a hurricane, fires, or an earthquake? Do we have a
responsibility to take care of our residents? I think Yes.
Is this what we want for Maui? NO.
Please support Kelly King's visitor accommodation moratorium bill.
Thankfully yours, Katharine Romanchuk, Haiku citizen.
2
Count^CIerk £n-4^
im JUL -1 RH 9: 28Ryan Sakuda <tyan@gcahawaii.org>
Thursday, July 1,2021 9;17AM
County Clerk
Testimony on Bill 60 for Maui County Council THE
Testimony on Maui Council Visitor Accomodati0^f^f^tpr|Or^Ccil?RK
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha,
I'd like to provide written testimony on Bill 60 for the Council meeting tomorrow at 9 AM. I will not be providing oral
testimony.
Mahalo,
Ryan Sakuda
Director of Government Relations
(808)286-9338
of Hawaii'o/ OtM RM U\W V!»!
'  Qualil> Topple. l'ro}ccl».
1
1065 Ahua Street
Honolulu, HI 96819
Phone: 808-833H68I
Email: infofa'-ecohawaii. or^
Website: ^cahawaii. or£
FAX of Hawaii: 839-4167
(iHNI-KAI.CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION Ol- HAWAII
Qualit)’ People. Quality Projects.
Testimony on Legislation for Visitor Accommodation Moratoriums
July 1. 2021
The General Contractors Association of Hawaii (GCA) is an organization comprised of approximately five
hundred (500) general contractors, subcontractors, and construction related firms. The GCA was
established in 1932 and is the largest construction association in the State of Hawaii. Our mission is to
elevate Hawaii's construction industry and strengthen the foundation of our community.
At time of this writing, the GCA is aware of the two Moratoriums currently being discussed by the Maui
County Council which propose an immediate halt on new developments servicing the visitor industry. It
is our understanding that new developments which do not have an active and issued building permit
would be immediately ceased if this moratorium passes. GCA understands the good intent of this
moratorium, and in some instances, agree with the goals of the Moratorium proposals.
However, we believe the proposed sequencing of these moratoriums will negatively impact our
economy further. If we are to diversify our economy to reduce the visitor population, then that plan
should be made, invested in and rolled out prior to impacting visitor and building Industries - the two
only economic drivers in our community.
We all support sustainable tourism, but we do not believe that a shutdown on the construction of new
visitor accommodations in appropriately zoned and planned hotel and resort areas is the answer. The
bills will shut down opportunities for investment in our economy at a time when we are trying to
recover from the effects of the global pandemic. It is important to remember the industry is recovering
and had huge losses so now is not the time to do this. According to leading state economic Paul
Brewbaker the opportunity cost of shutting down lodging construction for two years would be
about $200 million per year. These bills will have the wrong effect at precisely the wrong time. In
creating legislation, in particular a moratorium, both the positive and negative impacts must be
weighed. We urge you to defer these measures to seriously consider the unintended consequences and
devastating economic impact that measures like these will have on Maui's people and fragile economy.
ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION^/^OMPANYTHE
received
ZOII JUN 28 AH 7: i|8
/
June 22, 2021 OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Maui County Council Members
Re: Opposition to CR21-39
Aloha Council Members:
As a resident and business owner on Maui, I wholeheartedly embrace malama ‘aina, and I concur with
the Chamber of Commerce’s letter to the Board. We are all responsible for perpetuating our State’s
motto - Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Aina i ka Pono. This includes providing a stable and prosperous environment
for Maui residents - our ohana.
The moratoriums being considered will do more harm than good, and I am steadfast in my opposition
against them.
Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez suggested the issue at hand is similar to someone wounded and bleeding out.
While that overly dramatic analogy is far from accurate, without the local jobs, income, and stability that
tourism, hospitality and construction provides (not to mention the county jobs associated with each of
those industries), there would be no life-blood in our body to begin with! The wound she alludes to
cannot be healed by stopping the heart from beating. It can only be attended to by capable and
responsible physicians - in this case, the Maui County Council. It is their responsibility to create and
approve appropriate community plans. Asking our residents to suffer while they do so is detrimental to
the overall health of our community.
Current plans should be honored and kept in place until new ones are voted on and implemented.
Halting progress so the Council can consider the way ahead would simply highlight its inability to fulfill is
roles and responsibilities - all at the expense of Maui residents and businesses. Asking for this ‘time out’
only adds insult to injury and demonstrates a complete disregard for the economic duress of the people
you are meant to serve.
According to DBEDT (https://dbedt.hawaii.Qov/economic/aser/construction/) Hawaii lost 1300 construction
jobs last year, and in the first quarter of this year Maui building authorizations are down nearly 30 percent
compared to last year! How much more does the council need? What you are proposing is kicking us
while we’re already down.
The proposed moratoriums will have devastating and negative consequences on our ohana. A temporary
‘solution’ is not the answer. I encourage the council to vote NO on this proposal, and instead to use your
time in developing the long-term solutions which can be found in an updated community plan.
Respectfully
Fri ^heck
President
©808-877-7344
ta 808-877-7311
L) info@elccoelectric.com
Q www.eiccoelectric.com
40 Hobron Ave. Unit #D
O Box 1583 Kahului. Hi 96732 ELCCOInc. Lie 30676
RECEIVEDCount^^lerk
2021 JUL -1 AK 8: 05pomai stone <pomaistone@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 30, 2021 11:59 PM
County Clerk
support of bill 60
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
Aloha mai kaua,
1 am writing to you as a Native Hawaiian and Hawaii resident who supports bill 60. This is an important initiative which
would pause visitor accommodation expansion and development in South and West Maui while communities
reevaluate what they would like their relationship to tourism to be.
This moratorium would help ensure the County stays on track to implement critical plan action items relating to the
visitor-industry impact on the County's environment. By doing so, this bill would help preserve the County's
environment and efforts towards climate change mitigation and resilience-building.
Mahalo nui for passing this message along and for standing for what is right for our people and aina.
na-u me ke aloha
na Johanna Kapomaika'i Stone
.:me he lau no ke Ko'olau ke aloha:.
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Dean Stelow <dstelow@nordev.net>
Sunday, June 27, 2021 1:27 PM
County Clerk
Proposed 2 year hotel building ... moratorium
RECEIVED
To:
m\ JUN 28 AH 7: 48Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
Aloha, my name is Dean Stelow and I am a resident of Kihei. 1 am asking you to please h^l|)(pC^^'tfTe'll5rQiofeSKyear
hotel building and transient housing moratorium. Tourism visitor levels are out of control.
- thanks, Dean
Dean Stelow | 920-217-5754
1
Count^^leH< , .fibCLiVC'D
JUL -1 AH 8: 05
Allen Tom - NOAA Federal <allen.tom@noaa.gov>
Wednesday, June 30, 2021 5:25 PM
County Clerk; Kelly King
Testimony in support of No. 21-308 - Establishing  asister-city rel^[0p5|^^ig^a-^
Cristobal Island, Galapagos COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
To;
Subject:
On behalf of the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National
Marine Sanctuary (the Sanctuary), I would like to provide testimony
in support of the Resolution establishing a sister-city relationship
with San Cristobal, located entirely within the Galapagos National
Park.
The Sanctuary is part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA) and NOAA has a larger overarching
partnership with the Galapagos National Park. Over the past 25
years, the Sanctuary has exchanged scientists, educators and staff
with the Galapagos National Park. In early 2000, we hosted at our
Kihei office, the superintendent of the Galapagos National
Park. The Park superintendent met with staff, volunteers and went
out on our Sanctuary boat. He was also provided the opportunity to
meet with the Kaho'olawe Island Reserve Commission staff. The
superintendent remarked on how much the islands of Kaho'olawe
and Maui were similar biologically and cultural to the
Galapagos. He mentioned the similarities of our native flora and
fauna being under the threat of extinction, but also how tourism can
play a role in shaping our island's economy.
The Sanctuary would be a willing partner in any sister-city
relationship. We can offer meeting and office space, as well as
access to our research staff and research boat if warranted. I could
easily see the Sanctuary assisting with a sharing of staff, students
and other members of the public, that in the end will help increase
awareness of the unique island communities that exist both on
Maui and on the Galapagos islands.
This resolution, if passed, will go a long way towards showing the
world how serious the County of Maui is about a partnership with a
World Heritage site, the Galapagos islands (San Cristobal).
Sincerely:
Allen Tom
Superintendent
Office of National Marine Sanctuaries
726 South Kihei Road
Kihei (Maui), Hawaii 96753
808-879-2818 ext 225
2
received
2021 JUL -2 AH 8= 0*t
office of the
COUNTY CLERK
Fundacidn
Charles Darwinfoundation
GALAPAGOS
Puerto Ayora, 2 July, 2021
Attention: Members of the Council of the County of Maui
Maui, Hawaii
Email: kel!y.king@mauicounty.us; county.cierk@mauicounty.us
Dear Members of the County of Maiu,
We are honored to send the following letter of support for the resolution to establish a sister-city
relationship between San Cristobal Island, Galapagos, Republic of Ecuador, and the County of Maui,
Hawaii, United States of America. Both the Galapagos and Hawaii islands have many unique common
characteristics that would make this relationship special. We are sure that this alliance would provide
a space for future collaboration that can increase the awareness of our unique islands communities,
and generate opportunities for science, education and knowledge exchange.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express our interest in supporting a possible alliance
between the County of Maui {or perhaps a sister County such as Oahu or Hawaii) and Santa Cruz Island
in Galapagos. The Charles Darwin Research Station, run by the Charles Darwin Foundation is located
on Santa Cruz Island, and we believe that a partnership with Santa Cruz can also provide a strong space
for collaboration.
Sincerely yours,
2J.
Rakan Zahawi, PhD
Executive Director
Charles Darwin Foundation for the Galapagos Islands
Johanna Carrion, Interinstitutional Affairs Coordinator, FCDCC:
Quito
Francisco Andrade Marin
E6-I22 y Av. Eloy Alfaro.
+ 593(2) 2 231 174
Galapagos
Av. Charles Darwin s/n,
Santa Cruz, Puerto Ayora.
+ 593(5)2 526146
Brussels
Chaussee de la Huipe
177 Bte20(rez)
1170 Brussels, Belgium.
www.darwinfoundation.org
cdrsviT.fcdarwin.org.ee
RECEIVED
Z62I JUL -2 AH ?■ i|5SAN .
CRISTOBAL
r^ERIDAD,
OARiOAO
jUIDAO« I ^ A k 0
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Puerto Baquerizo Moreno. 02 of July 2021
Oficio No. 217-GAOMSC-A-DTC-2021
Dear Mrs.
Kelly King
COUNCILMEMBER
City
Of my consideration:
We are honored to be considered as part of the proposed resolution entitled "Establishing a Sister — City
Relationship with San Cristobal island, Galapagos, Republic of Ecuador". We are also please to know that
our hard work and effort have paid off.
We are sure that with the creation of this resolution we can strengthen our bond between our
communities, since they are so unique. We would even dare to say that we can show to the world that
empower each other's communities towards a better and sustainable future through our oceanicwe can
identities.
What it is expected of this resolution is to have  aknowledge, scientific and technological exchange
between our communities in the matters of: farming, fisheries, waste water treatment and conservation
as well as a cultural exchange and first-hand experience of our traditions and daily life of our children
and youth through a well-structured academic system. Lastly, strengthen the promotion of our tourist
sights and help each other recover from the pandemic that it is well known, has affected us all. Since we
both have great cultures as well as a beautiful nature, unique wildlife and world class surf spots. We
hope to potentiate the surf tourism as well as looking forward to a sustainable development that can be
aligned with the UN Agenda 2021 to protect and maintain a healthy equilibrium that allows us to keep
our ecosystems through future generations.
I make the occasion propitious to express to my testimony of consideration and esteem.
Att,
HENRY
DAGFIN
C09OS
ZAVALA
Tchigst. Henry Cobos 2avala
MAYOR OF SAN CRISTOBAL CITY
(♦5S3) 52520t1S
2520798 ● 252049S ● 2520008
Mncn»tcbal®gadm»c.0ob.ec
Av. Charles Darvrm y 12 do Fcbrero
●J
it:0 «vww gadmsc gob *c
Qsancnstobalgad 9 SA.N CRISIOBAL
CUUrMIOt