MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Real Property Tax Rates Public Hearing | 2022-05-13
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=2643,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
PUBLIC HEARING HELD ON
APRIL 27, 2022
THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF HAWAII. CONVENED A PUBLIC
HEARING ON WEDNESDAY. APRIL 27. 2022, AT 6:02 P.M., VIA BLUEJEANS, WITH
CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING, FOR THE PURPOSE OF RECEIVING TESTIMONY ON
THE PROPOSED REAL PROPERTY TAX RATES FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR JULY 1, 2022, TO JUNE 30, 2023.
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council Public Hearing on the proposed FY 23 Real
Property Rates, please come to order. It is approximately 6:02 p.m., on April 27.
Mr. Clerk, are you there for the roll call, and the evening greeting is bonjour.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call.
Members participating from non-public locations should state who if anyone is present
with them as part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Bonjour, Chair and fellow Councilmembers. Aloha ahiahi.
And for the record. I'm broadcasting alone at the virtual tea house. Aloha everybody.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and bonjour, Madam Chair and colleagues and
everyone else tuning in. For the record. I'm transmitting from my residence here in
Makawao, and in the house tonight I have not only my wife, but I have my daughter
and son-in-law visiting us from the mainland. And pleasure to be here. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Welcome.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 2
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Was that bonjour?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Bonsoir. I am transmitting from my home, from my home office
and my husband and one guest are in the kitchen. So, if you hear, I'll try to keep muted
most of the time, you might hear them in the background, one of them has a very loud
voice.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Bonjour. Bonjour, Chair and Councilmembers. Good to
see everybody this evening. I'm home alone in my workspace and there are no
testifiers at the Lanai District Office and I'm happy to listen to our community and what
their opinions are today. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King, did you note if there were testifiers at district office.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I do have, Ellen did go to the district office and so far, we have
no one there.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you.
Mr. Chair.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha and bonjour... Broadcasting live and direct from Napili.
I am alone at home at the kitchen table. In about 20 to 30 minutes my husband and
my son and my daughter should be arriving, and so for now, it's just me and the pocket
pit. And I'm not at the West Maui District Office, they should be logged on and letting
us know if there are testifiers. They are going to stay the entire time because we did
staggered work schedule today.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Bonjour, everybody. I'm actually doing the meeting from
Upcountry, in Jacaranda country, it really is beautiful up here. And I look forward to
hearing from what the community may have to say about our proposed tax rates, tax
rates. Thank you. Chair.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 3
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Presiding Officer Pro-Tempore Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE; Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Aloha ‘auinaia/ahiahi, my Molokai Nui a Hina. I'm at
the Molokai District Office, alone on my side of the office and we have no testifiers at
the Molokai District Office.
And I understand Chair, you are going to clarify that it's .. . rates and not the proposed
rates from earlier this week, it’s the range. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; I'm sorry, I didn't hear what you said. I'm going to clarify, what did you say?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Tonight's public hearing, is on the range of rates-
CHAIR LEE; -yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; -and not on the proposed rates.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE; Bonjour, everyone. And I am here alone in my workspace, ready to conduct
the public hearing, and get the public's input on our proposed real property range of
rates. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABE JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, KELLY T.
KING, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT;
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER NATALIE A. KAMA.
(Councilmember Kama was not present when the roll was called; however, she arrived
at 7:12 p.m.)
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 4
CHAIR LEE: So, proceed Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight Members present, one Member excused.
A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu, and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Deputy
Corporation Counsel Kristina Toshikiyo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, the purpose of this public hearing is to receive testimony on the
proposed real property tax rates ranges for Fiscal Year July 1,2022, to June 30, 2023.
Before we proceed with testimony, may I please request that everyone keep their
microphones muted unless it is your time to speak. Decorum shall be maintained at all
times.
Mr. Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony. Members of the
public may testify in the Council Chamber, at courtesy testimony sites or remotely
through the information posted on the public hearing notice.
Individuals in the chamber may sign up to testify with the staff member located at the
desk in the 8th floor lobby. Individuals at courtesy testimony sites may sign up with
staff at the site. Individuals participating remotely may sign up in the meeting chat. If
you are connected to the meeting by phone, you will be automatically added to the
testifier list. Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted
when it is their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep
both their video and microphone off and should turn them on only when it is their time
to testify.
Testimony is limited to the Fiscal Year 2023 Real Property Tax range of rates.
Individuals may testify for three minutes. When testifying, please state your name and
the name of any organization you represent as well as the items on which you will be
testifying. Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans.
remainder of the public hearing can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media
The
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 5
Channel 53. Individuals may also be disconnected from the public hearing at any time
for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person we have signed up to testify is Michael Williams. To be followed
by Jen Mather.
CHAIR LEE: Bonjour, Mr. Williams.
PRESENTATION OF TESTIMONY
MR. MICHAEL WILLIAMS:
Bonjour, Chair. Aloha, Councilmembers. First thing I want to do is praise this Council
for its last three years of work on these property tax policies. I think that you have
collectively created the most progressive and flexible set of property tax policies in the
country. Second thing I want to do is praise this Council for how well you've used those
new reforms this year to increase the taxes mostly on visitor accommodation properties
and reduce taxes and lower the rates on homeowners.
But at the same time, I'm very disappointed, as 1 think all our housing advocates are
for the lack of an increase in additional tax rates to fund the affordable housing plan.
And I realize that's not the Council's problem. The Council can't do it without an
Administration that has the capacity to handle affordable housing projects on County
owned lands, to handle the waiting lists of households who are interested in affordable
housing, who can handle an affordable housing, homelessness plan that would end
homelessness.
The point 1 want to make is that, if you had an Administration who was capable, and
willing and ready to implement these kinds of policies, you now understand how you
have the capacity to fund them with the changes you've made in the property tax laws.
I've submitted written testimony about this, and  Iwon't repeat it, but Maui County is
apparently the wealthiest county in the country in terms of real property tax wealth, real
property wealth per capita. And I've been checking this out almost on a daily basis
and I just checked Clark County, Nevada, for example, and you know Maui County has
more money available to it from wealthy property owners per capita of residents than
any other county in the country. And we should be using that to provide a basic
standard of living here that not only includes affordable housing, so no one pays more
than 30 percent of their income for rent or mortgage.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 6
But I believe you also can easily afford providing an umbrella safety net for medical
care and for childcare. You can't raise the minimum wage, you can't create a living
wage here, but you can greatly improve the standard of living of everyone who lives
here if you use this new property tax system you’ve created so you can tax the
incredible wealth pouring into this County based on people who want to visit Maui.
So, I'll stop there. I think we have a lot more work to do next year on this, depending
on what Administration we get.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Members do you have any questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Williams for your testimony this
afternoon. I was just curious, in your testimony, written testimony, you mentioned
about leaving some additional time for a Non Owner Occupied residents to possibly
move to Long-Term Rentals?
MR. WILLIAMS: Yes, I did. And I think, I don't think, I think that the Council or several
Councilmembers understand what needs to happen. You know, we think the Census
Bureau says there’s roughly 20,000 rental households in the County. We only had
2,400 of them signed up as long-term rental parcel owners. And the reluctance there
may be: 1) they didn't know about it; 2) it doesn't make a big difference so far in the
way you set the rates; and 3) there may be a lot of people that are not paying their
income taxes and GET0taxes on rental income. There's also a lot of people that may
not qualify for the 12-n^nth lease requirement you've written. So, I think you should
reexamine all of that and give, give genuine landlords a second chance to get under
the, under the long-term, the non owner occupied tax radar this year. That's, that's
how I think you should try to handle it.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Mr. Williams. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more clarifying questions? If not, thank you Mike.
MR. WILLIAMS: Thank you all. You're doing great.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Jen
Mather. To be followed by Lisa Paulson. Jen Mather, it is your time to testify.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 7
MS. JEN MATHER:
Wait, I'm going to do the obligatory, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can hear you.
Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Honorable
Councilmembers. My name is Jen Mather and I currently reside in Kahului, but my
heart lives in Lahaina.
MS. MATHER;
Mahalo for this opportunity to testify on the proposed range of tax rates and associated
tiers. I'm testifying in support of raising the tax rates on non owner occupied homes in
Maui County with reservations held for those homes rented long term to kamaaina
families and individuals. As we await the return of the Hawaiian Kingdom, we need to
ensure we steward our ‘aina and our kumu Waiwai. And in order to do that we need
to continue the progressive action you've all taken over the previous budgetary years
by disincentivizing the foreign influx of parasitic and predatory investment in our Maui
housing market.
Hawaii has the lowest property tax rate throughout the occupying forces territories,
that's America, which is a disconnect, because we have the highest median house
price, right? That means that the County of Maui is losing out on income that could be
earmarked like the gentleman said before for urgently needed infrastructure
improvements, affordable housing funds, managed retreat options.
My dad lives in Orange County, California where the median home price is verging on
a million dollars as well, like us, and their average tax rate is .690 percent and ours is
like .190 percent, or something like seriously low. We're leaving money on the table,
or at least I think we're leaving money on the table that we can make from people who
only see this place as a way to make their easy buck and not a home.
And I left Hawaii for 16 months because of the increasing cost of living and the broken
promises and dreams of ever owning a piece of, you know, of my one hanau. But 1
came back because no matter how broken this place can seem, when your face is like,
pressed up against the glass, the glass, you know, as close as mine got up, it's home
and you don't give up on home. . . . trying to make that needle move towards some
semblance of balance and perhaps even fairness. And I thought, oh why should I
leave and make a martyr out of myself and my family, right? This is my place. I'm . . .
connected to it and it's me.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 8
So, you know, for those people that are always here testifying that a tax increase on
their second or third multi-million-dollar investment homes, you know, that they don't
rent out long term to kamaainas, that they think that it's unfair and punitive, it's clearly
their turn to leave.
So, as always, I applaud your continued commitment to Maui and all of her people, not
just the realtors, the foreign investors . . . residents who you've had to hear over the
years. And I thank you for your hard work and your decisions, they're always
appreciated more that you'll ever know. So mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much, Jen. Thank
you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Lisa
Paulson. To be followed by Thomas Croly.
MS. LISA PAULSON. MAUI HOTEL & LODGING ASSOCIATION:
Aloha, Chair Lee, and Members of the Council. Thank you for gathering this evening
and hearing the public, and thank you for all of your hard work on the budget work.
I know how, how many long hours that is.
My name is Lisa Paulson, Executive Director of the Maui Hotel and Lodging
Association. We are the legislative arm of the visitor industry, and 1 am a paid lobbyist.
I'm here tonight to respectfully request that you consider the hotel RPT rate at $10.40
as it is proposed in the Mayor's proposed budget. The reasons are three-fold. One,
the industry is the number one private sector employer of Maui County and is a
generous supporter of our local economy and community charities. Our businesses,
our hotels donate on average about 80,000 a year to charitable organizations and give
625 hours of staff time donated to volunteering to the community.
The Maui Hotel & Lodging Association's Charity Walk raised $1.2 million last year, and
we are hoping to raise $1.4 this year that will benefit 100 of Maui County's non-profit
organizations. We grant over 35,000 each year in scholarships to public school seniors
and scholarships to UH Maui College students. During the pandemic and statewide
shutdown, our properties did support their employees by keeping their benefits intact,
providing food distributions and other additional support.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 9
The second reason is year after year, we see increases in our industry's real property
values resulting in more tax revenues being collected. This year’s assessed values for
Hotels, Time Shares, and Short-Term Rentals have increased by 2.1 billion and will
provide $229,497,215 in tax revenues for Maui County, an additional $20.1 million from
Fiscal Year 22, using the $10.40 tax rate.
Other counties have a fair and equitable share of taxes across all business
classifications without Maui's huge disparities. The Maui County's visitor industry
provides 54.9 percent of the real property versus Kauai at 40.4, City and County of
Honolulu at 14, and Hawaii at 3.3. We again are just asking for equitable taxes across
all classifications.
And then the third point is that we do now have the TAT, 3 percent being charged per
room night in addition to the State TAT, and State GET. It's projected to bring in
60 million to Maui County and the 60 million is an increase of 36.5 million from the
previous 23.5 million of TAT funding we use to receive. So, for these three reasons
we just ask you to support the Mayor's proposed Hotel-Resort real property tax rate for
Fiscal 23. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Paulson. We have a question from Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Good evening, Ms. Paulson, thanks for
coming out and testifying. Just a quick question in regards to your testimony. Has
raising taxes on the hotels ever affected the demand for, for the hotel rooms?
MS. PAULSON: No. No. But what we are asking for is a more equitable share of contribution
to the taxes.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. I understand that. So, then I'll ask another question.
Do, has, what people are calling the "big quit", where people aren't going to work
anymore, has that affected the hotel industry?
MS. PAULSON: Absolutely. We're having massive staffing shortages.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Right. Because just like our previous testifier, they can't
afford to live here, so they leave. So, with these taxes, would you agree that if we put
them towards affordable housing, we would kind of help solve your problem in that
regard?
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 10
MS. PAULSON: Well with the $20.1 million in, that you’re already getting an increased, yes,
absolutely. And I would absolutely encourage this Council to look at a nexus with the
TAT, the 3 percent TAT County taxes. We would love to see that invested in our
community. Absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yeah. I agree with you on that. Okay, thank you so much.
Thank you, Chair. I have no further questions.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Paulson for your testimony.
I just wanted to clarify, I had a clarifying question and then maybe a follow-up
depending on the answer to the first clarifying question. When you were talking about
the 620 employee volunteer hours, the first clarifying question was, is that, like the
employer pays the employee to do the volunteer? Or-
MS. PAULSON: No. That's, that's them doing beach clean-ups and things outside of the
workday.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. So. is it kind of just mandated or encouraged?
MS. PAULSON: It's encouraged. You know, like the tutoring they used to do before the
pandemic at Lahainaluna and things like that. It's just encouraged to participate in
community events.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And then, and then, they self-report to their employer for that
statistic that you gave us tonight?
MS. PAULSON: Yeah, I did a mini survey on just from the HR departments on what the
contribution is, you know, cash wise and then, you know, time wise. 1 mean the Charity
Walk, everybody that shows up there is volunteering their time. Nobody's paid. So.
that's just an example of, of an average of what everybody, you know, provides for the
community.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. Thank you for that clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 11
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good morning, ah, good
evening, Ms. Paulson.
If you could send us, you mentioned in your testimony about equitable taxation across
all classifications, if you could send us at some point what the hotel association
believes what an equitable, what equitable taxation classifications would, would look
like in, in your eyes. That would be appreciated.
MS. PAULSON: Absolutely. I will work on that with my board of directors and get that to you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Lisa. Thank you very much for going to the
Chambers to testify. I wanted to just clarify, I did hear you say on the Charity Walk,
you plan to raise, I think you increased it to $1.4 million, and you said it helps nonprofits.
Did you say a hundred nonprofits? And how do you get the nonprofits to sign up to
benefit?
MS. PAULSON: So everything's online right now. We just opened up our Charity Walk on
Maui Hotel and Lodging Association's website, and the nonprofits fill out a grant form.
It’s very easy, and then they come to a meeting in the first part of June to learn how to
raise funds and participate. And we do cap it at  ahundred now, because we like to
benefit with a greater amount of money to 100 Maui County nonprofits.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Nice. Thank you very much.
MS. PAULSON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Paulson.
MS. PAULSON: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Thomas
Croly, to be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with
these last four digits, 4339.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27. 2022
Page 12
MR. THOMAS CROLY:
Aloha, Chair. Bonjour. Tom Croly, testifying just on my own behalf. First. I'd like to
say to the Council that I am concerned about the unprecedented expansion of County
government and County government spending in this year's budget. This year's
increase in real property tax at the proposed rates comes to about $45 million. That's
the greatest dollar increase that Maui County has ever seen in its history. The
percentage increase of about 11 percent is the greatest in 15 years.
I know you did a lot of work on the budget, but that $45 million increase combined with
the $60 million that came from the new County transient accommodations tax is over
$100 million that I don't know, is that, is that kind of expansion necessary? And is that
kind of expansion sustainable in County spending?
But, tonight, we're talking about what the real property rates are and that is how you
pay for this, that expansion. I did send in testimony to each of you individually and I
hope that you had the opportunity to review it, because I won't be able to read
everything on here.
I  do want to point out for those who haven't looked at the totals, that visitor
accommodations, and in visitor accommodations I'm including hotels, I'm including
short-term rentals. I'm including timeshares, and I'm including second homeowners
that are in that Non Owner Occupied class. Because let's be clear, the, the counts that
you get of visitors include those folks, okay? They may not be paying any TAT, they
may not be paying to stay here, but they are using their houses and they are counted
as visitors for our counts.
In total, those folks represent 83 percent of the real property tax revenues, and that's
about 60,000 people on a daily basis. And then the 165,000 people that we have as
residents represent about less than 10 percent of the total real property tax. So that's
what I'm saying is kind of not sustainable here.  Isent you a spreadsheet that I hope
I'll have the opportunity to explain that shows exactly, you know, the huge disparity in
tax bill that you would have from an Owner-Occupied property. For example, an
Owner-Occupied property assessed at $500,000 would pay $600 in property tax.
A Time Share property of the same $500,000 assessment will pay $7,300 in real
property tax. And while some people want to say, gee, we have the lowest tax rates
in the world or in the country, what they're referring to, exclusively is the tax rates on
Owner-Occupied properties, because the average tax that's paid. Chair, do 1 have
another minute?
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 13
CHAIR LEE: Yes, you can conclude in a minute, please.
MR. CROLY; Okay. So, the average tax that's paid by Non Owner Occupied or by Short-
Term Rental, or these non-owner properties is in the range of $10,000 a year, and that
is way above the average in any other place, including Orange County, that I've just
looked up, which is $4,500 is the average tax there. But I'm not asking for anyone's
taxes to be raised or lowered in my testimony. I'm just saying you need to take a close
look at just how great the disparities are in the actual tax bills across these different
classifications.
And whether or not it's sustainable for us to continue to get so much of our revenue
from the visitors, when we have kind of said we don't want to expand the visitor
industry. How are you going to continue to pay for things if, you know, the, the
residents require more services and we have to pay for that some way, but all the
monies coming from one place, the visitors. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Croly for your testimony. I
just, you know, couple things I wanted to clarify, like when you're saying residents
require more services. I live in West Maui, and I think you live in South Maui, so we're
in the resort areas. And like for me, I see the people requiring more services and I
wouldn't classify them as residents or tourists,  Ithink everybody is requiring more
services, not just residents, it's tourist as well, in fact, I mean, both sides. So, I mean,
there's, it's everybody requiring more services, not just residents.
And then when you were talking about unprecedented increase in taxes, yes, that's
true. Just clarifying if you don't see as well unprecedented increase in housing cost,
unprecedented increase in, you know, homelessness. And similar to Mr. Williams, I'm
not saying that maybe this Administration has the capacity to take this money and solve
the problems. But just saying that, I mean, that's not the only unprecedented increase,
you see, right? You do see the unprecedented increase in cost of living, shelter needs,
like just housing needs, I guess not shelter, as in like homeless shelter. Just I mean
it's. I'm seeing a lot, just clarifying if you're seeing a lot of unprecedented needs, or as
well as the unprecedented increase.
MR. CROLY: Well, I would respond to that by saying I count on you Councilmembers to
determine what the needs are of the County. And if you've determined we need
$100 million more dollars in order to meet those needs, well then, that's your call, that's
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 14
yourkuleana. I'm just saying, I didn't follow every line of the budget, it's, it's concerning
to me to see it raise at this rapid pace that it is. If we look back just ten years ago, ten
years ago the real property tax total revenues was less than half of what they are today.
Our population hasn't doubled during that period of time. Inflation hasn't doubled prices
in that period of time. Granted there are more needs, but, but I do see kind of the
spending and the size of the County, particular of my concern are the number of
employees that we would hire, that, that, that number, keeping that in control is
important.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Mr. Croly. You answered my question. I mean
my house value has doubled in ten years, but that's a, I guess, another issue that we're
we're trying to address. But thank you. you've answered my question.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? I have a question, Mr. Croly.
MR. CROLY; Yes.
CHAIR LEE; I think you mentioned, I think you mentioned something about the owner-
occupants in the 500, up to $500,000 range pay about $600 a year.
MR. CROLY: Right. So, so, on a, on a $500,000 assessed Owner-Occupied house, okay,
based on the rates that are being proposed, the taxation would be $600 a year. And
let's keep in mind that that represents one-half of all of the Owner-Occupied properties.
So, while you see headlines that say median sales prices are up, sales prices don't
reflect assessed values, okay? So, the assessed values of properties, half of our
homeowners fall under 500,000, which means half of the, the homeowners in the
County of Maui are paying, would be paying based on the rates that you propose, $600
or less in property tax.
CHAIR LEE; I see. So, you are saying the disparity is in the cost, the $600 doesn't cover the
cost of infrastructure, and facilities, and, and other costs and services and programs
that the County provides. Is that what you're saying?
MR. CROLY; Well obviously, $600 doesn't, doesn't even begin to cover any of the costs. If
you, if you add all of that up, it wouldn't even pay to pick up the trash, okay? So, let's
be, let's be honest, the residents of Maui in the homeowner class are not paying for
the services that, that the County provides. Where are those services being paid for?
They are being paid for by the Non Owner Occupied properties, by the Short-Term
Rental properties, by the Time Share properties, and by the Hotels that are generating
83 percent of the total taxation.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 15
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, do you have any other questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, urn, thank you, Tom for testifying. So
basically, I always say when I hear people that come and testify say that we have the
lowest homeowner rate in the nation. And I always say that is because exactly what
you, is that correct, because of all the other taxes that we collect from Hotel and
everybody else?
MR. CROLY: Our homeowner rates are the lowest in the country without question, but when
you look at the other rates that we have, the rates that we charge to these other ones,
that's why the homeowner rates are so low. The, the report that you get from real
property tax every year points out that $105 million is, is, subsidizes the homeowner
rates, and that amounts to about $4,000 per property. So, you have to find that money
somewhere else, and 1 understand that, you find it from these, these other
classifications. And I'm not saying to lower them. I'm just saying that unless you're
committed to expanding those, if that's your goal, then you're on the right path and you
can continue this. But, but if the goal is that we don't want to expand those, those other
uses and taxpayers, you're on the, you're on the road to bankruptcy. That's, that's
where we're going.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That is the scary part, yeah. How you find that balance?
Thank you very much and I'll look for your testimony. Thank you.
MR. CROLY: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Croly.
MR. CROLY: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is the
person calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 4339. To
be followed by Pat Borge.
MR. STANLEY HEYMAN:
Thank you, everybody. My name is Stanley Heyman and I had an opportunity to
provide testimony a couple of years ago, I believe it was 2020, when there was the last
significant increase in proposed property tax rates, which did go into effect. I do
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 16
understand the need of the Council to raise additional revenues from some of the prior
speakers. All i would respectfully request is in determining the actual rates, that this
Council please consider the utilization on the lower range, as the proposed range is
quite large in terms of the impact. So, to the extent that rates will go up, all I can
request is that be more on the lower side this time around. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Okay, Mr. Are there any questions for the testifier?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. So, what, what classification are you
referencing?
MR. HEYMAN: I'm referencing the Non Owner Occupied resident.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions? If not, thank you very much. May we have the next
testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Pat
Borge. To be followed by Pamela Tumpap.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, did you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Shucks, yeah, I did if Mr. Heyman is still on the line.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Heyman, are you still there?
MR. HEYMAN; I am, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Heyman. Thank you, Chair. Sorry about the
delayed reaction.
MR. HEYMAN: I'm sorry, I can't hear you. The operator was saying I was on mute. Can you
repeat your question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, sure. Thank you, Mr. Heyman for your testimony relating
to the Non Owner Occupied tier. I just was clarifying because there was a recent
classification added that affects the Non Owner Occupied classification, just that if you
were aware that if you're renting a Non Owner Occupied dwelling for Long-Term
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 17
Rental, you can apply for a much lower category, for Long-Term Rentals in the Non
Owner Occupied. Just clarifying if you were aware of that?
MR. HEYMAN; am aware of that, but I do not rent my property. Never have.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. So, it just, it sits there vacant for the year?
MR. HEYMAN; No, it doesn’t sit vacant. When we are here, we are here. We are here on a
regular basis.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; So, you don't, have you applied forthe homeowner exemption?
MR. HEYMAN; No. I'm not a resident of the State of Hawaii to do so.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, okay. Alright, thank you for clarifying. I just didn't
understand. Thank you.
MR. HEYMAN; But, if I might add, the issue then becomes for folks like me that are here not
long enough to be residents of the State of Hawaii, but come here often enough,
obviously, add to the economy of Hawaii, want to see Maui prosper. The increased
rates that are being proposed, and I understand the needs, as I said earlier upfront,
what the Council's trying to achieve. But there comes at some point as the prior caller
had made clear, you can continue to raise and raise and raise until you dry out that
well. Because at some point, there will be a tipping point, where people will not want
to pay that type of excessive property tax rates.
And I do understand there may be certain Members of the Council, that, that may be
music to their ears. So the folks like me may not want to stay here anymore and that
would be very unfortunate. But my comments are. I'm prepared for a rate increase, I
would just hope that it would be more realistic and on the lower end of the proposed
range. That's all I'm asking. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Mr. Heyman for explaining that. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any more questions? If not, thank you. May we have the next
testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next testifier is Pat Borge. To be followed by Pamela
Tumpap.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 18
MR. PAT BQRGE;
Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Hi, Mr. Borge.
MR. BORGE: Good evening, Councilmembers. I want to thank you guys for working so hard
on this budget. And I must say this Council got a little bit more courage in raising these
taxes, you know. Cause in 1997, when I first came before the Council to ask them to,
when the B&B first started, there were two Councilmembers, I asked them in their
office, how are we going to control this B&B and Short-Term Rentals? And they told
me, taxes. WeTe going to raise their taxes. That's how we're going to control these
people. Never happened. This is what, 2022? But I not going to give out names, I
don't want to embarrass them, okay.
But as far as I'm concerned, if you look at the Mayor of Honolulu, he called the Short-
Term Rentals, mini hotels. If you go to Webster's dictionary, what's the meaning of
hotels? So, your Short-Term Rentals, or whatever you call them, B&Bs, they're all
Hotels. These people use our facilities. They use our roads. They use our parks.
They use our swimming pools. They use everything that the locals use. Okay. They
should be taxed at a higher rate, you know, for us to enjoy the island of Maui.
I mean, how many locals move off this island because they cannot afford? You know?
And you taking away all our facilities, you know, for all these tourists? Tourist are using
our County pools now. Choke with tourist. You know?
And also, I want to say that don't be afraid to raise the taxes. You know? Don't be
afraid to raise the taxes. Everybody's so afraid. The Mayor is lowering the taxes on
the residential because it's election year. That's the only reason, you know, but yet he
wants to keep the B&Bs and Short-Term Rentals all at the same level. That's not right.
You gotta take care the local people. The local people come first.
Because if you tax 'em, you wouldn't have that big monster building in Napili, huh?
Maybe that guy, if you guys when tax 'em high enough, maybe he wouldn't build such
a monster in Lahaina over there. You know? We had the richest guy live across my
stables. The second richest man in the world. There's no reason that we don't have
affordable housing over here. Come on people, you gotta tax them and that's, and
that's what it takes. And if we tax these people the right way we should, like the
gentleman right now said maybe he'll move, and he cannot afford to stay here. Well
maybe it'll open up more house for some local people, huh? You know, eh, so what?
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 19
You know, they don't want to live here, hey, you know, you can leave. So, the locals
can come back and live here, you know?
So, anyway, that's my concern. I know it's a hard decision, but congratulations for, for
seeing that you guys can raise those taxes and no let nobody fool you. They still will
vote for you, and you know the locals, take care the local people. Thank you very
much. You guys have a good evening.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Borge. Questions? Okay, no questions. Thank you again.
May we have the next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Pamela
Tumpap. To be followed by Keola Whittaker.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP, MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE:
Aloha, and bonjour. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the
Maui County Council. I'm Pamela Tumpap, President of the Maui Chamber of
Commerce. Advocacy is one of my many duties. Mahalo for the opportunity to testify
and for your time this evening to discuss the range of rates as we look to compare the
Mayor's and Budget Chair's proposals at this time. And we really just wanted to focus
tonight on the real property tax rates.
On the Non Owner Occupied, we appreciate the expansion and the way the new levels
have been staggered. They were staggered before, but we appreciate the expansion
given the rising valuations on Non Owner Occupied classification. And you know we
know this is part of the Hawaiian Community Assets housing plan specifically targeting
these as they're generally not resident owned and for those that are, they typically fall
into other categories except for the testifier who testified earlier. So, there are some,
of course, that that's not true for. Again, for us, that will tie into how the money is used
for the overall budget.
On the Owner-Occupied, we understand again the intent of lowering these rates both
in the Mayor's proposal and Budget Chair's proposal to help local residents. Again
we're realizing the valuations are going up, so we look at this as way, you're looking at
ways to help. And so we appreciate the proposed shift for the lowest tier to go up to
$1 million. And lately, you know, houses that used to be at $800K are selling right now
for $1.5, to be honest. So, prices continue to drastically increase, and we know though
that you're looking at this and taking that into consideration.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 20
On Long-Term Rentals and Apartments, we see the value decreasing the rates for
Apartments and Long-Term Rentals. As you understand clearly that the real property
taxes are passed down to tenants, but again, how do we ensure that is actually passed
down, when you lower the rates to that significant level? So, we do support things like,
you know, getting an exemption for verifying Long-Term Rentals and ensuring that the
savings are, in fact, passed on to lessees.
On Commercial, we appreciate the Budget Chair's additional 1 percent reductions of
the rates, recognizing that all small businesses and businesses are still recovering and
appreciated the Mayor's proposal as well.
On Hotel and Resorts, we acknowledge that the Budget Chair is proposing a slightly
reduced rate for Hotels and Resorts for Fiscal Year, from Fiscal Year 2022. We feel
though that the Mayor's proposal better reflects the extreme valuation increase that the
industry is facing over approximately 1.2 billion from FY 22 to FY 23. With the Mayor's
rate, he was looking at a revenue increase of approximately 9 million, it looks like the
Budget Chair's proposals would increase by approximately 14 million. But both of
these, and even though both rates are, in fact, a rate reduction, it still equates to a
significant hit for the industry. And I felt Lisa did a good job explaining where the
industry is at, and good questions were asked of that. If I could take one quick minute
to wrap up?
CHAIR LEE: Please do.
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you so much. We are in strong support of the reduced rate for
Agriculture because sustainability is important to us all, particularly food security.
On Time Share, we haven't heard yet from the industry, but we feel it's still early on
and we're waiting to see how they might ring in on the final.
On Short-Term Rentals, that was confusing for us because the way the Budget Chair's
rates were proposed, actually the lowest valuation had the highest percentage at
7 percent, with the higher valuations actually paying a lesser percentage of 5.8. So,
I'm not sure if the numbers were right in that, so we look forward to seeing where that
goes.
And on Conservation, Industrial, and Commercialized Residential, at least we see that
the Administration and Budget Chair are aligned, currently on the value, on the rates.
So, we look forward to seeing where that goes. And appreciate you considering our
comments as you finalize the real property tax rates.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 21
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Tumpap for your testimony.
Couple clarifications if you don't mind.
MS. TUMPAP: Absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Cool. The part where you said make sure that the landlords
are passing on savings to tenants. I just was wondering about that, like, are you talking
about like including the tenant's phone number on the application and then maybe
doing a survey at what they're paying for rent. Or including on the application what the
rent is for that 12-months for how many bedrooms or whatever so that we can kind of
gather some data. Is, is that what you mean? Or how are you talking about ensuring
landlords pass on savings to tenants?
MS. TUMPAP; I'm hoping to see maybe something more simplified, like an exemption
application to actually achieve that rate where they indicate what the current rental rate
is and. and, you know, yearly they would file like an exemption form. Cause tenants
may change from time to time, and they indicate whether, you know, what, over what
period of time it's rented, so you're looking at long term. And then you're able to see
some of the rates, and of course, rates will fluctuate, but you'd want a range of what
you're trying to achieve; right? To correlate some of the data.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; And to clarify, when you're talking about rate, you are talking
about the rate that the renter pays, or is it the rate that's the property is being taxed at?
MS. TUMPAP: No, the, the rental rate. We're trying to insure that-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The rate the rental is?
MS. TUMPAP: Yeah, so that we could see for example, if their taxes went up next year and
their real property, and their rental rate went up, that would correlate; right? They had
a higher expense, so their rental rate would go up. But you are, we are investing a
significant amount of money in a great reduction. Obviously, of course, to try and
encourage Long-Term Rentals, which we all support. But for that very significant
reduction-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You mean, just to gather data, have it on the Long-Term Rental
exemption application, what the rental rate is for however many bedrooms and then
we can gather data in that way.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 22
MS. TUMPAP; And then each year you’d be able to track what that looks like. And I think
that might be an easier way.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Cool, cool. The other question I had when you were
talking about the percentage of STR and the confusion of what's going on, it’s my
understanding that some of the lowest assessed STRs would be the ones that, you
know, our residents could use for Long-Term Rental. So, is it not understood that
disincentivizing STR use for the lowest assessed values is correlating, I mean,
obviously, you're not going to rent out to Long-Term Rental your $10 million estate, but
if you have like a $400,000 condotel, maybe you could rent it to a single teacher or
something? Is that not clear?
MS. TUMPAP: I totally hear you. Actually, my point was a little bit different.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay.
MS. TUMPAP: So, currently the Budget Chair's proposal for all three categories, all three
tiers in that category is 11.85, $11.85. So, if you look at what it was before, for those
under 800,000 or less, it was 11.11. Okay, so that means, the differential is $0.74, but
that is the lowest tier. If you then take $11.85 and look at the next tier, from 800,000
to 1.5 million, they pay less, their increase is only $0.70. Versus-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, I think, I think 1 understand it. So, you're talking about
more of an inversion, where the-
MS. TUMPAP: That’s correct.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -where the lowest amount of assessed value gets paid the
most, and the highest assessed value gets-
MS. TUMPAP: That's correct.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -the least increase. Oh, okay. Thank you for clarifying that.
MS. TUMPAP: That's what we're looking at, yeah. That's what we were trying to point out.
Yes, thanks.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Alright. I mean, 1 don't know about this year, but maybe we'll
move towards that once the sticker shock wears off or something. Thank you. Thank
you. I understand now.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 23
MS. TUMPAP: You're welcome. Thank you. Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? Let's try to keep the questions concise. Alright.
No more questions. So may we have the next testifier.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Keola Whittaker.
To be followed by Madeline Monaco.
MR. KEOLA WHITTAKER:
Hi, Chair. As you know, I'm Deputy Corporation Counsel, but I'm not testifying in that
role. I'm here on my time, in my own home with my cat testifying as a resident.
I only want to testify on one issue, that is the highest tax rate for Non Owner Occupied
properties. This is the rate charged to primarily second homeowners and the rate is
only applied to the value of the home that is above the highest tier. If this rate is set at
$3 million, only the values above $3 million are taxed at the highest rate. Because this
tax primarily applies to second homeowners and only for expensive homes, as a
shortcut, I refer to this tax bracket as a Bezos tax. 1 believe the Bezos tax should be
increased above the current rate for three reasons.
First, we have a relatively low property tax rate even for second homeowners. That's
partly due to the relatively high valuations, and due to the fact that under the State
Constitution, only Counties, not the State, can tax properties. This is a huge benefit
for non-resident vacation homeowners. If I'm looking for a place to buy a vacation
home, I would want to buy in a place with a low effective property tax rate. So, I'd want
to buy here.
Let me give you a more real-world example. Let's say like a billionaire or let's say a
billionaire who resides in Washington State, let's call him Jeff, buys a home in Maui,
but only lives here for five months out of the year, He won't pay income taxes in
Washington; they don't have any. Jeff is a multi-billionaire, but he won't pay income
taxes in Hawaii either, because the State can't tax him on income that is sourced in
Washington State, even if he owns land here and spends a significant amount of time
here. So, while Jeff is using a lot of government resources, like. County Planning,
roads, Jeff pays relatively little for that benefit, despite holding a multi-million-dollar
property. The only way we can tax billionaires and millionaires who own vacation
homes here is through property taxes. There's almost no other way to ensure they pay
their fair share.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 24
Reason two, we need to disincentivize outsiders from purchasing and holding
additional properties here. A higher Bezos tax can do that. Outsiders purchasing
second homes drive up property rates for the rest of us, making it impossible to live on
Maui. The median price for a single-family home rose to a record high in January,
$1.16 million, an increase of 18.4 percent from the previous year. This increase is
primarily due to purchases from non-residents looking for a second home. And it was
recently reported that 70 percent of new home sales last year went to non-residents.
This is where an increased Bezos tax comes in. By having a high property tax rate on
non-residents, the County can, to some extent, disincentivize vacation home
purchases. The current tax structure simply doesn't do that, it does the opposite.
The last reason is that more and more companies are finding creative loopholes to get
out of paying the tax applied to Time Shares. As we speak, companies like Vacasa
are snatching up homes on Maui, to get around laws that apply to Time Share. I'm not
sure if you noticed, but Vacasa is advertising to tourists at our airport. Vacasa's a
company that takes advantage of legal loopholes by having a group of people all paid
to have-
CHAIR LEE: Could you conclude, please?
MR. WHITTAKER; Sure. I'll just take one minute. To have a proportional ownership in a
large vacation home and they act just like a Time Share, but they don't get taxed at the
higher rate. So, in conclusion we should greatly increase the property tax rate for
Non Owner Occupied second homes that don't qualify long-term, for Long-Term Rental
exemptions above the highest value, 3 million or wherever you decide the highest tax
bracket should be. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions?
I just have a comment, Mr. Whittaker. Perhaps you shouldn't name that tax, because
our attorneys may tell us it's a form of discrimination or we may be liable. Let's call it
something else.
MR. WHITTAKER; Okay, that's fair. I'm not picking on any one individual.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
MR. WHITTAKER: Just picking names out of a hat.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 25
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha, Keola. Thank you for being here. Thank you for your
testimony. I just wanted to clarify what you were saying about, is it, is it Vacasa? Or I
can't, yeah? It is what, if they're, if they’re doing anything around Short-Term Rentals,
isn't that illegal if they don't have a permit? Whether they call it-
MR. WHITTAKER: So. what they're doing is not Short-Term Rentals under the law, they're
having let's say 12 people buy a proportional share of the property and they each get
to use the property for a month, out of the year. So, it's like a Time Share, but not
classified as a Time Share.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Why would it not be classified as a Time Share?
MR. WHITTAKER: Because they're all owners, not through a Time Share company.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Because their company isn't considered a Time Share company?
MR. WHITTAKER: Right. Each person owns a portion of the home . . . share.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I thought that's what a Time Share was, but, you know
maybe we have to work on that. Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, clarifying what is the name of your cat?
MR. WHITTAKER: This is Tommy.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Hello, Tommy. I saw him trying to get your attention as
you were testifying. But, um--
MR. WHITTAKER: He likes to do that when I'm talking.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Very cute.
CHAIR LEE: Any, any more clarifying questions. Members?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, yeah. So, I hope that as your other role. I know you
are testifying as an individual tonight, but in your other role that you can look at the
problem of Picasso, Picasa [sicp I see their names even at national tennis
tournaments, so they're all over the place. But I wonder if the other municipalities, or
we can figure out how to fix that puka? Thank you.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 26
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anybody else? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Whittaker. And may
we have the next testifier, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is
Madeline Monaco. To be followed by Johann Lall.
MS. MADELINE MONACO:
Aloha, everyone. Thank you all for your hard work to improve the housing market for
Maui residents and also for the opportunity to testify today. My name is Madeline
Monaco and 1 live at Mahinahina Beach Condominiums in West Maui.
I want to start by saying that I support the County's effort to increase taxes for owners
renting short-term and for very high-end luxury properties. Last year, our property at
Mahinahina Beach was reclassified as Short-Term Rental. We are a small, private
residential community with only 32 units. Some of our owners are full-time residents,
some rent their units long-term to kamaaina, and some are owner-occupied part-time
residents, they're not full Hawaii residents, but they do not rent their units. No one is
renting short-term, and our homeowners association declaration states that owners
can rent long-term for a minimum of six months or longer. We also significantly
Increased the fines associated with violating the long-term rental policy from $2,500 to
$20, 000 per occurrence. 1 hope you see that we're serious about not allowing Short-
Term Rentals. There was one owner who violated the rental policy in 2019. They were
caught and fined for each occurrence, and reported by our homeowner's association
to the County and their taxes were raised accordingly. Now they no longer own at
Mahinahina Beach, in fact, I brought their unit last year and I do not rent it.
The last point I'd like to make is that full-time residents are exempt from the higher tax
rates even if they live in a community that have been zoned as short-term rental, it
seems unfair to those who just fall short of the Hawaii residency requirements. Many
of our owners are here for seven or eight months  ayear, but we are still forced to pay
the much higher Short-Term Rental tax rate. For those of us who are not full-time
Hawaii residents, but are here a good part of the year, our taxes were doubled last
year. Many of us are retired and are paying an extra $5,000 or $7,000 or more per
year is a significant burden. It just doesn't seem fair that we live in the same
community, but we have to pay the very high Short-Term Rental tax rates.
By not allowing Short-Term Rental on our property, we are also trying to help solve the
long-term rental challenges the County is facing, and as I've mentioned before, several
of our units are rented annually to kamaaina. Collectively the owners at Mahinahina
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 27
Beach are serious about not allowing short-term rentals in our quiet community. We
would very much appreciate consideration for reclassification away from Short-Term
Rental to lower our property taxes. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Monaco for your testimony.
And I just wanted to clarify for the rest of the Members that if the option was to
permanently phase out the ability to Short-Term Rental, you don't support that. You
want to just phase it out for now, and if 10 or 20 years down the line, you want to retake
up, or future owners, or whoever wants to retake the ability to Short-Term Rental, at
that time you want to consider being able to have people pay the Short-Term Rental
tax. Is that an accurate explanation of your stance?
MS. MONACO; So, those of us who own now are unanimous in not wanting Short-Term
Rental. What we were, what we were worried about was if we had to have legislation
that permanently would dictate what our declaration is for our homeowner's
association, we didn't think that was right, because after we're dead and gone, there
might be people who will move in and maybe they will want to rent short-term and be
taxed accordingly. So, we were hoping ... oh, go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You just, you just want the, the benefit now, while you remove
yourself from the ability to Short-Term Rental, but if the body of Mahinahina Beach
ever wants to re-take up that ability at that time, you're willing to pay the Short-Term
Rental tax?
MS. MONACO: I'm assuming they would be willingly to pay it, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, okay. Alright. So, I don’t know if you want to poll the
members individually if they support that, but maybe at a later date. Thank you. Bye.
MS. MONACO: Members of our community, you mean? Oh, we've already vetted it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, no, the, the, my colleagues who would be voting on such
a thing.
MS. MONACO: Oh, I see, sorry. I thought you were talking about us.
CHAIR LEE: But not tonight.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 28
MS. MONACO: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? If not, thank you very much.
MS. MONACO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: May we have the next testifier,
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Johann
Lall. To be followed by Dave Jorgensen.
Chair, Dave Jorgensen is the last individual we have signed up to testify. If there's
anybody else in the, connected to the meeting or at a courtesy testimony site who
would like to testify, please notify us now. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Lall.
MR. JOHANN LALL:
Hello. So, like most of the testifiers so far, I'm a transplant and I'm from Texas. And
so first of all I want to say, none of us really has a right to be here. We, we really are
guests, and we should try to be welcomed guests, not unwelcomed guests.
So, you know, if, so Mr. Croly had mentioned that Hotels, Time Shares, the visitor
industry pays 83 percent of taxes here in Maui County. You know, if, if we don't like it
or if they don't like it, you know there's, there's 49 other states, so, there's that. And
so, the other thing about Texas, it's a very Republican state, very free market.
Republicans love property taxes though. Property tax rates there are about 3 percent.
If you try to find statistics it's not that straightforward, because they split it up into State
taxes, local taxes, so it's not that easy to find that out, but you know, if you.
So, Mr. Croly's example was a $500,000 condo paying $7,000, in Texas that would be
$15,000. So, if you think from the perspective of someone who's like moderately
wealthy in Texas, maybe they work in the oil industry or whatever, you know, there,
and they make a few hundred grand a year. If they're looking for an investment, it’s a
no brainer to invest where the property tax is extremely low versus there where it's
extremely high and it's going to eat up all their, all their gains. So I mean, even, even
what is being proposed is not high enough in my opinion. And, you know, I would say
we should, we should go all the way to super Republican, super free-market Texas
and be at 3 percent. And that is not, urn, it's not bracketed. That's about 3 percent on
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 29
your entire value, minus a 25,000 homeowner exemption,
homes, let's go all the way up to 3 percent.
So, I mean, for the second
And, urn, you know, I live in Kihei Shores, in South Kihei. It's very appealing to folks
who are looking for investments because the values are going way up. A unit just sold
for $525,000, and a lot of my neighbors are being displaced. You know, we used to
have a few Hawaiian families here, now we have one Hawaiian family in the entire
complex of 200 units. So, I mean, that's, this is Hawaii, and we don't have any
Hawaiians. That's it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Lall. I just was, wanted to
clarify, do you know what, I guess tax class you are in? Is it Apartment, or is it like
long-term exemption?
MR. LALL: I am an owner, so, it's Owner-Occupied.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for clarifying. Thank
you. Chair. Thank you for your testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Lall. May we have the next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Dave
Jorgensen. To be followed by Ashley Olsen.
MR. DAVE JORGENSEN. AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION:
Good evening and bonjour. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members
of the County Council. My name is Dave Jorgensen, I'm testifying on behalf of the
American Resort Development Association of Hawaii, or ARDA-Hawaii and I am a
registered lobbyist.
Thank you for the opportunity to submit this testimony in opposition to any increase in
the real property tax rates for the County of Maui, applicable to Time Shares for Fiscal
Year July 1,2022 to June 30, 2023.
Written testimony was already submitted by the organization, so I will try to be brief
and summarize. As you know, I believe you know, ARDA-Hawaii is a local chapter of
the trade association for the Timeshare industry. Timeshares is an important
stabilizing part of the tourism industry and Maui's economy.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 30
Timeshare owners have made a long-term commitment to Maui by purchasing and
owning real property in the County. These owners are consistent and dependable
visitors who bring substantial tax dollars to the County and continue to come even
during periods of economic downturn.
Timeshare owners already contribute a significant amount to public facilities and
government services through the payment of State and local taxes. These heavy
contributions, when compared against limited use of public facilities, benefit the
community substantially,
increasingly rising costs, which are among the highest in the nation, and have seen
their maintenance fees go up significantly over the last couple of years.
On the other hand, Hawaii timeshare owners face
We understand this hearing is to discuss ranges of property tax, so I don't want to get
too much into specific numbers. But the range that's being considered to go as high
as $17 per $1,000 for Time Share. An increase of up to $2.40 of taxes on the assessed
property value. Ultimately, this cost would be borne by the timeshare unit owners,
which will increase the cost of timeshare ownership, thus discouraging a reliable and
resilient part of Maui's tourism economy. This may cause a decrease in demand for
timeshare units which will further delay the recovery of other tourist related businesses
and negatively impact Maui's economy.
In addition, the recent creation of Maui County TAT, which established an additional
3 percent on transient accommodations, makes an increase in real property tax rates
for time-shares unnecessary. The new TAT is projected to generate a substantial
amount of revenue for the County derived from the timeshare unit owners making a
further increase of property, real property tax unduly burdensome and further
negatively impact the industry.
For the foregoing reasons, ARDA-Hawaii supports preserving the current rate for
Time Share at $14.60 per thousand to prevent substantial increases in cost for
timeshare owners who already significantly contribute to the economy. Thank you very
much for your consideration.
(Councilmember Kama arrived at the public hearing at 7:12 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Before I call on Member Paltin, let the record show that Pro Temp Kama is
present. Welcome.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha ahiahi Chair, and aloha ahiahi Councilmembers.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 31
CHAIR LEE: Bonjour.
Now, Member Pattin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Jorgensen for your
testimony. I just, I, I wanted to clarify what you had said, was it management or
maintenance costs have risen, was it, or both?
MR. JORGENSEN; Well, both have risen. I mean the maintenance fees, the maintenance
fees for timeshare include the management, include the utilities, include the
landscaping. Yeah, so it's kind of both. I, I apologize if I misspoke.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, no, I just, I just didn't understand. And then the other
question I had regarding that was, is there a reason that for timeshares it, it will
significantly, like compared to other types of transient accommodations tax, or is it the
same rising of fees, or management across the board for other types of transient or is
there something special about the timeshare classification that the management and
maintenance fees rose significantly just for that classification, and not other types of
transient accommodations?
MR. JORGENSEN: Yeah, I'm sorry for interrupting and thank you for that question. It's, the
cost are rising for everybody. You know utility cost are increasing, the supplies for the
property are increasing. Some, some short-term rental, I mean some transient
accommodations, short-term, illegal short-term rentals in somebody's house, you
know, their maintenance fees are going to be different than a project that has 50 units
and a yard and a pool. So, it's not a dollar-for-dollar thing. But as you know, for all of
us, not just short-term rentals, or transient accommodations, costs are rising crazily for
everybody.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, thanks, and residents, everybody.
MR. JORGENSEN: And residents, everybody. Yeah, absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Got it. Thank you. Just, I wanted to, I wasn't sure so, I was
just clarifying.
MR. JORGENSEN: Thank you for that question.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions. Members? If not, thank you Mr. Jorgensen. May we have
the next testifier.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27. 2022
Page 32
MR. JORGENSEN: Thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Ashley
Olsen. To be followed by Fran Heath.
MS. ASHLEY OLSEN:
Good evening, everyone. I'm Ashley Olsen, I'm a West Maui resident and I want to
make it very clear that I am testifying as an individual this evening. I'm a little late to
the party, both finding out about the meeting itself, as well as to the actual meeting, so
I'm not sure what the bonjourthing is this evening. But as a former Lahainaluna French
teacher, I would just love to say, bonjour....
So, again, being late to the party, 1 really hope that if I, what I say this evening seems
to be misdirected or not to the point, I hope you will be patient with me, forgive me. I
am speaking in support of the Council's efforts to raise tax rates for our Non Owner
Occupied homes, as well as on those second homes in Maui County that remain
unoccupied for several months of the year.
A few years ago, the Hawaii State Teachers Association did some checking across the
State, on average at that time one in seven housing units was a short-term or vacation
rental. West Maui, it was one in three. I don't know if that's gotten worse, but it feels
like it.
I just filed my FDS, so it's no secret that I am an owner at a recently opened workforce
housing complex in West Maui. And I'm incredibly fortunate that COVID did not kick
me out of escrow. There were a few units where that did happen, and one person
came in, brought at market rate and just sold a one-bedroom unit for I believe $520,000
to $529,000. Fortunately, that will not be a short-term rental, it cannot be, but still, that
gives you an idea of what happens when the inventory does not meet the needs of the
community.
I worry for one of our Vice Principals, who was displaced last night. Hers was the, one
of the units that burned in Kihei. She was on her way home from Lahaina and found
out that she longer had a home to go to. By increasing tax rates, I believe that you will
discourage some investors. And given the robust nature of the hospitality industry on
Maui, I think that's okay. I think we'll be okay, because without residents who live here
to service those visitors, we don't have a visitor industry anyway.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 33
Anyway, I realize that maybe it was not the most coherent testimony ever in my lifetime,
but I hope you'll take it and pull at my intent, and I wish you all a wonderful evening.
Thank you so much for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much for coming.
Thank you.
MS. OLSEN: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Fran
Health. To be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with
these last four digits 9385.
MS. FRAN HEATH:
Aloha everyone.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. HEATH: Mahalo for everything that you are doing. I know it's hard work, and it's not
easy. As a local. Native Hawaiian, I just need to say that you're doing the right thing.
Not enough inventory. We have investors that are calling, buying property, sight
unseen. Millions of dollars. We cannot compete against that as locals. So, how can
we stop this? We stop it by taxing.
I am testifying for the support of the increased rates, the Non Owner Occupied
properties, as well as stating please keep the rate for the Ag properties so our farmers
can stay. Take care of our locals, as well as the tourist. They love to go, you know,
hands-on, and that's great. But we need to make sure our farmers are okay. As a
small business owner, we would love to afford to buy local, and keep it local. Instead
of going to Costco and the big box stores, yeah? So please, continue to do for the
locals. You're all we have, so do the right thing. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sugimura. Oh, no. Okay, no questions. Thank you very
much, Ms. Heath.
Mr. Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 34
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is the
individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits, 9385. To
be followed by Jordan Mocker. 9385, it is your time to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Call the next one, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, chair. Then the last person we have signed up to testify is
Jordan Mocker.
CHAIR LEE: I hear a voice.
MS. CAROL LEE KANEKOA:
. . . Hello everybody. Sorry, every time I unmuted, it muted me. Anyways, kudos to
you all. Mahalo plenty for taking this bold step and for protecting and looking out for
our people, for the residents. I mahalo you plenty for that and I'm calling to say I
support what you are doing with regards to the property taxes.
I echo the sentiments of Mr. Williams and Ms. Mather and 1 thank you very much. I
don't want to take up much more of your time, but kudos to all of you. Have a good
night. Love you all.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you so much. Thank you. Members, did you have any questions?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual-
CHAIR LEE: Wait. Members, did you have any questions? No. Okay. Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Jordan
Mocker. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
MS. JORDAN MOCKER:
Good evening, Councilmembers. I'll try to keep it short cause you've been, you've
been working hard today. But I just want to say that I support the increase in property
tax on Non Owner Occupied units or transient accommodations. I'll just speak a quick
story to, for myself and my perspective. You know, I live Upcountry, and I actually, you
know, 1 know so many people all over Maui County who are looking for housing. So,
I'm constantly on message boards looking for affordable rentals, and looking, urn, you
know to post onto our local moms' groups to just try and help out as 1 can.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 35
And what I'm seeing in terms of the rental and housing market right now, is that, you
know, Maui is booming from, from one perspective. It's, it's really, like it's, it's Maui
County is a hot commodity. Our housing market, it's making people a lot of money,
but it's also bringing in people who don't understand our community values. And who,
you know, what 1 see an increasing trend is functionally watching rentals pop-up, where
you have, you know, you can go and see who's posting it; right? So recently there was
an attached studio that was listed for some $3,000 as a rental. And you can look at
property tax records and see when houses were bought and sold, you know? And it's
functionally covering a person who just bought a house, their entire mortgage. And
you go to their Facebook profile, and you see that they don't live here.
And so. I'm not saying that people who are investing in Maui via property are bad
people, but this trend, I don't think they understand the impact and it's really hard to,
you know, message a stranger and say do you understand that the cost of your rental
is unethical and is undermining our community? So, I strongly support property tax
increases because at a certain point we have to send a message that you are going to
have to invest in our community, and if you are not willing to do it by giving affordable
rentals, then, then we're going to find another way to ask for that, for that help. So,
thank you for what you're doing. Thank you for all your hard work this evening. That
is the end of my testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Hocker.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Junya
Nakoa. Junya Nakoa is the last individual we have signed up to testify.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA:
Aloha, good evening. You guys can hear me? Yessah.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. NAKOA: I going keep 'urn short. Eh, I when watch you guys work hard on doing all the
tiers and putting this together, so I support this buggah 110 percent. You guys doing
right by the locals. The second homeowners, tax the hell out of them. And just do
what you guys doing. Mahalo, for what you guys doing. Take care the locals. Shoots,
take care. Hello? Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Junya, are you done?
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 36
MR. NAKOA: Yeah. 1 pau.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, mahalo.
MR. NAKOA: Shoots, you guys have a good one.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, anybody had questions for Junya? No, no questions.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have one more testifier. Next up to testify is Amy
Bond.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Bond?
MS. AMY BOND:
Hi, can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. BOND: Okay, great. Thank you so much. My, I don't know if you can see me? I'm so
grateful for you guys doing all your hard work with working with the budget and the
taxes. And I just wanted to come in and testify that I am a resident, I do live here. I
am an owner of a short-term rental home and I'm happy to pay the taxes that you guys
have appropriated for that, but I just wanted to add that, urn.
I do feel like, that the agricultural tax should be lowered. I do feel like we really need
to focus on allowing our farmers, and all of our small businesses here to produce food
for our islands, to be able to do that. I just feel like if all the tax categories, that one
should be lowered.
And while I do feel like short-term rentals are similar to hotels, I do feel that hotels
should be paying a little bit more, because they have other venues to collect a lot more
money, such as spas and restaurants, and you name it, it's in the hotels and not to
mention they occupy the most sought after areas on the island where people would
want to be. So, I just wanted to put in my 10 cents about things and I'm grateful for all
of your hard work and, and anyway, that's it. Thank you so much. Sorry I'm so late.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 37
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Bond. Questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Bond for your testimony.
Couple clarifying questions. The first one is, do you own ag land?
MS. BOND: No, no. Well, my husband does actually, but we're not farming yet. But our goal
is to try and do aquaponics, which is quite intensive to get into but that's my love.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
MS. BOND: I really want to do aquaponics. it's my goal.
COUNCIL MEMBER PALTIN: Me too. I'm, I'm getting my gear together. But, um, okay thank
you for answering that question.
The second question is um, sorry my dog is breathing hard. I don't know if you can
hear that, but, um, my second question was, did you provide written testimony about
the resident-owned short-term rental tax exemption?
MS. BOND: No, I didn't. I guess 1 should do that.  Iwill do that. And, um-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Because we didn't receive much support for that. We received
some not support for that, so just, you know, just like get. . .
MS. BOND: -yeah. I'll send in my testimony. I'm a little late on things, I've got three small
kids, they're all under, like all under the age of 10, so, life is very-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's not too late. It's not too late. It's just, it's just right timing.
Thank you. Thank you.
MS. BOND: Oh, wait, I have one more comment to add. I'm just. I'm just going to say this as
the last thing. I personally feel that for Non Owner Occupied, that for Tier 3, that
anyone over $4.5 million or $5 million, you guys should be taxing that at a far greater
tax, tax level there. And that's my final thing. I'll say.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
MS. BOND: Thank you so much.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 38
CHAIR LEE: If not, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Pat
Alexander.
MR. PAT ALEXANDER:
Aloha, sorry for chiming in so late. My fiance went to hula and left me with our son,
and he's been in a mood. So, I wasn't going to testify cause he's yelling but, urn, my
brother just came over and was able to take him.  Ilive in Lahaina. I've talked with
Tamara Paltin before about some of the different issues, including a billionaire who
brought a house out this way, who doing something that recently hit the news. His
security consultant called me and ran a background search on me, even though I was
being very cordial with this guy, but that's another story.
Something I just wanted to say as somebody who is  aquarter Native Hawaiian, born
and raised here in the islands, has roots that go back hundreds of years, I just, you
know, I listen to some people who testified tonight and it got under my skin, because
I'm hearing somebody who owns maybe a second or third or fourth multi-million dollar
vacation home, upset that they have to pay a little more taxes. I'm sorry, I just, I think
that's part of the point that a lot of local people feel when they read this on social media
and I'm sad that there are not more here tonight that are testifying.
But if the taxes go up to a point that you have to sell your house, I think that's the point
that some local people want to see happen. Because the people are bringing their
money here as an investment hoping that they're going to make more money and leave
their house vacant, I understand that. I understand that it's good business, but it's not
good for families in Hawai'i.
Something to say about agricultural lands, I was just looking into this, and it seems to
me that there's so many loopholes all the time when it comes to real estate and people
that have lots of money, they know how to find the loopholes. So, 1 see people that
buy agricultural land and they're multi-millionaires, and they put some coffee farm on
there and then they say, oh. I'm a farmer, and they're really not a farmer. They're living
in a $5 million house, you know, so 1 say we gotta look into that a little bit more.
I really don't have an opinion on Time Shares or Hotels. I used to work for hotels, I
know what they do for the economy. But I've always been against short-term rentals
for a long, long time, because when you make a house a vacation rental, you turn a
home into a business, you change the zoning laws. Basically, what you make, you
make families go up against businesses, holding companies, and these people have
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 39
been taking in one, two, three, $400 a night in revenue and 80 percent occupancy.
Yeah, they can afford a $1.2 million house and then they're competing, families are
competing against a business, and they can only shell out two to $3,000 in mortgage.
So, I appreciate what the Council is doing. If it's taxing these houses more that are
Non Owner Occupied. I’m all for that. But I just,  Ithink that there's a lot more Native
Hawaiians and I think a lot more local people and I'm sad that they're not here to testify,
but there's a very big majority of people that agree with what you folks are trying to do
and I just felt the need to . . . come out and just to say that.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Mr. Alexander. So,
my question to you is, would it be okay if there were no short-term rentals at ail in Maui
County?
MR. ALEXANDER: I would think that would be okay.  Iunderstand that people say they bring
in money to the economy. Um, you know, it's just things are so inflated right now. If
you look at the hotel prices right now, it's a $1,000 a night. Look at the kamaaina rates,
it's $600. I tried to go stay there, but 1 can't afford $600 for one night. The fact of the
matter is a house is not a business; you know? And I've said this for almost a decade
now, even when I was in my twenties. I studied political science. I've always been
somebody that's tried to fight for the people, but I got a job in business, you know.
CHAIR LEE: Mr., Mr. Alexander, I think you answered her question.
MR. ALEXANDER: Oh, I'm sorry.
CHAIR LEE: -tax ranges, yeah? Tax ranges.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Mr. Alexander for your answer. Appreciate it.
MR. ALEXANDER: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else with questions? If not, thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Zhanteli
Lindo.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 40
MS. ZHANTELL UNDO:
Aloha, Councilmembers and Chair Lee. I'm testifying on my own time, and as a private
citizen. And I purposely wanted to be last just for tell you guys how proud I am to be a
part of this wonderful group. You guys are awesome, even with the battling, even with
the differences of opinions, you guys find a way to push through that to make such
remarkable, courageous decisions and i know that's not easy. And I don't think the
general public ever has enough information or time to see just how hard all of you work.
But I would especially like to thank the courage for taxing that bracket of above $3
million, because anybody who can afford a house above $3 million can pay the taxes
to live here. I also want to thank you for making it a priority to have people pay the
price they need to pay to enjoy what we have.
I don't know who created this tourism market, or the marketing we currently have now
for tourist and why they come and how we campaign to have them come here. But,
sorry my eyes are burning. But, um, I for one don't believe that those of us who live
and love here were ever intending to share everything we have. Tourism is a way of
us making an economic, it was an economic engine. We create things for them, like
Waikiki. We were never intended to share our resources. It was never intended or
should have been intended for us to give up things that were important for us, land,
and resources to supply this economic engine as a way for us to be sustainable.
I appreciate that you guys see things in such a courageous way, and I just wanted to
end tonight by thanking you guys for all that you do, and we really appreciate you. So,
thank you so much. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha, Zhantell. Any questions, members? Okay, if not, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. If anyone has
not testified, but would like to do so, please identify yourself now. This is the last call
for testifiers. Please indicate if you would like to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections . . .
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. Just was going to confirm that no one else
has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have received written testimony.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 41
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections to accepting written testimony into the record?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION. WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS PUBLIC HEARING:
1. Michael Williams;
Lisa H. Paulson, Maui Hotel & Lodging Association;
Thomas Croly;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Ryan Nobriga, American Resort Development Association;
Ron Becht;
Joanne Foxxe;
Thomas Kerestesi;
Debra Merle;
Thomas Miller;
Gregg Nelson; and
Ira and Sue Sealy.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. Members, I will leave testimony open to allow for further testimony
when we reconvene to set the rate and ranges. I will be recessing this public hearing
until Friday, May 13, at 11:00 a.m. at the same BlueJeans connections we are using
now with in-person testimony and viewing available at the Council Chambers.
Members, any objection to recessing this meeting?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered, this meeting is in recess.
THE COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING OF APRIL 27, 2022 WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR
AT 7:38 PM., AND WAS RECONVENED BY THE CHAIR ON MAY 13, 2022 AT 11:00 A.M.
CHAIR LEE: Will the Public Hearing of April 27, on the Fiscal Year 2023 Real Property Tax
Rates reconvene.
Madam Clerk, may we have roll call.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 42
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Proceeding with roll call. Members participating from
non-public locations should state who, if anyone is present with them as part of the roll
call.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha, good morning and . .  .Madam Chair and colleagues,
my fellow colleagues on the County Council. For the record. I'm transmitting out of the
Maui County Council Chambers here in Wailuku and I'm accompanied by my
colleague. Member Sugimura as well as the Office of Council Services staff and
elections joining us this morning. And for the record, I believe there are no testifiers at
our Paia District Office. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Aloha, Members and Chair, and ... I said that right. I am
home alone in my office space and there are no testifiers in the Lanai District Office.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Pattin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . .. and aloha awakea kakou. I'm broadcasting live and direct
from Hilo Town, up Kaiwiki Road and I have with me, my dad and my sister in the
room. I don't believe there's any testifiers at the West Maui District Office. I'm looking
forward to hearing testimony. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 43
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning, Chair and Committee Members. I'm here
in the Council Chambers with fellow Councilmember Mike Molina and I also want to
thank the Clerk's Office for all your hard work. And in the audience, we have Katie
King, who is here just to observe, and she said she went to the jobs fair that the County
had yesterday and was impressed by that. And I want to recognize the Office of
Economic Development, 1 think who coordinated that and welcome our guest to the
chambers. She is not going to testify she said, but she is just listening, so thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Good morning, Chair. Good morning, everyone. Nice to be
back again for the third time. Looking forward to another wonderful meeting this
morning. Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha awakea kakou my Molokai Nui a Hina. I'm at
the Molokai District Office, alone on my side of the office. And we have our Community
Outreach Specialist Zhantell Lindo and my Legislative Analyst Mahina Poepoe on the
other side and a visitor Lanakila DelaCruz on the other side. And there are no testifiers
here at the District Office. Mahaio.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: . . . everyone. Looking forward to another productive meeting and let's get
started as soon as we can.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBERS MICHAEL J. MOLINA, GABE JOHNSON,
TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A.
KAMA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI AND KELLY T. KING.EXCUSED:
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 44
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are seven Members present, two Members excused, and no
Members absent. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I'm County Clerk Kathy Kaohu and also present from the Office of the
County Clerk are Legislative Division staff Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell
Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Office of the Corporation Counsel is Deputy Corporation
Counsel, Kristina Toshikiyo.
Chair, notice of this reconvening public hearing was published in the May 3, and May 6
2022 editions of the Maui News.
CHAIR LEE: Members, we have posted on today's public hearing notice a proposed FD1
version of Resolution 22-82, which contains our proposed real property tax rates for
Fiscal Year 2023.
We will receive testimony on the resolution, and once testimony has closed, we may
consider adopting this resolution. Before we proceed with this testimony, I also want
to say I'm home alone in my workspace. I ask that everyone please keep their
microphones muted unless it is your time to speak. Decorum shall be maintained at
all times.
Madam Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony. Members of the
public may testify in the Council Chambers, at courtesy testimony sites or remotely
through the information listed on the public hearing notice.
Individuals in the chamber may sign up to testify with a staff member located at the
desk in the 8th floor lobby. Individuals at courtesy testimony sites may sign up with
staff at the site. Individuals participating remotely may sign up in the meeting chat. If
you are connected to the meeting by phone, you will automatically be added to the
testifier list. Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted
when it is their time to testify, individuals connected by videoconference should keep
both their video and microphones off and should turn it on only when it is their time to
testify.
Testimony is limited to the proposed Resolution 22-82, FD1.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 45
Individuals may testify for up to three minutes. When testifying, please state your name
and the name of any organization you represent as well as the items on which you will
be testifying. Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the public hearing can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media
Channel 53 or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from
the public hearing at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person to testify is Lisa Paulson, to be followed by a testifier with last
four digits of phone number, 0805.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paulson.
MS. LISA PAULSON. MAUI HOTEL & LODGING ASSOCIATION:
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. PAULSON: Aloha, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. My name is Lisa Paulson,
I'm the Executive Director of the Maui Hotel & Lodging Association, and 1 am a paid
lobbyist. I'm here today to testify on the RPT rates and we do want to recognize and
appreciate the hard work that was put into the Maui County's Fiscal Year 22 - 23
budget.
We just want to restate today, our request for a more equitable share of property taxes
across all classifications. We are concerned with the creating of an unsustainable
budget with a proposed 54.9 percent of the RPT revenues generated from the visitor
accommodation sector for Fiscal Year 22 - 23. If we are looking at diversifying our
economy, urn, the current trajectory of tax revenues will be unsustainable with an
overreliance on the visitor industry tax revenues. We are just, ah, we believe it's
prudent to set up our County's future to be sustainable, and we would respectfully
request that you look at equitable real property taxes.
Urn, the rest of my testimony has been stated before, but this year's assessed values
for Hotels, Time Shares and Short-Term Rentals have increased by 2.1 billion and will
provide 235 million in tax revenue for Maui County. This is an additional $25 million
from last year. We have heard that, that we need to be, you know, level with other
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 46
RPT classifications across the County and the State, but if that is to be considered we
would ask that other classifications come up to par with those counties. Right now, the
Maui County visitor industry provides 54.9 percent of RPT versus Kauai at 40.4, City
& County of Honolulu at 14 percent, and Hawaii at 3.3. I did attach an exhibit showing
this, um, to my testimony and I would just respectfully request again that a more
equitable tax rate across all classification be considered at some point in the future, if
not today. Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Clarifying questions? If not, thank you very
much. Ms. Paulson.
MS. PAULSON: Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is calling from the last 4 digits of telephone 0805.
To be followed by Pamela Tumpap.
PHONE 0805:
Hello there. I am not testifying, I just wanted to call in. I own a short-term rental and I
just wanted to listen in on others who are testifying.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Pamela Tumpap. To be followed by Robin Knox.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP. MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE:
Aloha, Vice-Chair Lee, excuse me. Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
and Members of the County Council. Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony
today on the real property taxes. And we appreciate all of your efforts through the
budget process. This is a fast-moving process and it's hard to keep up, to be honest,
watching all of the different levels. So, we hope the public is finding the data, I know
it's being published in a couple places, but not having much time to review it.
But we do want to mention how appreciative we are that you have recognized that we
are still transitioning from COVID, and that there are uncertain times and we're still
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27. 2022
Page 47
wondering whether the pandemic is over or not. And so given that, the rates for
commercial and industrial, we sincerely appreciate that the Council and Mayor propose
lowering these rates and tiers to ensure businesses are not paying more this year,
given the valuation increases. Many of our small businesses are still in recovery from
the pandemic and not out of the woods yet. We're seeing, you know, COVID cases
rising, worker shortages and there's an acknowledgement that Omicron XE variant
exists in Hawaii. So this break will help them to sustain their operations this year.
In terms of timeshare, we appreciate the support that timeshares are kept level. We've
not heard any concerns on this from our members.
Agriculture, we appreciate the Council's support of reducing the rate. Ag's also having
a very hard time finding workers right now.
With commercialized residential we support the Council and Mayor keeping this rate
the same.
The. given the recognition that we've seen above, we do have some concerns and
comments on the rates for the following categories: with hotel and resort we
acknowledge that the Council is proposing a level hotel and resort rate. We feel the
Mayor's proposal better reflects the extreme valuation increase that the industry is
facing. They employee the largest number of employees on island and are critical to
our sustainability while we diversify our economy. Therefore, we feel they too should
see a reduction in the rates to best allow them to recover.
In short-term rentals, as we’ve shared before in the last property tax hearing, there is
a single rate now with the Council's proposal to $11.85 for all tiers. This unfairly hits
those with a lower valuation. Properties with the valuation up to one million have the
highest percent change and the rate is increasing by 74 percent, while the middle tier
increases by $0.70 and the highest tier in terms of property valuations of over
three million only increases by $0.65. So we support the Mayor's proposal to keep
these rates at the same level as last year.
And then usually when looking at raising taxes it's usually defined operations.
However, this year we have a higher carryover/savings than last year due to projects
that weren't completed because of workforce shortages. And so, we don't support tax
increases for those where you are seeking tax increases when there are significant
carryover/savings that can be utilized. At a time when we need to stabilize our
economy, fill worker positions, and diversify our economy, we want to maintain taxes
at a reduced or level position to help continue to maintain our existing industries, which
is critical to the goals that we all have. Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 48
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Tumpap. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very
much.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahaio.
CHAIR LEE: Mahaio.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Robin Knox. To be followed by Dick Mayer.
MS. ROBIN KNOX:
Aloha mai kakou. Good morning. Chair, and Vice-Chair, and Committee members.
Thank you for allowing me to testify. I'm sorry about my camera, I'm not sure what's
going on with that. I just would like to say I read a lot of the testimony that was, written
testimony that was submitted. And 1 just would like to give a different perspective. I
don't think that these considerations about property taxes are only about revenue. The
tax policy has many implications for our community, and one of the implications is that
when tax, property, real property taxes are very low compared to the rest of the country,
that we get a lot of investment from off-island buyers and you know, second or third
homes or vacation homes.
Someone else in the testimony said, oh well, you know, if we can't afford our vacation
short-term rental condo, then maybe less tourist will come and, you know, we might
not be able to afford our vacation rental condo, which is not their primary home. And
while all of those are not necessarily positive things, they're not necessarily negative
things for our community either. We know we have too much tourism. We know that
we have families that are going homeless or who feel threatened with homelessness
because there simply is not enough housing.
So, if these tax policies would result in less owner. Non Owner Occupied homes or if
they would reduce tourism even a little bit, 1 don't think that those are negative
consequences for our community. I think that those could be beneficial. So, I do
support the tax policy as proposed by the Council. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Knox. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Dick Mayer, and Mr. Mayer is the only one
remaining on the testifier list at this time.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 49
MR. DICK MAYER:
Thank you very much. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Good morning, Dick.
MR. MAYER: Good morning, everybody. It's been a while since i talked with you. I have
several comments on the tax proposal.
First, on the first category regarding homeowners. I notice that you have a $2.00
charge for residents which I think is appropriate. And but, the second item on that, the
second line with the $2.10 for those between one million and three million, that seems
very low. In other words, if somebody, let's say the difference between a $1 million
house and a $2 million house would mean that, on that, would be only the $100
increase. That's a very trivial amount. So, what I'm suggesting is that you take that
2.10 and put it halfway between the 2.10 and the 2.70. In other words, make it about
2.45, 2.50 would be a much more appropriate thing. Most of those homes are probably
owned by second homes by people on the mainland and at least it will give you a little
bit more revenue and probably not hurt many local families in that category.
You've seen recently the median prices of being 1.25 million, but most of those are
sales to wealthy people moving in here, not to our local residents. I think the average
local resident does not have a one and a quarter million-dollar home. So, I think it
would be appropriate to raise that.
The second item i want to comment is with regard to the hotel tax. Last year they got
an enormous benefit. I haven't ever heard them thank you for reducing their taxes.
So, when it looks like a percentage increase for the hotels valuations, that was most
appropriate, because most of them saw the ability to raise the rates that they are
charging customers from let's say $400 or $500 up to $800 or $900 at the hotels that
we're talking about in Wailea and Kaanapali. So,  Ido think it's appropriate to keep it
at that high rate even though the valuations have gone up, they still have not gone up
to the value of those hotels or anywhere near that. They are still well below that mark.
And with the last category with regards to Time Shares, 1 know you're challenged very
often on those. ! want to remind you that people who go to hotels, the hotel has to pay
in addition to the property tax, they have to pay income tax, transient accommodations
tax and GE tax. But people go to timeshare, they own the units. There is no income
tax, there is not GET tax and there is no TAT tax. They're getting the benefit of our
State government at enormously beneficial rates. So, 1 would urge you to keep that,
the timeshare rates at a much higher level to partially compensate for the fact that
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 50
these people are getting a free ride at the State level. And I want to thank you very
much for listening and wish you well in your endeavors right now.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, Dick. We have a question from Member Paltin.
(Councilmember Molina was excused from the meeting at 11:19 a.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Mayer for your testimony
today. I wasn't understanding what you said about the 2.10 being mostly second
homes for other folks. Because is that, are you trying to say that they are selling it and
it takes a year for it to get reclassified, because they wouldn't qualify if they don't, for
the Owner-Occupied, if they don't live here. So,  Idon't understand how it could be
second homes.
MR. MAYER: They may live here. And they may even live here now, but they are rather
wealthy people who moved here to be able to work remotely. And so many of those
people may be living actually on Maui, and they would be Owner-Occupied and they
would fall in that category. And so, I think an increasingly large number of people have
moved herefrom the mainland for that purpose. So,  Ithink the rate of $2.10 is probably
too low for that rather wealthy category. We're talking about people who own houses
up to $3 million. One way of doing it would be to change it, that category for, to
1.5 million to 3 million if you wish, but I do think it should be at a higher rate than the
2.10. That's only $100 extra per million valuation and that's really not a significant
difference between the person who owns an $800,000 house and a $2.5 million house.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay and just to clarify, are you meaning that they moved here
and they don't pay income taxes here or are you just meaning that they're like a
transplant person?
MR. MAYER: No, the reference to income taxes was to people in the timeshare units. People
in the timeshares buy a unit here, come here two weeks a year or their family members
do, and they don't have to pay any income tax. They don't have to pay any transient
accommodation tax because they own the place. And  Ibelieve they don't have to pay
GET tax because there's no money transacted there. They own the place. They're
just coming for their two weeks. So, they're getting a free ride on all the State services,
everything from education to our judicial system and many other parts.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But for the second tier of Owner-Occupied, they're residents
and they pay income tax even if they work remotely.
. . I was commenting about the income tax in that group.MR. MAYER: Yes.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 51
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Alright. Thank you.
MR. MAYER; Thanks for clarifying.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any more questions? If not, thank you very much, Dick. Good to
see you.
MR. MAYER: Good to see you all. Have a lovely weekend.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. You, too.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Jubilee Ellison, and Jubilee is the last, oh we
just had one more. To be followed by Thomas Croly.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Ellison.
MS. JUBILEE ELLISON:
Hi.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. ELLISON; Hello. Sorry. Thank you so much for the opportunity. I really appreciate it.
I mostly just wanted to voice-
CHAIR LEE; Can you state your name for the record, please?
MS. ELLISON: I'm sorry. Yes. My name is Jubilee Ellison, I'm an Upcountry Maui
constituent. I mostly would just like to voice my support for increasing the Non Owner
Occupied rates actually beyond the rates that they're at. I think it would be really
wonderful to see that rate be used as a disincentive for second home ownership on
Maui. And a disincentive for places not being used for long-term rentals if they are not
occupied. There are other examples of high value vacation destination places like, for
example, Telluride, Colorado, using property taxes on Non Owner Occupied homes to
disincentivize purchasing in those places as just one lever amongst many.
As one previous testifier mentioned, I think that, you know, the issues around property
taxes are not just about generating revenue, but also about creating a atmosphere
around our values here and supporting our community and being able to continue to
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 52
live on the island. And those of us that are active community members and are
contributing to our various civic systems, being, having a way to do so. So yeah, I
would love to see those rates, just like go sky high, if possible. And I just wanted to
communicate that value. Thank you so much for the consideration.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Anyone have a question. Members? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Thomas Croly, and at this time there's nobody
else signed up for testimony.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
MR. THOMAS CROLY;
Aloha, Council. Thomas Croly again on my own behalf. I wasn’t going to bother to
testify here because we all know the rates are set. There's no, there's not going to be
any change later in this meeting about the rates. You had to balance the budget and
you've done a good job of doing so and we know what the rates are. But there is policy
that is set in these rates, and everyone understands that to some degree.
However, the debate about that policy doesn't really occur outside of budget as I feel
that it should. Because we're making decisions about policy in the middle of budget
where your concern at that moment is balancing the budget and you're throwing, you
know, an extra $0.50 onto one rate and maybe reducing another rate and so forth. But
then the question is, what policy are we setting? And are we achieving the goals that
we might be wanting to set out with that policy? And I'm going to give you an example
of one of the ones that I think you're not going to see the result or the goal, the policy
goal that you are shooting for.
A few years ago you set up the tiers and the tiers are designed to tax those with higher
value properties at a higher rate, and you're doing that to some extent in the Owner-
Occupied category. But as Dick Mayer pointed out, $0.10 per thousand is nothing.
You are not using that tier. That is irrelevant.  A$100 more per $1 million is not going
to change anything policy-wise, and for the person owning that value home it doesn't
matter. And then at the top of the tier you have the homeowner rates set at $2.71, yet
the Non Owner Occupied rate in that same tier is $12.50.
So I want to, 1 want you to understand the policy that you're setting. You are saying
I’m going to give the person who lives here with the house that's valued at more than
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 53
$3 million a $10,00 subsidy to their property tax. Just looking at the top value one in
that class, $16 million, you're giving one individual a reduction in their tax of $165,000
because they say they live here. And I’ve heard that maybe they don't anyway, but
this isn't about an individual. But the point is, as a policy, you’re saying if you live here,
and you are very, very rich, we're going to give you a huge, huge reduction in your
property taxes. And if you don't live here, we're going to charge you more.
But I don't think that you've thought through these policy decisions fully. Dick brought
up some points about it, the last testifier brought up some points about it, and I would
encourage you to have this discussion about policy outside of the budget. Schedule it
as an item and look at it from a very broader perspective.
I want to correct one thing Lisa Paulson said. Lisa said that 60 percent or 58.5 percent
of your revenue, tax revenues are coming from the visitor industry. She's only counting
the Short-Term Rentals and the Hotels and the Time Shares and the bed and
breakfasts in that. But as we've already discussed your second homeowners are
counted as visitors. And it's the largest growing group of visitors on this island; okay?
And as Dick and some others have pointed out, those are the folks who are not
necessarily ... let me just finish that thought, to the broader sense. And if you include
those in yourtax revenues this year, you're getting 83 percent ofyourtotal real property
taxation from visitors, and that's a policy decision in and of itself.
So, I think you need to have that discussion outside of budget about how this
distribution should go, without talking about rates, but just, what are the goals we're
trying to accomplish and how can we accomplish them through real property tax policy.
Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Tom. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you very
much.
MR. CROLY; I gave you way too much to think about there. Aloha
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier signed up is Cara Flores.
MS. CARA FLORES:
Aloha. Can you hear me?
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 54
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Yes, we can.
MS. FLORES; Thank you. I just want to testify that--
CHAIR LEE: Could you, could you state your name for the record, please?
MS. FLORES; Cara Flores. Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
MS. FLORES: I wanted to testify that I appreciate the budget debate and the tax rate debate
this year, and I support what's proposed here. I do really want to emphasize how much
I appreciate the fact that we have a long-term or long-term rental exemption class now,
and that is very helpful in making policy in trying to separate out second home
ownership especially. And I would like to see a lot more encouragement for landlords
to utilize that and see a lot more people use that exemption.
And I will say, I'm guilty of not using it yet, so, and that's because my property taxes
on my other property are so low that I really just didn't get around to doing the
paperwork. And I'm going to do it and have it for next year. But I do think a lot of
people don't know about it, and for me, it will save a little bit of money, but for some
people who have more expensive properties it will save quite a bit. So, I would like to
see our Councilmembers get the word out more to landlords, because I think once
there's better utilization of that long-term rental exemption, it will be a lot easier to pass
higher property taxes on the uses we want to see less of.
I'd also like to see a higher tier for the very expensive properties because we have so
many billionaires. I think we could go with one more higher tier, say like $10 million
and up and really just tax the heck out of it cause those people can afford it. And if
they don't want to pay it, they can live somewhere else. We don't need huge luxury
properties taking up all the land in our County. So that's it. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Member Paltin has a question. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, now we can.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 55
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Flores for your testimony.
I don't know if, 1 know it's a clarifying question, but I don't know if you want to answer
it. So, if you don't it's okay with me. But even though you didn't apply for the long-term
exemption, and you're having long-term renters, you still pay GE tax on the income
from the long-term renters?
MS. FLORES: Well, so now I have a family member living in there, but yes, we do. So, right
now the rent is lower than the cost because it's  afamily member on social security so,
not much. But yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, the GE isn't much, the GE tax, you're saying, cause the
rate is low?
MS. FLORES: Yeah. So, when I had, we used to have  aHUD tenant in there, brought in a
lot of income obviously, so.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, and, and you believe that most people are paying that
GET tax so it's okay to raise the Non Owner Occupied and push folks over to that long
term is what you're trying to say?
MS. FLORES: I have heard people worry that there's a lot of long-term rentals that are not
paying GE tax, GET tax. I don't know that we can really evaluate that without enough
people knowing about this long-term rental exemption. And obviously, if they are not
paying taxes on purpose and their property tax rate doesn't give them enough savings,
maybe they will choose not to use the exemption.
But I think most people are not using the exemption right now more because they don't
know about it. Because when I talk to members of the community, a lot of people aren't
even aware that that got passed. And so 1 think there needs to be a lot better publicity
that exists, and that people should utilize it, and then you can really evaluate. Because
if you get thousands of people who start utilizing it, then maybe it's not a problem. We
definitely don't want to push out renters or inadvertently increase people's rent or to try
to compensate for that if they're not paying their appropriate taxes right now, but yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
MS. FLORES: I think right now there . . . information because there's not enough people
utilizing the program.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, 1 think I understand what you were trying to say. Thank
you, Ms. Flores. Thank you. Chair.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 56
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Flores.
Madam Clerk.
MS.FLORES: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. If anyone has not testified
but would like to do so, please identify yourself now.
Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have received written
testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the record
and to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS PUBLIC HEARING:
Lisa H. Paulson, Maui Hotel & Lodging Association;
Ron Becht;
Victoria Bianchetti;
Barb Bryson;
Mary Drayer;
Christy Fernandez;
Joy Galatro, Pacific Biodiesel;
Trent Harris;
Ui'lani Kapu;
Leslie Knoles;
Mary Reppun;
Faye Taylor;
Hau'oli Thielk;
Dale Thompson;
Jessica and Paul Van Stone; and
Viktoria, Green Leaf Dwellings.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
CHAIR LEE: So. ordered.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the resolution.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 57
CHAIR LEE: Please note that there, Madam Clerk, please note that Member Molina is
excused. So, there are three people excused. Members King, Molina, and Sinenci.
So, that was six ayes and three excused. Okay, please proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with the resolution.
RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-82. FD1
ADOPTING THE REAL PROPERTY TAX RATES
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI,
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2022
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE BUDGET, FINANCE, AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER
CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION 22-82.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Temp Kama to
discharge the BFED Committee from further consideration of Resolution 22-82.
Discussion?
Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Maui County Code Section 3.48.565B
states after the public hearing provided for in Subsection A, the Council should
readvertise and reconvene within three weeks to adopt the resolution fixing the tax
rates and tiers for the tax year for which property tax revenues are to be raised.
Today's public hearing is that reconvened meeting. Mahalo.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 58
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any further discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. PALTIN,
SUGIMURA, KAMA. VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING, MOLINA, AND
SINENCI.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Six "ayes", three "excused". Motion carries. Alright.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I  MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-82 IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by Pro Temp Kama to waive
the requirement of committee referral and report for Resolution 22-82 in accordance
with Rule 7.G. of the Rules of the Council.
Discussion? Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, as stated during the
discussion of the discharge request, the resolution is to be adopted at the reconvened
meeting. In addition. Section 3.48.565.B., Maui County Code also states, if the
resolution fixing the tax rates and tiers is not adopted within three weeks from the public
hearing required by Subsection A the Council must again advertise and meet as
required by Subsection A. Mahalo, Chair.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 59
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion, Members? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, PALTIN,
SUGIMURA, KAMA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING, MOLINA, AND
SINENCI.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", three "excused". Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-82, FD1, ENTITLED
"ADOPTING THE REAL PROPERTY TAX RATES FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI, EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2022".
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez, second by Pro Temp Kama to adopt
the Resolution 22-82, FD1, entitled "ADOPTING THE REAL PROPERTY TAX RATES
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI, EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2022".
Discussion? Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, as a reminder the vote
today is to approve or disapprove the real property tax rates that were posted for the
public hearing. We are unable to amend the rates as they are posted. To summarize,
your Committee's recommendations for the real property tax changes for Fiscal
Year 2023:
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 60
Owner-Occupied changed amounts for tiers from FY 22 and Mayor's proposal:
Tier 1: up to 1,000,000 set as $2.00
Tier 2: 1,000,001 to 3,000,000 set at 2.10
Tier:3; more than $3,000,000 set at 2.71
Non Owner Occupied changed amounts for tiers from FY 22 and Mayor's proposal:
Tierl: up to 1,000,000 set at 5.85
Tier 2: 1,000,001 to 4.5 million set at $8.00
Tier 3: more than 4.5 million set at 12.50
Apartment from 5.55 to 3.50
Hotel and Resort remained at 11.75
Time Share remained at $4.60 [sic], as recommended by the Mayor
Short-Term Rental set at 11.85 for all tiers
Long-Term Rental change amount from the tiers from the Mayor's proposal:
Tierl: up to 1,000,000 set at $3.00
Tier 2: $1,000,001 to 3,000,000 set at $5.00
Tier 3: more than 3,000,000 set at $8.00
Agricultural from 5.94 to 5.74
Conservation remained at $6.43 as recommended by the Mayor
Commercial from 6.29 to 6.05
Industrial from 7.20 to 7.05 as recommended by the Mayor
Commercialized Residential remained at 4.40, also as recommended by the Mayor
It really was a wonderful that this Council was so aligned in its shared goals of providing
tax relief to our residents this year, and it's reflected in this real property tax rates.
Mahalo, Members, for the collaboration and the excellent and hard work. I ask for the
Members continued support of this resolution. Mahalo, Chair.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 61
CHAIR LEE: Are there any more comments or discussions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair.
I just wanted to clarify if it was internet connection, or I heard 4.60 for Time Shares.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yeah, I'm sorry if there was a glitch.
Time Share remained at 14.60, as recommended by the Mayor. Mahalo, Member
Paltin. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Alright. No further comments or questions.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, Chair is absolutely right, we're here today
to approve this resolution and the budget. Our budget was balanced based upon these
rates. I would like to suggest to the different people or businesses that are affected by
this to maybe appear during our deliberation process so that we can hear comments
and suggestions before we make the rates because  Ithink it's important. And I, I, the
voices from the visitor industry speaks very loudly to me. During the budget process I
tried to find a compromise so that their rate would not be what it is today, but was not
successful because 1 realize that we have such a heavy reliance on the visitor industry.
And in the long run there's an off balance with the different, with our different categories
because it's so heavy in that direction, although  Iunderstand why. But I just would like
to state that we need to be vigilant in terms of what we're doing realistically as
sometimes policy and our actions should be more balanced.
So, I support this resolution. We, we decided on it before today. So, the people in the
public who have spoken, I hear you. Mr. Mayer, Tom Croly, Lisa Paulson, all of you
who have given us thoughts maybe as thoughts that we can talk about for the future,
but your voices are not going unheard. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member, Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. So, I just wanted to, to say, I, I am in full
support of this, of this resolution. And Member Sugimura is right, we worked long, we
worked hard, we, we went back and forth and forth and back and in and out and up
and down and around and around, but in the end, you know, we come out with
something that we all say yes to, and this is why we can say yes today to this resolution.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 62
I also would like to ask our Budget Chair to consider what Mr. Croly said, about maybe
taking up some policy issues outside of budget so we can really take a deeper dive
and looking into, you know, what we've heard today and come out with something that
is maybe a little bit more balanced according to others and, you know, get a deeper
dive and longer thought processes for all of us to come out with something we can
really lift our drinks to next year. So, thank you, Chair. Thank you, Budget Chair.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I'm going to echo the sentiment of my
fellow Councitmembers, that I'm in full support of this resolution. I kind of want, you
know, we talk about policy and the, the idea behind a lot of policy making. One of my
strong stances is the idea of tax fairness and being fair during taxes. And taxes, tax
fairness does not mean that everyone is treated equally. Tax fairness is that
everyone's needs are being met. And if you have a big house or large property value
hotel then that means you can pay more because some people's needs are not being
me and that's fair.
So, when we, the lens that I saw it through this tax season was that our brothers and
sisters down at Amala Place, are their needs being met? Are those people out at
Cut Mountain on the West side, are their needs being met? Are our homeless shelters,
are affordable, people looking for affordable housing, are their needs being met?
Because I can see that the, the, the beaches are full of tourists and their needs are
being met. So, l‘m just wondering about how, you know, that's kind of why I, I was
standing with, you know, that's where a lot of my vision came from in support of this,
of this resolution.
So, I want to thank everybody who worked hard. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Vice-
Chair. Thank you, all, and I look forward to taking the lessons we learned from this
budget, and next budget, maybe like what Mr. Croley was saying, yeah, that is, that's,
that made sense to me. So, I like the idea of talking about policy throughout the year
and about talking about the rates throughout the year because again, it has to be fair
and fair is that if your needs are being met. So, thank you, Chair. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Anybody else?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. You know, from my discussion, I just want
to say that this Robert's Rules format of conducting meetings and making decisions,
to me it sucks because, you know, we can't exchange ideas with our constituents and
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 63
our testifiers and talk things out as part of this process. And then the Sunshine Law
prevents us from getting together and talking story together with our constituents. So,
I feel like, you know, there's not the good opportunity to exchange ideas and give
feedbacks.
Sometimes the reasons we vote the way we do or the things we do are because of
reasons that the testifiers don’t know. And through the process of public testimony,
we're not allowed, or we're not supposed to answer questions or explain ourselves,
they're only allowed to tell us what they think, and we're only supposed to ask them
clarifying questions. And I, to me that hamstrings us or if that's the right word, like
limits the dialogue and I think the communication and the dialogue is what helps us to
make better policy and helps us to be the best decision makers that we can be for our
constituents and residents.
And I mean, of course, you can say, oh, well you could have individual conversations
with each testifier. But, you know, some folks said that this was supposed to be a part-
time job, and we've got kids and all of that and so, I mean, to have individual
conversations with each individual person and then have the rest of the community not
know what the individual conversation was is really unrealistic. So, I think that, you
know, this system or the process that gets put upon us, or that we've chosen to do
Robert Rules and to do the Sunshine Law, I understand the reasoning behind it, but I
don't think the process allows for the best outcome that could possibly be. Because I
think that the best outcome comes from more public discussion, more transparency,
which we're not allowed to do because of the Sunshine Law and the Robert's Rule
process. I want to say everything I have to say before the final reading, so there's
more to come, but at this point, what I'm prepared to say is that Robert's Rules and the
Sunshine Law in its current format sucks.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Before I take the vote, I’m going to. Madam Clerk, call, I want you to do roll call
on the voter. For myself, I agree with you, Member Paltin. I thought the process was
rather rigid, and 1 agree with Tom Croly in that perhaps the next time we need to be
more focused because we were all over the map. You know? it's like nine priorities
instead of one or two, and really, along with tourism management we were supposed
to focus on diversification, and that we didn't really do that. So that's something is set
for another time, the next time, and hopefully we will be able to achieve that in the next,
next session.
But roll call.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 64
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember, oh, I'm sorry.
Roll call for item Reso 22-82, FD1.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE, WITH RESERVATIONS.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 27, 2022
Page 65
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that's five "ayes", six "ayes", one with reservations; three "excused";
and zero "noes".
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Motion passes.
COUNTY CLERK; Motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, PALTIN,
SUGIMURA, KAMA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING, MOLINA. AND
SINENCl.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Members, there are no further business before the Council. The time is
approximately 11:52 a.m., and this meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The public hearing of April 27, 2022, was adjourned by the Chair on MAY 13, 2022, at
11:52 a.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
220513ph;dy:jm
Count^^leiJ<
Michael Williams <michaelwilliams@pueofarm.com>
Monday, April 25, 2022 2:09 PM
County Clerk
Memo re property tax issues from Michael Williams—testimony for public hearing 4/27
2022 Selected RP Statistics for FY 23 Budget-cover, TOC, p 3--4-19-22.pdf; Brief Memo
on Real Property Taxes for FY 2023.docx; hta-march-2022-hawaii-hotels-performance-
final.pdf; hawaii-hotei-performance-report-12-2019.pdf; hta-december-2021-hawaii-
hotels-performance.pdf; Best Places to Invest in Vacation Rentals 2021-22 AirDNA
2-8-22.pdf
From:
Sent;
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
IYou don't often get email from michaelwiliiams@pueofarm.com. Learn why this is important
From: Michael Williams
Sent: Monday, April 25, 2022 1:57 PM
To: BFED.committee@mauicounty.us
Cc: keani.rawiins@gmail.com; Sarah D. Pajimola <sarah.pajimola@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Memo re property tax issues from Michael Williams
Aloha kakou.
I am attaching a brief memo regarding several propety tax issues. I plan to testify on these at the pubic hearing
Wednesday evening. Please call if you have questions. 808-264-4884.
<=»c:
O '●●●' 733a-
-o mS3z c.) Orv>
oo r»
Tirn H
oyJ
NO
1
Brief Memo on Real Property Taxes for FY 2023
To the Maui County Council
From Michael Williams
April 25, 2022
1. Maui County has more real estate wealth per capita than anv of the other three counties in the
state} In fact, using that measure, and remembering that every other municipality in this country that
levies property taxes must share that tax base with the state and often other municipalities or school
districts, Maui County is probably the wealthiest county in the country based on real estate wealth per
capita. In Hawaii, the real estate wealth can be taxed only by the counties.
2. Specifically, according to the certified values released by the Real Property Assessment Division
today,^ the total assessed and taxable real property value in the county this year is lust under $60
billion. Not surprisingly, given the insatiable global demand for vacations and second homes on Maui.
60% of that real estate wealth. $36 billion, is invested in visitor accommodations—that is, places where
visitors can spend the night, but where no resident sleeps: hotels and resorts, timeshares, short term
rentals, and second homes.
3. Maui County has the most valuable hotel rooms in the country, let alone in Hawaii, and nearly the
most valuable on the planet:
"In 2019. Maui County hotels led HawaH's four island counties in RevPAR at $310
(+5.8%). with ADR at $399 (+3.4%) and occupancy of 77.7 percent (+1.7 percentage points).
O'ahu hotels earned higher RevPAR of 3203 compared to 2018 (+2.5%), with ADR at $241
(+2.0%) and occupancy of 84.2 percent (+0.4 percentage points).
"When compared to international "sun and sea" destinations, Hawai'i's counties ranked
among the top 10 markets for RevPARl during 2019. Hotels in French Polynesia ranked highest
in RevPAR at $393 (+7.3%), followed by Maldives at $356 (-0.2%). Maui County ranked third.
with Kaua'i, the island of Hawai'i, and O'ahu ranked fifth, sixth, and seventh, respectively (Figure
6). French Polynesia also led in ADR at $566 (+2.9%), followed by Maldives at $542 (+1.8%).
Maui County ranked third, with Kaua'i, the island of Hawai'i, and O'ahu ranked sixth, seventh,
and eighth, respectively (Figure 7)."3
"In 2021. Maui Countv hotels led the counties in December and achieved RevPAR that
surpassed December 2019. RevPAR was $501 (+289.2% vs. 2020, +20.9% vs. 2019). with ADR at
$736 (+47.2% vs. 2020. +36.0% 2019)
^ See chart ???, below.
^ "Selected Real Property Statistics for budget Consideration, FY 2022-23, at p 3.
https://www.mauicounty.gov/DocumentCenter/View/133152/2022'Selected-Real-Property-StatisticS'for-Budget-
Consideration-handout-for-Council-Mayors-Proposed-rates?bidld=
^ See 2019 Hawaii Tourism Authority hotel Performance reports, at pp. 2, attached.
O'ahu hotels reported RevPAR of $212 (+386.6% vs. 2020, -11.3% vs. 2019) in
December. ADR at $282 (+53.6% vs. 2020, -1.7% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 75.0 percent (+51.3
percentage points vs. 2020, -8.1 percentage points vs. 2019)/
4. Maui County has the most valuable short term rental units in the country.
"High Occupancy, very strong revenue growth from 2020, and high Investabilitv earn Maui to
the too soot forAirbnb investments in 2022. Known as "The Valley Isle", Maui is the second-largest
Hawaiian island beloved for its world famous beaches, views of migrating humpback whales, and radiant
golden hour views. If you're buying rental property in Hawaii, Lahaina and Wailuku are the hot markets
for investment according to our investor score, but almost all areas on the island score high on our list
for 2022. The average full time rental property in Maui earns $102K per year with an Average Daily Rate
of $375."^
5. Maui County has the most valuable timeshare units in the country if you measure value by the
exchange rate premium Maui resort weeks get over weeks at other timeshare resorts.
6. Yet, Maui Countv has iust about the lowest orooertv tax rate on real property used as visitor
accommodations in the country. The total real property tax (RPT) revenue to be generated by the
Mayor's proposed tax rates on these four visitor accommodation property classes is $328.8 million.
That amounts to only 0.055% of that total value. Were the entire Visitor Accommodation sector taxed
at a flat 1.5% rate ($15.00/$1000), the RPT revenue would be $560 million+, 80% larger.
7. To look at it another way, each $1.00/$1.000 increase = $1 million revenue per $1 billion in value.
Since the total assessed value of NOOs is $15.5 billion, each $1 rate increase will generate $15.5
million in revenue. The mayor proposes a blended rate across all three value tiers of only $6.61. Were
that raised to just $8.81 on average, the additional tax revenue would be $31 million.
8. To the extend the Council needs to generate more revenue than proposed by the Mayor, it should
consider raising tax rates on one or more of the Visitor Accommodation classes. For example, the
Budget Chair proposes to increase the homeowner exemption from $200,000 to$300,000. There are
27,874 00 parcels this year. Taking the Mayor's blended rate of $2.34, the new exemption will save
every homeowner $234.00. When multiplied by the number of 00 parcels, the increased exemption
would decrease RPT revenue from the 00 class by $5,820,000. A $0.33 increase in the NOO rate would
pay for that tax break for homeowners.
9. Special considerations regarding the property tax rate for hotels on Maui. Let's compare Oahu rates
to Oahu RevPAR. Hotels on Oahu regularly earn only about half the room rates as Maui hotels.
See 2021 Hawaii Tourism Authority hotel Performance reports, at p. 1-2, attached.
^ AirDNA report: Best Places to Invest in Vacation Rentals 2021-22, at pp 6-7, attached.
Maui hotels' fear campaign against the property tax hike is a scam. Its claims of future financial distress
are contrary to all the available evidence. The hotels say they can't afford more taxes but provide zero
evidence, let alone their financial statements. In early June 2019, the hotel industry mounted a public
campaign to try to get the Council to rescind the modest increase in the property tax rate from $9.37 to
$11.00. The hotel owners claim the increase will cause them to lay off workers, halt expansion plans,
and reduce their charitable giving. They scare their workers with these claims, but they offer no
evidence, none. They certainly do not reveal their revenue and expense statements for each
property. The available evidence shows they can easily afford the increase.
Many of the same international corporate conglomerates who operate hotels here also operate hotels
on O’ahu. The Hawaii Tourism Authority collects and publishes revenue data. This revenue data show
that the proposed new Maui hotel RPT rate is well below any level that could hurt the hotels financially,
let alone cause any of the dire consequences they threaten.
The two most accepted measures of a hotel's ability to generate income are called "revenue per
available room" (RevPAR), and "average daily room rate" (ADR). In 2019, the Oahu RevPAR was $200,
and its ADR was $238. The RPT rate was $12.90. It is easy to calculate an objective measure of the hotel
property tax burden per revenue dollar. Divide 12.90 by 200 = 6.5%; or divide 12.90 by 238 = 5.4%. The
Oahu hotels have been thriving in the last few years--many expansions, property transactions, new long
term union contracts. An RPT burden of 5.4 % to 6.5 % is obviously not a problem for the O'ahu hotels.
Maui's 2019 RevPAR was $292; its ADR was $385. Its new RPT rate is only $11.00, so Maui hotels' tax
burden is between 2.9 % and 3.8 %. iust about half as hiah as Oahu's.
In the most recent Hotel Performance Report, for March 2022, Maui County hotels led the counties in
March and achieved RevPAR that surpassed March 2019. RevPAR was $465 ... with ADR at $632 .
Oahu's performance in March 2022: O'ahu hotels reported RevPAR of $181,and ADR at $244.
If Maui's hotel RPT burden was set at 5.4% of ADR, Maui hotels could pay an RPT rate of $15.77; at 6.5%
of RevPAR, they could pay $18.98 and would be in no more financial distress than the Oahu hotels have
been the last few years, which is, no financial distress.
To claim otherwise, against the evidence, is a scam.
People say, the hotel workers will oppose such an increase in taxes on hotels, for fear the hotels cannot
remain profitable. The available evidence shows this fear, though quite natural, is not grounded in fact.
And why should Oahu's rate be thought of as fair? It is probably not as high as the hotels could actually
afford. But we know the Oahu hotels are thriving, so the ratio of RPT rate to room rates is not
unreasonably high.
The other property tax payers on Maui are being treated unfairly by the unjustified light tax rates given
to the corporate owners of the most valuable hotels in the country. These global-corporate-investor-
owned commercial enterprises are not paying their fair share for worker housing, roads, parks, and
emergency services.
9. The Timeshare Litigation should be eliminated in the future bv making Hotel and Timeshare rates
equal.
In the past several years, hundreds of Timeshare owners have filed appeals of their property taxes on
the ground that since timeshare resorts are the same use of property as hotels, they should be charged
the same RPT rate. This year, Maui's Timeshare rate is $14.60. The Mayor has proposed keeping it the
same for FY 2023.
What the council can do to fix both of these problems for next year, is raise the hotel rate to $15.00, and
raise the Timeshare rate to $15.00 also. This higher tax rate is still just 1.5% per year.
10. Make some adjustments to the LTR class, in June and July, after the budget sessions are over.
a. Many property owners classed as Non-Owner Occupied but who have legitimate long term
tenants in their rental property, perhaps several thousand, did not file for the new Long Term
Rental classification by the 12/31/22 deadline, which gives them a $200,000 exemption, same as
homeowners, and a lower tax rate than parcels in the Non-Owner Occupied class. This may be
because they just weren't aware of the new policy, or that they thought the $200,000
exemption wasn't worth the hassle of filing the needed documentation (at this year's NOO Tier
1 RPT rate of $5.45, the exemption would save them 200 x 5,45 = $1090, or about $90/mo.
However next year, if the rate for NOOs were, say, double to $11.00/$1000, while the rate for
the new LTR class was kept at 5.45, they would save $2200 in taxes with the exemption, and
another $600 for every hundred thousand dollars their property exceeded $200,000 in
value. Under this scenario, a parcel worth $800,000 with a long term tenant would pay 600 x
5.45 = $3,270 in taxes as an LTR, but 800 x 11 = $8,800—a difference of $5,530—much more of
an incentive to file the documentation proving genuine LTR use. The council can grant these
legitimate landlords a grace period, a roll back of the new higher taxes for FY 23 if they can show
they are eligible for the LTR class with documents filed by, say, 12/1/22.
b. Another possible reason many legitimate LTR landlords did not file for the new LTR class is
that to qualify, the owner had to file a copy of  a12-month lease with a tenant, and many
landlords don't have written leases, or have tenant turnover during the year. The current LTR
rules do not allow an owner to qualify without the same tenant for the full year. These rules can
be modified to account for such tenant turnover, and also applied retroactively if the owner can
document it.
c. Yet another reason some many legitimate LTR landlords did not file for the new LTR class is
that they did not declare their rental income for state GE tax or income tax, and they feared
detection. The current rules do not require landlords to file such tax payments proof, but they
should
To help the preparty owners who could have qualified as LTR but who didn't file the paperwork, the
council should pass an ordinance that allows a one year grace period to landlords of long term
resident renters who were eligible but failed to apply for the LTR class by 12/31/21. The latest edirion
of the Maui County Databook (2020) says there were 21,455 renter-occupied housing units in Maui
County. Many of these rental housing units are on Owner-Occupied parcels, which are slated to get an
extra $100,000 exemption I they file proof, but this exemption is worth only $234.00 per year in
property tax savings, perhaps not enough to incentivize such claim, especially if the landlords are nit
reporting those rent receipts for GET and income taxes
The Council should also consider allowing a property owner to qualify for the LTR class if the unit in
question was rented or available as a long term rental during the entire year of 2021 even if no single
tenant had a 12 month lease for the entire calendar year. If the landlord is letting to a new tenant, the
landlord may be reluctant to give the new tenant  a12 month lease until they get to know them better.
Also, when a tenant moves out, there may be a time gap before the next tenant can move in—if the
home was available to rent ling term the whole year, then such gaps in occupancy should be excused.
The Council can let the Real Property Tax division write regulations to handle these situations.
11. Set the tier thresholds in the NOO. 00. STR. and LTR classes so that all homes valued above the
median value in any class fall into tier 3. then divide those at or below the median into rouahiv two
equal sized groups as tiers 1 and 2. Within these four tiered classes, there are a total of just under
62,000 parcels. The Mayor's proposed plan puts 48,000 of them, 77%, into tier 1. The council should
reconfigure the tier thresholds, so tier 3 has the top 49%, tier 2 the 26-51% value range, and tier  1the
bottom quarter.
We provide an example of the effect of such tier thresholds and tax rates on the STR class below in
Chart 2.
12. This Council, in the oast three years, sometimes over the Mayor's veto, has created the most
flexible and oroaressive set of real property tax oolicies in the country:
a. It has refined, sharpened, and renamed the various property types with dwellings or visitor
accommodations into a discrete set of seven classes defined by the property's use: Hotel and Resort
(HR), Timeshare (TS), Short Term Rental (STR), Commercialized Residential (CR+B&Bs), Long Term Rental
(LTR), Non-Owner Occupied (NOO), and Owner-Occupied (00). Any parcel zoned Ag but with a dwelling
should be classified as either 00, NOO, or LTR.
b. Within the property classes with the largest number of parcels with housing units, the council
created three value tiers, so the tax rate can rise with ability to pay.
c. It has created a new class for FY 2022 called Long Term Rental, which allows owners of homes
who rent them out to residents to be placed in their own property class, with a lower tax rate and a
$200,000 exemption (just like 00 parcels) they would not get had they stayed in the NOO class. Now
only genuine second homes will be in the NOO class-second homes owned and occupied occasionally
by their visiting owners or their friends and relatives^.
d. In addition to the Circuit Breaker rules already in place, to ease the burden of high RPT for low
income homeowners, the council also created a way for families who have inherited long-held legacy
parcels but who are being taxed off the property, called the 'Aina Kupuna" exception.
Data Charts
Chart 1: Comparing County Real Estate Wealth Per Capita
County Population Total Assessed Value Value per capita
$44.1 billion
$279.3 billion
$26.5 billion
$59.4 billion
Hawaii County
Honolulu/Oahu
Kauai
Maui
$21.8 million
$25.0 million
$31.5 million
$35.6 million
202,000
963,000
73,000
165,000
Chart 2: Example of adjusting tier thresholds
For the class at issue {here we use STRs as an example^), the Council should consider setting tier
thresholds. The mayor's proposed budget crowds Tier 1 with 8,689 STR parcels in Tier 1 (63%), and only
1,734 in Tier 3 (13%). The council should consider setting the tier thresholds as follows.
There are 13,744 parcels in the STR class. That means the median value should be somewhere around
parcel number 6,872 in the full spreadsheet. The value of that parcel is $690,XXX. In order to have the
threshold set at a round number, we picked $700,000 as the top of Tier 2, starting tier 3 at $701,000.
That puts 6,568 parcels in tier 3 (48%) with all of them worth more than the median value.
® However, many thousands of genuine LTR owners did not file the necessary documents to receive that new
classification. Only 2,369 property owners filed as LTRs—when there are likely somewhere over 20,000 rental
households in the county.
^ According to RPAD, they have not yet posted the live version of the master TMK final parcel value spreadsheet for
the NOO class for FY 2023. RPAD published the preliminary parcel value spreadsheets for each RPT class on April
6. But the parcel count for NOOs was over 3,000 higher in the 4/6 data than in the 4/19 release, while the parcel
counts in the other three tiered classes were the same on both dates. Therefore, we are unable at the present to
run test tier values on the NOO class.
That leaves 13,744-6,568=7,186 parcels in tiers 1 and 2. The parcel in the middle of that list would be
number 3,593. Using the most convenient round number nearby, when we pick $500,000 as the
dividing line, then there are 3,545 parcels in tier 2 (27%) and 3,638 in tier 1 (25%).
The program we are using allows us to immediately calculate the total assessed values for each of the
new test tier thresholds:
STR class with test tier thresholds of $500,000 and $700,000:
Parcel count Total Experiment assessed value Mayor's tier values
Tier3(701k+)
Tier 2 (501-700k)
Tierl(0-500k)
$10,053,000,000
$2,100,000,000
Si,303.000.000
$2,867,000,000
$1,982,000,000
$8,606,000,000
6,561
3,545
3,638
$13,456,000,00013,744
Again, the virtue of setting tier thresholds this way is that all the parcels with values above the median
for that class are In tier 3.
jnt
COUNTY OF MAUI
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
REAL PROPERTY ASSESSMENT DIVISION
I:
SELECTED REAL PROPERTY
STATISTICS FOR BUDGET
CONSIDERATION
Fiscal Year 2022-2023
County OF Maui Real Property Assessment Division
SELECTED REAL PROPERTY STATISTICS FOR
BUDGET CONSIDERATION
FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023
TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE(S)
TAX RATE HISTORY - BY CLASSIFICATION 1
TAX RATE COMPARISON BY COUNTY 2
SUMMARY OF TAXABLE PROPERTIES - FY22 vs. FY23 3
MAUI COUNTY REVENUE SOURCES 4
CERTIFIED REVENUE FOR BUDGET HISTORY 5
CERTIFIED REVENUE BY CLASS HISTORY 6
CERTIFIED VALUE BY CLASS HISTORY 7
GIS MAP OF COUNCIL DISTRICTS 8
COUNCIL DISTRICT REVENUE BY CLASS 9-17
REAL PROPERTY ECONOMIC INDICATORS 18
MINIMUM TAX HISTORY BY YEAR 19
MINIMUM TAX STATISTICS 20
WHO PAYS MINIMUM TAX 21
TAXES IN APPEAL 22
4 YEAR APPEAL COUNT HISTORY BY CLASS 23
10 YEAR APPEAL HISTORY 24
CIRCUIT BREAKER TAX CREDIT HISTORY 25
CIRCUIT BREAKER TAX CREDIT STATISTICS 26
HOME EXEMPTION BY COUNTY 27
OWNER-OCCUPIED CLASS BY VALUE 28
REAL PROPERTY TAX SUBSIDIES 29
REAL PROPERTY PROJECTS 30
LITIGATED CLAIMS SUMMARY 31
NON-OWNER-OCCUPIED CLASS COUNT BY VALUE AND COUNCIL DISTRICT 32
OWNER-OCCUPIED CLASS COUNT BY VALUE AND COUNCIL DISTRICT 33
SHORT TERM RENTAL CLASS COUNT BY VALUE AND COUNCIL DISTRICT
LONG TERM RENTAL CLASS COUNT BY VALUE AND COUNCIL DISTRICT
PRINCIPAL REAL PROPERTY TAXPAYERS BY REAL PROPERTY TAXES
34
35
36
PRINCIPAL REAL PROPERTY TAXPAYERS BY ASSESSED VALUE 37
DESCRIPTION OF PARCELS IN EACH LAND CLASS 38-63
County of Maui Real Property Assessment Division
FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023 SUMMARY OF TAXABLE PROPERTIES
FY 2022 FY 2022
CERTIFIED
VALUE
FY 2022
CERTIFIED PROPOSED NET TAXABLE
REVENUE
FY 2023 FY 2023
RATES VALUE
FY 2023
50% OF
APPEALS
FY2023
CERTIFIED
VALUE
FY2023
ESTIMATED
REVENUE
REVENUE REVENUE FY2022 FY 2023
DOLLAR PERCENT CLASS CLASS
CHANGE CHANGE COUNT COUNT
COUNT
COUNT PERCENT
CHANGE CHANGE
TAX
CLASSIFICATION RATES
TIME SHARE
NON-OWNER-OCCUPIED
Tier 1 - up to $800,000
Tier 2-$800,001 to$1,500,000
Tier 3 - more than $1,500,000
COMMERCIALIZED RES.
SHORTTERM RENTAL
Tier 1 - up to $800,000
Tier 2-$800,001 to $1,500,000
Tier 3 - more than $1,500,000
LONG TERM RENTAL
Tier 1 - up to $800,000
Tier 2 - $800,001 to $1,500,000
Her 3-more than $1,500,000
APARTMENT
$14,60 S 2,578,459,245 $
$6.13 15,930,313,725
37,645,505
97,590,378
55,496,807
12,055,746
30,037,825
$14.60 S  2,846.029,600
15,560.198,500
9,224,968,100
2,148,902,000
4,186,328.400
231,738,700
13,472,396.400
8,608,703,500
1,984,132,000
2,879,560,900
1,111,100,100
946,199,300
89,196,500
75,704,300
377,821,700
2,701,240,500
2,086,669,500
1,320,750,300
337,464,900
4,209.044,300
15,104,395,200
12,818,866,300
1,290,775,700
994,753,200
33,047,550 $ 2,812,982,050 S
23,265,155
3,234,705
1,739,090
18,291,360
303,315
16,510,080
2,328,100
1,679.400
12,502,580
577,200
281,400
295,800
15,536,933,345
9,221.733,395
2,147,162,910
4,168,037,040
231,435,385
13,455,886,320
8,606,375,400
1,982,452,600
2,867,058,320
1,110,522,900
945,917,900
88,900,700
41,069,538 $ 3,424,033
102,631,256
55.330,400
13,956,559
33,344,296
1,018,316
149,832,230
95,616,831
22,104,346
32,111,053
6,195,254
5,060,661
528,959
605,634
2,096,910
16,281,634
14,626,431
7,782,538
2,010.312
38,529,104
35,273,283
29,482,864
3,096.662
2,693,757
5,040,878
(30,072)
7,414,378
6,195,254
124.729
(284,800)
(257,653)
406,587
616,659
9,240,938
2,220,069
9,1% 2,476 2,481
17,989
12,878
3,180
1,931
5 0.2%
10,182,900,395
1,992,685,260
3,754,728.070
238,270,000
12,791.760,050
8,385,229,775
1,903,786,775
2.502,743,500
$6.61
75,704,300
377,821,700
2,669,120,310
2,074,671,050
1,310,191,545
312,645,700
3,704,721,530
16,102,918,725
12,818,636,475
1,290,275,950
994,006,300
5.2% 20,622
15,750
3,099
1,773
-2,633
-2,872
-12.8%
$5.45 $6.00 -182%
$6.05 $6.50 81 2.6%
$8.00 $8.00 158 6.9%
$4.40 1,048,388 $4.40 -2.9% 163 160 -3 -1.8%
$11.13 142,417,853
93,159,903
21,227,223
28,030,727
$11.14 5.2% 13,744
8,669
3,321
1.734
2.369
2,104
13.466 278 2.1%
$11.11 $11.11 8,630
3,174
1.662
0,7%
$11.16 $11.15 4,6%
$1120 $11.20 4.3%
N/A N/A N/A $5.58 0.0% 2.369 0.0%
$5.35
$5.95
$8.00
0.0%
207 0.0%
0 58 0.0%
$5.55 355,348,075
2,633,773,215
2,067,233,870
1,241,742,605
216,742,210
2,492,609,825
13,568,904,410
11,724,551,900
1.005,764,005
838,598,505
1,972,182
16,566,434
14,884,084
7,375,951
1,393.652
29,288,165
33,053,215
28,256.170
2,524,443
2,272,602
$5.55 0 6.3% 147 162 5 3.4%
COMMERCIAL $6.29 $6.10 32,120,190
11,998,450
10,558,755
24,819,200
504,322,770
1,476,475
229,825
499,760
746,900
-1.7% 2,284 2,228 -56 -2.5%
INDUSTRIAL $7.20 $7.05 -1.7% 819 819 0 0.0%
AGRICULTURAL $5.94 $5.94 5.5% 5,573
1,091
5,597
1,092
24 0.4%
CONSERVATION $6.43 $6.43 44.2% 0.1%1
HOTEL/RESORT $11.75 $10.40 31.6% 524 513 -11 -2.1%
OWNER-OCCUPIED $2.44 $2.34 6.7% 27,680
24,657
27,874 194 0.7%
Tierl - up to $800,000
Tier 2 - $800,001 to $1,500,000
Tier 3 - more than $1,500,000
$2,41 $2.30 23,917
3,097
-740 -3.0%
$2.51 $2.40 2,334 763 32.7%
$2.71 $2.71 669 860 171 24.3%
TOTALS $ 54,115,157,230 $ 383,235,806
(490,677)
2,224,623
S 59.356.849,700 $
Less; Circuit Breaker Credits
Minimum Tax Adjustment @ $350
ESTIMATED REVENUE
658,999,140 $ 58,699,850,560 $ 417,346,806 S 34,111,000
(492,776)
2,138,611
8.9% 74,845 75,018 173 0.2%
$
$ S
$  384,969,752 $  418,992,641
FY 2023 CERTIFIED VALUES ESTIMATED FY 2023 CERTIFIED REVENUE
INDUSTRIAL
$2.18
3.5%
LONG TERM APARTMENTCOMMEROAL
S2.7B RENTAL
AGRICULTURAL
S1.3B
2.2%
4.5% COMMERCIAL
APARTMENT
S0.4B
0.6%
CONSERVATION
$0.3B
0.5%
iNOUSmiAL
S14.6M/LONGTERM RENTAL
Sl.lB
1.9%
SHORTTERM RENTAL
S149.8M
AGRICULTURAL35.9%● SHORT TERM RENTAL
>' si3.se
22.9% HOTEL/RESORT
$3.7B
OWNER-OCCUPIED
SlS.lB
25.7%
CONSERVATION
S2.M
0.5%
V.6.3%
OWNER-OCCUPIED
S. S3S.3M \NON.QWNER-
OCCUPIED
S102.6M
24.6%
NON-OWNER-OCCUPIED
$15.SB
26.SK
8.5%
HOTEL/RESORT
$38.SM
9.2%
COMMERCIALIZED TIMEHI
$41.IM
9.8% ,
COMMERCIAUZED RES.
S0.2B
0.4%
TIME SHARE
S2.SB
4.8%
RES.
Sl.M
0.2%
David Y. Ige
Governor-fAWAl'l Tourisa\Hawai'i Convention Center
1801 Kalakaua Avenue, Honolulu. Hawai'i 96815
kelepona te! 808 973 2255
kelepa'i fax 808973 2253 Chris Tatum
President and Chief Executive Officer
AUTHORITY
kahua pa'a web hawaiitourismauthority.org
2019 Hawai'i Hotel Performance Report
Hawaii hotels statewide concluded 2019 with growth in revenue per available room (RevPAR)
average daily rate (ADR), and occupancy compared to 2018. Hawaii hotels had the highest
RevPAR and ADR during 2019 in comparison to other top U.S. markets.
According to the Hawai'i Hotel Performance Report published by the Hawaii Tourism Authority
(HTA), statewide RevPAR rose to $229 (+3.6%), with ADR at $283 (+2.5%) and occupancy of
81.2 percent (+0.9 percentage points) (Figure 1) in 2019.
HTA’s Tourism Research Division issued the report’s findings utilizing data compiled by STR, Inc
which conducts the largest and most comprehensive survey of hotel properties in the Hawaiian
Islands.
In 2019, statewide hotel room revenues of $4.49 billion were 1.8 percent higher than in 2018.
There were nearly 356,000 fewer available room nights (-1.8%) and more than 111,000 fewer
occupied room nights (- 0.7%) compared to a year ago (Figure 2). Several hotel properties across
the state were closed for renovation or had rooms out of service for renovation during 2019.
Luxury Class properties reported RevPAR of $431 (+4.0%), with ADR at $567 (+1.9%) and
occupancy of 76.0 percent (+1.5 percentage points). Midscale & Economy Class hotels reported
RevPAR of $144 (-0.7%), with ADR at $177 (-0.5%) and occupancy of 81.2 percent (-0.2
percentage points).
Comparison to Top U.S. Markets
In comparison to other top U.S. markets, hotels in the Hawaiian Islands earned the highest
RevPAR at $229 during 2019, followed by New York City at $220 (-3.5%) and San Francisco/San
Mateo at $206 (+4.2%) (Figure 3). Hawaii also led the U.S. markets in ADR at $283, followed by
New York City at $255 (-2.4%) and San Francisco/San Mateo at $251 (+4.1%) (Figure 4). The
Hawaiian Islands ranked third for occupancy at 81.2 percent, with New York City topping the list at
86.2 percent (-1.0 percentage points), followed by San Francisco/San Mateo at 82.0 percent (+0.1
percentage points) (Figure 5).
Hotel Results by County
In 2019, Maui County hotels led Hawaii’s four island counties in RevPAR at $310 (+5.8%), with
ADR at $399 (+3.4%) and occupancy of 77.7 percent (+1.7 percentage points).
0‘ahu hotels earned higher RevPAR of $203 compared to 2018 (+2.5%), with ADR at $241
(+2.0%) and occupancy of 84.2 percent (+0.4 percentage points).
Hotels on the island of Hawaii reported RevPAR growth to $205 (+6.6%), with increases in both
ADR to $267 (+3.2%) and occupancy of 77.1 percent (+2.5 percentage points).
Kauai hotels’ RevPAR decreased to $216 (-3.4%), with declines in both ADR to $283 (-1.8%) and
occupancy of 76.3 percent (-1.2 percentage points).
2019 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 2
Comparison to International Markets
When compared to international “sun and sea” destinations, Hawaii’s counties ranked among the
top 10 markets for RevPAR’ during 2019. Hotels in French Polynesia ranked highest in RevPAR
at $393 (+7.3%), followed by Maldives at $356 (-0.2%). Maui County ranked third, with Kauai, the
island of Hawaii, and 0‘ahu ranked fifth, sixth, and seventh, respectively (Figure 6).
French Polynesia also led in ADR at $566 (+2.9%), followed by Maldives at $542 (+1.8%). Maui
County ranked third, with Kauai, the island of Hawaii, and 0‘ahu ranked sixth, seventh, and
eighth, respectively (Figure 7).
0‘ahu led in occupancy for sun and sea destinations, followed by Maui County, the island of
Hawai'i, and Kaua'i (Figure 8).
December 2019 Hotel Performance
Hotel performance was strong statewide in December 2019. RevPAR statewide grew to $282
(+12.5%), with ADR at $352 (+6.8%) and occupancy of 80.2 percent (+4.1 percentage points)
(Figure 9).
Hawai'i hotel room revenues statewide increased 11.7 percent to $469.2 million in December.
There were nearly 58,000 more occupied room nights (+4.5%) and nearly 13,000 fewer available
room nights (-0.8%) compared to a year ago (Figure 10). Several hotel properties across the state
were closed for renovation or had rooms out of service for renovation during December. However,
the number of rooms out of service may be under-reported.
All classes of hotel properties reported growth in December compared to 2018. Luxury Class
properties earned RevPAR of $582 (+10.9%), with ADR at $794 (+4.7%) and 73.3 percent
occupancy (+4.1 percentage points). Midscale & Economy Class hotels reported RevPAR of $175
(+13.4%) with ADR at $214 (+6.5%) and occupancy of 81.5 percent (+5.0 percentage points).
In December, Maui County hotels reported the highest RevPAR of all four counties at $415
(+18.4%), which was supported by increases in both ADR to $540 (+7.7%) and occupancy of 76.8
percent (+6.9 percentage points). Maui’s luxury resort region of Wailea reported RevPAR of $760
(+18.7%), with growth in both ADR ($890, +13.7%) and occupancy (85.4%, +3.6 percentage
points).
0‘ahu hotels earned 8.6 percent RevPAR growth to $237, driven by higher ADR ($286, +6.4%)
and occupancy of 82.8 percent (+1.7 percentage points). WaiklkT hotels reported growth in
RevPAR, ADR, and occupancy for December.
Hotels on the island of Hawai'i saw increases in RevPAR to $263 (+20.5%), ADR to $330
(+5.9%), and occupancy to 79.5.5 percent (+9,6 percentage points) in December compared to a
year ago. In May 2018, KTIauea volcano started erupting in lower Puna, which contributed to a
downturn in visitors to the island of Hawai'i in succeeding months.
RevPAR for Kaua'i hotels was $245 (+3.9%) in December, with growth in occupancy (72.5%, +3.3
percentage points) offsetting slightly lower ADR ($338, -0.8%).
’ Revenue per available room and average daily rates for international destinations are reported in U.S.
dollars.
2019 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 3
Tables of hotel performance statistics, including data presented in the report are available for
viewing online at: https://www.hawaiitourismauthoritv.orQ/research/infrastructure-research/
About the Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
The Hawaii Hotel Performance Report is produced using hotel survey data compiled by STR,
Inc., the largest survey of its kind in Hawaii. The survey generally excludes properties with
under 20 lodging units, such as small bed and breakfasts, youth hostels, single-family vacation
rentals, cottages, individually rented vacation condominiums and sold timeshare units no longer
available for hotel use. The data has been weighted both geographically and by class of
property to compensate for any over and/or under representation of hotel survey participants by
location and type. For December 2019, the survey included 166 properties representing 46,980
rooms, or 87.6 percent of all lodging properties with 20 rooms or more in the Hawaiian Islands,
including full service, limited service, and condominium hotels.
2019 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 4
Figure 1: Hawai‘i Hotel Performance Year-to-Date December 2019
RevPAROccupancy % Average Daily Rate
%%Percentage
2018 Pt. Change Change2018 Change 2019 201820192019
2.5%
1.9%
3.2%
2.2%
3.1%
-0.5%
$229.32 $221.34
$430.77 $414.12
$234.66 $227.20
$163.78 $157.14
$138.90 $131.52
$143.69 $144.75
3.6%
4.0%
3.3%
4.2%
5.6%
-0.7%
0.9%
1.5%
0.1%
1.5%
2.1%
-0.2%
$282.56 $275.75
$566.64 $555.81
$281.75 $273.01
$209.59 $205.12
$163.48 $158.63
$176.98 $177.91
81.2%
76.0%
83.3%
78.1%
85.0%
81.2%
80.3%
74.5%
83.2%
76.6%
82.9%
81.4%
State of Hawaii
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper Midscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
$240.76
$236.04
$269.83
$498.25
$263.92
$195.60
$159.36
$139.96
2.0%
2.0%
$202.62
$199.51
$221.22
$369.15
$224.87
$165.23
$135.87
$121.49
$197.65
$194.75
$215.34
$353.24
$224.43
$158.11
$128.30
$120.05
2.5%
2.4%
2.7%
4.5%
0.2%
4.5%
5.9%
1.2%
84.2%
84.5%
82.0%
74.1%
85.2%
84.5%
85.3%
86.8%
83.7%
84.1%
81.2%
71.1%
86.8%
81.9%
83.1%
85.7%
0.4%
0.4%
0.8%
3.0%
-1.6%
2.6%
2.1%
$236.06
$231.46
$265.14
$496.66
$258.45
$193.07
$154.30
$140.11
0‘ahu
Waikiki
Other O'ahu
O'ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
1.8%
0.3%
2.1%
1.3%
3.3%
1.1% -0.1%
1.7% $399.43
$618.32
$334.03
$479.58
$659.67
$314.05
3.4%
5.7%
3.6%
3.2%
2.5%
4.5%
$310.19
$546.83
$255.38
$379.74
$527.12
$244.10
$293.22
$509.34
$241.79
$358.55
$500.04
$228.90
5.8%
7.4%
5.6%
5.9%
5.4%
6.6%
77.7%
88.4%
76.5%
79.2%
79.9%
77.7%
75.9%
87.1%
75.0%
77.2%
77.7%
76.2%
$386.14
$584.79
$322.50
$464.67
$643.34
$300.52
Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Kd'anapali/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maui County Upper Upscale &
Upscale
1.3%
1.5%
2.0%
2.2%
1.6%
$266.58
$377.96
$205.40
$293.66
$192.66
$258.28
6.6%
13.7%
77.1%
77.7%
74.6%
69.8%
2.5%
7.9%
$258.26
$369.97
3.2%
2.2%
Island of Hawai‘1
Kohala Coast
$282.73 $288.02 -1.8% $215.80 $223.36 -3.4%77.5% -1.2%76.3%Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2020 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
Note; Samples for Maul Upper Midscale, Midscale and Economy Classes were insufficient for reporting purposes,
but these data are included in Maui and statewide totals.
Figure 2: Hawai'i Hotel Performance by Measure Year-to-Date December 2019
Supply
(thousands)
Demand
(thousands)
Revenue
(millions)
% %%
ChangeChange 2019 Change 2019 20182019 2018 2018
1.8%-1.8% 15,903.9 -0.7% 4,493.8 4,416.219.596.3 19,951,8 16,015.4State of Hawai'i
1.7%
1.3%
-0.8%
-1.1%
9,330.9
8,029.0
-0.3%
-0.7%
2,246,5
1,895.2
2,210.0
1,871.0
11,087.2
9,499.1
11,181.2
9,607.0
9,361.9
8,083.4
O'ahu
WaikTkT
1.8% 1,430.7
437.9
658.8
1,358.4
407.9
626.7
5.3%
7.4%
5.1%
4,612.3
800.8
2,579.6
4,632.6
800.8
2,591,9
-0.4%
0.0%
-0.5%
3,581.8
708.2
1,972.3
3,517.8
697,5
1,943.2
Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/KS'anapali/
Kapalua
1.5%
1.5%
●0.1%
4.1%
-6.3%
-8.5%
-3,2% 479.0
319.4
479.5
306.9
2,332.1
1,087.7
2,488.9
1,188.1
1,796.9
845.1
1,856.8
829.4
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast 1.9%
-6.6% 368.3 -8.3%-5.1% 1,194.3 1,278.9 337,71,564,8 1,649.1Kaua'i
Source; STR, Inc. © Copyright 2020 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
2019 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 5
Figure 3: Top 5 U.S. Markets - Revenue Per Available Room - YTD December 2019
I  Revenue Per Available '
Room % ChangeDestinationRank
3.6%$229.32Hawaiian Islands1
-3.5%$220.06New York, NY2
4.2%$205.99San Francisco/San Mateo, CA3
$149.19 -2.1%Miami/Hialeah, FL4
-2.3%$147.41Boston, MA5
Figure 4: Top 5 U.S. Markets - Average Daily Rate  -YTD December 2019
Average Daily Rate
$282.56
% ChaDestination
2.5
ngeRank
%Hawaiian Islands1
-2.4%$255.16New York, NY2
$251.24 4.1%San Francisco/San Mateo, CA3
0.0%$199.35Boston, MA4
-1.2%$196.52Miami/Hialeah, FL5
Figure 5: Top 5 U.S. Markets -● Occupancy - YTD December 2019
Occupancy
86.2%
PercentDestination age Pt. ChangeRank
-1.0%New York, NY1
82.0% 0.1%San Francisco/San Mateo, CA2
0.9%Hawaiian Islands 81.2%3
79.7% 0.2%Los Angeles/Long Beach, CA4
0.5%Anaheim/Santa Ana, CA 78.1%5
Figure 6: Competitive Sun and Sea Destinations - Revenue per Available Room - YTD December
2019
Rank Destination Revenue Per Available Room % Change
French Polynesia $392.73 7.3%1
$356.15 -0.2%Maldives2
5.8%Maui $310.193
6.8%4  Aruba $255.36
-3.4%Kaua'i $215.805
6.6%Hawai'i Island $205.406
$202.62 2.5%O'ahu7
Cabo San Lucas-t- $181.15 -5.0%8
Puerto Rico $139.66 1.8%9
Cancun-^ $124.06 -12.7%10
Costa Rica $117.44 3.2%11
Fiji $113.79 -4.2%12
$86.82 -6.8%Phuket13
14 Bali $76.10 8.4%
15 Puerto Vallarta+ $60.47 1.6%
2019 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 6
Figure 7: Competitive Sun and Sea Destinations - Average Daily Rate - YTD December 2019
Destination % ChangeAverage Daily RateRank
$566.13 2,9%French Polynesia1
1.8%$542.44Maldives2
3.4%$399.43Maui3
-7.0%$353.71Cabo San Lucas+4
7.0%$339.99Aruba5
-1.8%$282.73Kaua'i6
3,2%$266.58Ha\A/ai1 Island7
2.0%$240.760‘ahu8
6.5%$212.33Puerto Rico9
-8.7%$182.59Cancun+10
5.7%$176.54Costa Rica11
-2.5%$157.34Fiji12
-3.3%$122.88Phuket13
7.6%$109.12Bali14
-2.5%$90.02Puerto Vallarta+15
Figure 8: Competitive Sun and Sea Destinations - Occupancy - YTD December 2019
Destination Percentage Pt. ChanOccupancy geRank
0.4%84.2%0‘ahu1
1.7%77.7%Maui2
2.5%77.1%Hawaii Island3
-1.2%76.3%Kaua'i4
-0.1%75.1%5  Aruba
-1.3%Fiji 72.3%6
-2.6%70.7%Phuket7
0.5%Bali 69.7%8
2.9%69.4%French Polynesia9
-3.1%67.9%Cancun+10
2.7%Puerto Vallarta+ 67.2%11
-1.6%Costa Rica 66.5%12
-3.1%65.8%Puerto Rico13
-1.3%65.7%Maldives14
1.1%51.2%Cabo San Lucas+15
2019 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 7
Figure 9: Hawaii Hotel Performance December 2019
Occupancy % Average Daily Rate RevPAR
%Percentage
2018 Pt. Change
%
ChangeChange 2019 20182019 20182019
$352.12
$793.96
$337.48
$240.67
$194.71
$214.28
$282.36 $250.89
$582.35 $524.88
$274.97 $248.41
$194.47 $166.57
$160.17 $144.45
$174.70 $154.06
12.5%
10.9%
10.7%
16.7%
10.9%
13.4%
76.1%
69.2%
78.5%
73.4%
80.3%
76.6%
4.1%
4.1%
2.9%
7.4%
$329.61
$758.46
$316.32
$227.02
$179.81
$201.20
6.8%
4.7%
6.7%
6.0%
8.3%
6.5%
80.2%
73.3%
81.5%
80.8%
82.3%
81.5%
State of Hawai'i
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper Midscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
1.9%
5.0%
$286.48
$278.93
$331.91
$634.37
$306.54
$226.46
$188.87
$167.30
$269.32
$261.63
$316.28
$627.85
$289.40
$210.65
$174.77
$152.33
6.4%
6.6%
4.9%
1.0%
5.9%
7.5%
8.1%
9.8%
$237.22
$232.06
$267.24
$478.50
$253.84
$196.52
$155.04
$145.47
$218.37
$212.52
$253.70
$438.65
$241.09
$172.04
$140.79
$124.22
8.6%
9.2%
5.3%
9.1%
5.3%
14.2%
10.1%
17.1%
82.8%
83.2%
80.5%
75.4%
82.8%
86.8%
82.1%
87.0%
81.1%
81.2%
80.2%
69.9%
83.3%
81.7%
80.6%
81.6%
1.7%
2.0%
0.3%
5.6%
-0.5%
5.1%
1.5%
5.4%
O'ahu
WaikTkT
Other O'ahu
O'ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
18.4%
18.7%
19.3%
16.9%
13.2%
21.1%
6.9%
3.6%
8.0%
5.5%
2.5%
8.8%
$540.05
$889.53
$423.76
$677.52
$1,013.02
$385.52
$501.31
$782.17
$397.48
$623.06
$925.63
$358.95
7.7%
13.7%
6.6%
8.7%
9.4%
7.4%
$414.56
$759.78
$318.69
$533.16
$751.90
$300.34
$350.14
$640.09
$267.19
$456.03
$664.20
$248.04
76.8%
85.4%
75.2%
78.7%
74.2%
77.9%
69.8%
81.8%
67.2%
73.2%
71.8%
69.1%
Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Ka'anapall/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maui County Upper Upscale
&
Upscale
$330.38
$492.32
$311.87
$468.37
$262.71
$389.35
$218.06
$317.30
20.5%
22.7%
79.5%
79.1%
69.9%
67.7%
9.6%
11.3%
5.9%
5.1%
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast
$338.44 $341.07 -0.8% $245.50 $236.31 3.9%69.3% 3.3%72.5%Kaua‘1
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2020 Hawai‘i Tourism Authority
Note: Samples for Maui Upper Midscale, Midscale and Economy Classes were insufficient for reporting purposes,
but these data are included in Maui and statewide totals.
Figure 10: Hawaii Hotel Performance by Measure December 2019
Supply
(thousands)
Demand
(thousands)
Revenue
(millions)
% %%
Change ChangeChange 2019 2018 2019 20182019 2018
11.7%-0.8% 1,332.5 4.5% 469.2 420.11,661.7 1,674.6 1,274.7State of Hawai'i
9.2%
9.2%
0.5%
0.0%
782.8
671.2
762.5
655.2
2.7%
2.4%
224.3
187.2
205.3
171.4
945.3
806.7
940.4
806.7
O'ahu
WaikTkT
16.6%
18.7%
15.8%
-1.5%
0.0%
-2.9%
298.4 275.6 8.3%
4.4%
8.7%
161.1 138.2388.7 394.6Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Ka'anapall/
Kapalua
58.1 51.7 43.568.0 68.0 55.7
161.6 148.7 68.5 59.1214.9 221.3
18.6%
20.3%
-1.6%
-2.0%
155.8 139.2 11.9%
14.4%
51.5 43.4196.0 199.1Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast 72.1 35.5 29.591.1 93.0 63.0
-2.6%-6.3% 95.5 97.4 -1.9% 32.3 33.2131.7 140.5Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2020 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
2019 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 8
Figure 11: Monthly State of Hawai‘i Hotel Performance, 2019 vs. 2018
100%$350
nnniniri$300
$250
$200
80%
60%
$150 40%
$100 20%
$50
0%$0
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2018 Occupancy2018 Average Daily Rate '2019 Occupancy2019 Average Daily Rate
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2020 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 12: Monthly 0‘ahu Hotel Performance, 2019 vs. 2018
$350
80%$300
$250
$200
$150
$100
llllllllllll60%
40%
20%
$50
0%$0
Nov DecJan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct
2018 Occupancy2018 Average Daily Rate 2019 Occupancy2019 Average Daily Rate
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2020 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 13: Monthly Maui County Hotel Performance, 2019 vs. 2018
100%$500
80%$400
60%$300
40%$200
20%$100
0%$0
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2018 Occupancy2018 Average Daily Rale 2019 Occupancy2019 Average Daily Rate
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2020 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
2019 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 9
Figure 14: Monthly Island of Hawaii Hotel Performance, 2019 vs. 2018
100%$350
nniTfinil$300 80%
$250
60%$200
$150 40%
$100 20%$50
0%$0
Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov DecJan Feb Mar Apr May Jun
2019 Average Daily Rate 2018 Average Daily Rate 2018 Occupancy2019 Occupancy
Source: STR, Inc, © Copyright 2020 Hawai'i Tourism Authority.
Figure 15: Monthly Kauai Hotel Performance, 2019 vs. 2018
$350
$300
$250
$200
$150
$100
100%
Ittiminri80%
60%
40%
20%$50
$0 0%
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2018 Average Daily Rate 2018 Occupancy2019 Average Daily Rate 2019 Occupancy
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2020 Hawai'i Tourism Authority.
Uawai'i T0URIS/v\ David Y. Ige
Gwemof
Hawai'i Convention Center
1801 Kalakaua Avenue, Honolulu, Hawai'i96815
kelepona 'rl 808973 2255
kelepa'i tax 808 973 2253
kahua pa'a well hnwdiitaunsmouthori1y,org
:(:m) AUTHORITY/ JolinOe Fries
President and One!Executive OUtcer
For Immediate Release: January 25, 2022
HTA Release (22-03)
HawaiM Hotel RevPAR Up 7.6% in December 2021 Compared to December 2019 Driven by
Higher ADR; Hawaii Led the Nation in 2021 RevPAR and ADR
Hawai'i hotels statewide reported substantially higher revenue per availableHONOLULU
room (RevPAR), average daily rate (ADR), and occupancy in December 2021 compared to
December 2020 when the State’s quarantine order for travelers due to the COVID-19 pandemic
resulted in dramatic declines for the hotel industry. When compared to December 2019,
statewide ADR and RevPAR was higher in December 2021, but occupancy declined.
According to the Hawaii Hotel Performance Report published by the Hawaii Tourism Authority
(HTA). statewide RevPAR in December 2021 was $305 (+341.9%), with ADR at $419 (+44.2%)
and occupancy of 72.7 percent (+49.0 percentage points) compared to December 2020 (Figure
1). Compared with December 2019, RevPAR was 7.6 percent higher, driven by higher ADR
(+18.8%) which offset lower occupancy (-7.5 percentage points) (Figure 5).
“Hawaii’s hotels continued their upward momentum in December, with strong RevPAR and
ADR helping to end the year on a high note and sustain employment across the islands,” said
John De Fries, HTA president and CEO. “Domestic leisure market demand remained strong
through the holidays, despite global uncertainty of the Omicron variant’s impact on travel.
However, business, group and international travel continue to lag behind pre-pandemic levels of
performance.”
The report’s findings utilized data compiled by STR, Inc., which conducts the largest and most
comprehensive survey of hotel properties in the Hawaiian Islands. For December, the survey
included 148 properties representing 46,751 rooms, or 85.3 percent of all lodging properties with
20 rooms or more in the Hawaiian Islands, including those offering full service, limited sen/ice,
and condominium hotels. Vacation rental and timeshare properties were not included in this
survey.
In December 2021, domestic passengers could bypass the State's mandatory 10-day self
quarantine if they were fully vaccinated in the United States or with a valid negative COVID-19
NAAT test result from a Trusted Testing Partner prior to their departure through the Safe Travels
program. Beginning December 6, passengers arriving on direct international flights were
subjected to federal U.S. entry requirements which included proof of a negative COVID-19 test
result taken within 24 hours of travel or documentation of having recovered from COVID-19 in
the past 90 days, prior to their flight.
Hawaii hotel room revenues statewide rose to $518 million (+375.8% vs. 2020, +9.6% vs. 2019)
in December. Room demand was 1.2 million room nights (+230.0% vs. 2020, -7.7% vs. 2019)
and room supply was 1.7 million room nights (+7.7% vs. 2020, +1.8% vs. 2019) (Figure 2).
Many properties closed or reduced operations starting in April 2020 due to the COVID-19
pandemic.
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 2
Luxury Class properties earned RevPAR of $627 (+279.3% vs. 2020, +7.4% vs. 2019), with
ADR at $1,058 (+24.1% vs. 2020, +33.1% vs. 2019} and occupancy of 59.3 percent (+39.9
percentage points vs. 2020, -14.2 percentage points vs. 2019). Midscale & Economy Class
properties earned RevPAR of $247 (+339.3% vs. 2020, +42.5% vs. 2019) with ADR at $339
(+67.6% vs. 2020, +61.5% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 72.7 percent (+44.9 percentage points
vs. 2020, -9.7 percentage points vs. 2019).
Maui County hotels led the counties in December and achieved RevPAR that surpassed
December 2019. RevPAR was $501 (+289.2% vs. 2020, +20.9% vs. 2019), with ADR at $736
(+47.2% vs. 2020, +36.0% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 68.0 percent (+42.3 percentage points
vs. 2020, -8.5 percentage points vs. 2019). Maui’s luxury resort region of Wailea had RevPAR of
$757 (+266.4% vs. 2020, -0.4% vs. 2019), with ADR at $1,189 (+39.9% vs. 2020, +33.7% vs.
2019) and occupancy of 63.6 percent (+39.3 precentage points vs. 2020, -21.8 percentage
points vs. 2019). The Lahaina/Ka'anapali/Kapalua region had RevPAR of $411 (+360.8% vs.
2020, +29.0% vs. 2019), ADR at $590 (+41.9% vs. 2020, +39.0% vs. 2019) and occupancy of
69.7 percent (+48.2 percentage points vs. 2020, -5.4 percentage points vs. 2019).
Hotels on the island of Hawaii reported RevPAR at $359 (+318.2% vs. 2020, +37.3% vs. 2019)
with ADR at $489 (+50.9% vs. 2020, +48.6% vs. 2019), and occupancy of 73.5 percent (+47.0
percentage points vs. 2020, -6.1 percentage points vs. 2019). Kohala Coast hotels earned
RevPAR of $581 (+298.2% vs. 2020, +49.2% vs. 2019), with ADR at $830 (+52.6% vs. 2020,
+68.7% vs. 2019), and occupancy of 69.9 percent (+43.1 percentage points vs. 2020, -9.1
percentage points vs. 2019).
Kauai hotels earned RevPAR of $284 (+1,023.2% vs. 2020, +15.0% vs. 2019), with ADR at
$409 (+120.0% vs. 2020, +19.3% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 69.4 percent (+55.8 percentage
points vs. 2020, -2.6 percentage points vs. 2019).
0‘ahu hotels reported RevPAR of $212 (+386.6% vs. 2020, -11.3% vs. 2019) in December,
ADR at $282 (+53.6% vs. 2020, -1.7% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 75.0 percent (+51.3
percentage points vs. 2020, -8.1 percentage points vs. 2019). WaikTkl hotels earned $200
(+392.7% vs. 2020, -14.4% vs. 2019) in RevPAR with ADR at $267 (+47.0% vs. 2020, -4.6% vs.
2019) and occupancy of 74.9 percent (+52.5 percentage points vs. 2020, -8.6 percentge points
vs. 2019).
Year-End 2021
In 2021, Hawaii hotel performance statewide continued to be impacted by the COVID-19
pandemic. Hawaii’s hotels earned $189 in annual RevPAR (+89.0% vs. 2020, -17.2% vs. 2019)
with ADR at $329 (+23.2% vs. 2020, +16.1% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 57.6 percent (+20.1
percentage points vs. 2020, -23.2 percentage points vs. 2019).
Total statewide hotel revenues for 2021 were $3.7 billion (+156.1% vs. 2020, -18.7% vs. 2019).
Room supply was 19.4 million room nights (+35.5% vs. 2020, -1.8% vs. 2019), and room
demand was 11.2 million room nights (+107.9% vs. 2020, -30.0% vs. 2019).
Comparison to Top U.S. Markets
In comparison to the top U.S. markets, the Hawaiian Islands earned the highest 2021 RevPAR at
$189 (+89.0%). Miami, Florida was second at $149 (+73.7%), followed by New York, New York at
$126 (+75.8%) (Figure 19).
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 3
The Hawaiian Islands also led the U.S. markets in ADR at $329 (+23.2%), followed by Miami
Florida at $224 (+20.5%) and New York, New York at $210 (+38.3%) (Figure 20).
With the U.S. Mainland accessible for road trips and short-haul inter-continental flights, the
Hawaiian Islands’ occupancy continued to be lower than many destinations in STR’s top 25
markets, landing at the spot (Figure 21). Tampa, Florida topped the country in occupancy at
68.4 percent (+17.5 percentage points), followed by Miami, Florida at 66.8 percent (+20.5
percentage points), and Los Angeles, California at 63.7 percent (+14.4 percentage points).
Comparison to International Markets
Hotels in the Maldives ranked highest in 2021 RevPAR for international “sun and sea”
destinations at $354 (+51.5%), followed by French Polynesia ($340, +38.5%) and Maui County
($323, +128.0%). Hawaii Island, Kauai, and 0‘ahu ranked fourth, sixth, and ninth, respectively
(Figure 22).
French Polynesia led in ADR at $714 (+23.5%), followed by the Maldives ($599, -15.6%) and
Maui County ($536, +31.1%). Hawaii Island, Kauai, and 0‘ahu ranked fifth, sixth, and ninth,
respectively (Figure 23).
Puerto Rico led in occupancy for “sun and sea" destinations at 64.1 percent (+30.9 percentage
points), followed by Hawaii Island (61.1%, +21.4 percentage points) and Maui County (60.2
percent, +25.6 percentage points). Kaua'i and 0‘ahu ranked sixth and eighth, respectively (Figure
24).
Tables of hotel performance statistics, including data presented in the report are available for
viewing online at: https://www.hawaiitourismauthoritv.org/research/infrastructure-research/
About the Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
The Hawai'i Hotel Performance Report is produced using hotel survey data compiled by STR,
Inc., the largest survey of its kind in Hawai'i. The survey generally excludes properties with
under 20 lodging units, such as small bed and breakfasts, youth hostels, single-family vacation
rentals, cottages, individually rented vacation condominiums and sold timeshare units no longer
available for hotel use. The data has been weighted both geographically and by class of
property to compensate for any over and/or under representation of hotel survey participants by
location and type.
the survey included 148 properties representing 46,751 rooms, or 85.3 percent
of all lodging roperties with 20 rooms or more in the Hawaiian Islands, including full service,
limited service, and condominium hotels. The December survey included 76 properties on 0‘ahu
representing 29,092 rooms (95.2%); 40 properties in the County of Maui, representing 9,622
rooms (73.8%); 17 properties on the island of Hawai'i, representing 4,890 rooms (71.3%); and
15 properties on Kaua‘i, representing 3,147 rooms (71.8%).
For Decerr.b
About the Hawai'i Tourism Authority
The Hawai'i Tourism Authority is the State of Hawai'i agency responsible for strategically
managing its support of the tourism industry. Established in 1998 to support Hawai‘i’s leading
industry and largest employer, HTA continually strives to help ensure tourism’s sustainability
and the benefits it brings to residents and communities statewide.
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 4
For more information about HTA, please visit www.hawaiitourismauthoritv.org. Follow updates
from HTA (@HawaiiHTA) on Facebook. Instagram. Twitter and its new YouTube Channel.
For more information, contact:
Jennifer Chun
Director of Tourism Research
Department of Business, Economic
Development & Tourism
Jennifer@gohta.net
T. Ilihia Gionson
Public Affairs Officer
Hawai'i Tourism Authority
llihia.Gionson@gohta.net
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 5
Figure 1: Hawaii Hotel Performance December 2021
Average Daily Rate RevPAROccupancy %
%%Percentage
Pt. Change 2021 2020 Change2021 2020 Change2021 2020
341.9%
279.3%
428.8%
305.7%
274.1%
339.3%
$419.24
$1,057.80
$372.07
$293.11
$222.60
$339.25
44.2%
24.1%
41.0%
51.6%
49.1%
67.6%
$304.75 $68.97
$626.76 $165.24
$279.35 $52.83
$223.49 $55.09
$167.54 $44.78
$246.56 $56.12
49.0%
39.9%
55.1%
47.7%
45.3%
44.9%
$290.83
$852.24
$263.96
$193.32
$149.28
$202.39
72.7%
59.3%
75.1%
76.2%
75.3%
72.7%
23.7%
19.4%
20.0%
28.5%
30.0%
27.7%
State of Hawaii
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper Midscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
$43.52
$40.59
$64.29
$73.47
$36.55
$58.34
$38.33
$34.10
386.6%
392.7%
335.3%
477.3%
509.4%
213.3%
291.7%
225.1%
$282.48
$267.14
$369.87
$789.34
$288.54
$226.19
$199.00
$157.11
53.6%
47.0%
90.0%
50.5%
36.4%
31.0%
46.5%
60.9%
$211.79
$199.97
$279.85
$424.17
$222.72
$182.79
$150.15
$110.87
23.7%
22.3%
33.0%
14.0%
17.3%
33.8%
28.2%
34.9%
51.3%
52.5%
42.6%
39.7%
59.9%
47.0%
47.2%
35.7%
$183.96
$181.72
$194.72
$524.56
$211.47
$172.65
$135.82
$97.66
75.0%
74.9%
75.7%
53.7%
77.2%
80.8%
75.5%
70.6%
0‘ahu
WaikTkT
Other O'ahu
O'ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
$736.46
$1,189.18
$590.18
$914.93
$1,361.53
$527.10
47.2%
39.9%
41.9%
60.6%
37.9%
61.3%
$500.88
$756.56
$411.44
$604.25
$768.14
$379.97
$128.68
$206.49
$89.28
$174.77
$237.92
$81.86
289.2%
266.4%
360.8%
245.7%
222.9%
364.2%
25.7%
24.3%
21.5%
30.7%
24.1%
25.1%
42.3%
39.3%
48.2%
35.4%
32.3%
47.0%
$500.44
$850.10
$415.87
$569.67
$987.57
$326.71
68.0%
63.6%
69.7%
66.0%
56.4%
72 1%
Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Ka'anapali/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maui County Upper
Upscale
& Upscale
47.0%
43 1%
$489.13
$830.38
$324.04
$544.33
50.9%
52.6%
$359.38
$580.80
$85.93
$145.87
318.2%
298.2%
73.5%
69.9%
26.5%
26.8%
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast
$283.84 $25.27 1023.2%55.8% $408.70 $185.81 120.0%69.4% 13.6%Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
Note; Samples for some classes and regions were insufficient for reporting purposes, but these data were included in
island and statewide totals.
Figure 2: Hawai*i Hotel Performance by Measure December 2021
Revenue
(millions)
2021 2020 % Change
Demand
(thousands)
2021 2020 % Change
Supply
(thousands)
2020 % Change2021
375.8%1,235.5 230.0% 518.0 108.97.7% 374.31,699.6 1,578.5State of Hawai'i
446.9%
438.0%
36.712.4%
9.2%
710.1
604.0
199.4
165.1
256.2%
266.0%
200.6
161.4
947.1
806.9
842.8
738.9
O'ahu
Waikiki 30.0
297.2%
283.6%
169.9%
174.2%
51.02.0%
4.7%
274.8 101.8 202.4404.1 396.1Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/KS'anapali/
Kapalua
68.0 17.757.2 20.989.9 85.8
367.6%1.5% 151.0 229.5% 89.1 19.1216.7 213.5 45.8
326.7%
299.0%
2.0%
0.2%
156.2 55.3 182.7%
161.6%
76.4 17.9212.7 208.4Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast 12.660.6 50.386.7 86.5 23.2
1061.9%428.3% 38.5 3.33.4% 94.3 17.9135.8 131.3Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
January 25. 2022 (22-03)
Page 6
Figure 3: Hawaii Hotel Performance Year-to-Date December 2021
Occupancy % Average Daily Rate RevPAR
%%Percentage
Pt, Change 2021 2020 Change 2021 2020 Change2021 2020
$328.68
$778.25
$306.33
$235.49
$174.19
$254.28
89.0%
71.2%
67.7%
114.9%
52.9%
111.7%
20.1%
13.0%
18.4%
29.6%
17.5%
16.9%
$266.81
$609.87
$271.35
$209.32
$161.96
$165.88
23.2%
27.6%
12.9%
12.5%
7.5%
53.3%
$189.35 $100.21
$396.46 $231.51
$172.33 $102.74
$146.43 $68.15
$102.69 $67.17
$155.40 $73.42
57.6%
50.9%
56.3%
62.2%
59.0%
61.1%
37.6%
38.0%
37.9%
32.6%
41.5%
44.3%
State of Hawaii
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper Midscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
$225.31
$212.51
$299.56
$613.15
$241.73
$189.34
$155.60
$121.58
48.2%
45.2%
66.2%
16.4%
17.5%
10.6%
$215.65
$214.56
$220.27
4.5%
-1.0%
36.0%
$125.19
$117.17
$174.27
$262.82
$127.75
$120.65
$89.68
$70.91
$84.46
$80.68
$104.83
55.6%
55.1%
58.2%
42.9%
52.8%
63.7%
57.6%
58.3%
39.2%
37.6%
47.6%
0‘ahu
WaikikT
Other 0‘ahu
O'ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
NA NANA NA NA NA
15.7%
24.9%
17.0%
7.9%
$243.02
$189.28
$154.58
$123.76
-0.5%
0.0%
0.7%
-1.8%
$90.19
$73.42
$62.83
$62.44
41.6%
64.3%
42.7%
13.6%
37.1%
38.8%
40.6%
50.4%
$536.47
$831.06
$450.49
$638.62
$922.59
$407.35
$409.19 31.1% $322.70
$468.47
$274.22
$378.90
$477.28
$256.46
$141.55 128.0%60.2%
56.4%
60.9%
59.3%
51.7%
63.0%
34.6% 25.6%Maui County
Wailea
Lahalna/Ka'anapall/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maul County Upper Upscale
& Upscale
NA NANA NA NA NA
151.2%
109.1%
31.5%
18.3%
$371.79
$441.91
21.2%
44.5%
$109.18
$181.24
29.4%
41.0%
NA NANA NA NANA
31.4% $338.02 20.5% $106.73 140.3%31.6%
$348.08
$551.56
$212.62
$337.10
$98.77 115.3%61.1%
61.1%
39.7% 21.4% $248.94 39.8%Island of Hawai‘1
Kohala Coast NA NANA NA NA NA
25.3% $324.19 $264.58 22.5% $189.64 $87.89 115.8%58.5% 33.2%Kaua‘1
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
Note: Samples for some classes and regions were insufficient for reporting purposes, but these data were included in
island and statewide totals.
 Figure 4: Hawaii Hotel Performance by Measure Year-to-Date December 2021
Supply
(thousands)
Demand
(thousands)
Revenue
(millions)
%% %
2021 2020 2021 20202021 2020 ChangeChange Change
156.1%35.5% 11,157.5 5,367.7 107.9% 3,667.2 1,432.119,367.0 14,291.6State of Hawal'i
5,927.6
5,055.8
106.8%
106.6%
10,668.5
9,169.9
39.6%
42.2%
2,994.3
2,424.0
98.0%
108.6%
1,335.6
1,074.4
645.7
520.1
7,644.8
6,446.5
O'ahu
Waikiki
2,830.3
587.6
213.8%3,418.4 37.6% 1,182.5 139.4% 1,518.4
488.4
483.94,705.3
1,042.4
Maui County
Wailea
Lahatna/Ka'anapall/
Kapalua
NA NA NA NA NANA
1,535.7 179.2% 238.3%2,522.9 1,873.3 34.7% 550.1 691.8 204,5
191.0%35.2% 1,508,2
623.5
108.1% 525.0
343.9
180.42,469.0
1,020.2
1,826.7 724.7Island of Hawaii
Kohala Coast NA NANA NA NA NA
134.6%8.7% 891.6 91.5% 289.0 123.21,524.1 1,401.8 465,7Kaua‘1
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
\
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 7
Figure 5: Hawai*i Hotel Performance December 2021 vs. 2019
RevPAROccupancy % Average Daily Rate
%%Percentage
PI. Change 2019 Change2021 2019 Change 20212021 2019
$419.24 $353.00 18.8%
$1,057.80 $794.47 33.1%
$372.07 $334.21 11.3%
$293.11 $239.93 22.2%
$222.60 $202.83 9.7%
$339.25 $210.05 61.5%
$304.75 $283.22
$626.76 $583.37
$279.35 $272.70
$223.49 $195.39
$167.54 $163.51
$246.56 $173.04
7.6%
7.4%
2.4%
14.4%
2.5%
42.5%
80.2%
73.4%
81.6%
81.4%
80.6%
82.4%
-7.5%
-14.2%
-6.5%
-5.2%
-5.4%
-9.7%
72.7%
59.3%
75.1%
76.2%
75.3%
72.7%
State of Hawaii
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper Midscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
$211.79
$199.97
$279.85
$424.17
$222.72
$182.79
$150.15
$110.87
$238.71
$233.74
$267.84
$490.15
$251.16
$198.43
$155.97
$142.51
-11.3%
-14.4%
4.5%
-13.5%
-11.3%
-7.9%
-3.7%
-22.2%
-8.1%
-8.6%
-4.8%
-21.5%
-5.8%
-7.0%
-4.5%
-17.8%
$282.48
$267.14
$369.87
$789.34
$288.54
$226.19
$199.00
$157.11
$287.38
$279.92
$332.73
$651.17
$302.62
$226.03
$194.98
$161.20
-1.7%
-4.6%
11.2%
21.2%
-4.7%
0.1%
2.1%
-2.5%
75.0%
74.9%
75.7%
53.7%
77.2%
80.8%
75.5%
70.6%
83.1%
83.5%
80.5%
75.3%
83.0%
87.8%
80.0%
88.4%
O'ahu
Waikiki
Other O'ahu
O'ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
36.0%
33.7%
39.0%
34.9%
38.5%
35.8%
$500.88
$756.56
$411.44
$604.25
$768.14
$379.97
$414.31
$759.78
$319.04
$530.61
$730.54
$301.07
20.9%
-0.4%
29.0%
13.9%
5.1%
26.2%
76.5%
85.4%
75.1%
78.2%
74.3%
77.5%
-8.5%
-21.8%
-5.4%
-12.2%
-17.9%
-5.5%
$736.46
$1,189.18
$590.18
$914.93
$1,361.53
$527.10
$541.45
$889.53
$424.66
$678.42
$983.19
$388.27
68.0%
63.6%
69.7%
66.0%
56.4%
72.1%
Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/KS'anapali/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maui County Upper Upscale
& Upscale
$489.13
$830.38
48.6%
68.7%
$359.38
$580.80
$261.73
$389.38
37.3%
49.2%
73.5%
69.9%
79.5%
79.1%
-6.1%
-9.1%
$329.07
$492.37
Island of Hawai‘1
Kohala Coast
$283.84 $246.80 15.0%-2.6% $408.70 $342.53 19.3%69.4% 72.1%Kaua‘1
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
Note; Samples for some classes and regions were insufficient for reporting purposes, but these data were included in
island and statewide totals.
Figure 6: Hawaii Hotel Performance by Measure December 2021 vs. 2019
Revenue
(millions)
Demand
(thousands)
Supply
(thousands)
% %%
2019 ChangeChange 2021 2019 Change 20212021 2019
9.6%1.8% 1,235.5 -7.7% 518.0 472.61,668.8 1,338.91,699.6State of Hawal'i
-11.3%
-14.7%
0.0%
-0.2%
710.1
604.0
-9.7%
-10.6%
200.6
161.4
226.0
189.1
947.1
806.9
946.8
808.9
786.5
675.4
O'ahu
Waikiki
-8.1%
-1.6%
202.4 162.0 25.0%
31.6%
391.0 3.4%
32.1%
274.8 299.2404.1Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Ka'anapaii/
Kapalua
57.2 68.0 51.789.9 68.0 58.1
30.0%0.8% 151.0 -6.5% 89.1 68.6216.7 214.9 161.5
47.5%
41.9%
7.5%
-4.9%
156.2 -0.7%
-15.9%
76.4 51.8212.7 197.9 157.4Island of Hawal'i
Kohala Coast 50.3 35.560.6 72.186.7 91.1
17.3%2.0% 94.3 95.9 -1.7% 38.5 32.9135.8 133.1Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 8
Figure 7: Hawaii Hotel Performance Year-to-Date December 2021 vs. 2019
Average Daily Rate RevOccupancy % PAR
% %Percentage
Pt. Change 2019 Change2021 2019 Change 20212021 2019
$189.35 $228.78
$396,46 $429.39
$172,33 $230.38
$146.43 $166,04
$102.69 $138.53
$155,40 $145.32
-17.2%
-7.7%
-25.2%
-11.8%
-25.9%
6,9%
57.6% 80.8%
50.9% 76.2%
56,3% 82.6%
62.2% 79.1%
59.0% 83.1%
61.1% 82.1%
-23.2%
-25.3%
-26.4%
-16.9%
-24.2%
-21.0%
$328.68 $283.05
$778.25 $563.35
$306.33 $278.87
$235.49 $209.86
$174.19 $166.67
$254.28 $177.05
16.1%
38.1%
9.8%
12.2%
4,5%
43.6%
State of Hawaii
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper MiPscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
$202.69
$199.53
$221.68
$370.14
$222.44
$169.60
$133,85
$117,87
-38.2%
-41.3%
-21.4%
-29.0%
-42.6%
-28.9%
-33.0%
-39.8%
84.1%
84.5%
82.0%
74.1%
85.3%
85.6%
83,3%
87.6%
-28.6%
-29.4%
-23.8%
-31.2%
-32.4%
-21.9%
-25.7%
-29.3%
$225.31
$212.51
$299.56
$613.15
$241.73
$189.34
$155,60
$121.58
$240,92
$236.15
$270.47
$499.67
$260.79
$198.07
$160.64
$134.55
-6.5%
-10.0%
10.8%
22.7%
-7.3%
-4.4%
-3.1%
-9.6%
$125.19
$117.17
$174.27
$262,82
$127.75
$120,65
$89.68
$70.91
55.6%
55.1%
58.2%
42.9%
52.8%
63.7%
57.6%
58.3%
0‘ahu
Waikiki
Other 0‘ahu
0‘ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
$311.61
$546.83
$256.68
$380.40
$513.64
$244.89
3.6%
-14,3%
6.8%
-0.4%
-7.1%
4.7%
77.7%
88.4%
76.6%
79.1%
79.9%
77.6%
-17.5%
-32,1%
-15.7%
-19.7%
-28.2%
-14.6%
$536.47
$831,06
$450.49
$638.62
$922,59
$407.35
$401,10
$618.32
$335.19
$481.04
$642.69
$315.67
33.7%
34.4%
34.4%
32.8%
43.6%
29.0%
$322.70
$468.47
$274.22
$378.90
$477.28
$256.46
60.2%
56.4%
60.9%
59.3%
51.7%
63.0%
Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Ka'anapali/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maui County Upper Upscale
& Upscale
-16.0%
-16.6%
$348.08
$551.56
$265.44
$377,94
31.1%
45.9%
$212.62
$337.10
$204.50
$293.64
4.0%
14.8%
61.1%
61.1%
77.0%
77.7%
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast
-14.3% $324.19 $189.64 $205.65 -7,8%58.5% 72.8% $282.67 14.7%Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
Note: Samples for some classes and regions were insufficient for reporting purposes, but these data were included in
island and statewide totals.
 Figure 8: Hawaii Hotel Performance by Measure Year-to-Date December 2021 vs. 2019
Demand
(thousands)
Revenue
(millions)
Supply
(thousands)
%% %
2021 Change 2021 2019 Change2021 2019 Change 2019
-30.0% -18.7%19.367.0 19,714.0 -1.8% 11,157.5 15,934.0 3,667.2 4,510.2State of Hawai'i
-3.8%
-3.6%
5.927.6
5,055.8
-36.5%
-37.1%
2,247.3
1,897.0
-40.6%
-43.4%
10,668.5
9,169.9
11,087.5
9,507,5
9,328.1
8,033.1
1,335.6
1,074.4
0‘ahu
Waikiki
5.0%
11.5%
4,639.3
800.8
1.4%
30.2%
2,830.3
587.6
3,604.2
708.2
-21.5%
-17,0%
1,518,4
488,4
1,445.6
437.9
4,705.3
1,042.4
Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Ka'anapali/
Kapalua -2.2% 1,535.7 -22.3% 691,8 662.1 4.5%2,522.9 2.579.6 1,975.4
4.9%
-6.2%
1,508.2
623.5
-16,9%
-26.2%
525.0
343.9
481.5
319.4
9,0%
7.7%
2,469.0
1,020.2
2,354.7
1,087.7
1,814.1
845.1
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast
-13.9%1,632.5 -6.6% 891.6 1,187.7 -24.9% 289.0 335.71,524.1Kaua‘i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 9
Figure 9: Monthly State of Hawaii Hotel Performance, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
100%
In 80%$300
in 60%$200
40%
$100 20%
0%$0
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2021 Average Daily Rate ES^2020 Average Daily Rate c
2021 Occupancy
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
32019 Average Daily Rate
2019 Occupancy2020 Occupancy
Figure 10: Monthly State of Hawaii Hotel Supply and Demand, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
2,000
1,500
2020 Supply I 12019 Supply
2019 Demand2020 Demand2021 Demand
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 11: Monthly 0‘ahu Hotel Performance, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
100%
$300 80%
60%$200
40%
$100 20%
0%
12019 Average Daily Rate2020 Average Daily Rate l2021 Average Daily Rate
2020 Occupancy 2019 Occupancy2021 Occupancy
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 10
Figure 12: Monthly 0‘ahu Hotel Supply and Demand, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
2,000
1,750
1,500
1,250
I 1,000
£ 500
750
12020 Supply t 12019 Supply2021 Supply
2020 Demand 2019 Demand2021 Demand
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 13: Monthly Maui County Hotel Performance, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
100%
$500
$400 80%
60%$300
40%$200
$100
I 20%
0%$0
Jan
] 2019 Average Daily Rate
2019 Occupancy
32020 Average Daily Rate c
2020 Occupancy
2021 Average Daily Rate ^
2021 Occupancy
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 14: Monthly Maui County Hotel Supply and Demand, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
!nxn.-jcni(jniniTi|,
mmmJul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
12020 Supply I 12019 Supply
2020 Demand 2019 Demand
2021 Supply I
2021 Demand
Source; STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 11
Figure 15: Monthly Island of Hawaii Hotel Performance, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
100%
$300 80%
60%$200
40%
$100 20%
0%$0
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
32019 Average Daily Rate
2019 Occupancy
2020 Average Daily Rate E
2020 Occupancy
2021 Average Daily Rate
2021 Occupancy
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai‘i Tourism Authority.
Figure 16: Monthly Island of Hawaii Hotel Supply and Demand, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
250
2020 Supply I 32019 Supply
2020 Demand 2019 Demand2021 Demand
Source; STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 17: Monthly Kauai Hotel Performance, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
100%
II I I$300 80%
kKmi“ ● " iJ ■ S
60%$200
40%
$100 20%
0%
2020 Average Daily Rate [ 12019 Average Daily Rate2021 Average Daily Rate
2020 Occupancy 2019 Occupancy2021 Occupancy
Source; STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 12
Figure 18: Monthly Kauai Hotel Supply and Demand, 2021 vs. 2020 vs. 2019
150
2020 Supply I 52019 Supply2021 Supply
2019 Demand2021 Demand 2020 Demand
Source: STR, inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 19: Top 5 U.S. Markets - Revenue Per Available Room - YTD December 2021
Revenue Per
Available Room % ChangeDestinationRank
1 $189.35 89.0%Hawaiian Islands
2 $149.26 73.7%Miami, FL
3 $125.53 75.8%New York, NY
Los Angeles, CA
San Diego. CA
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
4
5
52.8%$103.68
$101.81 61.0%
Figure 20: Top 5 U.S. Markets - Average Daily Rate - YTD December 2021
% ChangeAverage Daily RateDestination
$328.68
Rank
1 Hawaiian Islands 23.2%
2 Miami, FL $223.50 20.5%
3 New York, NY $210.06 38.3%
4 Orange County, CA 23.7%$167.69
5 San Diego, CA $164.56 26.7%
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
Figure 21: Top 5 U.S. Markets - Occupancy - YTD December 2021
Percentage Pt.
ChangeRank Destination Occupancy
1 17.5%68.4%Tampa, FL
Miami. FL2 20.5%66.8%
3 14.4%63.7%Los Angeles, CA
Phoenix, AZ
San Diego, CA
4 63.0% 12.8%
5 61.9% 13.2%
14 20.1%57.6%Hawaiian Islands
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
January 25. 2022 (22-03)
Page 13
Figure 22: Competitive Sun and Sea Destinations - Revenue Per Available Room -
YTD December 2021
Revenue Per Available
Room % ChangeRank Destination
$353.961 Maldives 51.5%
$339.782 French Polynesia 38.5%
3 $322.70Maui 128.0%
4 Hawaii Island $212.62 115.3%
$204.765 Cabo San Lucas+ 85.3%
6 $189.64Kaua'i 115.8%
$158.267 Puerto Rico 142.8%
8 $156.88Aruba 25.2%
$125.199 O'ahu 48.2%
$118.5210 Cancun+ 85.3%
11 $76.36Costa Rica 45.6%
12 $58.47Puerto Vallarta+ 69.5%
13 $22.26Fiji -17.4%
14 $16.30Phuket -53.0%
$11.4315 Bali -34.4%
Source: SIR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
Figure 23: Competitive Sun and Sea Destinations - Average Daily Rate - YTD December 2021
Average Daily Rate % ChangeRank Destination
$714.301 23.5%French Polynesia
Maldives2 $598.93 -15.6%
3 $536.47 31.1%Maui
$400.884 18.8%Cabo San Lucas+
5 $348.08 39.8%Hawaii Island
$324.196 22.5%Kaua'i
7 $306.09 -18.5%Aruba
8 $246.95 25.9%Puerto Rico
9 $225.31 4.5%O'ahu
10 $202.23 9.1%Cancun+
$186.8411 4.0%Costa Rica
12 $104.83 17.6%Puerto Vallarta+
13 $95.07 -32.4%Phuket
14 $86.81 -14.9%Fiii
15 $64.49 -24.4%Bali
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
January 25, 2022 (22-03)
Page 14
Figure 24: Competitive Sun and Sea Destinations - Occupancy - YTD December 2021
Percentage Pt.
ChangeDestination OccupancyRank
1 Puerto Rico 30.9%64.1%
2 Hawaii Island 21.4%61.1%
3 Maui 25.6%60.2%
4 Maldives 26.2%59.1%
Cancun+5 58.6% 24.1%
6 Kaua'i 25.3%58.5%
7 Puerto Vallarta+ 17.1%55.8%
8 O'ahu 16.4%55.6%
9 Aruba 17.9%51.3%
10 Cabo San Lucas+ 18.3%51.1%
11 French Polynesia 5.2%47.6%
12 Costa Rica 40.9% 11.7%
13 Fiji -0.8%25.6%
14 Bali -2.7%17.7%
15 Phuket -7.5%17.1%
Source; STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
^ Hawaii Tqwrisa\ David Y. Ige
Governor
Hawiii'j Convention Cenict
tBOI Kakikaun Avenue. Honolulu, Hawai'i 968)5
kelopona tel 808 973 2255
kelepa'i ku 808 973 2253
kahua pa'a wen tiawaiitoui ismauthorily.org
AUTHORITY John De Fries
President ond Chief E\eculr\e OlUcer
March 2022 Hawai‘1 Hotel Performance Report
Hawaii hotels statewide reported substantially higher revenue per available room (RevPAR),
average daily rate (ADR), and occupancy in March 2022 compared to March 2021 when the
State’s quarantine order for travelers due to the COVlD-19 pandemic resulted in dramatic declines
for the hotel industry. When compared to March 2019, statewide ADR and RevPAR was higher
in March 2022, but occupancy was slightly lower.
According to the Hawaii Hotel Performance Report published by the Hawaii Tourism Authority
(HTA), statewide RevPAR in March 2022 was $284 (+132.3%), with ADR at $378 (+32.9%) and
occupancy of 75.2 percent (+32.2 percentage points) compared to March 2021 (Figure 1).
Compared with March 2019, RevPAR was 26.6 percent higher, driven by substantially higher
ADR (+32.8%) which more than offset lower occupancy (-3.7 percentage points) (Figure 3).
The report’s findings utilized data compiled by STR, Inc., which conducts the largest and most
comprehensive survey of hotel properties in the Hawaiian Islands. For March, the survey included
147 properties representing 46,076 rooms, or 83.0 percent of all lodging properties with 20 rooms
or more in the Hawaiian Islands, including those offering full service, limited service, and
condominium hotels. Vacation rental and timeshare properties were not included in this survey.
Through March 25, 2022, domestic passengers could bypass the State’s mandatory five-day self
quarantine if they were up-to-date on their vaccination or with a negative COVID-19 pre-travel test
result from a Trusted Testing Partner through the Safe Travels program. The Safe Travels
Program ended on March 25, 2022, and domestic pre-travel requirements ceased as of March
26, 2022. Passengers arriving on direct international flights were subjected to federal U.S. entry
requirements which included proof of an up-to-date vaccination document and negative COVID-
19 test result taken within one day of travel, or documentation of having recovered from COVID-
19 in the past 90 days, prior to their flight.
Hawaii hotel room revenues statewide rose to $489.1million (+149.1% vs. 2021, +30.1% vs.
2019) in March. Room demand was 1.3 million room nights (+87.4% vs. 2021, -2.0% vs. 2019)
and room supply was 1.7 million room nights (+7.2% vs. 2021, +2.7% vs. 2019) (Figure 2).
Luxury Class properties earned RevPAR of $537 (+80.2% vs. 2021, +21.8% vs. 2019), with ADR
at $887 (+14.8% vs. 2021, +52.0% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 60.5 percent (+22.0 percentage
points vs. 2021, -15.0 percentage points vs. 2019). Midscale & Economy Class properties earned
RevPAR of $168 (+151.0% vs. 2021, +15.3% vs. 2019) with ADR at $210 (+41.6% vs. 2021,
+16.7% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 80.2 percent (+35.0 percentage points vs. 2021, -1.0
percentage points vs. 2019).
Maui County hotels led the counties in March and achieved RevPAR that surpassed March 2019.
RevPAR was $465 (+103.1% vs. 2021, +39.6% vs. 2019), with ADR at $632 (+36.0% vs. 2021,
+48.9% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 73.5 percent (+24.3 percentage points vs. 2021, -4.9
percentage points vs. 2019). Maui’s luxury resort region of Wailea had RevPAR of $666 (+83.8%
vs. 2021, +14.6% vs. 2019), with ADR at $1,000 (+24.6% vs. 2021, +55.9% vs. 2019) and
occupancy of 66.6 percent (+21.4 precentage points vs. 2021, -24.0 percentage points vs. 2019).
The Lahaina/Ka'anapali/Kapalua region had RevPAR of $424 (+132.1% vs. 2021, +53.9% vs.
2019), ADR at $560 (+47.0% vs. 2021, +57.6% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 75.8 percent (+27.8
percentage points vs. 2021 ,-1.8 percentage points vs. 2019).
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 2
Kauai hotels earned RevPAR of $373 (+580.1% vs. 2021, +81.6% vs. 2019), with ADR at $465
(+149.4% vs. 2021, +63.6% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 80.1 percent (+50.8 percentage points
vs. 2021, +7.9 percentage points vs. 2019).
Hotels on the island of Hawaii reported RevPAR at $337 (+121.3% vs. 2021, +56.0% vs. 2019),
with ADR at $420 (+32.9% vs. 2021, +53.1% vs. 2019), and occupancy of 80.3 percent (+32.1
percentage points vs. 2021, +1.5 percentage points vs. 2019). Kohala Coast hotels earned
RevPAR of $520 (+105.9% vs. 2021, +68.3% vs. 2019), with ADR at $662 (+43.3% vs. 2021,
+71.8% vs. 2019), and occupancy of 78.5 percent (+23.8 percentage points vs. 2021, -1.6
percentage points vs. 2019).
0‘ahu hotels reported RevPAR of $181 (+142.5% vs. 2021, -1.7% vs. 2019) in March, ADR at
$244 (+33.3% vs. 2021, +6.3% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 74.0 percent (+33.3 percentage points
vs. 2021, -6.0 percentage points vs. 2019). WaikTkT hotels earned $172 (+152.5% vs. 2021, -
3.6% vs. 2019) in RevPAR with ADR at $230 (+33.4% vs. 2021, +2.9% vs. 2019) and occupancy
of 75.0 percent (+35.4 percentage points vs. 2021, -5.0 percentage points vs. 2019).
First Quarter 2022
During the first quarter of 2022, Hawaii’s hotels earned $256 in RevPAR (+195.8% vs. 2021,
+9.3% vs. 2019), with ADR at $362 (+34.5% vs. 2021, +24.3% vs. 2019) and occupancy of 70.8
percent (+38.6 percentage points vs. 2021, -9.7 percentage points vs. 2019).
Total statewide hotel revenues for first quarter 2022 were $1.28 billion (+219.1% vs. 2021, +12.2%
vs. 2019). Room supply was 5.0 million room nights (+7.9% vs. 2021, +2.7% vs. 2019), and room
demand was 3.5 million room nights (+137.3% vs. 2021, -9.7% vs. 2019).
Comparison to Top U.S. Markets
In comparison to the top U.S. markets, the Hawaiian Islands earned the highest Q1 2022 RevPAR
at $256 (+195.8%). Miami, Florida was second at $241 (+72.4%), followed by Phoenix, Arizona at
$146 (+94.3%) (Figure 19).
The Hawaiian Islands also led the U.S. markets in Q1 2022 ADR at $362 (+34.5%), followed by
Miami, Florida at $311 (+42.7%) and Phoenix, Arizona at $198 (+55.7%) (Figure 20).
In the first quarter of 2022, Miami, Florida topped the country in occupancy at 77.5 percent (+13.4
percentage points), followed by Tampa, Florida at 77.4 percent (+12.0 percentage points), and
Phoenix, Arizona at 73.8 percent (+14.6 percentage points). The Hawaiian Islands ranked fifth at
70.8 percent (+38.6 percentage points)
Comparison to International Markets
Hotels in the Maldives ranked highest in first quarater RevPAR for international “sun and sea”
destinations at $625 (+27.7%), followed by Maui County ($413, +164.2%), Hawaii Island ($310,
+192.6%), and Kauai (302, +594.5%). O'ahu ranked ninth ($169, +209.2%)(Figure 22).
Maldives led in ADR at $834 (+7.4%), followed by Maui County ($610, +33.9%) and French
Polynesia ($577, +13.2%). Kauai ($405, +123.1%), Hawaii Island ($405, +39.6%), and O'ahu
($241, +37.4%) ranked sixth, seventh, and ninth, respectively (Figure 23).
Hawaii Island led in occupancy for “sun and sea" destinations at 76.5 percent (+40.0 percentage
points), followed by Maldives (75.0%, +11.9 percentage points) and Kauai (74.6%, +50.6
percentage points). O'ahu ranked fifth (70.2%, +39.0 percentage points) and Maui County ranked
seventh (67.7%, +33.4 percentage points) (Figure 24).
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 3
Tables of hotel performance statistics, including data presented in the report are available for
viewing online at: https://www.hawaiitourismauthoritv.ora/research/infrastructure-research/
About the Hawal'i Hotel Performance Report
The Hawaii Hotel Performance Report is produced using hotel survey data compiled by STR,
Inc., the largest survey of its kind in Hawaii. The survey generally excludes properties with under
20 lodging units, such as small bed and breakfasts, youth hostels, single-family vacation rentals,
cottages, individually rented vacation condominiums and sold timeshare units no longer available
for hotel use. The data has been weighted both geographically and by class of property to
compensate for any over and/or under representation of hotel survey participants by location and
type.
For March, the survey included 147 properties representing 46,076 rooms, or 83.0 percent of all
lodging properties with 20 rooms or more in the Hawaiian Islands, including full service, limited
service, and condominium hotels. The March survey included 74 properties on 0‘ahu
representing 28,215 rooms {92.1%); 41 properties in the County of Maui, representing 9,786
rooms (73.7%); 16 properties on the island of Hawaii, representing 4,889 rooms (69.7%); and 16
properties on Kauai, representing 3,186 rooms (69.2%).
About the Hawaii Tourism Authority
The Hawaii Tourism Authority is the state agency responsible for holistically managing tourism in
a sustainable manner consistent with community desires, economic goals, cultural values,
preservation of natural resources, and visitor industry needs. HTA works with the community and
industry to Malama Ku‘u Home - care for our beloved home. For more information about HTA,
visit www.hawaiitourismauthoritv.ora or follow @HawaiiHTA on Facebook. Instaaram. and
Twitter.
March 2022 Hawai'i Hotel Performance Report
Page 4
Figure 1: Hawal*i Hotel Performance March 2022
RevPARAverage Daily RateOccupancy %
Percentage %%Pt.
Change2022 2021 Change 2022 20212022 2021 Change
$284.16 $122.35
$536.53 $297.81
$279.60 $106.27
$204.96 $85.39
$172.96 $82.47
$168.09 $66.96
132.3%
80.2%
163.1%
140.0%
109.7%
151.0%
$377.96
$887.08
$357.12
$259.35
$234.02
$209.65
$284.41
$772.88
$259.79
$182.17
$172.77
$148.09
32.9%
14.8%
37.5%
42.4%
35.5%
41.6%
75.2%
60.5%
78.3%
79.0%
73.9%
80.2%
43.0%
38.5%
40.9%
46.9%
47.7%
45.2%
32.2%
22.0%
37.4%
32.2%
26.2%
35.0%
State of Hawaii
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper Midscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
142.5%
152.5%
99.0%
107.6%
168.5%
102.7%
96.6%
117.7%
$243.95
$229.83
$331.32
$626.44
$250.40
$194.73
$156.66
$144.09
33.3%
33.4%
38.1%
15.8%
22.2%
29.3%
31.9%
46.2%
$180.52
$172.40
$226.27
$314.99
$192.27
$158.82
$108.72
$109.06
$74.45
$68.29
$113.71
$151.74
$71.62
$78.34
$55.30
$50.10
33.3%
35.4%
20.9%
22.2%
41.8%
29.5%
22.8%
24.9%
$182.95
$172.24
$239.97
$540.83
$204.97
$150.55
$118.81
$98.55
74.0%
75.0%
68.3%
50.3%
76.8%
81.6%
69.4%
75.7%
40.7%
39.6%
47.4%
28.1%
34.9%
52.0%
46.5%
50.8%
0‘ahu
Waikiki
Other O'ahu
O'ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
$464.66
$666.44
$424.23
$511.67
$668.74
$404.96
$228.75
$362.68
$182.77
$283.89
$377.76
$174.88
103.1%
83.8%
132.1%
80.2%
77.0%
131.6%
$632.27
$1,000.43
$559.81
$722.41
$1,110.16
$518.09
$464.92
$802.72
$380.76
$560.59
$880.45
$339.54
36.0%
24.6%
47.0%
28.9%
26.1%
52.6%
73.5%
66.6%
75.8%
70.8%
60.2%
78.2%
49.2%
45.2%
48.0%
50.6%
42.9%
51.5%
24.3%
21.4%
27.8%
20.2%
17.3%
26.7%
Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/KS'anapall/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maul County Upper
Upscale & Upscale
$419.60
$662.08
32.9%
43.3%
$336.89
$519.53
$152.24
$252.37
121.3%
105.9%
32.1%
23.8%
$315.72
$461.93
80.3%
78.5%
48.2%
54.6%
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast
$372.70 $54.80 580.1%50.8% $465.09 $186.50 149.4%80.1% 29.4%Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
Note; Samples for some classes and regions were insufficient for reporting purposes, but these data were included in
island and statewide totais.
Figure 2: Hawaii Hotel Performance by Measure March 2022
Revenue
(millions)
Supply
(thousands)
Demand
(thousands)
%%
2022 2021 % ChangeChange 2022 2021 Change2022 2021
149.1%87.4% 489.1 196.47.2% 1,294.2 690.61,721.4 1,605.2State of Hawai'i
98.0%
102.4%
171.4
139.0
64.9 164.0%
170.1%
8.9%
7.0%
702.6
604.9
354.9
298.8
872.1
753.7
949.5
806.3
O'ahu
Waikiki 51.5
191.2 93.2 105.2%
92.3%
1.0%
4.7%
302.5 200.4 50.9%
54.3%
411.6 407.3Maui County
Wailea
Lahalna/Ka'anapali/
Kapalua
60.3 39.1 60.4 31.490.6 86.6
57.3% 93.9 131.2%-0.4% 167.7 106.6 40.6221.2 222.1
129.5%
105.9%
72.7%
43.6%
73.3 31.93.7%
0.0%
174.6 101.1217.5 209.7Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast 47.6 23.172.0 50.191.7 91.7
737.3%235.8% 53.2 6.423.1% 114.4 34.1142.8 116.0Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 5
Figure 3; Hawaii Hotel Performance March 2022 vs. 2019
Average Daily Rate RevPAROccupancy %
%%Percentage
Pt. Change 2019 Change 2022 2019 Change2022 2019 2022
$284.16 $224.39
$536.53 $440.58
$279.60 $223.75
$204.96 $161.95
$172.96 $130.57
$168.09 $145.73
26.6%
21.8%
25.0%
26.6%
32.5%
15.3%
-3.7%
-15.0%
-3.1%
4.1%
-6.4%
-1.0%
$377.96
$887.08
$357.12
$259.35
$234.02
$209.65
$284.63
$583.55
$274.93
$216.06
$162.57
$179.58
32.8%
52.0%
29.9%
20.0%
44.0%
16.7%
75.2%
60.5%
78.3%
79.0%
73.9%
80.2%
78.8%
75.5%
81.4%
75.0%
80.3%
81.1%
State of Hawaii
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper Midscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
-1.7%
-3.6%
6.6%
-5.0%
-6.1%
6.9%
-12.4%
-1.6%
-6.0%
-5.0%
-11.4%
-19.0%
-5.2%
3.3%
-11.0%
-8.9%
$243.95
$229.83
$331.32
$626.44
$250.40
$194.73
$156.66
$144.09
$229.49
$223.42
$266.30
$478.41
$249.73
$189.79
$154.27
$130.88
6.3%
2.9%
24.4%
30.9%
0.3%
2.6%
$180.52
$172.40
$226.27
$314.99
$192.27
$158.82
$108.72
$109.06
$183.58
$178.83
$212.30
$331.49
$204.77
$148.59
$124.07
$110.78
74.0%
75.0%
68.3%
50.3%
76.8%
81.6%
69.4%
75.7%
80.0%
80.0%
79.7%
69.3%
82.0%
78.3%
80.4%
84.6%
0‘ahu
Waikiki
Other O'ahu
O'ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
1.6%
10.1%
-4.9%
-24.0%
-1.8%
-8.7%
-21.3%
-0.1%
$632.27
$1,000.43
$559.81
$722.41
$1,110.16
$518.09
$424.51
$641.76
$355.22
$510.81
$696.61
$335.03
48.9%
55.9%
57.6%
41.4%
59.4%
54.6%
$464.66
$666.44
$424.23
$511.67
$668.74
$404.96
$332.89
$581.66
$275.57
$406.05
$568.07
$262.15
39.6%
14.6%
53.9%
26.0%
17.7%
54.5%
73.5%
66.6%
75.8%
70.8%
60.2%
78.2%
78.4%
90.6%
77.6%
79.5%
81.5%
78.2%
Maul County
Wailea
Lahaina/KS'anapall/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maui County Upper Upscale
& Upscale
56.0%
68.3%
1.5%
-1.6%
$419.60
$662.08
$274.06
$385.49
53.1%
71.8%
$336.89
$519.53
$215.97
$308.62
80.3%
78.5%
78.8%
80.1%
Island of Hawal‘1
Kohala Coast
7.9% $465.09 $284.24 63.6% $372.70 $205.28 81.6%80.1% 72.2%Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
Note: Samples for some classes and regions were insufficient for reporting purposes, but these data were included in
island and statewide totals.
Figure 4: Hawaii Hotel Performance by Measure March 2022 vs. 2019
Supply
(thousands)
Demand
(thousands)
Revenue
(millions)
% %%
Change2019 Change 2022 2019 Change 2022 20192022
-2.0% 376.0 30.1%1,675.7 2.7% 1,294.2 1,321.0 489.11,721.4State of Hawai‘1
-0.9%
-3.9%
702.6
604.9
-6.8%
-6.6%
171.4
139.0
173.0
144.6
949.5
806.3
942.5
808.8
0.7%
-0.3%
753.9
647.3
0‘ahu
Waikiki
-2.2%
-2.1%
191.2 131.3 45.6%
52.6%
411.6 394.5 4.3%
33.2%
302.5 309.4Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Ka'anapall/
Kapalua
60.3 60.4 39.690.6 68.0 61,6
54.0%0.0% 167.7 171.6 -2.3% 93.9 61.0221.2 221.2
70.4%
66.0%
9.2%
-1.4%
174.6 11.3%
-3.4%
73.3 43.0217.5 199.1 156.9Island of Hawaii
Kohala Coast 72.0 47.6 28.791.7 93.0 74.5
13.5% 53.2 28.7 85.7%142.8 139.6 2.3% 114.4 100.8Kauai
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 6
Figure 5: Hawaii Hotel Performance Year-to-Date March 2022
RevPAROccupancy % Average Daily Rate
Percentage
% %Pt.
Change2022 2021 Change 2022 20212022 2021 Change
$362.14
$843.35
$334.46
$253.80
$244.04
$222.35
$256.29 $86.65
$478.72 $209.10
$242.75 $72.90
$189.73 $63.89
$173.46 $64.09
$175.77 $53.51
195.8%
128.9%
233.0%
197.0%
170.7%
228.5%
70.8%
56.8%
72.6%
74.8%
71.1%
79.1%
32.2%
27.5%
29.3%
36.0%
38.4%
37.2%
38.6%
29.3%
43.3%
38.7%
32.7%
41.9%
$269.30
$761.24
$248.99
$177.42
$166.94
$143.97
34.5%
10.8%
34.3%
43.1%
46.2%
54.4%
State of Hawai'i
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper Midscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
$240.73
$227.58
$315.83
$629.51
$246.96
$196.14
$157.07
$148.51
$169.03
$160.13
$219.11
$282.36
$177.93
$153.87
$105.34
$113.11
$54.67
$49.75
$87.94
$105.37
$50.83
$61.38
$44.92
$41.31
209.2%
221.9%
149.2%
168.0%
250.0%
150.7%
134.5%
173.8%
70.2%
70.4%
69.4%
44.9%
72.0%
78.4%
67.1%
76.2%
31.2%
29.6%
41.9%
20.6%
25.4%
41.0%
38.0%
41.3%
39.0%
40.8%
27.5%
24.2%
46.6%
37.4%
29.1%
34.9%
$175.26
$168.01
$209.88
$510.58
$199.87
$149.67
$118.24
$100.03
37.4%
35.5%
50.5%
23.3%
23.6%
31.0%
32.8%
48.5%
0‘ahu
Waikiki
Other O'ahu
O'ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
$156.29
$247.31
$119.17
$200.81
$265.58
$115.14
164.2%
138.7%
207.5%
132.7%
123.1%
198.2%
33.4%
32.7%
36.5%
29.7%
26.5%
35.4%
$609.73
$922.25
$535.14
$699.21
$1,036.61
$485.77
$455.43
$789.98
$372.85
$540.67
$867.73
$326.19
33.9%
16.7%
43.5%
29.3%
19.5%
48.9%
$412.86
$590.23
$366.39
$467.28
$592.46
$343.34
67.7%
64.0%
68.5%
66.8%
57.2%
70.7%
34.3%
31.3%
32.0%
37.1%
30.6%
35.3%
Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Ka'anapali/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maui County Upper
Upscale & Upscale
$405.14
$633.76
39.6%
42.8%
$310.07
$468.76
$105.96
$168.55
192.6%
178.1%
76.5%
74.0%
36.5%
38.0%
40.0%
36.0%
$290.23
$443.96
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast
$405.48 $302.36 $43.54 594.4%50.6% $181.75 123.1%74.6% 24.0%Kaua'l
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
Note: Samples for some classes and regions were insufficient for reporting purposes, but these data were included in
island and statewide totals.
Figure 6: Hawaii Hotel Performance by Measure Year-to-Date March 2022
Revenue
(millions)
Supply
(thousands)
Demand
(thousands)
% %
2022 2021 % ChangeChange2022 2021 Change 2022 2021
219.1%7.9% 3,536.2 1,490.1 137.3% 1,280.6 401.34,996.6 4,631.0State of Hawai'i
241.3%
246.4%
10.4%
7.6%
1,934.9
1,646.7
148.5%
155.7%
465.8
374.7
136.5
108.2
2,755.8
2,340.2
2,496.4
2,174.5
778.7
643.9
O'ahu
Waikiki
167.6%
149.8%
1.3%
4.7%
811.3
168.3
99.9%
113.9%
494.7
155.2
184.81,198.1
263.0
1,182.7
251.3
405.9Maui County
Wailea
Lahaina/Ka'anapali/
Kapalua
62.178.7
208.1%0.2% 442.5 114.6% 236.8 76.9646.3 645.0 206.1
199.8%
178.5%
2.5%
0.1%
483.7
196.9
114.8%
95.1%
195.9
124.8
65.4631.9
266.2
616.7
265.9
225.2
100.9
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast 44.8
281.6% 124.2 14.6 751.3%410.8 335.1 22.6% 306.3 80.3Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
March 2022 Hawai'i Hotel Performance Report
Page 7
Figure 7: Hawaii Hotel Performance Year-to-Date March 2022 vs, 2019
Average Daily RateOccupancy % RevPAR
%%Percentage
Pt. Change 2019 Change2019 Change 20222022 2019 2022
$256,29 $234.50
$478.72 $450.01
$242.75 $234.91
$189.73 $171,16
$173.46 $139.31
$175.77 $156.43
9,3%
6.4%
3.3%
10.8%
24.5%
12.4%
-9.7%
-19.0%
-10.1%
-2.3%
-12.8%
-4.2%
$362.14
$843.35
$334.46
$253.80
$244.04
$222.35
$291.30
3594.11
$283.95
$222.24
$166.12
$187.96
24.3%
42.0%
17.8%
14.2%
46,9%
18.3%
70.8% 80.5%
56.8% 75.7%
72.6% 82.7%
74.8% 77.0%
71.1% 83.9%
79.1% 83.2%
State of Hawai'i
Luxury Class
Upper Upscale Class
Upscale Class
Upper Midscale Class
Midscale & Economy Class
-13.1%
-16.1%
0.9%
-19.2%
-18.0%
-2,5%
-20,5%
-3.5%
-12.6%
-12.7%
-12.1%
-25.4%
-12.5%
-3.5%
-17.1%
-11.4%
$240.73
$227.58
$315.83
$629.51
$246.96
$196.14
$157.07
$148.51
$234.87
$229.73
$266.58
$497.71
$256.63
$192.55
$157.44
$133.91
2.5%
-0,9%
18.5%
26.5%
●3.8%
$169.03
$160,13
$219.11
$282.36
$177.93
$153.87
$105.34
$113.11
$194.55
$190.81
$217.19
$349.51
$216.87
$157.80
$132.46
$117.20
70.2%
70,4%
69,4%
44.9%
72.0%
78,4%
67.1%
76,2%
82,8%
83.1%
81.5%
70.2%
84.5%
82.0%
84.1%
87.5%
O'ahu
Waikiki
Other O'ahu
O'ahu Luxury
O'ahu Upper Upscale
O'ahu Upscale
O'ahu Upper Midscale
O'ahu Midscale & Economy
1.9%
-0.2%
10.9%
$338.48
$574.63
$280.28
$412.76
$565.04
$268.91
22.0%
2.7%
30.7%
13.2%
4.9%
27.7%
-10.4%
-24.8%
-8.4%
-12.8%
-23.2%
-7.2%
$609.73
$922.25
$535.14
$699.21
$1,036.61
$485.77
$433.46
$647.26
$364.51
$518.44
$703.43
$345.43
40,7%
42.5%
46.8%
34.9%
47.4%
40,6%
$412,86
$590.23
$366,39
$467.28
$592.46
$343,34
67,7%
64.0%
68.5%
66.8%
57.2%
70.7%
78.1%
88.8%
76.9%
79.6%
80.3%
77.8%
Maui County
Wallea
Lahalna/KS'anapall/Kapalua
Other Maui County
Maui County Luxury
Maui County Upper Upscale
& Upscale
$225.22
$318.07
37.7%
47.4%
-2.4%
-5.4%
$405.14
$633.76
$285.15
$400.99
42.1%
58,0%
$310.07
$468.76
76.5%
74.0%
79.0%
79.3%
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast
$302.36 $223.60 35.2%0.8% $405.48 $303.10 33.8%74.6% 73.8%Kaua'i
Source: SIR. Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
Note: Samples for some classes and regions were insufficient for reporting purposes, but these data were inciuded in
island and statewide totals.
 Figure 8: HawaiM Hotel Performance by Measure Year-to-Date March 2022 vs. 2019
Revenue
(millions)
Demand
(thousands)
Supply
(thousands)
%% %
2019 ChangeChange 2022 2019 Change 20222022 2019
3,536.2 -9.7% 1,141.0 12.2%4,865.9 2.7% 3,917.1 1,280.64,996.6State of Hawai'i
1,934,9
1,646.7
-14.6%
-15.6%
532.3
448.0
-12.5%
-16.4%
2,755,8
2,340.2
2,736.2
2,348.0
0.7%
-0.3%
2,266.4
1,950.2
465.8
374.7
O'ahu
Waikiki
27.6%
36,8%
4.6%
33.2%
811.3
168.3
-9.3%
-4.0%
494.7
155.2
387,7
113.5
1,198.1
263.0
1,145.3
197.5
894.4
175.3
Maui County
Wailea
Lahatna/Kd'anapall/
Kapalua 31.6%-10.4% 236.8 180.0646.3 642.2 0.6% 442.5 493.8
50.5%
45.3%
9.3%
-1.4%
483.7
196.9
456.6
214.2
5.9%
-8.1%
195.9
124.8
130,2631.9
266.2
578.1
270,0
Island of Hawai'i
Kohala Coast 85,9
36,7%1.1% 306.3 2.2% 124.2 90.9410.8 406.3 299,7Kaua'i
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 8
Figure 9: Monthly State of Hawai'i Hotel Performance, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
$400 100%
80%r,-$300
rr60%
I$200 40%
$100 20%
0%
May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
32019 Average Daily Rate
2019 Occupancy
2022 Average Daily Rate t333^ 2021 Average Daily Rate i
2021 Occupancy2022 Occupancy
Source; STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 10: Monthly State of Hawaii Hotel Supply and Demand, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
2,000
1,500■D
^ 1,0003
o
500
UTi I I M I I I
c(D
in
0
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2021 Supply l^ZD2019 Supply
2021 Demand 2019 Demand
2022 Supply
2022 Demand
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 11: Monthly 0‘ahu Hotel Performance, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
$300 100%
r» ’ I 80%
$200 60%
40%$100
20%
0%
May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2021 Average Daily RateC
2021 Occupancy
32019 Average Daily Rate
2019 Occupancy
2022 Average Daily Rate
2022 Occupancy
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 9
Figure 12: Monthly 0‘ahu Hotel Supply and Demand, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
2,000
m rn●« 1,500■D
1,0003
O
500
c(0(/>
II  '
Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
J2021 Supply I 12019 Supply
2021 Demand 2019 Demand
2022 Supply
2022 Demand
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 13: Monthly Maui County Hotel Performance, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
100%
$600 n 80%
I  In rn 60%$400
40%
$200 20%
0%
Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov DecJun
D2021 Average Daily Ratec
■ 2021 Occupancy
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
2022 Average Daily Rate I
2022 Occupancy
32019 Average Daily Rate
2019 Occupancy
Figure 14: Monthly Maui County Hotel Supply and Demand, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
400
ml300 1  IT3 I  ICO 200(A
I3
O
£ 100
I0
Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov DecJan
2022 Supply i,.' . 32021 Supply I 12019 Supply
2022 Demand # 2021 Demand 2019 Demand
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 10
Figure 15: Monthly Island of Hawaii Hotel Performance, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
100%
$500
Hflmrrii'rfflt80%
$400
60%$300
40%$200
20%$100
0%$0
Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov DecJan Feb Mar Apr May Jun
2 2019 Average Daily Rate
2019 Occupancy
2021 Average Daily Ratec
2021 Occupancy
2022 Average Daily Rate
2022 Occupancy
Source; STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Figure 16: Monthly Island of Hawaii Hotel Supply and Demand, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
250
IMlt m fiHrf il^ 200
£ 150
i 100
^ 50
V)
■D
(0tf)
0
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2021 Supply C~~>2019 Supply
2021 Demand 2019 Demand
2022 Supply
2022 Demand
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority.
Figure 17: Monthly Kauai Hotel Performance, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
100%$500
* 80%$400 n 60%$300
40%$200
$100
!i j
a 20%1
0%
Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov DecJun
32019 Average Daily Rate
2019 Occupancy
32021 Average Daily Rate c
2021 Occupancy
2022 Average Daily Rate
2022 Occupancy
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority.
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 11
Figure 18: Monthly Kaua'i Hotel Supply and Demand, 2022 vs. 2021 vs. 2019
150
HI dl
ImU)
■g 100
I II
V)
Z3
2 50
0
Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
32021 Supply (37712019 Supply
2021 Demand 2019 Demand
2022 Supply
2022 Demand
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawal‘i Tourism Authority.
Figure 19: Top 5 U.S. Markets - Revenue Per Available Room - YTD March 2022
Revenue Per
Available Room % ChangDestination eRank
195.8%1 $256.29Hawaiian Islands
$241.05 72.4%2 Miami, FL
94.3%3 $146.01Phoenix, AZ
60.8%4 Tampa, FL $141.64
115.2%5 $127.58Los Angeles, CA
Source; STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
Figure 20: Top 5 U.S. Markets - Average Daily Rate - YTD March 2022
Destination % ChAverage Daily Rate angeRank
$362.14 34.5%1 Hawaiian Islands
2 $310.96 42.7%Miami, FL
55.7%3 Phoenix, AZ $197.88
52.2%4 $196.08New York, NY
61.8%5 Los Angeles, CA $193.56
Source; STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
Figure 21: Top 5 U.S. Markets - Occupancy - YTD March 2022
Percentage Pt.
ChangeOccupancy
77.5%
Rank Destination
13.4%1 Miami, FL
12.0%2 Tampa, FL 77.4%
14.6%3 Phoenix, AZ 73.8%
26.4%4 Orlando, FL 71.7%
38.6%70.8%5 Hawaiian Islands
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 12
Figure 22: Competitive Sun and Sea Destinations - Revenue Per Available Room -
YTD March 2022
Revenue Per Available
Room % ChangeDestinationRank
27.7%$625,451 Maldives
164.2%$412.862 Maui County
192.6%$310.073 Hawaii Island
594.5%$302.364 Kauai
103.6%$288.52Cabo San Lucas+5
173.3%$281.006 French Polynesia
172.6%$237.277 Aruba
78.5%$200.098 Puerto Rico
209.2%$169.039 0‘ahu
101.7%$165.5710 Cancun+
143.6%$140.0511 Costa Rica
130.2%$85.5012 Puerto Vallarta+
411.5%$77.3113 Fiji
554.9%$52.7014 Phuket
149.1%$15.5715 Bali
Source; SIR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawaii Tourism Authority
Figure 23: Competitive Sun and Sea Destinations - Average Daily Rate - YTD March 2022
Average Daily Rate % ChangeDestinationRank
7.4%$834.361 Maldives
33.9%$609.732 Maui County
13.2%$577.013 French Polynesia
16.7%$449.684 Cabo San Lucas+
34.8%$433.375 Aruba
123.1%$405.486 Kaua'i
39.6%$405,147 Hawaii Island
37.2%$309.998 Puerto Rico
37.4%$240.739 0‘ahu
20.6%$236.0210 Cancun+
29.3%$229.1911 Costa Rica
153.4%$162,9612 Fiji
61.2%$131.1313 Phuket
21.4%$121.0614 Puerto Vallarta+
5.5%$63.0115 Bali
Source: STR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
March 2022 Hawaii Hotel Performance Report
Page 13
Figure 24: Competitive Sun and Sea Destinations - Occupancy - YTD March 2022
Percentage Pt.
ChangeOccupancyDestinationRank
40.0%76.5%1 Hawaii Island
11.9%75.0%2 Maldives
74.6% 50.6%3 Kauai
33.4%70.6%4 Puerto Vallarta+
39.0%5 70.2%0‘ahu
28.2%6 70.2%Cancun+
67.7% 33.4%7 Maui County
8 64.5% 14.9%Puerto Rico
27.4%9 Cabo San Lucas+ 64.2%
10 Costa Rica 61.1% 28.7%
11 27.7%Aruba 54.8%
12 48.7% 28.5%French Polynesia
13 Fiji 47.4% 23.9%
14 Phuket 40.2% 30.3%
15 24.7% 14.2%Baii
Source: SIR, Inc. © Copyright 2022 Hawai'i Tourism Authority
Best Places to Invest in U.S. Vacation Rentals 20224/23/22, 12:24 PM
AIRDNA
Back To Case Studies
Best Places to Invest in Vacation
Rentals in 2021 & 2022
Copy linkFebruary 8, 2022
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic changed where people want to live and travel.
These changes have led to unprecedented growth for both the housing market
and the short-term rental (STR) industry. Our latest vacation rental forecast
report predicts that short-term rentals will achieve an average occupancy of over
60% for a second consecutive year.
Similarly, housing prices continue to rise: Zillow's Home Value Index is up 19.6%
from December 2020, with an annual growth rate at its highest level in more
than 20 years. As prices increase, the number of homes for sale has reached an
all-time low, according to Redfin. The scarcity of homes for sale could Impact the_i
https://www.airdna.co/blog/best-places-to-invest-in-us-vacation-rentals-2021-2022
I  :
1/9
Best Places to Invest in U.S. Vacation Rentals 20224/23/22, 12:24 PM
AIRDNA
growth doesn't keep pace with home price appreciation, the
attractiveness of short-term rental investments will diminish.
2. Limited availability could present difficulties in finding attractive rentals.
While investor appetite is high for short-term rental investment homes,
the overall market for homes remains high for other uses as well, which
may limit how much supply is ultimately purchased for STR use.
With this analysis, we provide a framework for finding profitable investment
markets, using the most up-to-date data. However, just because a market is
listed here doesn't mean that all investments will be profitable. Likewise,
excellent investments can be found in markets not listed here. AirDNA's
Rentalizer tool brings together the latest short-term rental and housing market
data to analyze specific investment opportunities.
Market Conditions for Vacation Renta
Investnnents
The year 2021 was the best on record for short-term rental performance. On
average, U.S. short-term rentals achieved 62% occupancy, which is up 5%
compared with 2020 and a full 10% higher than in 2019. U.S. short-term rentals
are earning an average of 39% more annually than they were prior to the
pandemic, benefiting from significantly higher average daily rates (ADRs) and
occupancy, as well as fewer competitive listings in many areas.
https://www.airdna.co/blog/best-places-to-invest-in-us-vacation-rentals-2021-2022 2/9
Best Places to Invest in U.S. Vacation Rentals 20224/23/22, 12:24 PM
AIRDNA
T-M I-.II <!'.
$60
$50
$40
2018
$30
$20
$10
$0
2018 20202019
Source- AirD^
Our 2022 list is dominated by small and mid-sized cities, as it was in 2021. In
fact, the revenue potential of small city/rural areas in the U.S. has risen 55%
since the start of the pandemic, followed closely by mountain/lake destinations
and mid-sized cities. The chart below shows the average annual potential for a
typical property by location type and how trailing 12 months (TTM) revenue has
evolved over the past three years.
https://www.airdna.co/blog/best-places-to-invest-in-us-vacation-rentals-2021-2022 3/9
Besl Places to Invest in U.S. Vacation Rentals 20224/23/22, 12:24 PM
AIRDNA
Indexed to February 2020
160
Mnall Oty/Rurai
Oestination/Resort
Mountaiii^/lake
Mid-Size City
150
140 Destination/Resort
Coastal
130 Large City
Suljuibdii
120 ;tf Citytil
no
100
90
80 -
70
2020 2021
2019
'..ource. AirDNA
The revenue potential turning point for properties in large cities came in 2021.
At the start of the year, the average property was earning 20% less revenue, but
by the end of the year, that had reversed to 20% more revenue than prior to the
pandemic.
It was also another popular year to hit the great outdoors. Markets located at
the entrance to or bordering national or state parks or forests and wildlife
refuges made a strong showing on our list.
Many of the markets that came to the top of our list don't represent the most
popular markets to invest in today. Our list tries to point out the best markets to
invest in regardless of the value that an owner may attribute for their own
current or future use.
https://www.airdna.co/blog/best-places-to-invest-in-us-vacation-renfals-2021-2022 4/9
Best Places to Invest in U.S. Vacation Rentals 20224/23/22, 12:24 PM
AIRD.NA
oo *^ro
of the inventory. This is happening in many areas throughout the country where
it is attractive to buy and use second homes as primarily residences. This has
grown in popularity, given the flexibility people now have to work from home.
Home values in these areas have grown at more than double the national
average; In markets such as Vail. CO; Breckenridge. CO; Park City. UT; and Big
Bear. CA, home values have risen more than 40%, according to data from Zillow.
isoarch rbnb Market'
Methodology for The Best Places to Own an
Airbnb:
Using AirDNA's property-level performance data for Airbnb and Vrbo, we created
an updated index of the best markets for investment in the coming year. This
methodology allows us to find high-performing, growing short-term rental
markets that provide returns for investors.
The pillars of our Investor Score include;
● Rental Demand: How often are rentals booked throughout the year? By
using a combination of the TTM occupancy and listing growth rates, this
metric shows the relative strength of travel demand in each market.
● Revenue Growth: Did properties earn more this year than they did last
year? This is calculated by looking at the TTM year-over-year change in
revenue per available room (RevPAR) for properties that were booked
over the past two years.
● Investability: This metric compares the expected income of a property
relative to the cost of buying It. This is calculated by using the average
revenue potential of homes in the area, subtracting the average cost for
operating the property, and then dividing that by the typical home value
in the same area for similar-type homes. We weight home values by the
number of short-term rentals in each zip code, to make the home
values more comoatible with the relevant earnings in the same market. 5/9https://www.airdna.co/blog/best-places-toinvest-in-us-vacation-rentals-2021-2022
Best Places to Invest in U.S. Vacation Rentals 20224/23/22, 12:24 PM
AIRD.NA
The Best Short-Term Rental Markets in 2022
1. Maui, H
Enter a location to view rental market insights
Average Daily Rate Average RevenueTypical Home Value Occupancy
$102k$802k 73% $375
For those seeking the best beach rental investments, you'll want to read about
this destination. High Occupancy, very strong revenue growth from 2020, and
high Investability earn Maui to the top spot for Airbnb investments In 2022.
Known as 'The Valley Isle", Maui is the second-largest Hawaiian island beloved
6/9https://www.airdna.co/blog/best'places-to-invest-in-us-vacation-renlals-2021-2022
4/23/22. 12;24PM Best Places to Invest in U.S. Vacation Rentals 2022
AIRD.NA r- -r -j ●
Wailuku are the hot markets for investment according to our investor score, but
almost all areas on the island score high on our list for 2022. The average full
time rental property in Maui earns $102K per year with an Average Daily Rate of
$375.
O'-' J '' J " 'O ■ ● ■ I
AirDNA
Investor Score
InvestabilityRevenue Growth Rental Demand
Analyze Hawaii
2. Kenai Peninsula, AK
7/9https://www.airdna.co/blog/best-places-to-invest-in-us-vacation-rentals-2021-2022
4/23/22, 12:24 PM Best Places to Invest in U.S. Vacation Rentals 2022
AIRDNA
Typical Home Value Occupancy Average Daily Rate Average Revenue
$237k $44k67% $262
Not all top Airbnb locations have to be beach destinations. For a typical home
value of S237K, the Kenai Peninsula offers wilderness seekers the true awe and
beauty of the Alaskan experience with no shortage of access to national parks,
fjords, and wildlife viewing. With increased demand for outdoor exploration
since the pandemic, it's no surprise that revenue growth for the area reached a
score of 94. Less than three hours from Anchorage. Seward and Soldotna both
have high Investability and have seen strong demand and revenue growth in
2021. Despite lower winter visitation; during the summer months, people come
from around the globe to the many flowing rivers along the peninsula to partake
in some of the best salmon fishing in the world. Prior to the pandemic,
occupancies averaged Just 60% during peak season while in 2021, they pushed
well over 80% over the 2021 summer. So yes, Alaska is a good place to invest in
Airbnb real estate.
't 'i
AirDNA
Investor Score
InvestabilityRevenue Growth Rental Demand
Analyze Alaska
Copy link
STR Investment resources
8/9https://www.airdna.co/blog/best-places-to-invest-in-us-vacation-rentals-2021-2022
4/23/22, 12:24 PM Best Places to Invest in U.S. Vacation Rentals 2022
AIRD.NjA
AIRD.NA
United States
^  +1 (720)372-2318
Q 1507 Blake Street, Denver, CO 80202
Q hello@airdna.co
Spain
Q +34 932 205 569
Q Carrer de Muntaner 292 6.2, 08021 Barcelona
Terms of Service Privacy Policy Content Usage
® 2022 AirDNA, LLC. All rights reserved. AirDNA is a trademark of AirDNA, LLC.
https://www.airdna.co/blog/best-places-to-invest-in-us-vacation-rentals-2021-2022 9/9
REr: .  :: [J
im APR 26 PM 3- 2;!
-● / ! IL't" O r I H
:CUNTY CLERK
April 27, 2022
Council Chair Alice Lee
Maui County Council
200 South High Street, Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Council Chair Lee and Members of the Council:
My name is Lisa Paulson, Executive Director of the Maui Hotel & Lodging Association
(MHLA), the legislative arm of the visitor industry. We represent over 170 property and allied
business members and over 19,000 rooms in Maui County. We respectfully request that the
Council bring the hotel real property tax rate to $10.40 as listed in the Mayor’s proposed budget.
The reasons for our request are as follows:
Industry Support for the Community: There is the misconception that the visitor industry
exists to benefit offshore investment companies. However, the industry is the number one
private-sector employer in Maui County and is a generous supporter of local community
charities. Individual businesses donate money, goods, and services to worthy causes. On average,
each hotel donates $80,000/year to charitable organizations and 625 hours of staff time donated
to volunteering in the community. The Maui Hotel  & Lodging Association’s Charity Walk raised
$1.2 million last year exclusively for 100 Maui County non-profit organizations. We grant over
$35,000 each year in scholarships to public school seniors and scholarships to UH Maui college
students. During the pandemic and Statewide shutdown, our properties supported their
employees by keeping their benefits intact, providing food distributions, and other additional
support. The industry believes in investing in our employees and our community.
High Property Values and Noii-equitable Tax Rate: Maui County’s economy is mainly
powered by a strong visitor industry. Year after year, we see increases in our industry’s real
property values, resulting in more tax revenues being collected. This year’s assessed values for
hotels, timeshares, and short-term rentals have increased by $2.1 billion and will provide
$229,497,215 in tax revenue for Maui County, an additional 20.1 million dollars from FY22
using the $10.40 tax rate. In addition, we have heard from some Council members that we should
be level with other RPT rates paid in other Counties in the State. If there is to be a comparison
of rates in other Counties, then all classifications should be reviewed - not just one tax
classification. Other Counties have a fair and equitable share of taxes across all business
classifications without Maui’s huge disparities. The Maui County visitor industry provides
54.9% of RPT versus Kauai at 40.4%, City & County of Honolulu at 14%, and Hawaii at 3.3%.
(See exhibit A) As shown in other Counties’ RPT rates, we again ask for equitable taxes across
all classifications.
Page 2 of 2
Additional TAT Revenue from County TAT Collection:
Maui County now assesses an additional 3% TAT per room night (in addition to the State
10.25% TAT and State GET) projected to bring in $60 million for Maui County. This $60
million is an increase of $36.5 million from the previous $23.5 million in TAT funding provided
by the State.
For these reasons, we ask you to support the Mayor’s proposed hotel/resort real property tax of
$10.40 for FY23.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
Sincerely,
Lisa H. Paulson
Executive Director
EXHIBIT A
RPT Generated By Visitor industry in each County
RPT/UnIt
$  4,993
RPT Visitor Units
38,758$C&C of Honolulu 193,502,000
$ 10,615 $Hawaii 11,965,000 1,127
$ 9,160 $Kauai 63,626,000 6,946
$  9,554$Maui 210,400,000
29,288,000
37,646,000
1,048,000
142,418,000
22,022
$Hotel
Timeshare
Comm. Reside
Short-term
$
$
$
Maui Visitor Industry RPT is 17.5 times more than Hawaii County and
3.3 times more than Kauai County
Maui Visitor Industry Generates 90% more RPT per unit than Oahu
Maui Visitor Industyry Generates 108% of Oahu Revenues with 57% of the visitor units
Portion of County RPT provided by Visitor Plant
Total RPT
$  1,379,569,000
$  383,236,000
S  363,587,000
$  157,562,000
Visitor Ind. RPT
$  193,502,000
$  210,400,000
$  11,965,000
$  63,626,000
C&C of Honolulu 14.0%
54.9%
3.3%
40.4%
Maui
Hawaii
Kauai
Maui visitor industry provides a higher percentage of total County RPT than all the other counnties combined
County Clerk
TCroly@maui.net
Wednesday, April 27, 2022 4:50 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for RPT hearing
RPT example.pdf
From:
Sent:
To: t  ● C3>
Subject:
Attachments:
O *: Uy
-T3 mr:rn●<
c(You don't often get email from tcroly@maui.net. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
o ZS2r~
ITi VO .●“I
r-oAloha Council members,
Mahalo for your hard work on the budget. I wanted to send you my testimony for tonight's public hearing on Real
Property tax rate in advance because I don't think that I will be able to cover all of my points in  3minutes of testimony. I
would be happy to clarify any of these points in advance or at tonights public hearing.
First, I would like to say that I am concerned about the tremendous expansion that has been proposed for Maui County
government and the unprecedented increase in tax revenues contained in this year's budget. This year's proposed
increase of $45 million in Real property tax is the largest single year dollar increase in Maui's history and the largest
percentage increase in 15 years. Combined with the estimated $60 million that will come from the new County
Transient Accommodations tax, amounts to more than $100 million in new tax revenues. As a citizen, this kind of
increase gives me concern for who is watching the money at the County. My mother always said, "watch the pennies
and dollars take care of themselves." Maybe in County speak this would be, watch the thousands and the mil lions take
care of themselves, but now we are talking over a billion I
Tonight, the issue is Real Property tax rates and it is Real Property tax that is the primary revenue generator for the
county. While nobody likes paying more taxes, if the distribution of tax burden is fair, then we can all do our part to fund
the whole. My concern is that the largest constituency of tax payers, who hold the most parcels that the make up the
greatest value of real property, are not really sharing in the collective tax burden. I speak of Maui's Owner occupied
homeowners, who while making up more than 25% of Maui property value are being asked to pay less than 8% of
Maui's total real property tax revenue, and being given a reduction in tax compared to last year, while visitor
accommodations, in form of Hotels, Short Term Rentals, Timeshares and non owner occupied, second home owners, are
being asked to contribute 83% of Maui's real property tax revenue. Something should be done to better balance the tax
burden.
I have provided a spreadsheet below where the actual tax bill for different assessed values in each of Maui's six housing
tax classes is shown. This spreadsheet reveals the vast disparity in tax bill from Homeowner use to Timeshare use and all
the classifications in-between. While it is the Council's policy decision to determine who should pay more and who
should pay less, at the rates proposed you can see that the same property assessed at $500,000 would pay $600 in
property tax at owner occupied rates with a home owner exemption, $900 with long term rental rate and a long term
rental exemption and as much as $5925 when used as short term rental. Making the County more than ten times more
dependent on the short term rental for revenue than on the resident homeowner. At higher property values the
differences are even greater where a property valued at $5 million dollars would pay $11,180 as owner occupied and
$73,000 as a time share. Whatever the policy this represents, it is unsustainable unless Maui is ready to greatly expand
its visitor accommodations. And I don't think that is the desire of most residents.
A couple years ago, this council established tiers for tax rates in certain classifications, I do not believe that the proposed
tax rates in the owner occupied classification are correctly using those tiers as they were intended. My spreadsheet
shows the additional tax that is a result of the tiers. In the case of a $2 million owner occupied property, the additional
tax as a result of the tiers is only $80 and for  a$5 million home it is just $1580. The rates in the higher tiers of Owner
1
occupied should be much higher. The owners of high value properties will admit that their taxes are too low. And for
anyone who is a homeowner and cannot afford to pay the higher tax bill, Maui County offers the Circuit breaker tax
credit to ensure the tax bill will not exceed 2% of the taxpayers gross income.
My testimony is not to lower my rate or anyone else rate specifically. I just want there to be more equity in the rate
structure and 1 do not feel that lowering the real property tax bill for Maui's resident owner occupied class as has been
proposed is warranted, especially in a year when the the Council is choosing to increase the overall spending by more
than $100 million. It just is not sustainable to pass on 83% of the tax burden to the visitor accommodations unless you
are ready to greatly expand the visitor industry.
I would be happy to answer any questions about the attached spreadsheet and the conclusions that can be drawn from
it.
Tom Croly
2
number of properties in each value range2022 Real Property Tax
7,519 1,66629,630 23,161
assessed value
$5,000,000$500,000 $1,000,000 $2,000,000tier incre tierTax classificationRate
$11,180 $1,580$600 $1,600 $3,680 $80Owner Occupied $2.00
$7,000 $1,600 $27,400 $12,400$3.00 $900 $2,400Long Term Rental
$0$4,400 $8,800 $0 $22,000Commercialized Res $4.40 $2,200
$13,420 $1,720 $44,350 $15,100$2,925 $5,850$5.85Non Owner Occupie
$0 $59,250 $0$5,925 $11,850 $23,700Short Term Rental $11.85
$29,200 $0 $73,000 $0$7,300 $14,600$14.60Timeshare
Timeshare and Comm Res unit count not included in totals by va ue range
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Real Property Tax Rates
Wednesday, April 27, 2022
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Maui County
Council,
Mahalo for the opportunity to testify this evening.
We would like to provide our comments on the proposed real property tax rates by
classification based on the proposals by Mayor Victorino and Budget Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez:
● Non-Owner Occupied—We appreciate the new levels in the staggered rates for
the Non-Owner Occupied classification given increased valuations and know that
Hawaiian Community Asset’s housing plan specifically targeted these as they are gen
erally not resident owned and for those that are, they typically fall into other categories.
● Owner-Occupied—We understand the intent in lowering the rates in both Mayor
Victorino's proposal and the Budget Chair’s proposal to help local residents. As
valuations have increased, we recognize you are looking for ways to help. We also
appreciate the proposed shift for the lowest tier to go up to $1 million as our home
prices have drastically increased and that will include more residents.
● Long-Term Rentals & Apartment—We see the value In decreasing the rates for
apartments and setting lower rates for long-term rentals as real property taxes are
passed down to tenants and given how difficult it is for residents to find affordable
rentals. However, we would like to point out that reducing the rate may or may not
actually reduce the rent for tenants as there is no mechanism to ensure that gets
passed on. We support creating an exemption to get these rates for verified long
term rentals that indicate they will pass the savings on to their lessee(s).
● Commercial— We appreciate the Budget Chair’s additional 1 % reduction of these
rates recognizing that businesses are still recovering.
● Hotel & Resort—While we acknowledge that the Budget Chair is proposing a
slightly reduced rate for hotels and resorts from fiscal year 2022, we feel the
Mayor’s proposed rate better reflects the extreme valuation increase that the
industry is facing of approximately $1.2 billion from FY2022 to FY2023. With the
Mayor’s rate, the revenue would be increased by approximately $9 million and with
the Budget Chair’s proposal, it would increase by roughly $14 million, with both of
those being a rate reduction. However, that still equates to an astronomical hit for
the industry. We will defer to the Maui Hotel & Lodging Association’s testimony on
the impacts to the industry.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Waiiuku, Hawaii 96793 : 808-2444)081 legislation@VlauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
f-n MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
:e of USiNESS●] m
Real Property Tax Rates
Wednesday, April 27, 2022
Page 2.
Agriculture—We are in strong support of the reduced rate proposed by the Budget
Chair as all sustainability is important and food security is critically important.
Timeshare—We appreciate and support that timeshares are kept level and to date,
we have not heard any concerns on this. However, we are still early in the process
and they may be waiting for the final rates to ring in.
Short-Term Rental—We are confused as to why the Budget Chair is proposing the
same rate across all tiers for this classification as that equates to a higher
percentage increase for the lowest valuation tier at 7% with the highest valuation
tier receiving a lesser increase of 5.8%. Given that, we would support the Mayor’s
proposal of keeping the rates staggered by tier and the same level as FY22.
Industrial, Conservation & Commercialized Residential—We appreciate and
support keeping rates the same for this classification and that both the Mayor and
Budget Chair are aligned on this.
We appreciate your efforts and consideration of our comments as you finalize the real
property tax rates.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui's unique
community characteristics.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
Pfr● X I-
©ARDA M APR 27 Ail 9; 08
1 r- i C E O F 1' f i (■-
OOUNTY CLERK
Ar Resoft Develuii ndnl Ass!'i;iai;on
H AWAI ■ 1
April 27, 2022
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
TO:
FR: AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)
RE: THE REAL PROPERTY TAX RATES FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
JULY 1, 2020, TO JUNE 30, 2021
(Sent via e-mail to countv.clerktSmauicountv.us)
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Maui County Council:
Thank you for the opportunity to submit this testimony in OPPOSITION to the Real Property Tax Rates
for the County of Maui for the Fiscal Year July 1, 2022, to June 30, 2023 ("Council Property Tax Bill").
ARDA-Hawaii is the local chapter of the trade association for the timeshare industry. Timeshare is an
important and stabilizing part of the tourism industry and Maui's economy.
Timeshare owners have made a long-term commitment to Maui by purchasing and owning real property
in the County. These owners are consistent and dependable visitors who bring substantial tax dollars to
the County and continue to return to Maui, even during periods of economic downturn. Historical
averages for timeshare occupancy hovers around 90%, outpacing hotel occupancies by a significant
amount. Timeshares also provide alternative accommodation options to our islands' visitors without
posing the same tax collection and land use issues that many vacation rental units do.
Historically, timeshare resorts have provided thousands of good paying full-time jobs for Maui residents.
Timeshare owners return to the islands at a higher rate than other transient accommodations guests
and are a stabilizing part of Maui's economy. Timeshares consistently contribute to providing great
wages for Maui's residents.
Furthermore, timeshare owners already contribute significantly to public facilities and government
services through the payment of state and local taxes. For example, timeshare unit owners pay
approximately 200% of the costs attributable to them for government services, compared to only about
33% for other residents. These heavy contributions, when compared against limited use of public
facilities, benefit the community substantially. On the other hand, Hawaii timeshare owners face
increasingly rising costs, which are among the highest in the nation, and have observed their
maintenance fees go up significantly over the last couple of years.
The Council Property Tax Bill is considering an increase to real property tax rates on timeshare units to
go as high as $17.00 per $1,000. This is an increase of up to $2.40 of taxes for every $1,000 of assessed
property value. This cost would be borne by the timeshare unit owners, which will increase the cost of
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
April 27, 2022
Page 2
timeshare ownership, thus discouraging a reliable and resilient part of Maui's tourism economy. This
may cause a decrease in demand for Maui timeshare units, where owners have other destination
options, right at the time when Maui should be encouraging visitors to return. Such decrease will
further delay the recovery of other tourist-related businesses and negatively impact Maui's economy.
In addition, the recent creation of the Maui County transient accommodations tax (TAT) which
established an additional 3% on transient accommodations, makes an increase in real property tax rates
for timeshares unnecessary. The new TAT is projected to generate a substantial amount of revenue for
the county, which is also derived from timeshare unit owners. This makes further increases in the form
of real property tax unduly burdensome. Any increase in real property tax rates, in addition to the new
TAT will decrease the demand for Maui timeshare units, thus negatively impacting Maui's tourism
industry.
For the foregoing reasons, ARDA supports preserving the current rate for timeshare at $14.60 to prevent
substantial increases in costs for timeshare industry which already significantly contributes to Maui's
overall economy.
Thank you for your consideration.
Ryan Nobriga
ARDA Maui Task Force
Kfcv.- ● -nCount^^lerk
Wl APR IG PN ? 43Ron Becht <ron.becht@gmail.com>
Monday, April 18, 2022 2:33 PM
County Clerk r-
W ritten Testimony; Proposed 2022-2023 Real Property Taxes;'! ^)U
From:
Sent:
To:
1 riL.Subject: NTY CLErnK
[You don’t often get email from ron.becht@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Please consider this email written testimony on the proposed rates for July 1, 2022 Real Property Taxes.
If the County of Maui continues to raise property taxes for Short Term Rentals, Long Term Rentals, and Non-Owner
Occupied classifications you will force the owners of these properties to sell their investments and thus will cause a
major influx of unsellable Maui real estate. This action will in the long run cause real estate property tax revenue to
decline for the county and hurt your revenue projections.
1 have been a condo owner on Maui for over 21 years and have paid my increasing property taxes, TAT and GET taxes to
the County of Maui over the years without complaining. However, with new 3% Maui Tax and now the proposed
increases in property tax rates, we will be forced to sell our property. My worry is that future buyers will balk at
purchasing our condo because of the increasing property tax rates and I'll be stuck with property I cannot afford and
could be forced into a short sale.
The Real Property Tax rates for these classifications mentioned above are punitive in nature. I understand the county's
need for revenue, but the County is being short sighted about targeting specific classifications with increases when the
County should increase areas that are already extremely tow compared to other states and counties in the country.
Maui county will lose revenue in the long run over the short sighted revenue grab.
Please reconsider your property tax rate increases for 2022-2023. Small, incremental increases every 2-3 years is
acceptable.
Sincerely,
Ron Becht
Condo Owner
1
Count^£lerk rU
From:
Sent:
Joanne Foxxe <jofoxxG@gmail.com>
Friday, April 22, 2022 6:31 PM
County Clerk
Property taxes
mi APR 25 AH 8- 01
To:
OF i l iH
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don’t often get email fromjofoxxe@gmail.com. Learn whv this Is important
Lowering owner occupied rates is great and for long term rental properties
Warmest alohas,
Joanne L. Foxxe,CRS, GRI, SRES, e-Pro, RSPS
Keller Williams Luxury International
Keller Williams Realty Maui
Kapalua
Lahaina, Hi. 96761
808-385-2918 cell and direct line
Search all Maui properties on my website
Www.JoanneFoxxe.com
Www.Kapaluaadvisor.com
RS 63115
Certified Residential Specialist since 1989Certified Negotiation Expert
Senior Real Estate Speciallist
Green Realtor
E-Pro
Resort Specialist
Quality isn't expensive, it is priceless.
Top 100 Hawaii Realtors 2017
Oh by the way, 1 am never too busy for your referrals.
1
CountyClerk
From:
Sent:
Tom Kerestesi <tkrstc@gmaii.com>
Monday, April 25, 2022 10:42 AM
County Clerk
Proposed Property Tax Adjustment
202? APR 23 AH !0*- 57
To:
Subject: ■■'rfiCt: Oi" THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from tkrstc@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I am writing writing to protest the re-classification of the tax base for my unit at the Royal Mauian and on behalf of a
owners or condominium units who do not rent their units, but use them as a second home for themselves and their
families.
My family has had a unit in the Royal Mauian for 43 years. It has passed on from my parents to the the next generation -
my sister and me. Our unit on Maui is not an investment property but is a second home to our family and always has
been. Our unit has never been rented and we have had no intention of doing so in the future.
We have seen our property taxes increase steadily as a result of increases in assed value so it is clear that we have been
paying our fair share historically. To eliminate the classification for owners who do not reside full time on property but
have a second home for private use is simply unfair and unrealistic.
Those individuals that have a unit and treat it as an income producing property have the ability to off set additional
expense by adjusting the rent they charge. As a non-renting homeowner that opportunity is not available. We are not
tourists - we are secondary homeowners who stipulate annually that our unit is not rented. It is unreasonable and
counter productive to punish those secondary homeowners who do not rent their homes.
The property tax classification that was eliminated was created to recognize the difference in usage of individual
properties. While the number of homeowners who don't rent their units may have diminished, it doesn't change the
fact that their is a significant difference for those of us that don't when compared to those folks who actively rent their
units on a short-term basis.
Please keep in mind that you dealing with people and not faceless corporate entities. The reality is that the new
proposed tax structure will create an annual property tax bill equal to a cost of between 50%-80% of the total cost to
operate and maintain the unit for a year. To think that a huge, unfair increase in property taxes would make me consider
renting or selling the unit is simply unconscionable. Maui has been a home to my family, not a hotel room.
The current Covid pandemic has been a terrible economic event, especially with communities that depend on tourism.
They have been hit the hardest. I live in Las Vegas and have a secondary home in Maui, so 1 have had  adouble dose of
this economic disaster. With all of the travel restrictions I have not been able to go to Maui for a year. To say that these
have been difficult times would be a huge understatement. The proposed increase in taxes would be crippling to my
sister and me.
There is a difference for homeowners that treat their home in Maui as their secondary residence. We are not the same
as owners who use their property as an investment with short term rentals. While owners who choose not to rent their
units may be small, the economic impact of the tax re-classification is enormous. Please keep in mind you are dealing
with people who treat Maui with the respect it deserves. The original tax structure recognized this because it was
correct to treat properties differently is they were used differently. Nothing has changed in that respect.
Sincerely,
Thomas f. Kerestesi
1
Unit 510
Royal Mauian
2430 So. kiheiRd.
Kihei, Maui, HI
Thomas F. Kerestesi
tkrstcOemail.com
2
R h. ^ D
April 11, 2022
im APR 27 m 1: Oil
written submission for the public hearing on the proposed fiscal year 2023 real
property tax rates to be held on 4/27/22 ^iGE Oi' I Kl:
KJNTY CLERK
It is my understanding that you are considering raising the property taxes on 2"^^ homes. I want
to explain my reason for thinking this isn't a good idea.
My husband and 1 own 2 rental properties. Both of our tenants do not want to commit to 1-
year leases. That being said, one of them has been renting from us since March 2013 (to be
clear, he is still there). The other tenant has been renting from us since October of 2010 (she
and her kids are also still there).
For this reason, we do not have 1- year leases so we are not eligible for the $200,000
exemption. Any tax increase on either of these properties we will be passing on to our very-
long-term tenants.
If you are interested in a landlord's perspective, it would be my suggestion that you change the
1-year requirement to 6-months; 1-year can seem like a daunting commitment to a tenant.
Also, 1 think it is reasonable to make 'an incentive' for property owners who have dedicated
their properties as long term rentals and have had tenants living at their properties for 9 years
and 12 years. Perhaps an on-line portal where a tenant can provide verification rather than
paper filing with a lease requirement - which seems rather onerous. These tenants are hard
working, long-term Maui residents, as are my husband and I. What you are asking doesn't
seem reasonable - it's just more government intervention.
I'm asking you not to raise the property tax rate on 2"^ homes that are used for long-term
rentals and to not ask us or our tenants for more onerous paperwork filing. Again, if you do
raise our taxes - we will pass this cost on to our tenants.
Sincerely,
Debra Merle
(808) 283-0049
merle@maui.net
Written Testimony submitted in accordance with Council of County of Maui Notice of
Public Hearing dated April 27,2022 at 6:00 p.m.
Testifier:
Thomas Miller
150 Puukolii Road #53
Lahaina, HI 96761
We are living in the same condo unit that we purchased in 1995. We rented our condo
long-term for six months or more through our on-island management company when we
first purchased our condo. We provided long-term housing to Maui residents for 19
years and paid the County Transient Accommodation Tax. Kaanapali Plantation was a
nice quiet 62 unit condo complex in a residential area 14 mile from the beach and the
hotel/resort area. The County did not allow short-term rentals but did not enforce the
zoning violations. Owners were renting short-term with no consequences. Then the
County changed our zoning to allow short-term vacation rentals because owners were
renting short-term. Now 28 of the 62 units are short-term rentals. Originally when we
purchased our condo our property tax classification was Apartment. Later our
classification was changed to Non-Owner Occupied and now our classification changed
to STR even though we don’t rent our condo at all.
We are not the only Kaanapali Plantation owners in this unfair situation. Other owners
that rent long-term when they are off island for about 6 months but less than 12 months
have decided to start renting short-term when off island in order to pay the high STR tax
rate. This is going in the wrong direction for the County, more STRs and fewer long
term rentals. I am asking the Council to reconsider the classification of our condo. It is
the fair thing to do. Nearly doubling our tax rate when we have made no change, only
the County has made a change is not fair.
Mahalo for your consideration
Thomas Miller
39“
“O
niV
oH ni< CO
OO -D
fT! -f ' n■s>
D-C:
UJ
From:
Sent:
Gregg Nelson <gm@napilikai.com>
Tuesday, April 26, 2022 3:53 PM
REn ~DTo: County Clerk
Maui County Budget Testimony - Real Property Tax Rate 2o p/j 3‘ 58Subject:
THl;
CiEi<K
r ■: ! !
You don’t often get email from gm@napilikai.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Council Chair Lee and members of the Council,
Aloha to all of you. My name is Gregg Nelson and  Iam general manager of the Napili Kai Beach Resort. Please allow
this email to serve as my testimony regarding the proposed County Budget and the Real Property Tax Rate for
hotels. It is my understanding that the Council favours leaving the current rate in effect, $11.70 as opposed to
reducing the rate to $10.40 as has been projected in the mayor's proposed budget. Not moving the rate higher than
the existing $11.70 is certainly appreciated, however, I request Council members give additional consideration to a
reduction this year.
Each year there has generally been a move by the County to increase the real property tax rates at this time of the
year. Additionally, on another front, the County also increases the assessed property valuations. This really is a
double whammy for many businesses, especially resort hotels. It is almost a double taxation situation.  Iunderstand
that property valuations have increased significantly due to some of the ridiculous high property sales that have
occurred in the last few years and agree that those property owners should be assessed accordingly for the
property's purchase price. What is being forgotten here is that most of the resorts, especially the smaller ones, have
not been sold for high prices. In fact, there are probably many properties similar to my resort (62 years old) that
have never been sold, yet valuations continue to increase for us as well.
1 have tried to appeal the ever increasing property valuation assessments with little or no success and I don't see
that changing anytime soon given the hot real estate market. For this reason, the only relief I see potentially
available from this ever increasing tax burden is to request the Council agree to the mayor's proposed rate of
$10.40. Sometimes we feel like those local residents we all hear about who have owned their property for many
decades but are eventually forced to sell and move out because they can't afford the property taxes
anymore. Myself and our 160 staff members request your consideration in reducing the real property tax rate for
hotels to $10.40 as the mayor has proposed.
Mahalo
Gregg Nelson
General Manager
Napili Kai Beach Resort
1
Count^Clet^
From:
Sent:
ira seaiy <seaiy.1225@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, April 21, 2022 11:56 AM
County Clerk
Property Tax-rates
R£Cl :\’£D
mi APR 27 Pr! 12- 02To:
Subject:
rj-;:..■ r r* 1C E O r
COUNTY CLEYou don't often get email from sealy.1225@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important
To whom it may concern!
I was just told of this meeting tonight, so if possible I would like at least one of council to just take minute for the
sake of Aloha and read this.
I would like to express our thoughts and concerns of these hikes and tax tables that effect seniors, locals,
businesses and yes the most important factor of it all-"the Economy"
My wife and 1 bought our 1st condo in 1993 and sold it to buy another- closer to the ocean, and have supported
the islands businesses / culture/and its people to date, but what you are doing will hurt everybody {visitors and
more) except yourselves.
We have never been in the rental game- but after the last hike you forced us to start our own agency, get a tax
license and charge our friends, business associates, and even family members that have been to Maui or dreaming of
coming. We have friends from all over the mainland who love "the Aloha of Maui" most of them- seniors, and we
usually share our second home to the extent of 85 to 95 nts a year, we ourselves come 5 to 6 weeks in March/April
and then again in September.
YOU are biting the hands that feed Maui and it's people! We took our 1st hike (51%) and trying to justify your
classifications but it's hard, and now feel (as a lot of others on/off island) that you will force us to sell- lose our 2nd
homes, with another hike {if we could live there year round we would have done so way back)
Please think of what you are doing to Maui- you can only milk a cow for so long- then it becomes dry  IIn the
spirt of Aloha-THINKI REGDS. Ira and Sue Seaiy (partial #390050100031 code 329 2430 so Kihei Rd
1
■ I
Riri
mi UK 1 ?- Pi'
ik;tY ci-i -■■
May 13,2022
Council Chair Alice Lee
Maui County Council
200 South High Street, 8^ Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Council Chair Lee and Members of the Council:
My name is Lisa Paulson, Executive Director of the Maui Hotel & Lodging Association
(MHLA), the legislative arm of the visitor industry. We represent over 170 property and allied
business members and over 19,000 rooms in Maui County.
We appreciate the hard work that has been put into Maui County’s FY 22-23 budget.
We want to re-state our request for a more equitable share of property taxes across all
classifications. We are concerned with creating an unsustainable budget with the proposed 54.9%
of the RPT revenues generated from the visitor accommodation sector for FY22-23. If we are
genuinely looking at diversifying our economy, the current trajectory of tax revenues will be
unsustainable with the current overreliance on visitor industry tax revenues. We believe it is
prudent to set up our county’s future to be sustainable and look at equitable real property taxes.
High Property Values and Non-equitable Tax Rate: Maui County’s economy is mainly
powered by a strong visitor industry. Year after year, we see increases in our industry’s real
property values, resulting in more tax revenues being collected. This year’s assessed values for
hotels, timeshares, and short-term rentals have increased by $2.1 billion and will provide
$234,364,033 in tax revenue for Maui County, an additional 25 million dollars from FY22 using
the current tax rate. In addition, we have heard from some Council members that we should be
level with other RPT rates paid in other Counties in the State. If there is to be a comparison of
rates in other Counties, then all classifications should be reviewed - not just one tax
classification. Other Counties have a fair and equitable share of taxes across all business
classifications without Maui’s huge disparities. The Maui County visitor industry provides
54.9% of RPT versus Kauai at 40.4%, City & County of Honolulu at 14%, and Hawaii at 3.3%.
(See exhibit A) As shown in other Counties’ RPT rates, we again ask for equitable taxes across
all classifications.
Additional TAT Revenue from County TAT Collection:
Maui County now assesses an additional 3% TAT per room night (in addition to the State
10.25% TAT and State GET) projected to bring in $60 million for Maui County. This $60
Page 2 of 2
million is an increase of $36.5 million from the previous $23.5 million in TAT funding provided
by the State.
We respectfully request more equitable tax rates across all classifications for these reasons.
Thank you for the opportunity to testify.
7
Sincerely,
Lisa H. Paulson
Executive Director
County of Maui Real Property Assessment Division
TAX RATE COMPARISON BY COUNTY
FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023
Maui
FY22
Honolulu Honolulu Hawaii
FY23 FY22 FY23
Hawaii Kauai Kauai
FY22 FY23 FY22
Maul
FY23Land Class
■w
Residential $6,05$3.50 $3.50 $6.05
$13.60
10
●V J"
Tier 1 - Less than $2,000,000 in net value '■ $11,10  .
Tier 2 - $2,000,000 and more in net value
Non-ov^ner-occupied
$13.60
$6.61 $6.13 !?●]
Tier 1 - up to $800,000
Tier 2 - $800,001 to $1.500,000
$6.00 $5.45
$6.50 $6.05
m nTier 3 - more than $1,500,000 $8.00$8.00 ■,v
$11.70 ^Apartment $11.70$5.55 $5.55
Commercial $12.40 $10,70 $8.10 $8.10$6.10 $6.29 $12.40 $10.70
Industrial $10.70 $8.10 $8.10$7.20 $12.40 $12.40 $10.70$7.05
Agricultural $9.35 $6.75 $6.75$5.94 $5.70 $5.70 $9,35$5.94
Conservation $11.55 $6.75 $6.75$6.43 $6.43 $5.70 $5.70 $11.55
Hotel and Resort $10.85$11.75 $13.90 $13.90 $11.55 $11.55 $10.85$10.40
Owner-occupied $6.15 $6.15 $3.05 $3.05$2.34 $2.44
Tier 1 - up to $800,000
Tier 2 - $800,001 to $1,500,000
$2.30 $2.41
$2.51$2.40
Tier 3 - more than $1,500,000 $2.71 $2.71
Timeshare $14.60 $14.60
Commercialized Res. $5.05 $5.05$6.50 $6.50$4,40 $4.40
Short Term Rental $11.13$11.14
Tierl - up to $800,000
Tier 2 - $800,001 to $1,500,000
$11.11 $11.11
$11.15$11.15
Tier 3 - more than $1,500,000 $11.20 $11.20
Long Term Rental $5,58
Tier 1 - up to $800,000
Tier 2 - $800,001 to $1,500,000
Tier 3 - more than $1,500,000
$5.35 N/A
N/A$5.95
N/A$8.00
Vacation Rental $9.85$9.85■■ ■■ ■ ■
vr, ●
■iVacant Agricultural $8.50 $8,50 V. '
Residential "A ‘m
$4.50 m
$10,50
Tier 1 - 1st 1M value \^'\ A $4.50
ireTier 2 - In excess of 1M value $10.50
Residential Investor $9,40 $9.40
Affordable Housing $6.15$6.15
2Selected Real Property Statistics for Budget Consideration FY 2022-2023
EXHIBIT A
RPT Generated By Visitor Industry in each County
RPT/Unit
$  4,993
Visitor Units
38,758
RPT
$C&C of Honolulu 193,502,000
$ 10,615 $Hawaii 11,965,000 1,127
$ 9,160 $Kauai 63,626,000 6,946
22,022 $ 9,554$Maui 210,400,000
29,288,000
37,646,000
1,048,000
142,418,000
$Hotel
Timeshare
Comm. Reside
Short-term Rt
$
$
$
Maui Visitor Industry RPT is 17.5 times more than Hawaii County and
3.3 times more than Kauai County
Maui Visitor Industry Generates 90% more RPT per unit than Oahu
Maui Visitor Industyry Generates 108% of Oahu Revenues with 57% of the visitor units
Portion of County RPT provided by Visitor Plant
Total RPT
S  1,379,569,000
$  383,236,000
$  363,587,000
$  157,562,000
Visitor Ind. RPT
$  193,502,000
$  210,400,000
S  11,965,000
$  63,626,000
14.0%
54.9%
3.3%
40.4%
C&C of Honolulu
Maui
Hawaii
Kauai
Maui visitor industry provides a higher percentage of total County RPT than all the other counnties combined
CountyClerk Pil
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, April 28, 2022 8:17 AM
County Clerk
Fwd: 2022/2023 Property Tax Rates
?(!?? APR 28 A!-f 8= 21
To:
Subject:
‘.’TV / ‘i l l s  I
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:
From: Marsha and Ron Becht <mauikamaolejll7(S)gmail.com>
Date: April 26, 2022 at 12:55:55 PM HST
To: "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: 2022/2023 Property Tax Rates
[You don't often get email from mauikamaolejll7@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Tamara,
Please consider this email written testimony on the proposed rates for July 1, 2022 Real Property Taxes.
If the County of Maui continues to raise property taxes for Short Term Rentals, Long Term Rentals, and
Non-Owner Occupied classifications you will force the owners of these properties to sell their
investments and thus will cause a major influx of unsellable Maui real estate. This action will in the long
run cause real estate property tax revenue to decline for the county and hurt your revenue projections.
I have been a condo owner on Maui for over 21 years and have paid my increasing property taxes, TAT
and GET taxes to the County of Maui over the years without complaining. However, with new 3% Maui
Tax and now the proposed increases in property tax rates, we will be forced to sell our property. My
worry is that future buyers will balk at purchasing our condo because of the increasing property tax
rates and I'll be stuck with property I cannot afford and could be forced into a short sale.
The Real Property Tax rates for these classifications mentioned above are punitive in nature. 1
understand the county's need for revenue, but the County is being short sighted about targeting specific
classifications with increases when the County should increase areas that are already extremely low
compared to other states and counties in the country.
Maui county will lose revenue in the long run over the short sighted revenue grab.
Please reconsider your property tax rate increases for 2022-2023.
Small, incremental increases every 2-3 years is acceptable.
Sincerely,
Ron Becht
Condo Owner
1
Count^£lerk
“T
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, April 28, 2022 8:17 AM
County Clerk
Fwd: An idea
nil APR 2S AM 8- 21To:
Subject:
-  r i(./E OF ■! u
f:OUNTY CLEKK
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:
From: Victoria Bianchetti <vbianchetti@gmail.com>
Date: April 26, 2022 at 12:42:30 PM HST
To: "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: An idea
[You don't often get email from vbianchetti@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Tamara
I would like to propose this idea:
The people who are Maui residents should pay less taxes in short rentals than the ones that are not
residents and have profits of their second homes.
And the residents of Maui should be able to get short rentals permits and not the ones that does not live
on the island.
Because more than half of the short term rental properties belongs to no residents.
And with the hotels I think that 60% of the whole should be own by resident.
Thank you very much
Victoria Bianchetti from Haiku
1
From:
Sent:
barb bryson <brbryson@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, May 11, 2022 4:33 PM
County Clerk
STR Property Tax Discussion for May 13, 2022
: u
To:
im HAY 12 AH 7:Subject:
;  t—
.  . f {u ti V.-' r ; ;: -
;:OUNTY CLlEkKIYou don't often get email from brbryson@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council,
Thank you for tackling OVER TOURISM.
This is an island wide problem. Over tourism
needs an island wide solution.Businesses, large and small need a chance at
economic stability/viability/growth. Targeting specific groups with higher property taxes and impacting
them unfairly is NOT a solution.
A FAIR solution is implementing a TOURISM
LOTTERY 5 similar to programs adopted by over-run National Parks.
A lottery is a REAL SOLUTION; near, mid and long
term.
Everyone shares the benefitHere is WHY a lottery is BETTER solution:
and the burden.
Taxing select groups, who have the potential to litigate everyone into oblivion for years, gets nothing
resolved and most importantly, doesn't solvc the problem of over tourism.
Analyze data from airlines, hotels, small businesses for determining their economic thresholds for thriving,
not just surviving. Adjust the program as needed, per actuarial data. Set NOTHING in stone, other than
easing Maui into a happier, more tenable place for full time residents as well as tourists. Complex, yes, but
once established it is a good solution.
Thank you for considering a solution that is FAIR, viable, and would help EVERYONE, and not
UNFAIRLY tax certain sectors, like Short Term Rentals.
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Bryson
2777 S. Kihei Road LI08 / Maui, HI 96753
1
F"'t I-
mary drayer <mdrayerhome@msn.com>
Monday, May 9, 2022 2:52 PM
County Clerk
mary drayer; Lindsey Drayer; Erin Daughter; Jami Cell
Resolution 22-82 FD1 Real Property Tax Rates County of Maui
m m
From:
Sent:
To;
 lu AK 7: MlA meidaCc:
Subject:
. iCE CF THi
.-‘JUNTY CLEftK'
You don't often get email from mdrayerhome@msn.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am submitting my testimony/comments in support of Resolution 22-
82, FDl, Adopting the Real Property Tax Rates effective July 1, 2022.
There are a multitude of reasons something needs to be done to help
<eep our local people here. Kanaka 'oi\A/i are leaving in large numbers -
due to cost of finding a place to live! It is you, the decision makers, that
must HELP.
I do not need to list the many issues that transplants and out of state
buyers have created with their influx of money.
(Housing being just one. (F) )
Thus I again state my SUPPORT in adoption of Resolution 22-82, FDl.
Mary Drayer
557 Imi Dr
Wailuku, Hi 96793 (since 12-15-1962)
808-244-5646
Sent from Mail for Windows
1
Countj^leH< SmI \ -
Christy Fernadez <alohacfernandez@me.com>
Thursday, May 12, 2022 8:59 AM
County Clerk
Resolution 22-82 FD1
From:
Sent: nn HAY 12 AH 10^ 08
To:
Subject: ICE OF- i'rir.J
LINTY CLEr t ●
(You don't often get email from alohacfernandez(S)me.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I support the Resolution.
Mahalo,
Christy Fernandez
Sent from my iPhone
1
(l^l( 40 Hobron Avenue
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
(808) 877-3144
www.biodiesel.com
o \r\ 0
im HAY lu Afi lO: 55
TECHNOLOG IES L Or j i
TY Ci.:-
May 10, 2022
Maui County Council
Kalana 0 Maui Building, 8th Floor
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RE: Testimony AGAINST Biodiesel Tax in Mayor's Proposed FY 2023 Budget for the County of Maui
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
We appreciate Maui County Council's support of biodiesel over the years. Currently there is no highway
fuel tax for biodiesel [BlOO] thanks to the County Council approving an exemption of the tax in last fiscal
year's County budget. Mahalo, Councilmembers, for supporting a continuation of this fuel tax
exemption for BlOO in the County's FY 2023 budget.
The Mayor has proposed increasing to 11 cents per gallon the on-road fuel tax for “Biodiesel Blend" (other
than BlOO] in the County’s FY 2023 budget, which thankfully Maui County Council has proposed keeping
at the current 6-cent per gallon tax rate. We urge you, Councilmembers, to please consider a fuel tax
exemption for on-road Biodiesel Blends ofB20 (20% biodiesel blended with 80% petroleum diesel)
and higher as you had previously done for many years.
At this time Maui County should be incentivizing  -not penalizing - those who choose to do the right thing
for our environment by fueling up with biodiesel. As a County, we should support accelerating the use of
renewables in every way, now more than ever, for these reasons:
●  Tax the problem, not the solution. Biodiesel is  a100% renewable, biodegradable and non-toxic
advanced biofuel. We do not support taxing the solution, biodiesel. Instead, Maui County should
further increase its tax on the problem, petroleum diesel fuel - fossil fuel. We must work urgently
to reduce consumption of fossil fuel. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change last summer issued a scathing report on the dire state of our global climate crisis; the UN
Chief called it a "code red for humanity.” The report recommends the immediate, consistent
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Biodiesel provides that immediate solution. It can be used
today to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 86% compared to petroleum diesel fuel.
●  Local biodiesel supports energy security for Hawaii. Biodiesel is not only a solution to fight the
climate crisis, biodiesel produced in Hawaii reduces our state's reliance on imported fossil fuel,
which directly supports greater energy security for Maui County and our entire state. As we have
seen prices escalate in the global energy market since Russia began its war with Ukraine, now
more than ever we should be supporting production and increasing demand for local renewable
fuel. A road tax exemption for Biodiesel Blends will show support for local production and
incentivize the use of this renewable fuel.
Pacific Biodiesel
Testimony AGAINST Biodiesel Road Tax
May 10, 2022
Page 2 of 2
●  Biodiesel is viable, available and supports a just transition to a clean energy future. There is
a rush to electrify transportation in Hawaii, requiring investment in expensive new electric
vehicles. Yet biodiesel only requires a simple switch of fuel - it can be used in any existing diesel
engine without modification to directly replace petroleum diesel fuel. Not using biodiesel when it
is an available choice today is supporting fossil fuel - and that decision will further increase the
risks associated with climate change. A Biodiesel Blend fuel tax exemption in Maui County can help
reinforce the urgent need to switch from fossil fuel to renewable fuel and encourage expanded use
of renewables on road right away.
Maui County can help rapidly reduce greenhouse gas emissions from existing diesel vehicles in its own
fleet by switching to biodiesel. Although Maui County filed a lawsuit in 2020 against several fossil fuel
companies for their role in devastating our environment over many decades, today we are not aware of
any Maui County diesel buses or other fleet vehicles being fueled with biodiesel. The City & County of
Honolulu, as an example, has used biodiesel in its fleet vehicles for more than 15 years. Over the past
decade alone, they have used nearly 3.6 million gallons of locally made biodiesel, reducing greenhouse gas
emissions by nearly 37,800 tons of C02 - the equivalent to 266 Fossil Fuel Buses in one year!
Let's step up as a County to do everything we can TODAY to reduce our use of fossil fuel and protect our
planet for future generations.
Mahalo,
Joy Galatro
Marketing Director
Pacific Biodiesel
808-866-5104
jgaIatro@biodiesel.com
Count^^lerk
TT^From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, April 28, 2022 8:17 AM
County Clerk
Fwd; Proposed County Budget Projected Tax Rates
im APR 28 AH 8: 22To:
Subject:
'. r 1U r: U r i r i i:.
:':;UNTY CLE
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:
From: Trent Harris <hillrunl@aol.com>
Date: April 26, 2022 at 12:37:13 PM HST
To: "Alice L. Lee" <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>, "Keani N. Rawlins" <Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>,
Gabe Johnson <GabeJohnson@mauicounty.us>, Kelly King <Kelly.King(S)mauicounty.us>, "Mike J.
Molina" <Mike.Molina(S)mauicounty.us>; "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>, Yukilei
Sugimura <Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Proposed County Budget Projected Tax Rates
Reply-To: Trent Harris <hillrunl(g)aol.com>
IYou don't often get email from hillruni @aol.com. Learn why this is important
Council Members
My name is Trent Harris and I am a Time Share owner from 1980. Back then, we bought a condo in the
building and the land beneath it, unlike current Time Shares. I am a property owner on Maui and own 5
weeks of deeded title to our condo and land.
Like our other owners, we are lumped in with the new time share groups and are taxed as such. We do
not rent our units, we use them. Over the last two years, 1 have spent a ton of money remodeling our unit
for our owners. New Time Share owners don't do that.
We have always been the step child of land owners and have had to pay the price In our tax rates. We
are not there for most of your meetings so we can't organize a group to protest our treatment when it
comes to you constantly increasing and depending upon our never ending tax increases.
While tier one owners are being taxed at $1.66-$3.00, we are being taxed at $14.40 to $17.00. If I sent
you a tax bill with that difference, I'm sure I'd hear from you.
It is ridiculous and cowardly to rely on visitors to the island for financial support and not hold the residents
at least more accountable for the expenses of running the county. If the visitors quit going to Maui, you
would be in trouble.
I am requesting that you reconsider your proposed increases to our tax rate and do the right thing by
balancing out the costs of running the county over all of the groups.
Trent Harris
1
Count^^leH<
Rochelle Kapu <uilani.kapu@Icloud.com>
Thursday, May 12, 2022 7:17 PM
County Clerk
Adopting the Real Property Tax Rates
From:
Sent: Ri: D
To:
?ll?? Mi 13 AK 7: 32Subject:
.  loc, i
[You don't often get email from uilani.kapu@icloud.com. Learn why this is important at , .iif'UJY C‘ ^
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Council
My name is Ui'Iani Kapu and 1 am the Lahaina Aha Moku Rep. for Maui.
I have had a meeting with some of our members and we would like this Adoption to go through.
Our town has been through enough dictation and havoc by people who know nothing of our island. People by
property and within a few months either sell it to make a profit or turn it into a bed and breakfast or short term
rental.
We should not allow anymore short term rentals, bed and breakfast and nonresidential.
We support tax rates for non residential, bed and breakfast, and short term properties.
Mahalo
Ui'lani Kapu
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^£lerk
Leslie Knoles <hibiscusllc@gmail.com>
Friday, April 29, 2022 8:16 AM
County Clerk
Property tax increase
From:
Sent: mi APR 2'/ W 9: 09To:
Subject: » nL..  , r I Ly u
"GUNTY clerk
IYou don't often get email from hibiscusllc@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I believe that a $6 fee for 2nd home is way too high. Half that and rents would have yo be raised again
I believe that short term rentals tax at $11 is too high. The rate is high enough. I live here and to do stay vacations are
not reasonable anymore.. The increase is not going to make it better.
Mahalo
Leslie Knoles
808 283 5694
1
Count^^Cledc
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, May 12, 2022 5:14 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Concerns
From:
Sent:
DRE
To:
mi HhY I 3 AH T- 32Subject:
* r*
, f 1 Ll W r i I".
;JNTY CL i \
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Mary Reppun <mjreppl@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, May 12, 2022 12:37:54 PM
To: Mayors.Office@co.maui.hi.us <Mayors.Office@co.maui.hi.us>; Alice L. Lee <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>; Keani N.
Rawlins <Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>; Tasha A. Kama <Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>; Kelly King
<Keily.King@mauicounty.us>; Mike J. Molina <Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>; Mike.Victorino@mauicounty.us
<Mike.Victorino@mauicounty.us>; Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>; Shane M. Sinenci
<Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us>; Yukilei Sugimura <Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>; Gabe Johnson
<Gabe.Johnson@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Concerns
Some people who received this message don't often get email from mjrepp1@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am a long-time resident of Maui; previously from Oahu. My husband, now deceased, was born and raised on
Moloka'i. I am writing to implore you to not raise property taxes of residents presiding in their own homes. I have
lived in this house since 1988 and have no intention of moving. My daughter and grandson, both working, were
priced out of their rental home, and have moved in with me. I am a widow, retired from 40+ years teaching in a
private parochial school and on a fixed income. Neighboring properties to my home have sold 4 to 5 times each in
the past 30 years; most recently to Mainland buyers; increasing my taxes each time.
I am very worried that we are quickly losing Maul...the close community of residents who value and respect the aina;
the culture; open space. We seem to be giving in to greed. I respect the council and have put faith in your ability to
be innovative without sacrificing what we value the most.
Real affordable housing is all so important, but NOT at the expense of historic Wailuku Town. Please vote against this
Starr development. There are other better areas for that. Look to San Juan Island Land Trust in Washington state as
a good example of creating affordable housing and keeping the integrity of the island.
Please restrict and tax non residents that are buying homes they don't live in a majority of a year. Put some kind of
cap on rental rates. Please be proactive for our people who live, work hard here, pay taxes and care about MAUI.
Mahalo for your attention to these issues.
Mary Reppun
1
RECFi^M^DCount^CleH<
Faye Taylor <fayetaylor@msn.com>
Thursday, May 12, 2022 8:56 AM
County Clerk
Council to discuss property tax increases
From:
Sent:
mi HAY 12 m 10- 08
To:
i Li O r iSubject:
CLEr V
IYou don’t often get email from fayetaylor@msn.com. Learn whv this is important
Maui County Council,
Since purchasing my condo seven years ago, I have seen my property taxes increased multiple times. Although I am a
resident, I rent out my condo as a short term rental when I am away visiting my daughters and
granddaughters. Without the rental income, it would be difficult for me to afford to live in Maui on my retirement
income.
Short term rentals are not owned just by non-residents! There are many residents such as myself who are dependent
on the rental income for their support. Raising property taxes on Short Term Rentals is unfair.
Thank you for considering fair solutions rather than unfair solutions to protecting our island from being overrun with
tourists.
Mahalo,
Faye Taylor
Sent from my iPad
1
nhau'oli thielk <naluhiwa@aol.com>
Tuesday, May 10, 2022 11:46 AM
County Clerk
resolution 22-82 fdl real property tax rate
From:
Sent:
..
im m lU AH Ih 48To:
Subject:
■ I c (J r
:;-JUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from naluhiwa@aol.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
1 am submitting testimony in support of resolution 22-82 fdl. There are too many people who don't live here that
own houses while our people are becoming homeless or forced to leave because we cannot afford to be here. I
suggest a law/bill be made that doesn't allow non residents to buy a home in Hawai'i. The people that are born and
raised here should come first not people with millions of dollars. It doesn't make sense that residents can't afford a
small home here while some millionaire from out of state can come and buy multiple acres of beautiful land but the
locals get crammed into town houses. Politicians need to start making descisions that benefit the local people first.
Mahalo Hau'oli Thielk
1
● f-s
Dale Thompson <epicmauisunset@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 11, 2022 4:50 PM
County Clerk
Regarding tax increases
From:
Sent:
I  I
mi HAY !2 AH 7-To:
Subject:
r-
. ■ i i i:: o i- .  I c
CLEI^K: UNTY(You don't often get email from epicmauisunset@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Private condo owners can't continue to pass these increased taxes onto our guest Big corporations that are charging
$800-$1000 a night can absorb these additional cost but for private property owners that own one studio on Maui
and rely on the income to survive this is a huge burden. Please allow the kupuna the opportunity to support
themselves without additional taxes being levied on them. Mahalo, Kaikaina properties
Sent from my iPhone
1
RJessica Moffat <jessica_moffat@yahoo.com>
Thursday, May 12, 2022 3:16 AM
County Clerk
Proposed property tax increase
From:
Sent:
1022 I'liY 12 H'l 7: 44To:
Subject:
■ ncE Or
:OUNTY CL r.
You don't often get email fromjessica_moffat@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council,
Thank you for tackling OVER TOURISM.
This is an island wide problem. Over tourism
needs an island wide solution.Businesses, large and small need a
chance at economic stability/viability/growth. Targeting specific groups with higher property taxes and impacting them
unfairly is NOT a solution.
A FAIR solution is implementing a TOURISM
LOTTERY
A lottery is a REAL SOLUTION; near, mid and
long term.
j similar to programs adopted by over-run National Parks.
Everyone shares theHere is WHY a lottery is BETTER solution:
benefit and the burden.Taxing select groups, who have the potential to litigate everyone into oblivion for years, gets nothing resolved and
most importantly, doesn’t solve the problem of over tourism
Analyze data from airlines, hotels, small businesses for determining their economic thresholds for thriving, not just
surviving. Adjust the program as needed, per actuarial data. Set NOTHING in stone, other than easing Maui into a
happier, more tenable place for full time residents as well as tourists. Complex, yes, but once established it is a good
solution.
Thank you for considering a solution that is FAIR, viable, and would help EVERYONE, and not UNFAIRLY tax certain
sectors, like Short Term Rentals.
Sincerely
Jessica and Paul Van Stone
155 Wailea Ike Pi
Kihei. HI 96753
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Green Leaf Dwellings <greenleafdwellings@gmail.com>
Friday, May 13, 2022 12:17 AM
County Clerk
Property Tax increase for Vacation Rentala im
FV ■ hD -.
To:
 HAT 13 AH 7: 32Subject:
. ● i ● i G’E O F T H b
●■-OUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from greenieafdwellings@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I own a wonderful vacation rental in Maul.
I LIVE IN MAUI AND OWN MY HOME WITH A LARGE LONG MORTGAGE IN MAUI.
My vacation rental is my sole income as a semi retired person age 65 yrs old.
I take very good care of both properties mostly on my own without excess funds to hire help, workers, contractors,
etc. to assist me. I have to be very patient about improving my home, which I purchased with many items that need
attention and completion. The owner/builder of my home walked away from it before it was completed.
I love both of my properties on Maui. I raised my grown children on Maui and have been an active member of our
community for over 25 years. I care very much about Maui. I teach guests how to considerately appreciate Maui
while visiting. I treat my guests very welt. My reviews reflect this.
1 can barely afford the current very high cost of property tax on my rental property. It has doubled in the past few
years. I cannot imagine how you can sustainably increase property tax rates on me and other vacation rental owners.
ESPECIALLY LOCAL OWNERS THAT LIVE IN MAUI!
Please do not make my property taxes any higher than they already are using the current schedule of increases. Even
those are very difficult to manage. I cannot raise my rates higher than they currently are and still insure a regular
income.
Vacation rental or transient accommodation rental owners already pay 17.42% taxes extra beyond our property
taxes. We also pay fees to our AOAO's for having guests and to organizations mandatory to participate in in our
geographic area. If am a legal vacation rental owner and feel stretched to the max with all I owe the state and
county for my income property. I pay all that is asked of me with difficulty.
PLEASE DO NOT RAISE VACATION RENTAL PROPERTY TAXES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 11! I! I!!!!!
Mahalo,
Viktoria
1