MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-10-21
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=2668,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
October 21, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD IN THE COUNCIL CHAMBER. KALANA O MAUI BUILDING,
WAILUKU, HAWAII AND ONLINE VIA BLUEJEANS. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2022,
BEGINNING AT 9:01 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Willthe Maui County Council regularCouncil meeting of
October 21, 2022, please come to order. Members, the morning greetingisDumela
Rra. Dumela Rra. That'sincase you'replanningtogo toAfricathisweekend, and you
can say helloto everyone by saying Dumela Rra in Botswana.
Roll call,Mr. Clerk.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with rollcall.
Members participatingfrom non-publiclocationsshould statewho, ifanyone, except
minors,ispresentwiththem as partof rollcall.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha, Chair.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'msorry.He's on the screen. Member Sinenciispresent.Pleasecallhim
again.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha kakahlaka and Dumela Rra. For the record, we're
joiningthismorning'smeeting from the Hana DistrictOfficeat4974 Uakea Road, here
with districtstaff Mavis Medeiros and Dawn Lono. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 2
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and Dumela Rra, Madam Chair, my colleagues, and
everyone else joiningus here forour Council meeting inthe Council chambers here in
Wailuku. I've been informed that there are no testifiers over at the District Office.
Mahalo.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka and Dumela Rra, Chair, and fellow
Councilmembers, and allpublicwho are here today. Ialso was informed earlierby my
District Office there are no testifiers at the South Maui DistrictOffice. Although,
yesterday, thatchanged inbetween my announcement and the subjectmatters,so that
could change. And justhappy to get to work and startthe meeting. Thank you, Chair.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
Dumela, Dumela Rra, Chair and Councilmembers,
community members. I'malone inmy workspace on the islandofLanai.Unfortunately,
Icouldn'tjoinyou inthe chambers. I'mfeelinga littlebitunder the weather, and Ifigure
justto be safe. I'm here with my snoring dog, Ibeg your pardon, and ready to work.
Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha kakahiaka kakou and Dumela Rra. Broadcasting live
and directfrom the eighth floorCouncil chambers. And to my knowledge, there'sno
testifiersat the Lahaina DistrictOffice.Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: PresidingOfficerPro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair, and Dumela Rra to all my fellow
colleagues. I'mhere inClark County inmy workspace, and Iam here with Davelynn.
So. good morning, everyone.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 3
CHAIR LEE; Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Aloha kakahiaka, Chair, my Maui nui akama. Iam in
the Council chambers with allof you. And Isee that our Molokai community outreach
specialistZhantell Lindo isreporting no testifiersat the Molokai DistrictOffice. Mahalo.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning and Dumela Rra, everyone. I'mso happy to see many people in
the audience today. And lookingforward to another productiveday with my colleagues.
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, KELLY T. KING, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, NATALIE A. KAMA. VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
COUNCILMEMBER YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA.EXCUSED;
(Councilmember Sugimura was not present during rollcall,however, she arrivedtothe
meeting at 9:07 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight Members present,one Member excused.
A quorum ispresent to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record,Iam Deputy County ClerkJames Krueger. Also presentfrom the Office
of the County Clerk are LegislativeDivisionstaffJoyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana,
and Dell Yoshida.
And joiningthe meeting from the Department ofthe CorporationCounsel willbe Deputy
Corporation Counsel Mimi DesJardins.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Clerk.
Yes, Member King?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 4
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Sorry, but as almost predicted,I did justget a textthat there is
one testifierat the South Maui District Office now. So, Ijustwanted to inform you of
that.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. And ina few seconds, Mr. Clerk,you can announce the arrivalof
Member Yuki Lei Sugimura.
(Councilmember Sugimura arrivedto the meeting at 9;07 a.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Ijustspeak? Do Ihave to wait?
CHAIR LEE; No, wait. Let him callyour name.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Good morning, everybody. Happy Halloween in a few
days. So, I'mhere inspiritand waitingfora great meeting. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; And thank you.
Did you have any other announcements. Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,thatjustmeans thatthere are now nine Members present.
That's all.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Members, we have a request. As you know, we weren't planning to
startwiththe testimony before the meeting untilthe next Councilmeeting when we can
shrink the agenda down. However, we did receive a request and Iwould consider as
extenuating circumstances, so do you have any objectionsto two requests? One, that
representativesfrom Kaiser be able to speak at the beginning ofthe meeting, and two,
ifthere are no objectionsto taking a quick photo forMember King'sresolution?Any
objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE; No objections.So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk,could you callup the ceremonial resolutions? I'm sorry,we need to have
the opening remarks first.Iwouldn'twant to skip over that.
Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 5
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offeredby Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk. Ibelieve now it'stime forour Pledge of Allegiance. Please joinme. Stand.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recitedthe Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Members. And now, Mr. Clerk,ceremonial resolutions.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on ceremonial resolutions.
Members ofthe publicmay testifyinthe Council chamber, at courtesytestimony sites,
or remotely through the informationlistedon the meeting agenda. Individualsinthe
Council chamber may sign up to testifywith the stafflocatedatthe desk inthe eighth-
floorlobby.
Individualsat courtesy testimony sitesmay sign up with staffat the site.Individuals
participatingremotely may sign up in the meeting chat. Ifyou are connected to the
meeting by phone, we willbe unmuting you to see when you willbe testifying.
Individualsconnected by phone are currentlyon mute and willbe unmuted when itis
theirtime to testify.Individualsconnected by video conferenceshould keep both their
video and microphones offand should turnthem on onlywhen itistheirtime totestify.
Testimony islimitedto the items listedon the agenda. Individualsmay testifyforthree
minutes with up to one minute to conclude per item. When testifying,please stateyour
name and the name of any organizationyou represent,as wellas the items on which
you'llbe testifying.Please also identifyto the Council ifyou are a paid lobbyist.
Individualsmay also be disconnected from the meeting at any time for breaking
decorum. At thistime,individualsmay testifyon ceremonial resolutions.
Chair, we have one individualcurrentlysigned up to testifyon ceremonial resolutions.
That would be Elle Cochran.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 6
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. ELLE COCHRAN (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-239):
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. COCHRAN: Aloha. Dumela Rra, is that it?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. COCHRAN: And aloha kakahiaka, Members. And magandang umaga po. So, yeah, I
want to testifyon your Ceremonial Resolution 22-239, "RECOGNIZING OCTOBER
2022 AS DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AWARENESS MONTH". And Iwant to say Iwas so
honored and privilegedto attend the march, the Maui's Men’s March Against Violence
at UH Maui College. And itwas justso awe-inspiringto have allthese gentlemen, and
women, and you know, pets, and everybody there to, yeah, speak out to bring
awareness to thisso, such a huge important issue that happens. And of course, we
don'talljustrecognize itduringthe month of October. It'syearlong. It'slife-long.So,
Ijustwanted to quicklygive,you know, honor toArisBanaag, who broughtthistogether
forthe community. And Iwas so happilyto be invitedto participate.So, mahalo for
bringingthisforward thismorning, Members. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions forthe testifier?Ifnot,thank you Elle.
MS. COCHRAN: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We have another individualsigned up to testifyon ceremonial
resolutions. That would be Noelani Ahia.
MS. NOELANI AHIA (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-239T
Aloha kakahiaka kakou. Mahalo nui for being here today. Ijustwanted to briefly
mahalo you folksfor puttingthis resolutionforward forthe community. Domestic
violence, likeallviolence, isrooted intrauma. And Iwould justencourage allof us who
are here today,everyone listeningathome, and everyone sittinginthegallerytoreally
thinkabout the traumas inyour own lifethatyou've experienced,and what ittakes to
heal from those traumas, and what kind of community support you need. Because
healingfrom trauma isnot a singulartask,it'sa community task.It'sa lahuitask.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 7
And we need to stand up forone another as we’re healingfrom these traumas, so that
we can create a world where we don't need to protectwomen and children from
violence. That's the vision,right? But in the meantime, we have to kia‘iour wahine
and we have to kia'iour keikiwho are suffering.Domestic violence isa precursor for
houselessness, a precursor foraddiction. It'sa precursor for mental illness.And it's
rooted in trauma.
So, thank you so much foracknowledging domestic violence today so thatwe can start
to lookatmore pathways to healing,and, and to recognize the people inour community
who are doing this hard work. Women Helping Women is one huge pua in our
community that'sblossoming because ofthe work thatthey do. Mahalo nui to everyone
inthe community who does thiswork. Mahalo. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions forthe testifier?Ifnot,thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testifyon
ceremonial resolutions,so we'lldo a lastcallat thistime. Ifyou would liketo testifyon
eitherof the two ceremonial resolutions,please identifyyourself now. Again, thisis
last call.
CHAIR LEE: Do we not have people from Kaiser to say something?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, Chair, the resolutionpertainingto Kaiser is Resolution
22-241.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And that item isposted laterin the agenda.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Okay. Ifthere are no furtherresolution,Imean testimony on the first
resolution,any objectionsto closing publictestimony on the firstitem?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: On the domestic violence. Alright.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair? Chair, does that also include the other ceremonial
Resolution 22-238? We were callingtestimony forallceremonial resolutions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 8
CHAIR LEE: Oh, that'swhat Iwas asking about. Alright,do we have anybody else to testify
on the other,we only have two resolutions.And so, isthere anybody else wanting to
testify?Ifnot,alright.Any objectionsto closingtestimony on the two resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Alright,then,we willproceed with the ceremonial resolutions.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-238
CONGRATULATING THE MAUI COUNTY FILM
OFFICE AND THE PRODUCERS OF "THE
WHITE LOTUS" FOR NATIONAL AND
INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-238.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE:
resolution.
Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt the
Member King, discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. May Irequest the Clerk or Deputy Clerk read
the resolution in itsentirety?
CHAIR LEE: Of course.
(The resolutionwas read in itsentirety.)
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 9
CHAIR LEE: Discussion,Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. And justforclarity,Mike White isthe director
of the film,not our previous Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Although, I almost calledhim to stand in for. There, there's a
scene inthe second episode where the Mossbacher matriarch,a high-powered CEO
and mother of two doles out thispiece of advice, "your independence isyour power".
Inmany ways thatiswhat thisresolutioncelebrates,the independent and creativespirit
that made thisMaui-made production possible and the independence itbuildsforour
County when we investinand support industriesthathelp diversifyour economy.
It'ssomewhat ironic that tourism is the main focus of the show's satire,but this and
other TV and filmproductions continue our successful effortsto market the islandsas
an industrydestinationgarnering industryacclaim inthe process even as we seek to
lessen our dependence on tourism.
one of the best showsCritics describe The White Lotus as a "brilliantand bitingsatire'
of the year",and "tvgold". Itsrecord number of Emmy nominations and wins attestto
the hard work of ailof those who played a roleinfrontof and behind the scenes, and
the scenery itself,the unparalleledbeauty of Maui.
I'dalso liketo express my admirationforTracy Bennett, as duringhistenure,he grew
the revenue from the filmindustryon Maui exponentiallyand virtuallysingle-handedly
with no staffand has shown us possibilitiesfor further expanding this and other
industriesprovidingeven more localhigh-payingjobs and careers in our County.
Mr. Bennett forged a strong partnershipwith stateFilmCommissioner Donne Dawson,
who also ishere today.Chair,and moved the needle above and beyond expectations.
Iagain commend and thank the Maui Film Office,Film Commissioner Tracy Bennett,
as well as State Film Commissioner Donne Dawson, and respectfullyask for the
Council'sfullsupport of my resolution.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Chair. I,too, would liketo extend my
congratulations,and forthe hard work thathas broughta lotofadditionalglory,Iguess,
to our beautiful islands. And believe itor not, in 1999 to 2002, when 1worked in the
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 10
Officeof Economic Development, Amy Kasten was a Film Commissioner then, Georja
Skinner was at the State, and we used to work with them to help them get permits.
And Iwilltellyou that it'sa lotof,a lotof hard work. And the amount of achievement
thathas been achieved, itishuge, because a lotof,a lotof attention.Infact,Ijustgot
a text message from a Wall Street Journal reporter asking me about this. So,
congratulationsand hana hou. Keep on doing your good work. And congratulations
Joann Inamasu. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you very much. Madam Chair. I'dliketo extend my
congratulationsas well. And mahalo to Member King for this,for sponsoring the
resolution for this well-deserved recognition for the White Lotus team, as well as
Mr. Bennett and Ms. Inamasu, Ms. Dawson, Ms. Skinner. There's a lotof,a laundry
listof names to recognize. But thank you forthe,thiswonderful productionand being
very sensitiveand cooperativewith the community as faras theirfilmingproduction.
And a special littleshout-out for that contributionto Kalama IntermediateSchool's
Hawaiian Immersion Program. That's a school Itaught at formany years. And thank
you forbeing very culturallysensitive,sensitiveto the cultureand being very generous.
So, bigshout-outto you guys. Mahalo and congratulations.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more comments or questions? I have a comment. Again,
congratulationsto allinvolved. And appreciate the, Member King sponsoring this
resolution.
Ido have to tellyou, since Jason Momoa's name was mentioned earlier,Iwent to Los
Angeles in July,and Ialways liketo sitfrom row 2 back, because ifyou sitinrow 1,
you can'tput your purse underneath the seat. So, 1do not likerow 1.
So, Hawaiian Airlinescallsme on my, before Itake offback to Maui, and they tellme
they'removing me to row 1, because Iwas inrow, Idon'tknow what row Iwas in,but
row 1. And I said, oh, no. And, but then, I thought, oh it'sprobably for a familyor
something. So, Isaid,okay. When Igot on the plane,Isaw the person who tookmy
place was Jason Momoa. Had I known that,Iwould have offeredto carryhisbags.
But again,thank you very much, Member King,forthisresolution,and Members.
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member King, for bringing
forththisresolution.Tracy Bennett, mahalo Tracy Bennett,DirectorJoann, foralltheir
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 11
work on this and helping to diversifyour economy by encouraging more film
opportunities,promoting our filmindustry.
And thank you forhaving thatforesightto help educate those not from here and those
intendingto visitHawaii. The show helped to betterillustratethe challenges that our
community has with the tourism industry,and the touristscoming. And so it'svery
appropriate to have thisresolutiontoday as it'ssomething that we'llbe talkingabout
more laterinthe agenda. So, mahalo, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, ready to vote? Allthose in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VlCE-CHAiR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.Thank you very much.CHAIR LEE: All"ayes".
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,may we, may we inviteMr. Bennett and Ms. Dawson tothe
podium tojustsay a few words? And I'llpresentthem withthe resolutions.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Please come up.
MR. TRACY BENNETT: Happy Aloha Friday. Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo. Member King,and
Members of our Maui County Council. I'm very honored to be recognizedforthis.It
was an incrediblydifficulttime in allof our lives.We were shut down completely.
Resorts were closed, businesses, restaurants. There was no clear end insight.
And so, in the Summer of 2020, Donne Dawson, our State Film Commissioner and i
created thismodified filmand TV quarantine program thatreliedon robusttestingand
isolation.And the factthatthisHBO production was able to buy out the Four Seasons
Resort for three months and shoot a tv series there was one of the firstproductions in
the world to create a COVID-free bubble. With the Four Seasons and our local crew
and cast,once you were in,there was nobody out.
And Donne and 1 had to take this modified film and TV quarantine program to
Mayor Victorinofor approval,and to Governor Ige for approval. And at thatpoint,
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 12
Governor Ige deemed the filmand TV industryas essential.And Ithinkanybody with
a TV, anybody who has a subscriptionto Netflix,Hulu, Amazon, cable, Spectrum,
DirectTV, Ithinkthatshows how importantthe industryisincreatingcontent forpeople
to watch.
Going back to the Summer of 2020, itwas a very difficulttime,
coordination between the Four Seasons, between HBO, and our cast and crew here.
And our localcast and crew literallyhad to move intothe Four Seasons for several
months to shoot. And while itsounds likea great vacation,itwasn't. There was no
going to the pool. There was hanging outside. There was no going to restaurants.
And there was no going to the beach. And we arranged with Mayor Victorinoa period
of time of a few days where they were allowed out intothe community, onto the beach,
to Olowalu and to Maalaea Harbor, were the only other three locationsthey shot at
other than the Four Seasons.
It took a lot of
So, itcreated a sense of comfort aftersome obvious community pushback earlierin
the pandemic. And itwas importantforDonne and 1to make sure thatour community
feltsafe,thatwe were protectingthe aina,we were protectingour residents,and we
were protectingour localcrew. And itdeemed very successful.And two weeks into
filmingthe show, 1knew thatitwas going to be good. Iwent back tothe Mayor'sOffice.
I went to Joann Inamasu. I went to Donne Dawson. I toldeverybody thisisgoing to
be a great show. It'sgoing to win awards. And sure enough, itgarnered a record-tying
20 Emmy nominations. And they won ten. they won every category they were
nominated in.
And itwas justa,such a pleasureto see something likethatgrow outofa periodwhere
we had a very tough time. And to get the accolades thatitdidwas amazing. And I'm
justhappy tobe acknowledged forthis.And I'dliketosay thankyou toJoann Inamasu,
your continued support and understanding of the industryand what ittakes to get it
going,and to diversifyour economy here. Ithinkwe've proven thatwe can take steps
inthe rightdirectionto reallymake itgrow.
The motion pictureand televisionindustryisone ofthe biggestindustriesinthe State
of Hawaii and IwillletDonne speak to those numbers injusta second. But it'sthe
biggest industryoutsideof what we had here, sugarcane, and the amount of dollars
thatitbringsin,the amount of people itputs to work. And tobe recognizedforsuch a
greatshow like"The White Lotus",while itisa ratedR show, ittouched on community,
ittouched on staffworkers at the resorts, ittouched on the Hawaiian culture.There's
some beautifulHawaiian music in it.And they make the scenery ofwhat Maui County
was, absolutelygorgeous. Some excellentwriting,directing,acting.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 13
But we had almost 200 of our localcrew on thatshow, and we put a lotof resortworkers
back to work. So that's,Iactuallyshare thiswith Donne, with our Council,with Mayor's
Office,everybody thatsupported what we were tryingto do then.
I want to say thank you to my wife. She endured many long hours with me up on
Zooms and, and tryingto work the pandemic through the motion pictureand television
industry and make itsuccessful. I have all my co-workers here from Economic
Development. Thank you allfor your support. They always stand behind me in
everything that I do. Mayor Victorino'sOffice. And I'dliketo turn itover to Donne
Dawson now. But thank you again. Mahalo nui. Mahalo.
MS. DONNE DAWSON: Aloha mai kakou. Itisa deep honor for me to be here. It'sbeen a
long time since I’vebeen inthischamber. And Iwanted to thank you Chair. Iwant to
thank allthe Councilmembers for your unwavering support of thisvery important
industryfor Hawaii and especiallyfor Maui. Maui is,is,isreallymade exponential
growth as you said. Councilmember King, thank you forthisrecognition.Itisdeeply
appreciated,because anybody who knows anything about filmcommissioning,itisa
very, very difficultand challenging job. And it most often goes unnoticed and
unrecognized, unlessthingsgo sidesways and then itsrecognitionnotina good way.
So, Ijustwanted to say thatthiswas a very unique opportunityforMaui. And itwas
starsaligningopportunitythatreallyopened a lotofeyes and puta lotofeyes on Maui.
Itwas a globalpandemic. Itwas an impossiblescenario.And we had the rightcreator,
the rightvenue inthe Four Seasons, the righttwo filmcommissioners,if1do say so
myself,to be able tofigureout how to make thiswork. And the pandemic gave us the
opportunityto press pause, and to press pause on tourism. And 1thinkitgave an
amazing opportunityto put eyes on the filmindustry,to elevatethe filmindustry,and
to help the community understand how vitallyimportantthisindustryisto counterover
tourism.
And further,the filmindustrydemonstrated that itisone ofthe most tightlyregulated
industries.They have setthe standard forCOVID-safe environmentfortheirworkers.
That isa globalstandard thathas now setthe bar forindustriesallovertheworld.And
what itsays to the community isthatwe have an industrythatisviable,thatisgoingto
be a game-changer forour economy. This year,we willdo upwards of450 millionin
directexpenditures,closeto5,000 jobs created by the,theproductionwork that'sgoing
on inMaui County and across the State. And it'sonly goingto improvefrom there.
And so,what 1justwant toleaveyou withisimmense opportunity,immense opportunity
for our storiesto be told,for Hawaii's true historyand our cultureto be elevated,and
to be recognized,and reallyto letthe world know thatHawaii isready to be inthis
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 14
game ata very,very high-level.So, Ivery much appreciatethishonor, thisrecognition,
and to be beforeyou. And ijustmahalo you very much. And Joann Inamasu, mahalo
to you foryour support of our industry.And Iwillgo on record as saying thatyou have
the best County filmcommissioner thatyou could possiblyhave inTracy Bennett. And
Iam gratefulforhim and forhissupport in how we had to work together to pullthisoff.
So, mahalo, mahalo, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Any questions forthe testifiers?Ifnot,thank you again
and congratulations.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we, can we do a quick photo?
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto doing a quick photo? Quick photo.
Mr. Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-239
RECOGNIZING OCTOBER 2022 AS DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE AWARENESS MONTH
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-239.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member, Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King
to adopt Resolution 22-239.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May I please request the Deputy
Clerk read the resolutionin itsentirety?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 15
CHAIR LEE: Deputy Clerk.
(The resolutionwas read initsentirety.)
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo for the opportunity to
bring attention to this issue, which unfortunately,is a type of epidemic causing
widespread and lastingdamage to victims,families,and communities. Inthiscountry,
a woman isassaulted every nine seconds. A domestic or a dating violence incident
takes place every 24 minutes. An estimated 3.3 millionchildren are exposed to
violence against theirmother or a female caretaker. Domestic violence costs more
than five billion in medical and mental healthcare each year. Itisalso a leading cause
of homelessness for women and children.
Domestic violence can take many forms includinghomicide, rape,and other physical
violence,as well as behaviors that sadly might be dismissed or downplayed such as
slappingor shoving,psychology or emotional abuse and stalking.And perhaps Kaiser
should stop denying access to mental healthcare,and instead,more healthcarebe
promoted because we all have a responsibilityto educate, advocate, and take
whatever actions are necessary to prevent domestic violenceand providesurvivors
with the services,housing programs, and other support they need.
And as testifierNoelani Ahia mentioned in her testimony thismorning,thisisrooted in
trauma. And the vision is for a world where we do not need to kia'iour women and
children. Untilsuch time anyone who needs assistance,or may, maybe justmore
information,24/7 help is available. We can callthe NationalDomestic hotlineat
1-800-799-7233 or contactany ofthe organizationsinMaui County dedicatedtoending
domestic violence.My sinceremahalo to allthe organizationsand individualthathave
been helping with thisissue.
Irespectfullyask fortheCouncilmembers supportofthismotion.And then,we do have
someone to provideremarks afterthe vote. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any more discussion,before we take the vote?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. Thank you very much forbringingthis
forward, Keani. And Itotallysupport this.1believethatthisisone ofthe saddestthings
that I'veseen in the community. And I learned recently,you know how you can call
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 16
911 for emergencies? Maui United Way has a number, and they callittheirsocial
emergency number. And Iwould liketo encourage anybody who needs help to please
call211, which goes directlyto Maui United Way and they have a 24/7 access, or
people who manage thatnumber. And they callitfortheirsocialemergencies. And
they have access to many different,as we know, because they support them, many
differentnonprofitsthatcould help them.
So, I'dliketo maybe, ifyou could add Maui United Way to the resolution,ifthe, ifthe
maker of the resolution would allow it? And because of theircommitment to helping
the people by having that211 emergency number forsocialemergencies. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Sugimura. Ihave
no objectionsto adding thatto those receivingthe resolution.Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Seeing other hands. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you. Madam Chair. Just want toshare my appreciation
to Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez for sponsoring thisresolution,and to allinvolvedto,
you know, keep up, keeping up the fightagainst thisepidemic,as Vice-Chairhad
mentioned. It'salways painfulto hear of the many terribletragediesthatare linkedto
domestic violence.
And my mahalos to all of the organizations,the government agencies, private
agencies,and workers who have to deal withsome very terriblethingscause it'svery
hard forthem too,you know. Certainly,we pray forthevictims,butalsoforthe people
of enforcement agencies and privateagencies, who have towitnessand see a lotof
terriblehuman atrocitiesthat occur, linked to domestic violence. So, thank you. We're
trulyblessed to have your services. And please keep up the greatwork. Mahalo,
Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. And thank you, Vice-Chairforbringingthis
resolutionforward. Every month should be, we should be recognizingthiseverymonth.
But iunderstand we pickOctober to do thisrecognition.And Iwant tosay,you know,
the, what reallygets me about domestic violence is thatwe also don'trecognize
bullying,and ithappens throughout. I'veseen itingovernment. Iseen itinallwalks
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 17
of life.And itstartsinthe schools. And so, you know, everythinggoes back to those
those originaltraumas. Ithink.
But, but certainly,we need to increase our services. I'vebeen directlyinvolved inthe
work of Women Helping Women and the Maui Farm over the past few decades as a
supporter. And I,you know, and I partnered with a nonprofitwith Women Helping
Women, many decades ago. But we don't have enough services. And so, and we
don't have enough thatwe offerforfree,because thisissomething that should be part
of what we do with our taxpayer money. So, stronglysupport the resolution.And you
know, I know it'sa pipe dream, but Iwish there was a day when we didn'tneed this
resolution.But anyway, Ithinkwe're allcommitted to thison an ongoing basis. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anybody else? And Ihave a couple comments. Members, as you
probably know, Iwas the presidentofWomen Helping Women forover fiveyears. And
we helped to create the Domestic Violence Unitwithinthe PoliceDepartment, as well
as rebuildingthe program. Believe me, it'svery difficultwhen you firststartwith only
volunteers. And today, it'sa very healthy and strong organizationthanks to not only
the people thatwork there,but the volunteersthatcontinueto help.And then ofcourse,
the support ofthe community. So, thank you forthisresolution.
Are you ready to vote? Allthose infavorofthe motion to adopt thisresolution,please
raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes".Motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But we do have DarLynne . ..resolution.
CHAIR LEE: She's online? She wants to say a few words?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 18
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. for the resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Idon'tsee her. What isher name again?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: DarLynne Mollena.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Mollena?
Mr. Clerk.
MS. DARLYNNE MOLLENA: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. MOLLENA: Aloha. I'm listed under Hale Ho'omalu. My name isDarLynne Mollena. I'm
an advocate here on the island of Molokai and i work with Hale Ho'omalu. And Ijust
wanted to mahalo the County Councilmembers and recognizing and having the
proclamation inregards to domestic violence. Hale Ho'omalu isthe only shelterhere
on island,and we reallymahalo the County Councilmembers forallowingus to do the
work thatwe do insupportingus inthe work thatwe do here inour community. And
so, on island,and likemany, I heard the testimonies,how October isrecognizedas
the domestic violence awareness. And so, we participatedin signwavings and that
kinds of stuffas well. And come next Thursday, we're preparingfora vigil.And so we
reallymahalo you folksforsupporting.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more comments? Well,Ido have one lastcomment. Member
Johnson, when we were, when we had the blessing foryour office,Inoticedthe shelter
rightnext to our office,ithinkitneeds a good painting,yeah. So, nexttime you're
ready,we'llallcome over and help you paintit,okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Iagree with that 100 percent,Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Alright.Anymore comments? Member, 1 mean, Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ijustwanted to thank Ms. Mollena
forbeing on. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MS. MOLLENA: Thank you so much.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 19
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you and aloha.
MS. MOLLENA: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Member. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, at thistime, Ibelieve we willbe allowingthose individuals
from Kaiser Permanente to provide theirtestimony on Resolution 22-241.
CHAIR LEE: Isthere a representativefrom Kaiser who'd liketo say a few words rightnow?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTiN: Ithink they're,NUHW, National United Health Workers. But
they work forKaiser and they're-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Kaiser workers.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -tryingto get a betterdeal.
CHAIR LEE: Itwould be helpfulto stateyour name. You don'thave to stateyour name for
the record.
MR. IZEAH GARCIA. NATIONAL UNION OF HEALTHCARE WORKERS (testifyingon
Resolution No. 22-241):
Of course. Aloha everybody. Hello,my name's Izeah Garciaand I'man organizerwith
the National Union of Healthcare Workers. I urge the County Council to pass
Resolution 22-241 in support of the Kaiser behavioral healthcareworkers. Our
members have been fightingformore than fouryears towintheirfirstcontract.They've
negotiatedingood faith,whilefacingobstructionatthetablefromtheotherside.And
forwhat? Our members are fightingfora contractthat addresses core patientcare
issues,wages thatincentiverecruitmentand retention,improvestaffinglevelsacross
Hawaii, and improvements to patientwait times. These are investmentsthatall
involved should support,especiallybecause Kaiser has the money to address the
issues across the system.
Instead,they take the profitsfrom the healthcaresystem here in Hawaii,and send
them back to the mainland, not investing in the qualityof care in Hawaii. That must
change. Iurge you tovote yes on the resolutioninsupportofthe KaiserPermanente
behavioral healthcare workers on strike.And Ihope you joinus on the picketlineand
support our strikefund as we enterour ninthweek ofouropen-ended strike.Our folks
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 20
are receivingfood boxes. They have the courage to stay onlineforweeks now. So, I
hope that you jointhem. Thank you, Councilmember Johnson, for introducingthis
resolution.And thank you allforyour consideration. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions.Members?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ihave a question.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you so much foryour testimony. Ijust
wondered how many workers are out rightnow, inthe mental healthcare,forthe strike.
MR. GARCIA: So, it's,we represent about 60 behavioral healthcare workers across Hawaii.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, across the State? Okay. And do you know how many on
Maui are?
MR. GARCIA: I think there's ten folks that work across all of the island of Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
MR. GARCIA: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you folksforbeing here.
DR. RACHEL KAYA. NATIONAL UNION OF HEALTHCARE WORKERS (testifyingon
Resolution No. 22-241):
Good morning, everybody. I'm Dr. Rachel Kaya. I'ma licensedpsychologist.I'dlike
to startby offeringa thank you forthe Domestic Violence Awareness Month, which is
a beautifulsegway.
So, imagine you'rea person who isstrugglingwith abuse inyour home, orthe abuse
of your childrenin your home. You are fullyinsured by a comprehensive insurance
policyand when you come up to get help from myself or one ofmy co-workersyou are
toldthatyour next availableappointment istwo or threemonths away. And when you
finallyget in,foryou, you continueto be inan abusive situationforthose two orthree
months. You finallyget an appointment withone of us,and you waitthe same amount
of time forthe next appointment. That's,that'swhy we're doing it.That'swhy we are
willingto be on the streetswithout pay, waving our signs,and shoutingatcars.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 21
As an individualadulttherapist,Ispecializein identificationand treatment in mental
illness.And anyone who has been inthe therapy room with me knows that Ivery often
talk about taking actions that match your values. Because the goal is to have a
meaningful life,not an easy life.And letme tellyou the things that are easy, are
complacency. Easy isnumbing up and puttingon blinders,so thatyou don'thave to
face the misery around you. Easy issittingby and not joiningthe fight,when a billion
dollarcompany ispaying itsCalifornia-basedexecutives and board of directorsmillion
dollar salaries, while the meantime on the island of Maui for allof the Kaiser people
who have insurance, there are nine psychotherapists. So, I am asking humbly and
respectfullyfora vote infavorof Councilmember Johnson’s resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DR. CASSENDRA E. CACERES-LICOS. NATIONAL UNION OF HEALTHCARE WORKERS
(testifyingon Resolution No. 22-241):
Aloha. I'm Dr. Cassendra Caceres-Licos. I'm a licensed clinicalpsychologist for
Kaiser Maui Lani. I'mthere as partofthe mental health integration,which means that
Iam on the floorforprimary care providersand urgent care.
What Ihave seen there since my time of being there isthatthere have been a lotmore
people thatare coming in,talkingto theirphysicians about theirmental healthissues,
because they are reachingout tothe callcentertryingtogetan appointmentand aren't
able to be seen. So, theirprovidersare urging them to come intourgent care to get
help,to go to the emergency room to get help. Because people are gettingtiredof
having to wait two or three months to see somebody. And then,fortheirfoNow-up
appointment to be four or sixweeks apart from thattime. They'renot gettingethical
care.
A lotof times I'm inthe room, because theirprovider isurgingthem to get some help
fortheirdepression, fortheiranxiety,forthe abuse that'stakingplace intheirhome.
And these people have toldme, have toldtheirproviders,no, Idon'twant to,Igave
up. I'vealready triedthree times, four times, to callthe callcenter to get an
appointment and Ican'tbe seen. And they do one lastditchefforttohave me come in
and talkto them and they say, you know, what's the point ifI'm going to get an
appointment and then Ihave to wait a reallylong time to see somebody again? And
it'sheartbreaking forme to see that,or forthem to justgive up on the whole concept
of mental health because thisisthe model thatthey’rebeing introducedto. This isthe
model thatthey are being given,thatit'snot,it’snot helpfulforthem. So, people are
giving up.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 22
And thisnot only leads to hurtingthe individual,but also theirfamilies,theirfamilies
and the community that we livein. They need bettercare. They need to be, their
issues to be addressed, especiallywhen I'vehad so many people say likeI'm paying
forthisservice. Iam paying forthisinsurance. And they can'tget thathelp. And it's
very frustratingfor them, because even with Kaiser's model of having outside
providers,those outside providers are not takinganybody. There's alsowait-liststhere.
So, I do urge thatwe vote in favor for,forthispropositionthat'sbeen set forth,or
resolution,sorry. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DR. RICH GARCIA, NATIONAL UNION OF HEALTHCARE WORKERS (testifying on
Resolution No. 22-241):
Good morning. My name isDr. Rich Garcia. I'ma licensedclinicalpsychologistinthe
State of Washington and the State of Hawaii. Thank you so much forhaving us this
morning. So, Istand before you as a concerned professional,and a citizenof the
County of Maui and the Stateof Hawaii.
Soon aftermy arrivalat Kaiser at Maui Lani in October of 2017, Inoticedthatthere
was a strong need for mental healthissues,not only forchildren,adolescents,and
adults,as wellas geriatrics.Unfortunately,even fiveyears ago, Iwas unable to see
my patientsina timelymanner, only seeing them every threetofourweeks. Thiswas
new to me. Over the past few years,the wait time has increasedfourto sixweeks,
sometimes even longer,withvery littleadministrativesupport.These dangerous wait
times goes against my code of ethicsas a clinicalpsychologist.Thus, I strongly
encourage you to support a Resolution22-241. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: We have a question foryou. Doctor.
DR. GARCIA: Any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes, I do have a question, clarifyingquestion. So, you
said thatyou get very littleadministrativehelp. So, what does thatmean?
DR. GARCIA: Itmeans, essentially,that Kaiser has in my opinion,not speaking formy
colleagues, that there'sbeen, seems, seemingly very littleeffortto hire more
professionals,especiallythose who work with children,adolescentslikemyself. In
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 23
addition,ithas been implied thatifIcan'tsee kiddos during my regularscheduled time,
that I'vebeen encouraged to put them intomy slotwhen Ishould be callingteachers,
doing progress notes, writing reports,etc.,in order to pacify the need for therapy
services.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Thank you.
DR. GARCIA: Yes, you'rewelcome. Any other questions?
CHAIR LEE: Apparently not. Thank you.
DR. GARCIA: Thank you very much.
DR. MARLENA FARM. NUHW (testifying on Resolution No. 22-241):
Aloha. I'm Marlena Farm. I'm a clinicalpsychologist at Kaiser. So, we allhear those
advertisements on the radio,they'reeverywhere rightnow. And when Ihear them, it
says, you know, do they see you? Do we see you as a mother, as a provider,as,
you're not a provider,as a caregiver? And someone takingcare of someone with
cancer and allof these things,like.And when Iwould hear about Kaiser,and allof
that,it'slike,wow, thismust be a great place to work. So, Iapplied. Isaw that,Isaw
something about a strikelastNovember pending and itnevertranspired.And Iapplied
and went through the interviewprocess. And Iwork with childrenallthe way through
elders. And asked about what was happening, and was not toldwith any claritywhat
trulywas going on there.
And so, Itook the job inApril.And my qualityof lifesignificantlyhas decreased since
then. I’m a mother of three children;a teenager, a kindergartener,and a two-yearold.
And work lifebalance and practicingwhat we preach isso importantto me, because
how can Iask my patientsto do thatifIcan'tmodel thatmyself?
And when Ilearned about these takeaways coming and the changes and allof that,it
was like,well that'slikethe finalstraw on top of what's already happening. Because,
as providers,we go intothisfieldbecause we want to help,and we want togiveback.
And itishard work. Itisemotional work. Itisheavy. We carrypeople'sburdens and
secrets and inner worlds that they don'tshare with anyone else. And we earn that
trust.And then, to have to tellsomeone, oh. I'm sorry,justhang onto itforeightmore
weeks tillwe get you back in.And depending on what's happening,that'snotokay.
Parents are asking forhelp with managing behaviors and concerns. And they need
immediate follow-up.Because ifIask them to implement an intervention,they need to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 24
come back and say thisworked or thisdidn'twork, so that we can tweak itand send
them out,and they can be effective.And they can feelpositive.And Ican feelgood
that Iwas able to help someone.
But when you are constantlywaitinguntilpeople are at crisis,and boilingover,and it's
horrible,and it'snot rewarding any more. It'sdepressing, and it'ssad. And it's
heartbreaking. And that iswhy when people. I'veseen iton socialmedia, you know,
oh, what kind of providers would go on strike? That's justwalking away from your
patients,that'snot helping. We were not able to help our patientsalready. They are
not gettingthe help thatthey deserve. And that iswhy we stand there.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Alright,ifnot--
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, Ihave a question.
CHAIR LEE: --thank you very much.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, Ihave a question.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson, do you have a question? I'm sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yeah. Thank you. I reallyappreciate your personal
experience. How does thataffectthe overallindustryinregards to longevityof people
working? Are people startingto leavethatkindofscenario,and were even, it'sgetting
worse and worse because people can'thandle the stressof being overworked?
DR. FARM: Yes. So, Iget frustratedsometimes when Iread news articles,or Ihear Kaiser's
statements that they'reactivelytryingto recruitand hire. Yes, outwardlythey do.
However, they failto mention thatsince I'vebeen thereinApril,numerous people have
quit,or resigned,or retired,because they are fed-up. So, we are constantlybarelyat
the same point.And people say, wellthat'sa nationwide problem, there'sa shortage
everywhere. And the factisKaiser has the abilityto make ita very wonderful place to
work, and they could. There's other models out there,how they can do it.And people
would want to work for Kaiser.
And they, theirmembers would have the services that they would need. But in my
opinion,itdoes not seem likemental health is valued to the levelthatmaybe their
physical health concerns are. Although we are treatingpeople with caregiversof
Alzheimer's,cancer diagnoses, chronicphysicalpain,pregnancy. Ihad a postpartum
mama who triedto get an appointment,and when Ifinallygot inwithher,she was five
days postpartum. Isaid,how, how am Iseeing you fivedays postpartum. She said.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 25
well,I'vebeen tryingto get services formy depression during pregnancy, but now I've
had the baby. So, there we are,you know? It'snot okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Wow. yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for your
testifier,or testimony. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ifnot,thank you very much, everyone.
Mr. Clerk.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with testimony on the settingofthe Consent
Calendar. Chair,there are currentlyno individualssigned up to testifyon the settingof
the Consent Calendar. We'll do a last call. Ifthere isanybody who wishes to testify
on the settingofthe Consent Calendar, please identifyyourselfnow. I'malsounmuting
those individuals...ifthey need to. Oh, maybe not thatperson. But ifthey need to
testifyon these items,please identifyyourselfnow. Again, lastcallforsettingof the
Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Who's on the line?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there'sone of the phone numbers, but Idon'tthinkthey're
intendingto testify.Itsounds likeincidentalnoise.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto closingpublictestimony and acceptingwrittentestimonyfor
settingof the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Members, at thistime, we willset the Consent Calendar. As a reminder the calendar
can be stilladjusted even afterit'sset. Are there any requested changes to the
Consent Calendar at thistime? Any objectionsto settingthe Consent Calendar?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 26
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections,so ordered. Calendar isset.
Members, before proceeding, I am notifyingyou that I'llbe enforcing Rule 9.F.,no
Member may speak more than twice on any pending motion. Members may speak for
one minute during both opportunities. We have a long meeting ahead. It's10:11
already and we haven'teven reallystarted.
Okay. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimonies on items in the Consent
Calendar. There are no individualssigned up to testifyon items in the Consent
Calendar at thistime, so we'lldo lastcall. Ifthere isanybody who wants to testifyon
any items thatare contained inthe Consent Calendar, please identifyyourselfnow.
Again, lastcall.Chair, itappears that no one else wants, no one wants to testifyon
any of these items.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objectionsto closing public testimony and accepting written
testimony foritems inthe Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR
(dated October 3, 2022)
NO. 22-254
Informingofa vacancy on the Councilon Aging due tothe resignationofJudithMikami
effective October 1, 2022.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 27
NO. 22-255 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated October 12, 2022)
Informing of the appointment of Maxwell Min Tsai as an Alternateon the South Maui
Advisory Committee.
NO. 22-256 - JOHN PELLETIER, CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated Octobers, 2022)
Transmittinga copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Attorney General forthe Edward Byrne Memorial JusticeAssistance Grants, Statewide
Multi-JurisdictionalDrug Task Force grant inthe amount of $54,927.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated October 6, 2022)
NO. 22-257
Transmittinga copy of the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Executive
Officeon Aging, forOlder Americans Act TitleIIIPrograms inthe amount of $3,709.
- HERMAN ANDAYA. MAUI EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
ADMINISTRATOR, (dated September 16, 2022)
NO. 22-258
Transmittinga copy ofthe noticeof grant award from the Stateof Hawaii,Department
of Defense, forthe Homeland SecurityGrant Program inthe amount of $680,000.
- ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.NO. 22-259
(dated October 6, 2022)
Transmittinga copy ofthe noticeof grant award from the Stateof Hawaii,Department
of Transportationforthe 2023 Impaired DrivingProjectinthe amount of $30,742.50.
- ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEYNO. 22-260
(dated October 12, 2022)
Informingof the Department's intentto expend $10,124 in stateforfeiturefunds for
trainingand travelexpenses.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 28
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Ijustwanted to-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order. No discussion on the Consent
Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, no discussion on the Consent Calendar. Okay. Alright,allthose infavor of
the motion,please signifyby saying "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Isee all"ayes". Nine "ayes
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on county communications
and general communications. The firstperson we have signed up to testifyis Elle
Cochran. To be followed by the individualat the South Maui DistrictOffice.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 29
CHAIR LEE: Hello. Ms. Cochran.
MS. ELLE COCHRAN (testifyingon County Communication No. 22-266):
Okay, coming. Wait. Hello. I'm here. Okay. Good morning again. And alright,let
me begin, because i got a lotgoing on. Thank you, Members. I'm ElleCochran
testifying on my own behalf.
Councilmember Sinenci, establishingthe culturaloverlay. This, I believe is so long
overdue. Ior we, would have avoided the months of long,hard-fought battleto protect
and preserve the Maui Lani sand dunes.
First, County Communication 22-266, from
We could have avoided the "M" word, moratorium, that strikes the fear of God in
developers. So, again,very needed, overdue. Ialso noticedreadingthe,readingyour
work. There's a debate over the word "shall"and "may". And yeah, we, or "shall"and
"must",and yes, we must do this.So, thank you, Mr. Sinenci,and allofyour hard work
for this.
22-106, firstreading.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, are there any questions.Members?
MS. COCHRAN: Oh, sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? Questions. Idon't see any questions. Proceed.
Thank you.
MS. COCHRAN: Okay. Thank you. 22-106, firstreading of Bill68, CD1, to establishthe
Managed RetreatRevolving Fund. And, thisis-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, apologies.
MS. COCHRAN: Sorry?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies to interject. Right now, we're only accepting
testimony on county communications.
MS. COCHRAN: Oh.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ibelieve what you've moved onto isa committee report.
MS. COCHRAN: Oh, okay. 22-107, isthata county communication?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 30
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: That also Isa committee report.
MS. COCHRAN: Okay, well,then that'sitforcounty communications.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,thank you.
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis the
individual at the South Maui District Office. To be followed by Robin Knox.
ANONYMOUS (testifyingon County Communication No. 22-266):
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha, County Councilmembers. Iam testifyinganonymously today
as an individualon my own time,on County Communication 22-266, 22-266. Isupport
establishingculturaloverlay districts.This is a long overdue action. In the current
Kihei-Makena Community Plan on page 24, under the titleof"CulturalResources," one
ofthe "Implementing Actions"reads as follows:"Implement a historicor culturaldistrict
overlay ordinance to provide protectionforareas of significantarchaeological,historic
and culturalresources". Like the, unquote.
Like the wetlands overlay district,the culturaloverlaydistrictwillprovideprotectionfor
areas of significantarchaeologicaland historicand culturalresources. The moku of
Honuaula isidentifiedinthe Kihei-Makena Community Plan as one such district.This
database willenable you to look at the land differently.For example, when Ilookat
undeveloped lands inthe moku of Honuaula, where Ilive,thisincludesareas likeMaui
Meadows, Wailea Resort, and Makena. Idon'tsee a barren wasteland. Isee a cultural
landscape, because Iam kamaaina to Honuaula. I know where historicand cultural
propertiesexist,where indigenous and nativeplantsexist.
So, as we add to the database, government agencies, developers,and residentsalike
willalso see the land with differenteyes. This willalso help streamline land use
development projects.Almost every proposed projectinHonuaula thatIknow of has
been or is delayed, in my opinion,because of inadequate assessments of cultural
resources found on these lands. Ithas been like their Achilles heel.
Ifa landowner, who decides to develop their land knows that theirland has a high
densityof culturalresources,they willhirethe best archaeologistsand the bestcultural
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 31
consultants they can find. For example, and they willtake theirproject before the
CulturalResource Commission who has the responsibilityof protectingthe County's
culturalresources and assistingother government agencies to do the same early in
the approval process.
Iwant to thank Councilmember Shane Sinenci and our County Archaeologist Janet Six
forleadingthiseffort.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Anonymous. Any questions? Ifnot,thank you again.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person we have signed up totestifyon communications
is Robin Knox. To be followed by Kaniloa Kamaunu.
MS. ROBIN KNOX (testifying on Countv Communication Nos. 22-262 and 22-266):
Good morning, Council and Chair Lee.
vacation rentalsnot receivingany homeowner's exemption. Ithinkthisisan excellent
example of use of policyto solve your community's problems. You know, our low real
property tax rates have been identifiedas one of the reasons thatwe have so much
issue with over-tourism,and off-islandproperty speculation,and other problems that
are affectingour residents.So, I'mstronglyinsupport of thatactionon your behalf.
I want to testifyon 22-262, the transient
And, and then, with regard to 266, the culturaloverlay. Again, a commonsense good
use of policy.In my years on Maui, 16 years, Ithinkevery case where therewas a lot
of community objection,the objectionsincluded the destructionof culturalresources,
which have been reallyquiteshocking that,you know, you wouldn'tsee thatifwe were
in Egypt or other places where, you know, archaeology and culturalresources have
been respected. You wouldn't see those resources being destroyed in favor of
development.
Anyone who thinksthatthe permittingfor buildingon Maui, or in Maui County takes
too long, those people should support this effort,because mapping those areas in
advance can reallyhelp improve our planning process. So, Iurge you to continue with
the effortsto establishthatoverlay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyon
communications isKaniloa Kamaunu. To be followed by TrinetteFurtado.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 32
MR. KANILOA KAMAUNU (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-262 and 22-266):
Aloha kakou. Kanitoa Kamaunu. Council and Chair, mahalo for the opportunity to
testify.I'dliketo,Ididn'tput itdown, but I'dliketo comment on 22-262. And Ihope I
reading thiscorrectly,but I do support amending that section of the County Code,
prohibitingthe propertiesto transient.And Ithink itallows,or doesn't allow people to
buy homes here justforthe purpose of transientrentals,which are vacation rentals.
And you know, ittakes away from, or at leastestablishesforthe residentialareas stays
residential.And you know, being a, ifyou'regoing to buy a home, you know, shouldn't
be for,you know, to,to be able to ... go aftervacation rentals. Itputs,you know, I
believe that the residents there . . . makes them uncomfortable because they don't
know who's in theirarea. But, that thisway itkeeps residentialsfor those who are
residents of the island and who livehere. So, I'm support of that.
Going to 22-266. And people know thatI'vebeen advocate, have been formany years
an advocate for the Puuone Sand Dunes. I have lineal connections to the sand dunes
as a, you know, a kanaka maoli. And I'vebeen fightingforyears forthe protectionof
the iwikupuna. And you know, to see the degradation that has gone on throughout
the years of advocation,where people come inand they take no considerationof the
mo'olelo's,give no considerationof the people and the culture.
And they,you know, and knowingly, people knowingly know thatthese are the areas
thata lotofthe people are buried.Also, with the mo'olelo'sof the stories.And yet,no
protectionwas given to these areas, even though inthe community, itwas suggested,
the community plan,to keep those features because itwas a featurenone ofthe other
islandshave. It'sunique to Maui. And yet,thatwas alldestroyed.
And not only that,but no matter how far they've dug down, they've found our iwi's,
hundreds of feet down from where they originallystarted. And they stillfindingthem
today, even afterplaces thatmay have been turned intoplantationsugarcane areas.
These places were inundated with burials,too. And priorwas said,but allthisisgone.
And the disturbingpart isthe mo'olelo. How do Itellmy childrenthatthisone day, or
thiswas a big,a big battlehere among these high dunes, cause they no longerexist?
So, as an advocate who shed many tears,sweat, love being out inthatarea, Isupport
thisand thank Mr. Sinenci for thisopportunity to have thatoverlay.
Ittook a lotof time to give Malama Kakanilua a lotof the effortsto gettingJanet Six a
position,or that positionfor an archaeologist in the County. And to have thatdone.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 33
and thisisprogressing where we need itto progress and has to protect our culture,
especiallyour iwikupuna, who actually,by kingdom law in 1860, had the rightto be
leftalone. And yet,they disturbedeach and every day. So, thisoverlay willnot only
give a significantland basis of what it is, but also the culturalbackground, the
mo'olelo's,and of course,the lands willbelong to our iwikupuna who are kanaka maoli
and not American citizens.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyon
communications is Trinette Furtado. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
MS. TRINETTE FURTADO (testifyingon County Communication No. 22-266):
Aloha mai. Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Mahalo for the opportunityto testifytoday.
And Aloha Po‘alima to you all.My name isTrinetteFurtado. I livein Kula, and Iam
testifyinginsupport of 22-266, the culturaloverlay.As we have heard from Daniel and
Kaniloa,it’s,you know, there'sno time likethe present. It'snot too lateincoming, the
time that it'sbeing discussed rightnow is actuallyperfect. We could have it,and it
would have been great ifwe had itback atthe time thatthe sand moratorium was being
considered. But you know, that'sneitherhere or there,it'sup fordiscussion now.
And I absolutely support this,because as we look to buildinga betterMaui, as I've
heard from some people, or justbuildingingeneral,we need to look at what, what our
kupuna had laidthere before, you know. Not every piece of land isan infillto be filled
in. And this kind of consideration absolutely needs to occur with developers and
consultants of developers, and those who would liketo sticka shovel inthe ground,
who would liketo cut a tree down, who would liketo,perhaps, remove habitatfrom a
native insect,or a native plant,or a nativeanimal.
And thisculturaloverlay,Ibelievewill,willhelp that,willalsomake conversationsabout
that more inclusive.Because as we allknow, formany, many items,kanaka and our,
our voices, our kupunas' voices are always held untilthe very last moment for
discussion,and then discussion isjusta few minutes, or a check the box and decisions
happen no matter what.
And so, with this, I believe that more discussions can happen where there is
involvement, where community doesn't feel leftout, and voices are trulyheard, you
know? There's so much knowledge with those ohana that don'teven step forward.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 34
who are linealdescendants forgenerations of areas. And allthey can do, especiallyif
they'rekupuna, isjustsitback inshock to see what ishappening to our,our aina. And
anything Ican do to help,as you allknow, to get thispassed, Iam allforit.And Iagain
mahalo you forthe opportunityto testifyon thisitem.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the last person we have signed up to testifyon
communications isJunya Nakoa. Ifthere isanybody else who would liketo testifyon
any ofthe items incounty communications or general communications, please identify
yourselfnow. Junya Nakoa isnext to testify.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on Countv Communication Nos. 22-262 and 22-266);
Good morning. Yessah. Okay, Igoing talkabout the resolutionfirst.I... but never
mind. You know, the one about the lotus,the one about "The White Lotus", eh? Da
kine.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Apologies, Mr.,Mr. Nakoa.
MR. NAKOA; Yo.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Nakoa.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Mr. Nakoa, apologies. Right now, testimony is only open on
communications.
MR. NAKOA; Yeah, Iknow. But fastkine,Igoing talk.Igoing use my three minutes. Okay,
then, frick.What the hellisthat,okay, 262, communications. God dammit, thisdamn
thing. Okay, communications. Brah, yeah, no letthe,you know, the vacationrentals
or whatever allkine titlesyou guys likegive these guys. No give them homeowners'
exemption and allthat kine stuff.They already get the benefitof using our islandand
our resources fortheirbenefit.No give em anymore. Nuff alreadyforthose,forthose
guys.
But again, Isupport the filmindustry,cause we can diversify.Eh, Igoing throw urn in
anyway. And then, yeah, so yeah, no give them, no give them any exemptions those
buggahs.
Also, 266, the culturalthing,yeah. Like Trinettewas saying,get plentykanakas, plenty
Hawaiians that like come . . . Brah, I run into urn every time wherever Igo. And get
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 35
plenty,you know, likethe Tihada, the . . .ohana, the Tihada Ghana, get everybody,
choke, Kenolio,HoopiYs thatliketalk.So. you guys gotta startlisteningto these guys
cause they the one who when show us how we can livebetter in Hawaii. And I like
learn from them every time. So, put them in the discussion. And no listento these
guys from the mainland, thinkthey know about our culture,cause they don'tknow crap
about em. They only read books and allthatkine stuff.So, yeah, so I support that,
this communication.
And you know forthe teachers and da kine,the doctors at the Kaiser, Ifeelyou guys,
brah, okay. Support thatresolution,yeah. Council. Igoing get scoldings again, Ino
care. But my daughter when move to Honolulu. She justgot her masters insocial
working, okay. Kaiser junk over there. No more nothing over there forthese,forthe
people fortake care of our people of Hawaii. So, she when go work forthe Easter
Seals in Honolulu. She likecome back. And no worry, Igoing make her, Igoing try
figureout can make thathappen. TellKaiser get offtheirokoles. Support theirdoctors
and nurses thathelp us out here inHawaii. And when the billsthatpassing,passing
the housing, my daughter going get one house, too. Yessah. Okay, you guys can
scold me now.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. In previous meetings when testifiers
wanted to reference ceremonial resolutionsinconjunction in,withthe items thatthey're
testifyingon, we've never stopped them in the past. I wanted to ask a clarifying
question to Mr. Nakoa. In your testimony, when you were referencingan earlier
ceremonial resolution,aside from the economic diversification,was there a second
pointor another pointthatyou wanted to make before gettingstopped?
MR. NAKOA: Yeah. Yessah. Cause I thought so too, Ithought Iwould talkallabout em.
Every time he callsme Junya Iget scolding.Allkine scoldingsIget. But yeah, you
know, Itipmy hat offto Tracy and, shoot what the one,thewahine from Honolulu?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Donne.
MR. NAKOA: But Itipmy hat,yeah, yeah, Itipmy hat offto them, cause they when tryurn.
And then, Igot,Igot asked to go and go on top thatTemptationIsland.Okay, Isaid
no, Isaid never like.But Igot asked by the community, and doctors,and politicians.I
went on. I learned a lot. I learned a lot,okay. Iwish that people in charge in the
Mayor's Officewhen tryto listento me, cause Iwhen offerforhelp,to help,you know,
with the COVID thing.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 36
You know, we could've open up our, our island a lotearlierifthey when listento the
filmindustry.But yeah, mahalo forthat.Again, Ithinkwe can use the,the filmindustry
to diversifyour economy. Get plenty kanakas to work for allthe big dollar,big dollar
filmindustryguys, yeah. Cause again,we always say we likediversifyour economy.
Let's do it. But in the same breath, also hold them accountable and then make sure
they take care of our localpeople. Yeah, mahalo, eh Keani. Ithought Icould do um
too. But yeah, mahalo, mahalo, mahalo.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Nakoa. Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo
Mr. Krueger.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ifnot,may we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individualssigned up to testifyon
communications, so we'lldo lastcallat thistime. Ifthere are any individualswho would
liketotestifyon any ofthe items incounty communications or generalcommunications,
please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,lastcallforany ofthese items.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto closingpublictestimony and acceptingwrittentestimonyfor
county communications and general communications?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Ryan Grether;
Hayden Pogni;
MitchellA. Imanaka, American Resort Development Association-Haw aii;
Angela Leone and John Kevan, ProfessionalRental Management
Association;
Cheryl Hendrickson;
Karen Comcowich;
Lisa Paulson, Maui Hotel & Lodging Association;
Carol Lee Kamekona;
Michael Baskin;
Albert Ainuu;
Suzanne and Mark Albers;
Terez Amato, Hawaii State House Representative;
Barbara Barry;
Suellen Barton;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 37
15. Taylor Bee;
Justin Bee-Silva;
Laurie Beitler;
Bette Belanger:
William Bennett;
Lori and Ken Benson;
Bobbie Best;
Stephen Campbell;
Charlene Casserley;
Kalani Cathcart;
Mackenzie Chase;
David Chew;
Deb Cohn;
Matthew-Wyatt Coleman;
Denver S. Coon;
James E. Coon;
Joe Dandrea;
Toni Marie Davis, Activities& Attractions Association of Hawaii, Inc.;
Ikaika Decker;
Colleen DeLima;
BillyDirksen and MarcelleC. Cortisse,Ali'iResorts,LLC;
Susan Douglas;
Lindsey Drayer;
Mary Drayer;
Michael J. Duberstein;
Kai Duponte;
Elijah;
Kawika Englert;
Anne and Christopher Fender;
Harley Grace Ferguson;
Sam Filipo;
Steven Forman;
Michael Reed Gach;
Donna and Peter Gibson;
Taryn Kama Givenchy and Stefano Maffini;
Clayton Glass;
Brett Gobar;
Francisco Goya;
Mary Groode;
Tomas and Joan Heartfield;
Connie Hunt;
SylviaM. Hussey, Officeof Hawaiian Affairs;
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 38
57. Lyndon Ibele,Maalaea VillageAssociation;
Jeremy Inferrera;
Marlane Jackson;
Dave and Toshiko Jager;
Alana Kaili;
Curt Kalama;
Victoria Kaluna-Palafox;
Kanani Kan Hai;
Jordan Kapu;
Kawika Kekuawela;
Joe Kent, Grassroot Instituteof Hawaii;
John Kevan;
Bruce Klug;
Bryce Klug;
Manny Kulukulualani;
Suzanne Lahl;
MarjorieLang;
Amy Larsen;
Una Latu;
LaurieinHawaiinei@gmail.com;
Legge-Welter Family;
Nancy Lombard;
David Maeva;
Marcus Malepeai;
Collin Mansanas;
Louis Mansanas;
Andy Marchello;
Marty Martins;
Michael Masutani;
Judson McCall-Nagasako;
Matt McDonald;
Eileen McKee;
Pane Meatoga III,Hawaii Operating Engineers IndustryStabilization
Fund;
Greg Mebel;
Dave Medina;
Tom Meilin;
Irene Miller;
Justin Minnoch;
Linda Mitchell;
Chris and Missy Moody;
Thomas Mulvihill;
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 39
98. Gabrielle Nae'ole;
John Naylor;
Cody Nemet;
Lyle Nicely;
Jenna-lyn Oda;
Kale Ornellas;
Kainalu Paikai;
Vic Papapa;
Ian Peiler;
John Peterson;
Gabriel Pieper;
Deborah Maika'ikalani Pozin;
Matthew Quaglino;
John Rabanal;
Michelle Ramos;
Stanley KTo‘pe Raymond;
Dave and Dee Reader;
Chad Rees;
Kathleen Roberts;
Stan Robinson;
Loretta Ross;
Jen Russo, Maui Vacation Rental Association;
Irene Ryding;
MitchellRyder-Kawelo;
Daylan Saniatan;
Betsy Schusser;
Ted Scott;
Steve Slater;
Thomas Smith;
Victoria Smith;
Blake Soares;
Chanel Souza;
Kevin Spellman;
Thomas G. Staubitser;
PatriciaStillwell;
Ken and Karen Stover;
Matthew Suzuki;
Ane Takaha;
Faye Taylor;
Dave Teriirere
Hau'oli Thielk;
Marjorie Tyler;
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 40
140. Warren Watanabe, Maui County Farm Bureau;
Joshua Watts;
James Weaver-Reyes;
Madoiin Wells;
Gary Wetsel; and
Kevin and KellyWilliams Ghana.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
CHAIR LEE; So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-261 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated October 11,2022)
Transmitting100 contracts/grantsforSeptember 2022.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-261, EXCEPT
FOR THOSE GRANTS AND CONTRACTS THAT
COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
file the communication.
Member, oh, do you have any discussion,Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sure. Mahalo, Chair. This communication is
informational,and no furtheraction isrequired by the Council. Councilmembers have
the opportunityto request specificcontracts and grants to be referredto a specific
Committee for further review and discussion. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 41
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
AT THIS TIME. I'D LIKE TO REQUEST A REMOVAL AND
REFERRAL TO THE CARE COMMITTEE FOR C7436-2,
WHICH IS THE TIME EXTENSION FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI JOINT CLIMATE AND RESILIENCE PLAN.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, did you say C746-2?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: C7436-2.
CHAIR LEE: 36. Any objections,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE; No otherrequests? Alright,allthose infavorof,offilingthe,well,it's,I'msorry
can you repeatyour,did you ask forno objections,or didyou make a motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I made a motion to file.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, that'sright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Except for C7436-2.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 42
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
NO. 22-262 - TAMARA PALTIN. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated October 14, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill102, CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.48.305.B, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
PROHIBITING PROPERTIES WITH TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS FROM
RECEIVING THE HOME EXEMPTION".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Ifthere'sno objections,Iwould liketo ask
that County Communication 22-262 be deferred untilCommittee Report 22-107 is
taken up?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with communications forreferral.
- LANCE T. TAGUCHI, COUNTY AUDITOR,
(dated October 4, 2022)
NO. 22-263
Transmittingthe Officeof the County Auditor'sFinancialImpact Analysisof Proposed
Charter Amendments to the Maui County Charter on the 2022 General ElectionBallot.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-263 be referredto the
Government Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 43
NO. 22-264 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, {dated October 6. 2022)
Transmittinga copy of the noticeof grant award from the State of Hawaii, Department
of Business, Economic Development & Tourism, Hawaii Housing Finance &
Development Corporation, for the HOME American Rescue Plan Program in the
amount of $1,977,568.
The recommended actionisthatCounty Communication No. 22-264 be referredtothe Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
NO. 22-265 - SHAYNE R. AGAWA. DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY.
(dated October 4, 2022)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source Report and
Groundwater Use Report forthe month ending September 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-265 be referredto the
Infrastructureand Transportation Committee.
- SHANE M. SINENCI, COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated October 14, 2022)
NO. 22-266
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill154 (2022), entitled'A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 18, 19 AND 20, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO
ESTABLISH CULTURAL OVERLAY DISTRICTS".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-266 be referredto the
Agricultureand PublicTrust Committee.
And to your Affordable Housing Committee, GeneralDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
Communication No. 22-6.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 44
GENERAL COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-6 - KARI LUNA NUNOKAWA, MUNEKIYO HIRAGA.
(dated September 28, 2022)
Transmitting the Annual Status Report for the Hale Pilina Family Affordable Rental
Housing Projectinaccordance with Chapter 2.97 of the Maui County Code.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto the referrals,Members?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you. Chair. Ijustwas wondering ifMember Johnson
did want that,cause Ihave the fullcompliance reportsinmy Committee. But ifhe was
going to take itup, then it'sokay. Ijustdidn’twant itto get lostinthe shuffle.
CHAIR LEE: Which one?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 22-6.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I'm sorry, are you asking ifyou want itin your, your
Committee? Cause you certainlycan have it,Councilmember Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I,Imean, ifyou were going to give ittime,then that's
cool inyour Committee. But ifyou weren't,then I'lltake it.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. She can take it,Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto making thatchange. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,so GC 22-6 willbe referredto the PSLU Committee.
The recommended action is that General Communication No. 22-6 be referred to the
Agriculture and Public Trust Committee.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 45
CHAIR LEE; Any objectionsto the otherreferrals?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Ifnot. so ordered.
And I think it'stime for a recess, Members. Okay, let'stake it.
minutes, okay? Till10:52, the meeting isin recess.
Ten minutes. Ten
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:33
RECONVENED AT 10:56 A.M.. WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
A.M., AND WAS
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of October 21, 2022, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on committee reports.The
firstperson signed up to testifyon committee reportsisElleCochran. To be followed
by Robin Knox. Igot it.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Cochran? Elle?
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. ELLE COCHRAN [testifyingon Committee Report Nos 22-106 and 22-107: Resolution
Nos. 22-206. 22-236, and 22-241: and Bill Nos. 145, FD1 (2022), 154 (2022) and
159 (2022)1:
Okay, sorry. Hang on. Coming. I'm here. Okay, so aloha again. Thank you. Elle
Cochran here. So. we're on committee reports,isthat right,the sectionof committee
reports?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. COCHRAN: Okay. Thank you. 22-106. This isthe Managed RetreatRevolvingFund,
which Istronglyknow thisisa good start,but yet,from beingthatsilverbullettofixall
of our shoreline issues. I am hoping to create a Hawaii Department of Coastal
Preservation,which, divisionwhich isalready successfullybeing done inCaliforniaat
the State-level.And perhaps maybe County of Maui could look intosuch a, such a
division, too?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 46
I have to share that my eyes have been opened to the fact that itis a case-by-case
scenario, where no one size fitsall.Such as the case at Spreckelsvilleat Sugar Cove,
where they solved theirbeach erosion issue with a combination of revetment, beach
nourishment, and mother nature naturallyprovide a couple of.. . Their buildingswere
in eminent danger of gettingswept away by the ocean, but today itisa beautifulsandy
beach with crystalclearwater, recreationallyenjoyed by families,dogs, lawai‘a,and
visitorsalike.But one lesson learned from thisparticularissue isto not use inlandsand
forbeach replenishment.And that'sforthatitem.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,Members, questions? Questions? Ifnot,thank you. Did you have
another one?
MS. COCHRAN; Ido. Thank you. Chair. Next item is22-107, prohibitpropertieswithTVRs
receivinghome exemption. And Iagree. And Ijustwant togiveheads up toany TVRs
out there that there is a wonderful long-term, long-term rentaltax incentivethat I
happily,and take advantage of forthe lastcouple years. So, make noteofthatand
take advantage. It'sa good, it'sa good tax break. And that'sit.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MS. COCHRAN: Okay, thank you. Chair. Thank you. Members.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,my understanding isthat Ms. Cochran has requestedto
testifyon her otherremainingitemsatthistime,forthebody'sconsideration.
CHAIR LEE: Elle,usuallythatrequest isforpeople who have tocatcha flightor,you know,
people with extenuating circumstances.
MS. COCHRAN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Can you wait?
MS. COCHRAN: Ijusthave another meeting coming up, which Ipushed back. But Imean
it'sup. Chair,it'syour folks'decisionand IjustthoughtI'dask. So, I'llwait.
CHAIR LEE: Members? Any objectionsto lettingMs. Cochran goingforwardwiththerestof
her testimony on other items?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; No objection.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No objection.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 47
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Which item is it,Ms. Cochran?
MS. COCHRAN: I'mtestifyingon Resolutions22-236, 22-241, Reso second and final22-206
Bills154, 159, and last,second and finalon Bill145. So, it'sa few.
CHAIR LEE: Well, Members?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, for the bills,I think that we'llprobably not take
them up untilafterlunch,so at 1:30. So, ifyou'reout ofyour meeting. Resos willlikely
take up before lunch. But my concern is the same as itwas the lasttime we had
someone requestthat.Fairness,out of,you know, fairnessto allofthe testifiers,what
isour criteriafordetermining extenuating circumstances?
So, we can expect, you know, a floodof requests forextenuatingcircumstances,and
we'llhave tofigurethem out,which we're going to letthrough.And there'salways that
appearance of favoritism,ifwe don'tdo a fairjob at determiningwhose extenuating
circumstances meritthem going before everyone else that'sbeen waiting.
So, I,Ijust,as Isaid earlier,thisisvery trickyforme. Iwould preferlettingeveryone
testifyatthe beginningofthe meeting and justlettingeveryone go. And then,thatway
it'sfair,because I don't know ifanother meeting, other people have othermeetings,
too. So, I,sorry,Elle. Iwant to letyou speak, but Ijust,Idon'tknow where to draw
the line.
CHAIR LEE: And justforthe public'sinformation,as I’vesaidthisrepeatedly,we'regoingto
allowtestimonyatthe beginningofthe meeting,beginningour nextCouncilmeeting.
This was the lastone thatwe were not allowing it,because we have over 40 items on
the agenda. So, the nexttimewe have our Councilmeeting,itwillbe a lotfewer,so
then we can allowtestimonyinthe beginningand throughout.So, thatisthe reason,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I’m sorry.Chair. Clarificationto your comments.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: There's going to be a lotfewer what?
CHAIR LEE: Items on the agenda.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: How so?
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 48
CHAIR LEE: We talked about this at the GREAT Committee and--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh, thatwasn'tapproved. 24, 25 items as a limit?
That wasn't something thatwas--
CHAIR LEE: That we. well,if,ifyou are not infavorof that,then we can'tmove forward with
having testimony at the beginning. Because that was the compromise. Everybody
said so. Itwas either that, and this is not even on the agenda as you know. Itwas
eitherthat or we would have a hard stop. And nobody wanted to have the hard stop.
Everybody wanted to have fewer items. But this is a discussion for another time
because thisisreallynot on the agenda. You have expressed your objection,which is
fine.Anybody else?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just wanted to say however way this plays out,
Mr. Mcalinden wanted to testifyas well,and he had a patientto see. So, justputting
that out there if,ifthisproceeds.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, and that'swhy I'vealways toldyou, ifthere'sextenuatingcircumstances,
and the body agrees,then we willallowforpeople to speak atthe beginning.And so,
thisiswhere we are. I am asking the body how you feel. And iffiveMembers are
agreeable to letthe testifierspeak, then we're going to letthe testifierspeak. So,
besides Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, is there anybody else opposed to letting
Ms. Cochran speak now?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, I'm, I'm of the same mindset that ifMs. Cochran can
come back forthe bills,and provide her testimony then, Imean, we should be okay
afterher meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, forthe bills,but not forthe other items she mentioned. The billswe're
takinglater.The billswe're takinglater,right?So, inotherwords,you'reagreeableto
lether speak now on the otheritems,but not the bills?Isthatwhat you'resaying?
Okay. That stillmeans she speaks now on the otheritems.Anybody else?
MS. COCHRAN: One, two, three.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 49
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahafo, Chair. If,ifwe do allow one, we've already
gotten requests from others. So, ifitgoes through,Ijustwant us togetherto understand
what defines an extenuatingcircumstance so thatthere'sno appearance offavoritism.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we alldiscussed extenuating circumstances as, with examples. So ifyou
have to catch a flight.You know, ifyou are going to the dentistand you can't
reschedule the dentist. Those kinds of reasons would be examples of extenuating
circumstances.
Member Molina,did you have your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. You know, kind of lookingat
thisthing,thinkingitthrough.Ithinkmaybe because we denied one person earlier,and
now ifwe do thisforanother person, and certainlyno disrespectto Ms. Cochran, maybe
juststay the course,justunless it'ssomething reallyextenuating,likeyou said,flightto
catch. Meeting, I'm not sure ifthat'sthe kind of criteriawe want to use as well. But
because we already,you know, denied one person, so Ithinkjust,you know, forthe
sake of consistency,just,you know, stay the course.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we now have two objections,well,two-and-a-halfobjections.How
much time we're spending on this.Anybody else? Anybody else? Pleaseletme know
now. So, we have how many people who are, so Ican see? How many people are
willingto letMs. Cochran go forward now with her testimony? Can you raiseyour
hand, so Iknow how many there are? Isee three,four,five,six.Okay. So, the body
issaying to letMs. Cochran go fonward with her testimony now. And thefiveincluded,
I'massuming fiveincludedalltestimony? Alltestimony.Iknow Mr.Sinencididn'tsay
alltestimony,buthe was number six.So, ofthefivepeoplearesayingletMs. Cochran
go forward,alright.Okay?
Ms. Cochran, please,you have the floor.
MS. COCHRAN: Okay. Thank you so much everybody. So. justso I'mclear,Imean, you
folksare allowingme to move forward with allmy testimonyatthe time?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
MS. COCHRAN Okay. And, and thank you, thank you so much. And alright,Resolution
22-236. This,wait. Yeah, thisisthe settlement on Don Guzman. And allIhave tosay
rightnow isto please,please,please hear allthatheart-wrenchingtestimonythathas
been presented. And Iknow you folksknow thatithasn'tbeen easy forallof us to
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 50
stand up and speak out. And, and today, many of the people liveinfear of retaliation
and abuse current,you know, as we speak. And thatno monetary compensation ought
to be given forthistype of behavior.
I mean, this morning's ceremonial resolutionis bringing awareness to domestic
violence,and here itis in frontof allof us in livingcolor to have a chance to take a
stand, you know, and to prove thatwe allmean what we say by thisresolution. So,
please set the example, so others triplethinkabout theirbehavior of violence against
others, whether human or animal. That's for that item.
CHAIR LEE; Questions, Members? Ifnot, please continue.
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you. So, for22-241, Isupport. Imean, justso deeply support Kaiser
Permanente to resolve their mental health clinician dispute.
Councilmember Johnson, for the support on this situation,and Rachel Kaya forthe
outreach and thatstaggeringstatisticabout 62,000 KaiserPermanente members with
only nine mental healthcliniciansistotallyunacceptable. So, 1,we allheard from them
directly.And please, please,support thisresolution.That'sforthatitem.
And mahalo
CHAIR LEE; Isthatit?Any questions?
MS. COCHRAN: Yeah, that'sitforthat item. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Next.
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you. Resolution on second and final,22-206, the eminent domain
acquisitionin Maalaea Mauka. 1 am allfor preservation,protectionof landsforthe
good of the publicand environment. And I am also a sticklerformaking sure that
everyone and anyone involvedwith said lands are given equal opportunityto have a
say, whether you agree with them or not. And that,and thatallentitiesare atthetable
to discuss issues,solutions,etc.,together.
And I'm not here to pitanybody against anybody. I'm here to statethatwhat was
shared with me and on behalf of the current landowner. And itwas said that only,they
only found out about the eminent domain discussion on the frontpage of the Maui
News. They say they wished they had discussionson thisbeforehand.
I listened,and itseemed theirahupua'a concept of mauka to makai playsa huge role
intheirmitigationplanto address run-off.And again,whetherit’saccurateornot,that
Hope Builderswere atthe tableor not,Icannot verify.Ican onlysharemy interaction
with Ryan, theirpropertymanager guy. And Inoticedattheend ofthe resolutionsthat
copies,reallypeople,allstakeholdersshould be given copies,such as Maalaea Village
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 51
Association,currentlandowners, you know, the harbor,the boaters,community people
of thatnature who have, you know, an impact on this.So, that'sallIhave to say about
that.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, clarification.You're saying you do not support this
based upon the data you, you do not support going through eminent domain?
MS. COCHRAN: I'm just saying eminent domain is a, you know, a tacticto be used in
preserving,protecting,you know, sensitivelands. I'mjustsaying thatIthinkthe people,
it'strue,that they weren't brought to the table maybe be brought to the table in
discussion with this item. And so, that's ail. And Ithought,thought ifyou heard out
what they presented to me anyways. I'm just saying, that itsounded good and it
sounded likesomething could be workable amongst allstakeholdersand people being
at the table together. Should that not have happened, Ithinkto have it,you know,
happen.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
MS. COCHRAN: So, ifit'sjusta one-sided call,then no,Idon'tsupporta one-sidedcall.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Members, any more questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Elle.Thank you foryour input.Did you
also get a chance to speak tothe TrustforPublicLand or Maalaea VillageAssociation,
who was actuallynegotiatingforthisland and never made aware,you know, from my
knowledge, never made aware that this was going to go, there was a second
negotiationgoing withthisotherdeveloper? So, thatwould be theothersideto,totalk
to.
MS. COCHRAN: Right. No. Iwasn't,no, Ididn'tspeak to them.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay, thatwould be a good conversationtohave,because
I understand you talkedto the developer about hisside,butfrom the pointofview of
Council,you know, there'sa lotmore informationthereas well.Happy tospeak with
you about itafter.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 52
MS. COCHRAN: Well, sure.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you. Eile,you have
any more?
MS. COCHRAN: Yeah. And then,BilM 54, that’sjustinrelationto the culturaloverlay. So
support.
Next one, the 159 Bill,it'sthe ordinance for the comprehensive zoning relatingto
transientaccommodation. And I am here to share my personal firsthandexperience
on hoteltimeshare conversions. So, my understanding isthat there are requests to
add timeshare use to hotelsand resortzoning forGrand Wailea and the Royal Lahaina
Resorts.
My lifeexperience goes back many, many years to the Maui MarriottHotel,which
converted into the Marriott's Maui Ocean timeshare that itistoday. Iwas a Marriott
hotelemployee foreightyears when the constructionto converttotimeshare occurred.
Iwas there a totalof 14 years. Iwas a guest services agent atthattime,ata concierge
desk. And we allwere toldthat we had to reapply forour jobs with the new company
because they,thatwe had been outsourced to an outsidecompany. And we alljust
kind of stood there and went wait,what?
I mean, we are no longer Marriottemployees, isthatwhat you are saying? And so,
with that,you know, we no longer had stock options. Our 401 (k)was stopped.
Profit-sharing,hotelbenefits,etc.were no longergiventous. Some ofus,some ofmy
co-workers were charter members. They were Marriottohana members from,from
day one. They opened the property.So, they were thereforliketwo decades plus.
And now, they were strippedof allMarriottemployee benefitsbecause we no longer
worked for Marriott. We weren't Marriottemployees, we justworked at a Marriott
property.
So, outsourcinghappened. And you know, withinthe housekeeping department,the
laundry servicewas outsourced. No more ballrooms,they turnedthose intooffices.
So, thatmeant no banquets, no concerts,no big groups couldcheck inanymore. Like
the Maui Classic Basketball teams no longer stayed at Marriottbecause you had to be
an owner of the timeshare property. This basicallycreateda trickle-downof negative
effects from outsources services and associates now being, being looked at as
numbers reallyon a graph, and not a Marriottfamilymember. Itwas heartbreakingto
see these dedicated Marriottpeople losingjobs and benefits.Theirfuturesunknown,
theirlivelihoodsripped out from under them.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 53
And Iwas one ofthe luckyones though, you know, who was rehiredas a concierge at
the same desk. So, Iwas able to keep my jobs. And Iwant to justgive a shout-out to
any unions out there to please protect your members. And you know, heed my
comments when these conversions occur. It'sreal, and there are negative impacts
thathave occurred. I'mone ofthem. And ifIcan just,Igot one sentence.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. COCHRAN: And willcontinue to,ifyou don't take a stand for our working-class people
who are too busy today making ends meet to be here to testifyon theirown behalf.
And that'sfor that one item. One lastone, Chair, after this.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members, on thisone? Ifnot,please,oh. Member Paltin.
Wait, we have a question.
MS. COCHRAN: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Sorry,wrong button.!justwas wondering,
Ithinkthe way thatitis,thattimeshares would need a conditionalpermittoexpand on
a hotelproperty,which is something that is allowed to any entity.Isthat,are you
against that?
CHAIR LEE: Elle?
MS. COCHRAN: Expanding, converting,so the hotelstays as hotel.Then they add new
wings or whatever and have those come onlineas timeshare? Isthatwhat your
question isto me, ifIsupport that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: They, they need to apply fora conditionalpermitinordertodo
that.
MS. COCHRAN: Imean, ifthere's,I'm not infavor of conversions. Ithinkmy, my pointisthe
simple factthatan existinghotel,ifthey want to convert,I'm not infavor. I mean,
because I'velivedthe negativeimpacts ofthat,you know? And so,it’s,and that'swhat
was my experienceissharingwithyou folkstoday. And you can takethatforwhat it's
worth, and decide ifwhat you'reasking me, you know, appliestothat.And so,Imean,
there'sa time and place forshort-termrentals.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 54
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Or, Iguess to clarify,do you, do you have a legalway to stop
thatfrom happening?
MS. COCHRAN: IfIcan figuresomething out at the State level,perhaps. But yeah, Idon’t,
ifthere'salready,Imean, Ithink,isthata policy?Ithinka policydecisioncould change
that,so.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Not that I'm aware of,Imean.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Any more questions? Okay, your finalitem.
MS. COCHRAN: Okay. And second and final,it'sjustreallygivingyou folksallthe credit
about the bicycletours. This item was on my agenda before Igot there. Itwas there
stillafteri left.And Iam just really,reallyhappy to finallysee ithere on second and
final.Imean, ittrulyisa yay, finally,it'shappening, thatthere has been consensus,
and that there's,you know, everyone came together fora solution.So, thank you,
thank you, because itwas, Icouldn'tdo it.So, thank you folksforfiguringitout. And
that'sthat.And again,thank everybody forthistime. Iappreciateit.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Elle.
Mr. Clerk.
MS. COCHRAN: Alright.Again, thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, bye.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person we have signed up totestifyon committee
reportsisRobin Knox. To be followby Pamela Tumpap.
MS. ROBIN KNOX (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-106):
On 22-106, Shoreline Managed RetreatGood morning again, Councilmembers.
RevolvingFund, Iwould liketothank Member Paltinforbringingthisideaforward.And
Isupport moving forward withthislegislation.1thinkinthefuture,when we lookback
at the historyof Maui County, thiswillbe seen as a pivotaltime.We reallyarealready
behind on our actionsto adapt and become more resilientto the impacts of climate
change. And being ableto move our infrastructureback away fromthesea,as thesea
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 55
rises,is crucialto public health and safety,as well as our quality of lifeand
environmentalquality.So, Ijustwanted to say thatIone hundred percent support the
establishment of thisfund and urge you to move forward with thislegislation.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Ms. Knox.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the lastperson we have signed up to testifyon committee
reportsisPamela Tumpap. Ifthere isanybody else who would liketo testifyon any of
the items incommittee reports,please identifyyourselfinthe meeting chat.
Pamela Tumpap.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP. MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-1071:
Thank you. And out of respect,even though Ihave a ton of meetings, 1won't ask for
the opportunityto testifyon everything today. But did want to ringinon 22-107. The
Maui Chamber of Commerce would liketo offerour support of Bill102, which amends
the Section 3.48, of Maui County Code, to prohibitpropertieswith transientvacation
rentals from remaining classifiedas owner-occupied and qualifyingfor the home
exemption.
It'sreallyimportantto be fairto allconcerned. And thisbilltakes a necessary step in
that direction for taxation of transient vacation rental use by closinga loophole and
reclassifyingthese propertiesas commercialized residentiallikea bed & breakfast
property. So, we appreciatethe opportunityto support thismeasure. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individualssigned up to testifyon
committee reports,so we'lldo lastcallat thistime. Ifthereisanybody inthe meeting
who would liketo testifyon committee reports,please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,
lastcall.Chair, no one else has come forward to testifyon committee reports.
RegularMeetingofthe CounciloftheCounty ofMaui
October 21, 2022
Page 56
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto closingpublictestimonyand accepting writtentestimony for
committee reports?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-105 BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
NO.
Recommending the following:
entitled "APPROVING COST ITEMS FOR22-187That Resolution
EMPLOYEES INCLUDED IN BARGAINING UNIT 12, POLICE OFFICERS," be
1.
ADOPTED; and
entitled "APPROVING COST ITEMS FOR
POLICE
22-188That Resolution
EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM BARGAINING UNIT 12
OFFICERS," be ADOPTED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-105.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 57
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
adopt, to approve the recommendations inCommittee Report 22-105.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and Economic
Development Committee met on October 5, 2022, to discuss Resolutions 22-187 and
22-188.
Resolution 22-187 would approve cost items for Police Officersincluded within
Bargaining Unit 12, represented by the State of Hawaii Organization of PoliceOfficers
for Fiscal Years 2022 to 2025.
Resolution 22-188 would approve cost items forPoliceOfficersincluded,excluded for
Bargaining Unit 12 forFiscalYears 2022 to 2025.
The Director of Personnel Services explained the cost items were the resultof an
arbitrationdecision and award dated July 26, 2022 and included service step
movements effectiveJuly 1, 2021, and service step movements and five percent
across-the-board increases effectiveJuly 1,2022 to July 1,2024. Employees insalary
ranges from PO-07 to PO-05 willalso receiveone-time lump sum retentionpayments,
effectiveJuly 1,2024.
Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-187 and 22-188.
Irespectfullyask the Councilmembers fortheirsupportofthismotion.Mahalo,Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthemotion,pleaseraiseyour
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 58
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-106NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 68. CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 3.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE, CREATING A
MANAGED RETREAT REVOLVING FUND.” be PASSED ON FIRST READING and
be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-106.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez,seconded by Member King,to
approve the committee, recommendations inCommittee Reports 22-106.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance,and Economic
Development Committee met on April21, August 4, and October 5,2022, to discuss
Bill68 (2022). This billwould createa Managed RetreatFund forshorelinesafety
improvements; remove or relocatestructures;pay forstudies,programs, or permitting;
and leverage funds provided by Federal,State,nonprofit,or for-profitorganizations,
and other non-County entitiesin order to optimize opportunitiesforshiftingcoastal
development inlandthrough the physicalmovement of existingstructures.
Your Committee discussed expanding the use of the Special Management Area
Revolving Fund insteadof creatinga new fund. Your Committee discussedconcerns
over using one fund fordifferentpurposes, which would requireseparateaccounting
practicesforeach purpose.
RegularMeeting oftheCouncilofthe County ofMaui
October 21,2022
Page 59
Your Committee amended the billto allow the Fund to be used forequivalent personnel
and administrativecosts;prohibitthe fund from being used to purchase privately-
owned property unless approved by two-thirdsof the Council by resolution;inserta
new section entitled"Priorities";change the recommended allocationfrom the County
transientaccommodation taxfrom one-thirdto20 percent;remove the requirement that
revenue from applicable grants or programs be deposited intothe fund; and change
fund administrationfrom the Department of Planning to the Department of
Management.
Your Committee voted 5-1 to recommend passage on firstreading of Bill68, CD1
(2022). And Ithank Councilmember Paltinforintroducingthisbill.And Irespectfully
ask the Councilmembers support of thismotion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? No, no, no, you raised your hand first.Member
Sugimura, then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. Ivoted "no" inCommittee and I'mgoing
to keep my vote because Ispoke toAdministration,and Ibelievethatnottyingup funds
forthis,about not tyingup funds forthisbecause the County government inour fiscal
strengthhas the funds to take care of a problem should itcome up. And so therefore,
I'm going to keep my vote and know that ifthere isa problem to thatmagnitude that
we have the MPO funds, we have, you know. Federal support. State support, the
County budget thatwe can take care of it,and so thatwe do nottieup these funds. It
can be used and not wait fora disaster. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Ijustwanted tobringattentionintheagenda,
itsays "pay forstudies".And we did delete studies,unless it'slikethe streamliningof
the environmental assessment process. And itdoes make note in page 2, thatin
Section 3.97.020(A)(3),itsays delete"studies".So, justpointingthatout.
And Ijustwanted to say thatIthinkthe general publichas no ideaofwhat iscoming.
This is not solelyabout coastal erosion. It'snot about publicprivate,Imean, public
properties.It'snot about privateproperties.It'sabout sea-levelrise.You know, the
City and County of Honolulu'sClimate Change Commission adopted 3.8-feetfor
general planningpurposes, and 5.8-feetforcriticalinfrastructure.
But with us having to move justa couple hundred feetof road on Lower Honoapiilani
Road because the sewerlines and the waterlines are being threatened,thatcost alone
is 15 million.And Ijustwant to remind Members, at the time these coastalproperties
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 60
assessed value goes to zero, there willbe no revenue, because that'swhere our
revenue iscoming from.
At the time that this becomes a criticalissue in Maui, it’llbe a criticalissue worldwide.
And so, ifwe don'tprepare now, we're settingour futuregenerations fordisaster.So,
thank you for your support of thisbill.Itwould likelytake a Charter amendment to
actuallyput the monies inthere,which, you know, we can work on inthe future.Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. You know, I'm in support of this.And Ithink
we probably should have been doing thisa while ago, because Member Paltin'sright,
we're, by the time we get to the pointwhere we're going to need it,itmay be too late
to buildthisfund up to the pointthatwe can actuallymake the significantadaptations.
But the one question Iwanted to ask Member Paltin,as the,and I'm not sure ifyou
were involved in thisparticularamendment, but ifthe Department of the Managing
Directoroversees the fund,and the Climate Change Officeisunderthe Mayor, directly,
is there, isthere a way forthose entitiesto converge at some point? Because the
Climate Change Officereallyshould be lookingat,you know, should have some input
intothis,the managed retreatplan and the monies.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The purpose ofthe funds as we kindofwent over inCommittee
was, you know, publichealth and safety,and then publicinfrastructure.And the
Managing Directoroversees, you know. PublicWorks, the Water Department,and like
that. This is,you know, there'svery few folksthatare willingto be proactive,but when
the rubble ison the ground so. You know, italldepends on who the Administrationis,
how they set things up. And we don'treallyhave say on that.
But the intentionisto address the publicinfrastructureishigh up there on the priority,
and the Managing Directoroversees those departments. And you know, in,inrelation
to Act 14, Ibelieve,where they are,the departments thatare tasked withinfrastructure
are alreadydoing assessment reportsinthose regards. So, that'sthe reason why we
put itunder the Department of Management.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I,Ido have some con. I'm going to supportthe bill.Ido
have some concerns about that,but Ithink the next Administration can address that as
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 61
well. But,you know, surelymanaged retreatisa climate change issue and should be
partof the climateactionplan as well,though we are stillwaiting forthat plan to come
to Council. So, that’smy main comment. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? Ihave a couple comments. Iwant to commend Member Paltin
for her forward thinkingin regard to thismatter. I did vote "aye with reservations",
because I'm concerned about the percentage that would be taken from the TAT. As
you know, there'sfiercecompetition for those monies from helping the homeless to
infrastructureto everything else. But overall,Ibelieve thisisnecessary, and hope we
willbe able to use thisfund and leverage whatever isthere,so thatwe can make some
realprogress inthe futurewith managed retreat.
Any more discussion.Members? Ifnot,allthose--
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Chair, Ihave-
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins. Oh, I'm sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Member Johnson.
CHAIR LEE; Ididn'tsee you. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Beg your pardon. Chair. I'llspeak up louder.Iwant torise
infullsupportofthisand Iwant to commend Councilmember Paltin.She knows her
districtwell and she's,the examples she gave are greatexamples. Iliveon the island
of Lanai. We, we relyon a barge once a week and ifthe barge doesn'tcome because
the swellistoo bigor the water istoo dangerous, we don'tgetourbread.And you can
see itdirectlyon the shelves. We don'tget our food,ourgroceries,because ofclimate
change. It’snota futuristicconcern. It'sa concern forus rightnow as itstands.When
80 to 90 percent of our infrastructureison the coast,we have tothinkahead.
And I reallycommend Councilmember Paltinforputtingin,puttingthewords inthat
make sense to me and should make commonsense to everybody thatthisisa thing
we need to do now, because the cost isgoing to be astronomical.So, not onlyare we
going to have to spend a lotof money on, on fixingthis,butwe'realsogoingto lose
money because ofthis.So, Iriseinfullsupport.Thank you.Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthe mo-
Rollcall,I'msorry.Yeah, that'sright.I'msorry. Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 62
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with a rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
PresidingOfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.CHAIR LEE:
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 63
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are eight"ayes",one "no";motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Next.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-107NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 102. CD1 (2022),entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING SECTION 3.48.305.B, MAUI COUNTY CODE, PROHIBITING
PROPERTIES WITH TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS FROM RECEIVING THE
HOME EXEMPTION." be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Chair, County Communication 22-262 isalso before the
body at thistime.
- TAMARA PALTIN. COUNCILMEMBER.
(dated October 14, 2022)
NO. 22-262
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill102, CD1 (2022),entitled"A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.48.305.B, MAUI COUNTY CODE.
PROHIBITING PROPERTIES WITH TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS FROM
RECEIVING THE HOME EXEMPTION".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-107.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 64
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the recommendations inCommittee Report 22-107.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and Economic
Development Committee met on August 4, and October 5, 2022, to discuss
Bill102 (2022). This billwould amend Sections 3.48.305(B), Maui County Code, to
prohibitpropertieswith transientvacation rentalsfrom receivingthe home exemption.
This billwould close a loophole in the currenttax legislationaffectinga homeowner
who operates a transientvacation rentalon the propertyand who continuesto reside
on the property.This loopholeenables the homeowner to remain classifiedas Owner-
Occupied and qualifyforthe home exemption. Ifthisbillisenactedthepropertywould
be reclassified as Commercial Residential and taxed accordingly.
Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend passage on first reading of
Bill102, CD1 (2022). I ask forthe Members support of thismotion and willyieldto
Committee Vice-Chair Paltin on her amendment in CC 22-262. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.At thistime Iwould liketo re-open County
Communication 22-262.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Members. I'dlikefolksto refertotheASF thatis
in CC 22-262. Itwas brought to my attentionwhen we put thisbillforwardthatthe
effectivedate needs to be changed. And so, this is a prettyminor change, just
changing the effectivedate tothe coming tax year.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 65
CHAIR LEE: Can you make your motion please?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 3 OF BILL 102, CD1 TO DELETE
"ON APPROVAL" AND INSERT "JANUARY 1, 2023".
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Paltin,Member
Paltinto change the effectivedate. Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ithinkwe prettymuch did that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Allinfavor of the amendment, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Any more discussionon the main motion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. You know, Ijustwas looking through the
propertiesand Iseen these propertieswith likemultiplevacation rentals.And Inoticed
thatthey were paying Owner-Occupied tax classification.And so,justglad thatwe can
change that loophole and bring equity to the taxpayers who liveintheirhomes and
don'toperate transientvacation rentals.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? ifnot,ailthose in favor of the main motion as amend
please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 66
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes' zero "noes": motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, County Communication 22-262 isstillbefore the body for
disposition.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-262.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
filethe county communication.
Any more discussion,Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? Ifnot,by anyone? Ifnot,all
those infavor ofthe motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries.All"ayes",zero "noes".
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 67
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-108NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-87 .entitled"AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
CLAIM NO. 4063291 OF LORI DONALDSON," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-108.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci,to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-108.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. Your Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on October 4, 2022, to discuss
Resolution 22-87.
Resolution 22-87's purpose isto authorizethe Department to settlethe claimfiledon
January 7, 2020, under terms set forthinthe executivesession meeting.
The Committee received an overview of the claim in open session by a Deputy
Corporation Counsel, which alleges personal injuriesMs. Donaldson sustainedafter
being ejectedfrom her wheelchairwhile using a wheelchairaccess ramp at Wailea
Beach Park on November 11, 2019.
At the request of Corporation Counsel, your Committee held an executivesession
meeting to consultwith legalcounsel in accordance with Sections92-5{a)(4)and
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 68
92-5(a)(8)of the Hawaii Revised Statutes. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend
adoption of Resolution 22-87. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-109 HUMAN CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE;NO.
Recommending the following:
That the Miscellaneous Communication dated February 22, 2021, from the
County Clerk, transmittingAmendment 1 to Contract C6654, between the
County of Maui and Norrie Construction,LLC, forthe Hanakao'o Beach Park
Parking Improvements, be FILED; and
1.
That Miscellaneous Communication dated July26. 2021, from the County Clerk,
transmittingAmendment 2 to ContractC6654, between the County ofMaui and
Norrie Construction, LLC, for the Hanakao‘o Beach Park Parking
Improvements, be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Ithink. Chair, that'sme.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'msorry. Ihad your name down. Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Your Human Concerns and Parks Committee,
having met on October 3, 2022, makes reference to the following:Miscellaneous
Communication dated February 22, 2021, from the County Clerk, transmitting
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 69
Amendment 1 to Contract C6654, between the County of Maui and Norrie
Construction, LLC, for the Hanakao'o Beach Park Improvements. 2. Miscellaneous
Communication dated July 26, 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Can you make a motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, sorry.Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT COMMITTEE REPORT 22-109.
Sorry, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: That's okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Pro Tern Kama, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve the
recommendations inCommittee Report 22-109.
Discussion, Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Your Human Concerns and Parks Committee,
having met on October 3, 2022, makes referenceto the following:1) Miscellaneous
Communication dated February 22, 2021, from the County Clerk, transmitting
Amendment 1 to Contract C6654, between the County of Maui and Norrie
Construction, LLC, for the Hanakao'o Beach Park Parking Improvements.
2) Miscellaneous Communication dated July 26, 2021, from the County Clerk,
transmittingAmendment 2 to ContractC6654, between the County ofMaui and Norrie
Construction, LLC, forthe Hanakao'o Beach Park Parking Improvements.
Your Committee notes Contract C6654 was issued on December 20, 2018, in the
amount of $623,500. Amendment 1 extends the Contract an additional91 calendar
days, but did not affectthe Contractamount. Amendment 2 extended the Contractan
additional63 calendar days and includes an additionalcertifiedamount of $4,369.97.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 70
Your Committee received a presentation from the Department of Parks and
Recreation, which provided the following status update. Improvements were
completed on June 21, 2021, fora totalamount of $627,896.97. The projectscope
included replacement of asphalt concrete with untreated base course forthe existing
road and parking lot,new parking lotstriping,and installationof new grated catch
basins and drain lines.
The Department of Parks and Recreation said the drainage inletgrates willbe
incorporatedintothe Department's maintenance plan forthe park,and willbe assessed
and cleaned, as needed.
Your Committee expressed concerns relatingto speeding inthe area and discussed
the possibleinstallationoftrafficcalming measures.
Your Committee noted there are 32 parking stallsavailable,includingtwo accessible
parking stalls.In addition,a State-owned gravel lotadjacent to the park isavailable
foroverflow park.
There's no legislativeaction pending for this matter, therefore,your Committee
recommended filingthe communications. Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend
filingof the communications. Committee Chair Kama, Vice-Chair Sugimura, and
Members Lee, Paltin,and Sinenci voted "aye".
Your Human Concerns and Parks Committee recommends the following;that the
Miscellaneous Communication dated February 22, 2021, be filed;and that the
Miscellaneous Communication dated July 26, 2021, be filed.This reportissubmitted
in accordance with Rule 8 of the Rules of the Council. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Member Kama, foraccurately,
and thoroughlycapturingallof our Committee and community's concerns. And Ilook
forward to the trafficcalming measures.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 71
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot.allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Alright,Members, we have, I have a question foryou. Would you liketo take lunch
now before we start our next session, section, which isresolutions.There's only about
five resolutions,but we have like17 testifiers.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, Iwould liketo startwith the testifiersbecause we cannot
take a break once the testifiersend. So, if,you know, we go to 12, 12:10 or so.
CHAIR LEE: This isa new section,yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. But Imean, we can't take a break once testimony ends
because of the Sunshine Law, so might as wellget urn startedand then go eat lunch,
right?
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you want to do that?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Iagree with that.
CHAIR LEE: Get them started? Okay, alright.Mr. Clerk,please callthe firsttestifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIR LEE: This is on resolutions.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on resolutions. The first
person signed up to testifyisJordan Hocker. To be followedby Robin Knox. This is
resolutions,not resolutions second and finalreading. This isresolutionsonly.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 72
MS. JORDAN MOCKER (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-241):
Aloha. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers. Thank you
for having me today. My name isJordan Hocker and I'llbe testifyingon Resolution
22-241, regardingthe County urging Kaiser Permanente to do the rightthing. So, I've
testifiedinfrontofthisbody before. My community advocacy isinhomeless outreach.
And I beg the question to thisbody ifhoused people cannot have access to mental
healthcare due to Kaiser's current policiesand choices, how do you think that our
unsheltered are accessing thatcare?
Back when Kaiser Permanente took over our hospitalsystem, Ibelieve they also took
over responsibilityto serve our community in a way that was righteous. And they're
not doing that.As you heard testifiers,the currentprofessionalswho are on strikeare
not on strikebecause they can affordto do so. They're not on strikebecause they feel
liketaking a day offof work. They're on strikebecause Kaiser Permanente's policies
have leftthem no other choice. Itisthe laststep.
And for a littleframe of reference, Kaiser Permanente has had many strikes. All
throughout California,theirnurses, other healthcare professionalshave had to either
threatento go on striketo the tune of 32,000 employees saying we're going to step out
before anything gets done. Inthe State of California,Legislaturehad to be passed that
made sure that Kaiser Permanente patientswere followed up when they sought care
withina timely manner.
This isa multi-billion-dollarcorporation. There isabsolutelyno reason thatthey cannot
be hiringmore people. UH Maui College has a human servicestrack. They could be
hiringpeople from Maui to serve our community. So, in listeningto these folks,you
heard Marlena. Oh, thank you, Noe, my baby woke up. You hear Marlena. When I
firstjoined them on the picketline,because I'vebeen out there as many weeks as I've
been able to. You know, these are members of our community. And as Italkedto
Marlena, I found out our daughters going to same school. They're both in Kula
Kaiapuni. They're both over in Paia. And it'saffectingher familyto have to step out in
thisway. It'saffectingallof us.
Kaiser Permanente has a responsibilityto Maui County to show up. That's justthe
basic. They are our stewards of mental healthcare and healthcare ingeneral. So, 1
would urge any one of you Members to reach out to the higher,not the higher up, I'm
sorry,the House and State Legislatorsthat are withinyour districtsand see what you
can do to advocate for them.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 73
Because not only do they deserve a union,we deserve dignity.People seeking mental
health care deserve dignityand deserve a corporationthathas the means to do that
to absolutelyrecognize it.So, I’llend to say thatexpect me to callyour officesand ask
what you're doing to reach out and solve this. Because ifyou're pro-union,forone,
you can be pro-union forour mental healthcareworkers as well. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MS. MOCKER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Robin
Knox. To be followed by Pamela Tumpap.
MS. ROBIN KNOX (testifying on Resolution No. 22-241):
Aloha again. I'mtestifyingon 22-241. 1would liketo statethatmental healthisthe
nexus of our social problems. When there are mental health challenges in our
community, it'sa symptom of stressthat our people are exposed to. Stresses like
domestic violence,homelessness, drug addiction,housing insecurity,food insecurity,
culturaldesecration, climate impacts, and job stresses. So, you can see there'smany
causes. And the solution is to have access to mental health care.
This isvery personal to me. Twenty-seven years ago, my brotherdied by suicide.He
was a young fatherof three children,and a law enforcement officer,a job that'sknown
to have a lotof stress associated with it.Aftermy brother'sdeath, my familybegan
advocating formental healthequity. My fathereven went toWashington D.C. to lobby
Congress so that insurance would cover mental health care inthe same way thatthey
cover physical health care.
We need to both counter the stigma that people experience when seeking mental
health care and assure that we have access to mental health care in our community.
I support the resolutionand hope to see Kaiser quickly take actionto address this
personal need formental health services inour community. Iurge the Council also to
undertake futureeffortsto support mental wellness programs for our community, to
help mitigatestressbefore itreaches a crisispoint. Mahalo forallowingme to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 74
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person signed up to testifyison resolutionsis
Pamela Tumpap. To be followed by TrinetteFurtado.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP, MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (testifying on Resolution
No. 22-242):
Aloha. Iam testifyingon Resolution 22-242. The Maui Chamber of Commerce would
liketo offerour support forthisresolution,which proposes to authorizethe waiver of
certain provisions of Chapter 2.96, of Maui County Code, for the Waikapu Country
Town Project,namely the affordablehousing sales priceguidelines.
You know, affordable housing and rentalshas become one of our top priorities,and
it'scertainlyone thatwe share withallofyou. And so,we providedtestimonyinsupport
of the public-privatepartnershipon thisprojectand ask forapproval ofthe project.
But we also want to point out that thisis one of the consequences of passing the
affordablehousing sales priceguidelines,Bill107. And we suspect thatmany more
housing projectsalready inthe pipelinemay have to make thisrequest inthe future.
But we support your approval of thisone. And we again want to work with you to get
allhousing moving forward as quicklyas possible. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MS. TUMPAP; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisTrinetteFurtado.
To be followed by Jason Economou.
MS. TRINETTE FURTADO (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-241 and 22-242):
Aloha Members once again. Thank you forthe opportunityto testify.Iam testifying
on Resolutions 22-241 and 22-242. So, I'llstartwith 22-241. Iabsolutelysupport this
resolutionand Ihope thatthispasses, because Kaiser has a kuleana toour community.
When they came intoour community saying thatthey would not only administerand
be incharge of our hospital,what thatdid was, was give us the ideathatyes,thiswas
a trusted health organizationthatwould look afterour community.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 75
For myself, I know during COVID, throughout COVID, when Iwas a Kaiser member
and Iwent for services, for mental health services because sadly the County of Maui
does not provide adequate servicesto itsEAs. So, letme justsay thisisthe reason
why Iwent to Kaiser. They not only made me wait several months, but then gave me
the phone number of someone off-island,who only wanted to speak to me for
15 minutes, and whose advice was just get over it. That kind of mental health is
absolutelynot needed.
And especially,as Jordan says, when we have houseless communities, you know,
people who have no other way to work through a problem, and they go to,you know,
they go somewhere hoping thatthey willget assistance,only to be toldthatthere'snot
enough staff,and/or they must wait several months. Well, the problem doesn't wait
several months.
I mean, we see that there's more and more mental health issues arising,not just
intimatelyin our families,but throughout our relationships,businesswise, and inthe
community. Tempers are short,people are unable to handle differentsituationsthat
they may have been able to before COVID because of isolation,because of allof the
differentissues, and itis for that reason that Kaiser has a duty to theirworkers and to
theirpatientsto tryto come to a resolutionthatworks forail.
Because ifour, ifthe staffthat'sworking there can'tadequately help us because they're
not being assisted and there aren'tresources forthem, thatdoes pass on to us. And
then, that passes from us to our childrenifwe have them. That passes from us to our
business associates. That passes from us to everyone else. And the mental health
issue doesn'tget solved,itjustexacerbates. Itjustgrows.
And so, Ihope thatwhatever contacts any ofyou may have on the State,perhaps even
the damn Federal levelifwe have to go that far. Itis,itisparamount. And not justfor
Maui. For Molokai and Lanai as well, because those islands are even more isolated
than our island.And, you know, mental healthisan issuethatwe all...
And for Resolution 22-242, I'm,Iskepticallysupport this.The one thingthatIwould
likeyou guys to look at isthe item thatsays thatthey may buildconcurrentlyor before,
market pricecan be builtbefore or concurrentlywith affordableunits.And 1would like
to actuallyhave that,see thatsay concurrently.Like not or,because we see thatwith
interpretationof legislation,and we see an issue coming about thatwith term limits
this,this election.
Iwould liketo make sure that there isno question of what the definitionof a particular
thing means. That it'snot a oh, well,we didn'tmean iffornow, we meant itforlater.
And thatthere isno question on anybody's minds that ifthere are going to be market
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 76
priced unitsbuilt,thatthey are builtconcurrently at the same time as affordableunits.
Because we need those affordable units more than we need those market price units.
And that'sallIgot to say on those two items. And mahalo, again.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Trinette.
MS. FURTADO; Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyon items in agenda
section K, Resolutions isJason Economou. To be followed by JeffUeoka.
MR. JASON ECONOMOU (testifying on Resolution No. 22-240):
Hi,good morning. Chair Lee. My name isJason Economou, Iam testifyingon behalf.
CHAIR LEE: Jason? Jason?
MR. ECONOMOU: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Could you turnyour volume down a littlebit? Please.
MR. ECONOMOU: Sorry. Sorry. Very loud. Let'ssee.
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you inLahaina.
MR. ECONOMOU: Is that better?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. ECONOMOU: Okay, thanks. Iam testifyingon behalf of myself and my familytoday,
regarding Resolution 22-240. I am a resident of Paukukalo, which is in Wailuku. I
reached out to AliceLee regardingthisresolution,begging her to help me. Paukukalo
isa really,it'sa tightlypacked neighborhood. And, you know, lifegets noisy. So, we
understand that,you know, people have parties,graduation parties,birthdayparties,
everything likethat. People have fights,people work on theircars,they work on their
houses. Noise isunderstood as a part of livingin a neighborhood likethis. But you
know, it'sa residentialneighborhood. And the purpose of the residential
neighborhoods according to the County Code isto provide a harmonious residential
neighborhood without the detractionof commercial and industrialactivities.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 77
Two years ago, Ihad a neighbor thatstartedblacksmithing as a hobby inhisdriveway,
in a tentthatis,itabuts my fence line.Ican, Ican hear the noise ringingthroughout
my house. It,you know, and it'sknown thatthiscauses hearing damage. That'swhy
he wears hearing protection. But I'vegot a one-year-old son that Ican'tput hearing
protection on.
The fumes from his forge,which is,you know, within 10-feetof my bedroom window,
they come intoour house while our baby's tryingto sleep at night. He apparently,you
know, doesn't mind the heat from the forge,but he refuses to do itduring the day. We
begged him to, to just do itduring reasonable hours, but he does itbetween 7 and
10 p.m., rightwhen I'm tryingto put my baby to bed.
The fumes come intothe bedroom, even with the AC blasting. You know, you can't
filterout a lotof this stuff,which we know causes cancer. And the pounding on the
metal and the grinding is,isjust crazy. And I,you know, we put up with itfor over a
year-and-a-halfwithout reallycomplaining. And then, Iwent to him and talked to him
very reasonably,and Iwas completely ignored. Other neighbors have confronted him
and asked him for this.
And the County and State haven't been able to help because they say it'sa hobby.
But blacksmithingisan industrialactivityand ifIwas doing thisoutside my own child's
bedroom window, itwould be child endangerment, because we know this causes
hearing loss. We know thiscauses cancer. We know thisisa firehazard.
You know, the,I,I'mjust,we're at the end of it.And Isee him inchambers. Iknow
he's on the listof testifiers;he's going say allsortsof terriblethingsabout me. That's
fine. But justplease consider your residents,you know. We pay taxes here,and we
deserve protection,too.
And you know, Iwork forRAM. Iget property rights.But we need to have communities
where, where, hopefully,these rules wouldn't be necessary ifwe allhad aloha. But
when we disregardthe well-beingand justsanity. Igot Kaiser health. Ihad to go to
Kaiser for mental health referralbecause I was losing itover, over pounding almost
every night,ringingthrough my property. And, and we got. . .
CHAIR LEE: Jason, can you conclude? Jason, could you conclude please?
MR. ECONOMOU; Yes, thank you. I'm done. That, thatwas allIwanted to say. Thank you
so much. Please, please push thisforward and please pass this.Ijustbeg you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 78
CHAIR LEE: Questions? We have a couple. Member King, and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thanks forbeing here, Jason. Iknow it'sonly
for residential,but I'vebeen hearing some similarissues with folkswho are residents
in agriculturaldistrict.But my question to you is,since it'shis hobby and you were
talkingabout blacksmithing,do you thinkwe should, we need to add likecommercial
and industrialactivitiesthat may or may not be a business?
MR. ECONOMOU: You know, Ithink already commercial and industrialactivities,ifdone for
commercial purposes, are already not permitted inthe residentialzoning district.The
M-1 and, or M-2 and M-3 zoning districtsare very specific.That's where those things
belong. But because Ican'tdemonstrate that he's doing thisforcommerce, somehow
that,thatmeans thatpeople can'tenforce. So, so in my opinion,Ithinkit'salready an
industrialactivityand shouldn'tbe allowed. But I,I'mjustme. I'mjusta resident.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright.Thank you forthatinput.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Remember, thisisa hobby, right?
Okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Economou, for your
testimony. Ijustwanted to clarifyas a resident,you do not want to livenext to heavy
industrial activities.
MR. ECONOMOU: No. No, Idon't. That's why Imoved to the residentialzoning district.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. That was my clarifyingquestion.
MR. ECONOMOU: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much. Jason, thank you.
MR. ECONOMOU: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisJeffUeoka. To be
followed by Tommy Russo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 79
MR. JEFF UEOKA (testifying on Resolution No. 22-242):
Good afternoon, Council Chair, Members. I'llkeep thisquick. Iknow you guys want
to get moving. I'm here for Resolution 22-242. I represent Waikapu Country Town.
Coach asked me to come and testifyon this.
Thank you very much Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez forintroducingthis.We are
infullsupport. We recentlyreceived our State LUC approval of our amendment forthe
terms of the PPP. We willbe going infrontof the Maui Planning Commission soon, I
hope. So, we'd reallyappreciate itifwe could have thisproposed exemption approved
as soon as possible,cause we're hoping to get onto the Planning Commission and
have a fullstorythen.
Basically,22-242 simply locksinWaikapu Country Town intothe 30 percent calculation
thatwas contemplated inthe PPP. and exempts us from Bill107, which we do feelit's
a good idea making affordable housing more affordable. But for our purposes, we
reliedon another calculationso we're asking forthe County to support us inthat.
Just for clarification,our understanding is based on Resolution 22-242, Waikapu
Country Town willstillbe requiredto buildconcurrentlyas set forthin2.96.060(A)(1),
Maui County Code, the affordablesand the markets. Ifwe can come up with something
that'llwork foreveryone and be fair,we'llcome back to you folksforconsideration.But
thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions? No questions. Thank you.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisTommy Russo. To
be followed by Lantana Hoke.
MR. TOMMY RUSSO (testifying on Resolution No. 22-240);
Mahalo, Chair, Councilmembers, thank you for giving me time to speak and address
Resolution 22-240. Just off the bat, Ifeel the resolution istoo broad in scope. Ithas
the potential for countless unintended consequences, essentiallycreating an
unneeded gentrificationlayerinour community. Iwould hope thiswould be fullyvetted
in the Planning and Sustainable Use Committee before being transmittedto the
Planning Commission.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 80
This ismy officialstatement. Iwas addressed personallyby the previoustestifier.Kind
of ridiculousthatwe got a neighbor thing infrontof everybody. He's exhausted every
resource inthe law to stop me from reallyexercisingmy rightsand hobby. We have
homeowners' associations for a reason. This is Paukukalo. Last night,after10:00,
there were four differentgenerators running on our streetafter10 p.m. They run all
night long on our street. My next-door neighbor hears a generator running 24 hours,
because our residents have had theirpower cut. That's the streetthatwe liveon.
More than a year-and-a-half,never heard a peep from my neighbor. And then, one
day, he exploded infrontof me and my father,who was visitingfora realspecialtime
together. Ido thisformy mental healthalso. 1have the rightto do it.
I've dealt with State officials who've flown over to confirm that there is no industrial
manufacturing or commercial operations happening in any way, shape, or form. He
already toldme he would not be back and didn'tappreciate a residentmaking a claim
likethat. County department, the Planning Department has also been in touch with
me. And the policehave been calledto my house numerous times forme not breaking
the law.
So, thisiscausing me great anguish. And ifthiswere to come into,ifthisresolution
were to see the lightofday, justa lotof people, every mechanic on the islandnow, any
hobbyists thathas any problem with any neighbor isshut down. It'stoo broad. Iwould
hope you guys would look at itmore clearly.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Any questions? Alright,no questions. Thank you.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up totestifyisLantana Hoke. To
be followed by Lisa Darcy.
MS. LANTANA HOKE (testifying on Resolution No. 22-240):
Aloha, Chair. Aloha, Council. Thank you for givingme a chance to testifytoday in
strong support of Resolution 22-242, I'msorry,240. So, Iam instrongsupport of this
because there is a distinction,in my opinion, between normal neighborhood activity
and nuisance-level activity,whether or not the person doing the activityis enjoying
themselves or receivingfinancialgain for it.There should be a separation between
residentialand industrialneighborhoods, and there is.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 81
But somehow thisisa loophole that makes itso that you, you apparently, it'sentirely
legal to do commercial activity,whatever the noise or fumes in a residential
neighborhood regardless of complaints or neighborhood buy-in. We are not the only
ones inthe neighborhood. We are justthe most, we are justthe closestneighbors in
the neighborhood. And again, it'sa reallyunderstanding neighborhood.
I'm born and raised on Maui. I'm a teacher. I saved my whole lifeto buy a house.
We're reallygratefulforour home. And when, you know, and I'm a new mother, and I
don't have childcare,so Iwork at night. And thisisour office.And the clanging that
happens isrightthere. So, I'm not actuallyable to do my teaching work, and recording
videos, and thatkind of thing because of thisactivity.And again, it'snotjust a personal
acti,it'snot justa personal issue between two neighbors. The whole neighborhood
knows each other's business.
And when, I finallycalledthe police because when we tryto address this in likea
normal neighborhood way, that doesn’t work. And the policecame and they toldus
thatour best,thatthey thought itwas illegal.Before they calledtheirsupervisors,they
said of course this has to be harassment, or this has to be illegal.But apparently, it's
not. And so, they toldus to move. That thatwas our best bet. That doesn't seem like
a good option,because there'sother people inthisneighborhood, too. And also,where
are we going to move?
And so, again. I'mjust.I'm inreallystrong support of thisbecause ofthe healthhazard
to my familyand my neighbors. Those neighbors who do run generators do everything
they can to mitigatethe sound for the other neighbors and tryto livein a community
together. Those same neighbors are also insupport of this,and they've letus know
thatthey willtestifyifthey,you know, ifwe can help them to do thaton this.And so,
again, thisis notjust a feud in a neighborhood, thisis somebody doing an unsafe
activitythat'sreallyhurtingother people and a loophole ina law thatshouldn'tbe there,
and is.And so,we're asking to ...thatloophole and help others ifthissituationarises.
Thank you so much for listeningto my testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you very much.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lastperson we have signed up to testifyon items in
agenda section K. Resolutions,isLisa Darcy. Ifthere isanybody else who wants to
testifyon any of these items, please identifyyourself in the meeting chat,or to the
appropriate staff.Again, Lisa Darcy to testifynow.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 82
MS. LISA DARCY. SHARE YOUR MANA (testifying on Resolution No. 22-241):
Mahalo and good afternoon, Council and Chair. Istillhave thisfrog,sorry. I'm here to
testifyon, my name isLisa Darcy and I'm here to testifyon Resolution 22-241. And a
littlecontext. I am on the Healing Solutions for Homelessness Commission. I have
been a board member for Mental Health America. I was the employment directorat
Fountain House in New York City,which is the leading psychosocial rehabilitation
program in the world. And Icame to Maui for mental health,and to serve the mental
health community.
And Ijustwant this body to understand that the work that I am doing now at Share
Your Mana isactuallybecause the,the absolute deteriorationof mental healthservices
on individuals leads them to become houseless and unhoused. And from what I can
see, itisalso a group of people who are Native Hawaiians and localindividuals.And
they don'teven get a shot at mental healththe way thatthe Kaiser system isset up.
Ialso have worked with the Department of Health, Maui Mental Health. And anybody
who has experienced that knows there isenormous need for improvement there. Itis
so important that this resolution move forward, and tractionbe gained. I'm also the
founder of Kuleana Connections, which isa grassroots mental health support group.
And cannot implore you enough to consider thisand to understand the magnitude of
severity.
So, knowing that Kaiser took in,! believe,$81 millionin profits,oh billion.I'm sorry,
billiondollarsin profitslastyear; $81 billiondollars.That, I know everybody's busy
gettingready forlunch. Suicides are so high on Maui. People aren'tgettingtheirhelp.
Workers are burnt out. We don’t have enough. This isworth a couple minutes latefor
lunch. Iimplore you to consider thisand Ithank allthe people who are striking.They're
courageous and they'revaluable. And itisour responsibilityto support them. So,
thank you very much forthistime.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MS. DARCY; Mahalo.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyon resolutionsis
Albert Perez. To be followed by Peter Martin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 83
MR. ALBERT PEREZ. MAUI TOMORROW FOUNDATION (testifying on Resolution
No. 22-2401:
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha, Councilmembers. Isigned up for206 and 240, but Isee that
206 is in the next section, so I'llwait for that. Ijustwanted to weigh in on the billthat
Jason was talkingabout, nuisance inthe residentialdistricts.Iwholeheartedly support
something likethat. And Iwould likeyou to add pigeons. They are a realnuisance,
and they're spreading allover the island. And people are feeding them and it's
disgusting.They carryfourdifferentkinds of diseases.
In terms of the noise, and Itook a quick look at thatbill,so Idon't have everything that
itsays in my mind. But Iactuallygot my Masters Degree in noise controlplanning.
And not only can you get hearing loss,but itraisesyour blood pressure when you have
lackof sleep. You have allkinds of healthproblems. Most ofwhat Istudied had to do
with helicopternoise,which was intermittentand that'sbad enough. But ifyou have a
extremely loud noise rightnext to your home, we need to give people some protection
against this,especiallyas we startto concentrate our developments so thatwe can
preserve our open space. People are going to be livingcloserand closertogetherand
they need to be respectfulof each other. So, Ijustwant to weigh inand support that
for now. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Albert, for being here. And you mentioned
pigeons. How about adding chickens to that?
MR. PEREZ: Iwould not be opposed to that,particularlythe roosters,because they createa
lotof noise. But also, you know, ifpeople just lettheirchickens run wild,they're
scratchingup, my neighbor has a memorial garden, and they completelydestroyed it
overnight. So, people need to stop feeding the feralanimals, unless they'reinsome
kind of a controlledenvironment, so that they can'tcause damage. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ifnot,thank you, Albert.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lastperson we have signed up to testifyon items in
agenda section K. Resolutions isPeter Martin.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 84
MR. PETER MARTIN (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-241):
Hello. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. MARTIN: The screen seems likeit'snot allowing me on. Maybe that's,there'sa reason
Idon'tknow. So, I'lljusttestify,okay, withoutthe? Isthat,that'sfine,right?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. itis.
MR. MARTIN: Let me see how. I'mdoing my best here. Alright.Iwas planning,Iwas waiting
forthe Maalaea. But Ido have a lotof experience inthisitem 22-241. Iwas with the
Kaiser Permanente mental health organization. Iwas a patientthere twice. But the,
but the firsttime Ihad my firstmental, well,my firstmental breakdown was 2008. The
second one was December 18, 2011. Iwent home, and Ididn'tcome out of my home
tillOctober 13, 2013, except occasionallyto get medication, and things. So, I,but I
thinkwhat got me out of itwas not psychiatry,not altthe differentdrugs. They did keep
you alive,because you’retoo sedated. But IthinkGod gave me a second chance on
October 13, 2013. So, my feelingon this,and 1 have worked a lotwith Lisa Darcy, I
support her stick-to-itiveness,the girlis no quitter.She worked for Ho'omoana, my
foundation,for I'm not sure how many years. And Isupport her thoughts on this.
But big picture,Ibelieve that Isupport allwork, that'sour Ho'omoana Foundation, has
to do with homelessness and mental health,and they do go together sometimes. It
doesn't mean everybody homeless ismentally ill,or everybody, it'sa very broad group
of people. And I'dliketo work and Ho'omoana has worked for 15 years on this.
I,you guys probably know, you folksprobably know about the camp I proposed on
agricultureland forthe homeless with Kawi Keahi, as the,the ministerthatwas going
to help us. We got sued by the neighbors, and we're still,aftersix-and-a-halfyears,
I'm stillfightingthat and spending money. So, big picture,Iwould liketo be involved
inthis.And Iappreciateyour listeningto my story,part of my story.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,oh, we have one question.
Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 85
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Good afternoon,Mr. Martin. Thank you
for coming out and testifyingon this issue. And I reallyappreciate your real-life
experience on this. Itjustgoes to show that no matter where you are in life,mental
health is.iskey to.to being healthy.
Have you ... out to KaiserSo, I know you've been active in our community.
Permanente in any way? Have you done any kind of business proposals, anything
working with them?
MR. MARTIN: No, I,Iwent a differentdirection. Iwent to tryto make, when Iwalked behind
Spreckelsvilleand interviewed the homeless people where Ilive,and Ifirststartedmy
camp was supposed to be, as some of you know, was going to be inSpreckelsville.I
had good support from the localcommunity. ... Gosh, quitea few people came and
testified.The neighbors in Spreckelsvilleopposed it.Itwas going to be a contested
case. Itwas going to burn up another $50,000. And anyway, we end up a miracle
lateron afterthat got shut down I made, I ended up making a profiton sellingthe
property to the airport.
And next,so Inext trieditin Lahaina, which Ithought would be a great locationacross
from Puamana. And the applicationisthere. We stillhave the land. We've, we got
hung up with the neighbors and lawsuits at the LUC level.And I'm shocked, but we
won in District Court. We won in Intermediate Court. And now, we're going back to
the Supreme Court, and I heard thatthey wouldn't take it,it'scalled... or something
ifthey didn't,weren'tgoing to reverse it.So, Ithinkthey'regoing to reverse my ability
to do a camp on ag land,which Ithink iscriminal,but it'sour typical-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Iunderstand that. Thank you, Mr. Martin.
MR. MARTIN: AllIwas, was a patientat Kaiser fora long time. Every week, Ithink,Iwent.
And Idid go to other psychiatrists.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Martin. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Iappreciatethat.Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Mr. Martin.
May we have the next testifier?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 86
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next person signed up to testify,I believe
Jordan Mocker ishere to testifyon another resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Go ahead.
MS. JORDAN MOCKER (testifying on Resolution No. 22-236):
Apologies that Ididn'tinclude this. So, my name isJordan Mocker. I'm testifyingon
Resolution 22-236. When the amount of testimony that was being heard that was,
what was happening in Don Guzman's office,Iwas prettyappalled. And ifyou were
listeningto that,there were a lotof allegationsand thingsthathappened thatcreated
a prettyoppressive workplace forthe people around him.
The reason Ihad to come back up iscause I had to confirm that thisisauthorizinga
settlement. This istaxpayer money going to Mr. Guzman, instead of under, under the
allegationsthatthe County of Maui had done something wrong by removing him from
his position.When people abuse theirpower, they don'tdeserve itany longer. And
I'm deeply concerned that taxpayer money is going towards settlingthis out. I
understand thatlitigationiscostlyforthe County. And Ithinkthat'swhy certainpeople,
who are inthe wrong, come forward and do it.Because they know, often,it'scheaper
than going through litigation,so the County willsettle.
But Iwould liketo remind thisbody he was removed from his positionwith absolute
reason. That he was not doing thatpositionthe justicethatitneeded. And thatthere
were hours and hours and hours oftestimony thatoutlinedexactlyhow thatoccurred.
Ifwe were hiringforany other position,or ifsomebody was working at a corporation,
or any business, and was found to be conducting themselves in the manner thatDon
Guzman was, then they would be removed from theirposition.
And I know that there was possibly some legalguidance that said that he should not
have been removed, and that'swhy we're here today. But Iwould stronglyurge this
body to not authorizethe settlementgivingDon Guzman money forhispoor behavior,
simply to avoid litigation.That's allIhave to say on that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, we haven't received thatsettlement yet. So, we're going
to be discussing it.We don'tknow what that is.
MS. MOCKER: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 87
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anybody else?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there's no one else signed up to testify.But I believe
there'ssomeone inthe audience indicatingthey'dliketo testifyat thistime.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
MR. JASEE LAW (testifying on Resolution No. 22-240):
Aloha auinala. I'm Jasee Law from Kula uka Waiakoa ahupua'a. Good morning, I
mean, good morning, yeah, hieverybody. Shane, come back, Shane. Iloveyou. So,
No. 22-240, yeah, i hope this doesn't restrictthe freedom of speech on public
sidewalks, because I'm having a littlebitof trouble with the Kula Roman Catholic
administration.
And speaking of Roman Catholic roosters,I stand in fullsupport of my bother Don
Guzman. You cannot put a rooster ina hen house and not expect feathers to fly.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there'snobody else signed up to testifyon items in
agenda section K. Resolutions. We'll do a lastcallat thistime. Ifthere isanybody
who would liketo testifyon any of these items, please identifyyourselfnow. Again,
lastcall.Chair,nobody else has indicatedthatthey'dliketo testifyon these items.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto closingpublictestimony and accepting writtentestimony for
resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Members, do you want to take a one-hour break forlunch?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair,we justgot to referone of those items.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The firstone.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The first.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 88
COUNCILMEMBER KING: First one.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I had meant for us to take a break inthe middle of testimony.
We can'ttake a break as soon as testimony concludes because of the Sunshine Law.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. I'msorry. Alright,we can take one forthe next one. Next one, which
doesn't seem right,but anyway, go ahead.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, Chair, just one item recommended for referralto your
Government Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee isResolution22-236.
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-236
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF DONALD S. GUZMAN
V. COUNTY OF MAUI. ET AL.. CIVIL NO. 21-00202 DKW-RT
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-236 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto referringthatmatter?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. That was a tough one. Okay, so ordered.
Now, Members, you want one hour? Do you want hour and a half?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: One and a halfplease.
CHAIR LEE: One and a half.Any objectionsto one and a half? Okay. Then we'llbe back
at 2, an hour and a half.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 2:00.
CHAIR LEE: Which is2:00. Alright,Members, thismeeting isinrecess until2:00.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 89
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:33 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 2:04 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KAMA,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of October 21, 2022, please reconvene?
Mr. Clerk, where are we?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,we're inagenda section K. Resolutions. Shall Icontinue
callingresolutions?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-237
AUTHORIZING THE TRANSFER OF AN UNENCUMBERED
APPROPRIATION BALANCE WITHIN THE
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE,
FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-237 be referredto the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-237 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 91 through 93 fordiscussion and action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-240
REFERRING TO THE PLANNING COMMISSIONS
A PROPOSED BILL TO AMEND CHAPTER 19.08,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
NUISANCE IN THE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-240 be referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 90
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-241
URGING THE COUNTY OF MAUI'S SUPPORT
FOR KAISER PERMANENTE TO RESOLVE
MENTAL HEALTH CLINICIAN DISPUTE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-241 be referred to the Human Concerns
and Parks Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-241 IVAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 100 through 102 for discussion and
action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-242
AUTHORIZING A WAIVER OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 2.96
MAUI COUNTY CODE, FOR THE WAIKAPG COUNTRY TOWN PROJECT
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-242 be referredto the Affordable Housing
Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-242 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 93 through 99 fordiscussion and action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-243
AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION OF APPROXIMATELY 12.49 ACRES
IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY NO. (2) 3-8-102:001 (POR) SITUATED AT
KAHULUl, MAUI, HAWAII, FOR AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED
$17,413,152.00
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-243 be referredto the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 91
CHAIR LEE; Members, any exceptions,any objectionsto these referrals?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-237
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I have two. The firstone is the
tongue twister,Resolution 22-237.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-237, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Resolution 22-237.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. This isauthorizingthe transferof an
unencumbered appropriationbalance within the Department of Police,FiscalYear
2023 Budget. Members, these funds are for a Computer Aided Dispatch/Record
Management System Maintenance contract.And thisistime-sensitiveto ensure that
there isno delay inprocuringservices.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorof the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 92
CHAIR LEE: Isee eight "ayes"; motion carries. One "excused", Member Kama.
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-237.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, that'sright.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, move to adopt Resolution 22-237 by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
seconded by Member Sugimura.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And Members, the purpose of this
resolution is to authorize a transfer of an unencumbered appropriation balance from
the Department of Police in the amount of $310,000 for Uniform Patrol Services
Program, Category A (Salaries),to Technical and Support Services Program,
Category B (Operations and Equipment), for contractualservices for the Computer
Aided Dispatch/Record Management System Maintenance contract.
The totalcost of the contract with Hexagon willbe $473,794.57. And the requested
funds willbe supplemented with funds from the State E911 Wireless Program and
TrafficData grant. Representatives from the Administrationare availableto answer
any questions the Members may have. I respectfullyask forthe Members support of
this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Ifnot, allthose in favor of the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 93
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes". one "excused"; Member Kama. Motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-242
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. The second item that I would like
consideration on is Resolution 22-242, "AUTHORIZING A WAIVER OF CERTAIN
PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE, FOR THE WAIKAPO
COUNTRY TOWN PROJECT".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I move-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. Oh, you didn'tdo the move yet.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Almost there.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-242, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 94
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to \A/aivethe Rules of the Council regardingthisresolution.
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The time sensitivityon thisitem is,
as Mr. Ueoka stated in histestimony, thatafterthisprojectwas approved by the State
Land Use Commission, expected to be taken up by the Maui Planning Commission
soon. So, adoption of thisresolutionisrequired priorto theirhearing. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Alright,allthose infavorofthe motion, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.One "excused":Pro Tern Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-242.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
adopt Resolution 22-242.
Discussion, Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The purpose of thisresolutionisto
waive provisionsof Section 2.96.060(C)(2),Maui County Code, for the WaikapG
Country Town Project.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 95
Prior to the vote on the main motion, we'll need two more motions. One in which to
amend; and the second, ifallthat passes, isto waive Rule 19.C ofthe Rules of Council.
SO. FOR THE FIRST MOTION, I MOVE TO AMEND
RESOLUTION 22-242 BY STRIKING THE FIFTH "WHEREAS"
CLAUSE IN ITS ENTIRETY.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair--
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
amend the motion by strikingthe fifth"WHEREAS" clause.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. That was inadvertentlyleftin, Itwas
part of a ... to make itconsistentthroughout the resolution.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. Thank you, Chair. Ijustwanted to clarifythatthismeans
that 2.96.060(A) is in effect,and they would have to build itconcurrently to the
affordable ones.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. That's correct.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you forthe clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.And then, Isee Member Johnson had hishand up.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 96
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. For discussion,you know. I'm insupport
of removing that clause. At the very end of the paragraph itsays, and an exemption
from Section 2.96.060(C),as inCharlie,number 2, (Sales price- dwellingunits),are
you proposing to remove, would remove that as well,or do we leave that in? Idon't
know. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Under the "BE IT RESOLVED"
clause, that'swhere we, this resolution takes action, and that waiver of that section is
the firstclause under "BE IT RESOLVED".
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Got it.Thank you forthatclarification.Thank you. Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions or comments? Ifnot,allthose infavor ofthe amendment
raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Isee eight"ayes",zero "noes",one "excused"; Member Kama. Motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, you have another amendment?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No. No other amend, am !frozen? Okay, well,you
can stillhear me.
I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL TO ENABLE THE COUNCIL TO TAKE FINAL
ACTION TODAY.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 97
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive Rule 19.C.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We need to waive Rule 19.C .. .final
actionbecause we amended the resolutiontoday. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,eight"ayes",one "excused"; motion carries.
Anymore? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. When we were passing Bill107 on
second and finalreading,as Istated in my finalcomments at thatCouncil meeting, I
said thatwe would take up on a case-by-case basis,projectsthatreceivedwidespread
community support. Wailuku Country Town worked hard to bring the Committee a
projectthat is wholeheartedly supported by almost everyone in the public,nonprofit
organizations,County Council,Administration,State,and a lotofthose thatliveinthe
community itself.And thisisthe first,it'sa greatfirstprojectto use as an example of
how a waiver request would operate under Bill107.
Bill107 should be the general rule,and any projectsthatreceivethiskindofcommunity
support and provide trulyaffordable housing, this projectreceived no exemptions.
There's 287 required affordableunitswere increased to 500 affordableunitswithout
increasing a density,213 are for sale,287 mix of rentalsand for sale. And 82 to
140 percent AMI, and 120 percent and below forrentals.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 98
So, thisisn'ta consequence that we didn'tanticipatewhen we were passing Bill107.
We fullyanticipateddoing this. And I stillsupport Bill107 as the general rulethat
should be followed. And certainprojectsmay receive an exemption ifthey riseto the
level of this standard. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And I'dalso liketo support this project. As you know.
Coach, as everybody callshim, but Michael Atherton has spent a lotof time, 12 years
I think he said, working with the community. But one of the things I likeabout this
projectisitprovides the super schools,which isintermediateand elementary also.Oh,
can'thear me? Super schools, also in providingelementary and intermediate,which
willmake ita community. And itis,they’ve been working closelywith the State of
Hawaii, and therefore, the Central Maui Wastewater Reclamation Facility,the Waiale
Road Extension. Allthese things kind of tiein so stronglysupporting a community.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. And I wanted to thank Member Rawlins,
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez for gettingon thisso quickly. You know, the original
amendment to make these exemptions was mine, and then she amended itto be on a
case-by-case basis. So, jumping on, on thisprojectwhen ithad so much support and
so many years ofworking on it.
We've, we've had projectsin South Maui that had been supported by the community
and we had projectsthathaven't been supported by the community. And, you know.
I'vealways said that gettingthat community support can shave years offyour,your
project.
But you know, thishas been a long time coming, of course,as you know. And Ireally
want to commend Mike Atherton and his team forworking so closelywith the Wailuku
and Waikapu community on thisprojectand working so closelywiththe Council. So,
I'm infullsupport of thisexemption, Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Did I see another hand? Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 99
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I also want to rise in fullsupport. We want to help
out developers who have done itthe rightway. Ioften telldevelopers they hold the
golden ticketwhen itcomes to affordablehousing, everybody wants it.So, Ijustwant
to appreciate it.I know that,you know, we want itgrandfather in,ifthat'sthe term I
could use to make it so the, the guys who have been working on it like,what
Councilmember King had said,forover, you know, dozens of years to get these homes
a reality.So, it'snice to see the Council, the Administration,and the developer all
working together for our communities. And that's,that'swhat we, that's a perfect
example of a public-privatepartnershipdoing itthe rightway. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion as amended, raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes",that'seight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Member Kama.
Motion passes.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ijustwas wondering ifwe could consider Resolution22-241?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 100
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-241
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, Resolution 22-241 has been called.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT, AND TAKE 22-241 ON THE FLOOR
TODAY.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Sugimura, to waive the Rules
of the Council regarding thismatter.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. We stillhave some of the National Union Health
Workers in the audience. And you know, every day thatyou strikeisa day thatyou
are not gettingpaid forthe work. And so, ifwe can give thisresolutionto them today,
to hand over to the folksthatthey'rebargaining with and, you know, it'stime-sensitive
in that manner.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Don't need the waiver? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I WITHDRAW THAT.
CHAIR LEE: You withdraw? Alright.You want to make a motion?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'llyieldto Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 101
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair.
IMOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-41 [SIC]
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt
Resolution 22-241.
Discussion, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: IthinkIsaid the wrong number, 22-241, thank you. Chair
Members, without objection,I'dliketo read the resolutionin itsfullentirety?
CHAIR LEE: You would like to read it?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes, Iwould love to read that.Chair. Thank you.
(The resolutionwas read initsentirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, so Members, October 10 was World Mental Health
Day. That day also marked the seventh week of strikeforhardworking and dedicated
mental healthprofessionalsatKaiser Permanente, includingtherapists,socialworkers,
psychologists,and chemical dependency counselors. Kaiser only has nine mental
health cliniciansforMaui, nine. Patientsare having to waitforweeks and even months
before and between appointments. This isan untenable situationforour residentswho
need, who are paying forand have the rightto accessible medical treatment.
Kaiser Permanente must do better to resolve this situation. We callon them to get
current and new mental health clinicians back to the essentialwork they do for our
County as quick as possible. Irespectfullyask the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 102
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. It'sbeen more than a month sincetherapists
have been on strike,and Kaiser hasn'tanswered a singlequestion inpublicabout the
care itprovides. This isthe second largesthealthcare provider in Hawaii, and ithas
been completely unaccountable. Instead of answering questions, ittouts new hires,
but never says how many therapistshave leftKaiser because they can't provide the
care theirpatientsneed to get better.
My good friendDan McAlinden wanted to testify.He's from Maui. He's been working
there for seven years and he's been there the longest because they can't keep their
workers. And, you know, they're about to lose him. Kaiser Permanente includes
Hawaii as part of itsSouthern Californiaregion. But in Southern California,Kaiser
provides raisesforallitsmental health clinicians.Why won't they do the same here in
Hawaii?
Right now, Kaiser isproposing to set hourlywages in Hawaii thatare about $10 less
than the average wage for socialworkers and psychologists in Southern California.
What's the justificationforthat? We know it'snot any lessexpensive to liveinHawaii
than Southern California.How isKaiser going to address itsunderstaffingcrisiswhen
itisinsistingon paying therapistsinHawaii lessthan therapistsinSouthern California?
And we know thatthe rateof anxiety and depression tripledfrom 2020 to 2021. During
the same period,the CDC found that Hawaii went from having among the lowest levels
forsymptoms of anxietyand depression to ranking inthe top halfforsymptoms of both
mental health conditionsamong U.S. States. Still,Kaiser iscontinuingto underfund
itsmental healthcare services, with Hawaii residents oftenbeing forced to wait months
to see a Kaiser therapist.Ispeak infullsupport of the resolution.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ifnot,allthose in favor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.One "excused":Member Kama.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 103
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,justwant to confirm with the body thatthere are no other
objectionsto the referralsas read by the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, Chair, proceeding with testimony on resolutions for
second and finalreading. The firstperson signed up to testifyisKeoki Pfaeltzer.To
be followed Ryan Grether.
MR. KEOKI PFAELTZER (testifying on Resolution No. 22-206):
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha, Members of the Council, members of the community. My
name is Keoki Pfaeltzer. I am born and raised in Maalaea. And Iam here speaking in
support of 22-206. And Iwant to make mention, Ifeelit'svery important that Imention
I'm not only insupport of this.I'm insupport of procurement ofthe whole property,not
justpart of it.I'm not saying it'sallor nothing kind of thing,but fornow, Ifeelit'svery
important to stressthe procurement of the whole property. Maalaea isa very fragile
ecosystem thatisstillbeing, itstillhas a lotof effectfrom what already has been done
and built in this small littlearea.
Just to paint a picture.I'm going to tryand do itin a shortamount oftime. Iwant you
guys to imagine what my eyes have seen being born and raisedthere. From being a
small kid to now. Edible limus, no more. Edible fishvarieties,he‘e, dwindling. Iknow
some ofthem might be from other factors,but fornow we're speaking about thistopic.
So, Ifeelthata good startto saving and preserving thisarea would be the procurement
of thisproperty. Ifeelit'svery important. Iunderstand there'sa lotofotherthingsthat
are behind the scenes that have gone on that hopefullywillresolve,but that'sjustone
born and raised resident'sview on thiswhole topic. So, Imahalo you forthistime and
mahalo you forthisconsideration.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions?
MR. PFAELTZER: Mahalo nui.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 104
CHAIR LEE: Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testifyis Ryan Grether. To be
followed by Robin Knox.
MR. RYAN GRETHER (testifying on Resolution No. 22-206):
Good afternoon,Councilmembers. Thank you forthe opportunityto speak here today.
I'm Ryan Grether with West Maui Construction and I'mhereto ask thatyou vote against
eminent domain in Maalaea. When I was here previously, I spoke about our
commitment to doing the rightthingforthe community and our desireto collaborate.
Today, I'dliketo provide an update on our progress.
So, we've met with a number of community stakeholders,includingthose thatfavor
eminent domain. And shared a lotof productive conversations about things likeopen
space, fire prevention, stormwater solutions,and the potentialfor the housing
community to meet the needs of localfamilies.And I'm really,reallygratefulforthe
people who've been willingto speak with me, even with the controversy of eminent
domain, and people who have opinionsthatdifferfrom my own. Ithinkthatthat'sreally
valuable,and I'm grateful.
So, we're also working to help with volunteer cleanup in Maalaea. That'scoming up
next month. I'llkeep you allposted. We've met with folksat the State to discuss
possibilitiesfor energy storage projectsand a resiliencehub. We've performed a
detailedinvestigationof the existingdrainage infrastructureinthe area so thatwe can
understand where improvements are most needed. And our survey team isactually
out there,as we speak, mapping out the property.Once we have thattopo,that'llserve
as a basis to do the engineering inorder to come up with the stormwater improvements
that are needed.
We've also implemented repairson our existingwellsand piping.So, our water system
is now fullyoperationaland ready to support agricultureactivities,as well as new
plantingsforerosion control.We've also received some expertrecommendations for
interim solutions in order to reduce erosion and runoff.
Whether we go through the eminent domain process or preferably,approval for
workforce housing, both of those things willtake time. And Ithinkit'simportantthat
we make at leastsome improvements as quicklyas possible. So, once our survey is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 105
completed, then we'llhost a meeting in order to evaluate various options for these
interimsolutions.And I'dbe delightedto have allof your involvement, so thatwe can
collaborate. Ithinkimproving the land and tryingto protectMaalaea Bay issomething
that allof us can agree on. So, I'm hoping that can serve as a littlebitof common
ground to come together,justbe a startingpoint,and then we can work from there.
So, we're making good progress. But as you know, these things take a long time,
many years, in most cases. We've only had the property fora few months. So, Iask
that you please vote no on eminent domain and work together with us to be of service
to the hardworking familiesof Maui. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Isee none.
MR. GRETHER; Alright.
CHAIR LEE; Hold on. We have one question from Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: There we go. Sorry. Thanks. Real quick follow-up
clarification.You said you'regoing to have a meeting you'llbe hosting. Do you have
a date forthe meeting?
MR. GRETHER: Not yet. I'm waiting for the survey resultsto be completed. It'sa big
property. We're tryingto incorporateparts of the surrounding State land as well. So,
1 don't know, within a few weeks i'llknow, and I'llcertainlyshoot you an email.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Please. I'd love to attend. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MR. GRETHER; Iappreciate,1appreciatethat.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Aloha, Mr. I'm gonna say Gunther, Grether? Thanks forbeing
here. I'm sorry I'm not in the chambers anymore. But you mentioned wanting to
collaborate.What effortsdid Mr.,did your boss, or the landowner make to collaborate
with the County, with the Maalaea folks,with Trust forPublicLands when we were in
the throes of negotiatingforthisland?
MR. GRETHER: Yeah, so, Pete and 1 both, we've been in communications with TPL, Trust
for Public Land priorto the eminent domain thing coming up. So, we were under the
understanding that-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ...
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 106
MR. GRETHER; The what?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Excuse me, I'm saying priorto you purchasing the land. What
kind of collaborationdid you, what kind of meetings did you ask forbefore you actually
purchased the land away from Maui County?
MR. GRETHER: Not aware of any meetings with TPL at thattime.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
MR. GRETHER: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MR. GRETHER: Great. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisRobin Knox. To
be followed by Mike Moran.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Knox?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we'llcallthe next testifier.So, that would be Mike Moran.
(testifying on ResolutionMR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION
No. 22-206):
Good afternoon. Chair and Councilmembers. Mike Moran for the Kihei Community
Association,back on 22-208 [sic].We reallyhave nothing new to offerbecause we’ve
discussed thispiece of land for.I'm going to say a decade, and we see itcomes up
again and again, and we hear allkinds of promises. But inthe meantime, the reefin
Maalaea isdegrading day by day, week by week, and year by year. And untilwe can
control,or at least mitigate thisfallof everything intothe bay. And yes, the side of
Maalaea isonly one spot,but it'sa big spot. And it'san easierfixthan itisinthe other
partsof South Maui, where there'salready so much development.
So, we can think that it'sunfortunate that itwas another land sale when the County
was ready to move forward. But ithappens, so you get no choice but to go with the
eminent domain to tryand get thisunder controlat some pointbeforethe reefistotally
dead. And then, as we, I have learned from the kanaka, when you're looking for
generations ahead, who's going to explainthatto these generationswhen the reefis
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 107
dead and there'snothing left? So, please proceed as you have been. And with this,
this isthe action for today. Please proceed. We're in fullsupport. Mahalo for the
opportunity.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mike.
Questions? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Ijustwas clarifying.You were testifyingon
22-206, right?
MR. MORAN: Sorry, old eyes looked down and itlooked like208. Yes, thank you
Councilmember. 206 is correct.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you, Mike.
MR. MORAN: A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up totestifyon Resolution22-206
is Peter Martin. To followed by Genesis Young.
MR. PETER MARTIN (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-206):
Yes. Can you hear me, folks?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. MARTIN: My name is Peter Martin,and I'm an owner in,partowner intwo companies.
West Maui Construction,who Ryan Grether testified,he'sone ofthe otherowners, and
so is Josh Dean and Glenn Tremble. We all own West Maui Construction together.
The other buyer isHope Builders,which ismy wife and my two daughters and Iown
Hope Builders.My wife'shere sittinginthe corner.
I,Iwas lookingover some old emails. I'vebeen involvedinthispropertyfor,Iwould
say, well 1knew the Spencer's, ... for30 years or more. I'mreadingover an email
from Doug Spencer, who I'vebeen speaking with. Italkedwith him a couple times
today. And thisemail was emailed on October 6, 2014. This isso you get a little
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 108
background, because ifyou understand history,helps you go forward correctly.That's
why we study history.We tryto get the facts. We don'tletitcontrolus. We hope it
educates us.
By way of history,thisis from Doug Spencer, says, "Ladies and Gentlemen", he's
writingto the Maalaea Community Association in2014. I'llread a shortparagraph. He
says, "By way of history,the Maalaea property was purchased in2008 by the Spencer
Family with the intentionsof continuing theirfamily legacy of providing affordable
housing to the hardworking folkson Maui. Priorto purchasing the Maalaea property,
the Spencer's have completed Waikapu Gardens, 411 homes. Upon the completion
of that project,they were leftwith over 3,000 familiesthat signed up fora home, and
they didn'tget one." But they were not,anyway, so that'sone letter.
And the second one isrightbelow that,isa letter,March 17, 2015, to Doug Spencer
from the Maui Community Association. They basicallysay we support a permanent,
they support the use ofthe 257 acres for116 homes, individualseptictanks,a eleven-
acre energy park that Ryan Grether, who spoke . . .And he said,"we hereby grant
permission for this letterto be used as proof for our support of the concept of this
project".
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Martin,can you please conclude?
MR. MARTIN; Ijustwanted to.I'm concluding. The one thingIdo say thatI learned from
paddling,and Kimokeo's here. Ilearned itfrom Johnny Mac, one of my coaches. By
the way, they callme "Last Place Martin".But anyway ...fun,he says, "go slow to go
fast".And once he toldme that,Ihave to say, Istillslow, but I'mgoing faster.So, I
hope you folksgo slow to go fast.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions? Isee no hands. Thank you, Mr. Martin.
MR. MARTIN; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisGenesis Young.
To be followed by Dick Mayer.
MR. GENESIS YOUNG (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-206);
Aloha. Can you hear me?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 109
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Yes, we can.
MR. YOUNG; Alright.Thank you. Genesis Young testifyingfor myself. And thisMaalaea
Bay isreallyone of the most degraded ecosystems we have in Maui, ifnot in Hawaii.
And so, I'minsupport of22-206. We must also use eminent domain toprotectMaalaea
Bay because of the history.As the previous speaker said,it'sbeen like30 years. And
it'sbeen refutedmany times over that. We're going very slowly Ithink,and it'sbeen
well considered the County triedto buy it.And then, thatwas kind of pulledout,the
rug was pulledout from under them by this.And so, reallythere'sno other option but
to go by eminent domain.
And with alldue respect of the developers who want to do the,they say do the right
thing and have affordablehousing, even that,any development inthisparticularland.
Ibelievewould be excessivelydamaging to our environment. The Maalaea Bay must
be protected. This stripof land, thispiece of land is rightin the border between the
ridgeand the reef.And the watershed, it'slikea key area.
Ifyou put any houses there and create anymore permeable surfaces,you're going to
increase the drainage problems. And then,you have to mitigatethatfurther.The best
mitigationisto actuallyregenerate thisland intoitsappropriatewatershed drainage
purpose, so that it'saction preventing sediment and going intothe bay and so on to
protect the reef. It'sreally,reallyimportant. Our reef cannot take anymore, the
Maalaea Bay cannot take anymore. Itmust not be developed, and itmust be taken by
eminent domain because reallyit'sbeen too much foolingaround, too many games, I
think,intryingto get thisland.
And the County hasn't got a, reallyan option, I don't think. They triedto do it
transparently,buy itfairand square. And so, they have to use eminent domain. And
that'sstillfairand square, because itstillgoes formarket value. It'snot likethey’re
taking at whatever pricethey want. Eminent domain laws allowfornegotiationofthat
fairmarket value, so.
Plus, not to mention, the firerescue ifyou develop there. This isnot a place we want
development. And it'sbeen shown over and over again,as many testifiershave inthe
past meetings, discussed. Ijustwanted to summarize thatand show my support for
that.
And I ask please to pass this unanimously, cause ifthere was ever a time to use
eminent domain, it'swith thispiece of property. The historyspeaks foritself,Ithink.
And it'sbeen going very slow to get to thispoint.And Ithinkthe obvious conclusionis
it'stime,the County have controlofthisso itcan be properlyused and regenerated to
protect the reef and the environment. And protectingthat reefand the environment
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 110
protectsallof us. Itprotectsthe touristindustry.Itprotectsallof us, because itcreates
a more pristineenvironment, which is what we ail want, everybody. Even the
developer's familiesI'm sure want thatbay and that harbor to be usable ...lifebefore
itcompletely dies as Mike Moran said. Okay, I'mcomplete with that.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Dr.Young.
MR. YOUNG: You're welcome.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisDick Mayer. To be
followed by Pamela Tumpap.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-206):
Thank, thank you very much. This item, thisparcel in Maalaea came up before the
General Plan Advisory Committee, along with the Waikapu Town, both at the same
time back in 2007, when the GPAC began discussing where urban and ruralgrowth
boundaries should take place. The GPAC looked at allthe parcels allover the island
and made a determination thatthe Waikapu Town, which you justrecentlymade, made
some recommendations on or to that resolution on, and adopted, was appropriate.
And that'swhat we wanted also. That was where we thought urban land should be,
housing should be, etc.
And very clearly,no effortwas ever made by the GPAC, by the planning commission,
or your Council to put any kind of urban, ruralor small-town growth area around that
Maalaea parcelthatnow issubjectto thiseminent domain question.
And so, Iurge you strongly,please, please, please, followthrough withthe community
plans, excuse me, with the Maui Island Plan, which recommends that thisarea not be
put intohousing development, but leftopen. And please have the County buy itand
use itforthe multiplepurposes thatyou folksallknow could be much betterused as.
Iurge you to go forthe eminent domain as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Dick.
MR. MAYER: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisPamela Tumpap.
To be followed by AlbertPerez.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 111
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP. MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (testifying on Resolution
No. 22-2061:
Aloha. Thank you so much foryour time today. We've testifiedon thisissue before
and we oppose the resolutionto take the parcel in Maalaea by eminent domain. You
know, we feel,as we've explained in other testimony that eminent domain is not a
process thatshould be taken lightly.And when we looked at the Napiliproperty,there
were, you know, deep concerns about that.There were mistakes made on both sides
and we saw that as a littlebit different.
And we know thatthe County and the State were lookingatthisparcel.But the parcel
was sold legally.And you know, our localoperations did not get an offerinon time.
So, unfortunately,now we're ina situationwhere we have greatconcern over how the
County wants to use thisparcel.
And you know, we reallyneed to look at other things than justeminent domain and
settingup a precedence of taking,you know, using eminent domain here and there.
We need to have a thorough rationaleforhow we vet that.This parcelhas long been
considered for housing and rentals. And we constantly talkabout how attainable
housing and rentalsare a top priority,yet we hear not here, not there. So, we have
deep concerns.
But we also have concerns when we hear the Council say, or the Councilmembers say
what have you done to reach out? What, you know, the developerwho now owns this
land has the responsibilityof reaching out. What has the County done to alsoreach
out to the developer to explore other ways? Why do we have toalways lookateminent
domain? You know, we want to see partnerships. We want to see workable solutions.
They're tryingto work with the localcommunity. And we thinkit'sa two-way street.
When we talkabout public-privatepartnershipsand we hailcertainprograms, which
we applaud. We support private-publicpartnerships.I'vebeen asked about thata lot.
But it'sa handshake on both sides.
So. we urge,before you take thisprocess and look ateminent domain,thattheCouncil
reach out and tryand work withthe developer. See what kindsof mitigationscan be
made on the property.See ifthere isa way to do some affordablehousingand rentals
to address our crisissituation. But we don't support thisbillinjusttaking by eminent
domain on a legalpropertysale. Mahalo forthe opportunityto providetestimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 112
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Tumpap foryour testimony.
You know, Ijustwanted to clarify,because you mentioned Napili,you realizethatwe
never did pass the eminent domain resolutionfor Napili,right?
MS. TUMPAP: Ido. And that was the one-
COUNCiLMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, Ijust-
MS. TUMPAP: -that we actuallydid support.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, shoot. Okay. Alright.
MS. TUMPAP: We actuallysupported thatgiven the condition,given the mistakes made on
both sides and the problems with that.We generallydon'tsupport eminent domain.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Shoot, my bad. Thanks.
MS. TUMPAP: No, that'salright.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ijustwanted to clarify.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ifnot,thank you very much, Pam.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyon agenda Section L.
Resolutions - Second and Final Reading isAlbert Perez. To be followed by Peter
Cannon.
(testifying on ResolutionMR. ALBERT PEREZ. MAUI TOMORROW FOUNDATION
No. 22-206):
Good afternoon, Chair Lee, Councilmembers. Nice to see you folksagain. Maui
Tomorrow urges the Council to support thisresolution. This area iswell-suitedfor
preservationas open space. Itliesatthe base of steep slopes thatlead up tothe wind
farm and is a natural floodplain for numerous gulches that carry stormwaters to
Maalaea Bay and Harbor.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 113
Maui County's 2006 Scenic and HistoricResources inventoryidentifiedthe views from
Honoapiilani across thisparcel as being of high value. High winds make the firehazard
extreme here and we shouldn'tbe puttingpeople in harm's way. You know, you've
heard allthisfrom me before. I'mgoing to kind ofgo quicklyhere. The County Council
and the Mayor have allbeen working on plans to acquire thisproperty,and we need
to go ahead and see itthrough forthe good of our community and the environment.
It'sdifficultto plan forthese types of long-term projectswhen there'sa chance thata
largearea of land willbe broken intoprivately-ownedparcels,especiallywhen people
who have been involved pullout at the lastminute. Even worse, the current owners
knew exactlywhat they were gettinginto,thatthe County was tryingto acquire this
land. So, the claim of the current owners that they weren't consulted is not credible.
Protectingthisland willbe much simpler and more likelyto be successful ifit'sunder
publicownership. So, we urge you to support County acquisitionofthe land. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Albert.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person sign up to testifyis Peter Cannon. To be
followed by Robin Knox.
MR. PETER CANNON (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-206):
Yes, good afternoon,Councilmembers. My name is Peter Cannon and likeKeoki, I
grew up in Maalaea, from childhood. And I'm probably a generation ahead of him,
lookingfrom his,lookingathisage. And Iknow very wellthe layofthe land and where
the sediment comes from.
I speak formyself and Ialso speak as a member of the Maalaea VillageAssociation
Board. I'd like to cal! out the second testifier who said that they've reached out to
members of the community, cause those of us inthe Maalaea VillageAssociationand
a prettycohesive group of most of the residentsof Maalaea, I know of no one that
they've reached out to. And our effortsto reach out brought no interestat all.Iwould
guess more than 90, 80 plus percent of the sediment that goes intoMaalaea, the
Maalaea ocean at thatarea, comes from thisproperty or itcomes through it.
Ifyou'reever going to get controland stop the sedimentation intoMaalaea Bay, you're
going to have to have controlof thisproperty. It'snot about development, or highest-
best use, or low-costhousing. It'sabout the healthand recoveryofMaalaea Bay. And
it'sforallof us who liveon Maui. Ijustwant you to know thatthe Maalaea community
is fullybehind your effortto acquire this land. We hope thatyou move forward with
this.Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 114
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Cannon. Questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair the next person signed up to testifyisRobin Knox. To be
followed by Lynn Britton.
CHAIR LEE: And then how many more?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: After Lynn Britton,there are four other testifierssigned up to
testify.Robin Knox, itisyour time to testify.
MS. ROBIN KNOX (testifying on Resolution No. 22-206):
Thank you. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. KNOX: Okay, great. Thank you. Yeah, Iknow thateminent domain issomething that
isnot often used ...without a lotof thought. But Ialso know thatthatoption isthere
for a reason, itexists for those cases where itis inthe publicinterestto acquire private
property for public purpose. And that'swhat we're talkingabout here. Ifwe were
talking about getting this for a loan or for utilities,you know, itmight be viewed
differently.But, in factwe're talkingabout gettingitfor naturalinfrastructureto help
mitigatethe effectsof climatechange and the degradation of thatwaters.
And I would like to add, in addition to what other testifiershave said about the
environmental benefits of acquiring this land, that we should also consider thatthe
harbor. . .and the harbor isan important economic engine forMaui County. And the
harbor has become completely filledwith sediment which isa realdiresituationthat
. . .dredge the harbor and removes ...willbe quitean undertaking.So, we need to
stop the sediment from going in the harbor and intothe bay, and puttingthisland in
publichands. ... Thank you forallowingme to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions forMs. Knox? Ifnot,thank you very much. Next
testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up totestifyisLynn Britton,inthe
chamber, To be followed by Kimokeo Kapahulehua.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 115
MS. LYNN BRITTON (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-2061:
Aloha, Chair Lee and Members. Nice to see you in person. It'sbeen a while since 1
was inthe chambers. So, thank you forkeeping the County government rollingforthe
lastseveral years electronically.We appreciate allyour efforts.Ido need to correct
Peter Cannon. 1think he’s away. He has not been, he was not here to consult when
Tapani Vuori and Idid meet with Ryan Grether from Mr. Martin'scompany. So, we did
meet with him last week. But I did want to correct that.
Ialso spoke to ElleCochran thismorning and said apparently,her comments regarding
eminent domain were a littleconfusing. But she assured me that she was supportive
of the eminent domain resolution.
As you know, we're working on our Maalaea historybook. And unfortunately,I'm a
paper person, so, thisisthe historyof Maalaea Mauka. This, from the beginning. So,
one of the thingsthat Mr. Martin said was he referredto the communication from 2014
and 2015. And part of the historybook is going to be this page called "The Saga
Continues", startingwith 1999 when Wailuku Ag created the Tropical Plantationand
bought the lands around Maalaea.
The factisthatthe community did tryto negotiatewith Doug Spencer. Itwas Albert
Perez, Lucienne de Naie, Pam Doust from MCA, and we came to an agreement. And
then, at the lastminute, regarding open space and ag, and we even suggested they
add affordablehousing atthe lastminute. They decided to go to 201H, and allofthose
agreements went out the window, includingwhat they were going to do with the
environmental issues. So, that'swhen we protested,said thatthey needed the EIS,
and we know what happened. So, the community inthe past did tryto make something
happen.
And that was before the Pohakea Stormwater Management Plan, which changed
everything. Because then, not only did the community know that these were allissues
and thatthe bay was deterioratingrapidly,they also saw the importance thatthisland
played inthatwhole process. So, that'swhat changed everything. We went from trying
to negotiate a, perhaps the frontacreage foropen space to reallyasking forthe whole
parcel so thatwe can address allof the issues involved.
You do have lettersfrom Scott Fretz at DOFAW explaining theirplan. They're ready
and they'revery eager to,to commence the projectonce the lands are preserved for,
forthe future. We’ve clarifiedthat thisispart of the Pohakea Watershed. It'snot the
watershed; it's257 acres of the wider watershed. And there are so many opportunities
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 116
forthe futurethatwe've outlinedinfuture,inpast testimony. But thank you allforyour
support and your understanding of the importance of these lands. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? ifnot,thank you. Good to see you as always.
MS. BRITTON: Thank you. Good to see you. Thank you, Chair.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyis Kimokeo
Kapahulehua. To be followed by Kaniloa Kamaunu.
MR. KIMOKEO KAPAHULEHUA (testifying on Resolution No. 22-206):
Aloha, Chairman and Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. KAPAHULEHUA: Thank you for giving me thisopportunity to talkabout the Maalaea
project.Ithinkthatthere'snumbers of problems historicallyhas come withthisproperty
since itbecame availableto privatedeveloper. And Ijustwant to mention thatthere's
a ...about run-off.So, we get run-offfrom allthe way down Kahakuloa, come down
by Honokohau, Honolua, West Maui, then also South Maui. So, when you guys talk
about run-off,you should talk about allof those run-offbecause we get run-off
everywhere.
Ithinkthatthisdeveloper Peter Martin,West Maui Land and Hope Builderswould have
to address allthese problems before the community agree or any one of us agree
about what's going to go on. But Ido know thatthey had severalprojectsfrom Haiku
with affordablehousing with the West Maui Land/Hope Buildersand thatwas really
successful with the affordable housing. He's done another one in Maui Lani and
another one thatwas did in Lahaina with Maui Nui Housing, and Habitathousing, and
that was successful. And he keeps on wanting to do what's rightforthe people.
And Ithink that allthe associations, Makena, Kihei,Maalaea, Lahaina, allgotta address
the run-offand how they going do urn. And Ithinkthata lotofthisgoing be addressed
by new technology, about making sure the water clean. Maalaea, inparticularly,we
should creditthe Maui Ocean Center thatworked reallyhard intryingto keep the water
clean and have come up with some process that they have talkedto the State and
talked to the County, and talked to the stakeholders about what they do. And so, I
thinkthatthe developer Peter Martin,West Maui Land and Hope Builderswillbe doing
the same and want to work with the community inaddressing ailthe problems we have.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 117
So, I,you know, do not support the eminent domain. I support the, what the Maui
Chamber of Commerce justsaid,that now you have a developer, so we should work
with the developer. The private,the partnershipwith the government ispossible,but I
thinkthatthere'smany, many more discussions that'sgoing to take forus to get there.
But Ijustwant to tellyou thatmy pointof actionwould be we need housing. We need
housing. So, ifwe don't get any housing with West Maui Land/Hope Builders,then
where are we going to get any more housing?
So, Doug Spencer said there was 3,000 on the list.And we can look at the developer
startsthe listand what he going to get. But we definitelyneed housing. And our rental
in South Maui is 3500 now for two-bedroom/three bath, and 2500 just for a one-
bedroom cottage in Kihei rightnow. And so, ifwe don'tget housing ... for our rental
system or affordablerental,we no going have that. Thank you forthe time you giving
me to speak on behalfthe people who need housing. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Kimokea/s/cy. Anybody else with questions? Okay. Ifnot,may we
have the next testifier?
MR. KAPAHULEHUA: Thank you. County Councilmembers.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisKaniloa Kamaunu.
To be followed by Clare Apana.
MR. KANILOA KAMAUNU (testifying on Resolution No. 22-206):
Aloha mai kakou Chair and Councilmembers. Kaniloa Kamaunu, Waihee. So, I am
for the proposal for eminent domain. The developer, over the lastseveral years, or
lastthree years, and being controversy with not only thisparticulardevelopment, but
others, especiallyon the West Side. You know, these developers have had their
opportunitiesto do the rightthing. They always talkabout affordablehousing, but that
never comes true. And yet,no action istaken upon them. And so, here we are again,
speaking about the same issues. You know, these people tryingtofortifythatthey are
honest, thatthey are benevolent, and yet theirrecord shows otherwise.
And so, I don't think the County should have a problem being able to take upon
themselves eminent domain, especiallywhen you look at what is,you know, I mean,
we're looking at climate change. That isalready affectingthe area. We're lookingat
previous construction,which now everybody knows the mistake buildingaround the
shoreline. And ithas affected greatlythe beaches, the currents,and of course, the
aquatic lifethat isthere. Allthese things put together have shown that,you know, I
mean, you need to take a differentdirection.And the directionisnot to build.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 118
People don't liketo hear that,you know, especially,I know being that this is a
capitalisticcountry,and they believeincapitalism.And they believeinmaking money
any way that they can. But again, they sacrificethe inevitable,which is it'sallself-
destruction.And then, we allhave to backpedal and tryto recover.
So going back to the two gentlemen that actuallygrew up there. You know, I'm the
same here with Waihee, with allthe thingsthatthey want to do. And we already know
that it'sdetrimental. And but itfallsupon deaf ears untilit'stoo late. A lotof these
developers, they're not from here. This isjust a cash cow for them. And they have
money to go to somewhere else to do thisagain. But for us thatare here, been one
with,thisisour lands, our homes, you know, deal with thistime aftertime. And so, it
isthe County's responsibilityto protectthat interest.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Members, questions? Ifnot, thank you very much
again.
May we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Clare Apana in the
chamber. To be followed by Doug Spencer.
MS. CLARE APANA (testifying on Resolution No. 22-206):
Good afternoon.County Council. It'sso niceto see you. Itfeelsodd to be here. Thank
you forthisopportunity. Iwould liketo stand insupport ofthe eminent domain forthis
area. And Ihave heard foryears the controversy over whether to build,whether to not
build.And Ijustcannot see thatthiswould be a safe place to build.And Iwould hope
thatyou would stand upon protectinga neighborhood of people who are lookingto get
maybe theirfirsthomes ina place where they willbe subjectto adverse conditionsthat
reallyshouldn'tbe builtupon. And that iswhy the controversy has come.
Imean, 1actuallytestifiedto help to raisethe extramilliondollarspastwhat the County
was able to give. And thisgroup was able to do it.And Itestifiedforthat,because I
trulybelievethatthisarea should not be builtupon. And itshould be preserved and
used for different,in differentways which willbe safe for the community, and the
drainage issues can be addressed properly. We don't reallywant to take a chance. I
have seen how projectsgo. And very rarelyare the drainage issues ever addressed
properly. So, thank you very, very much. And please support doing the eminent
domain. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 119
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisDoug Spencer. To
be followed by Junya Nakoa. Junya Nakoa isthe lastperson we have signed up to
testifyon agenda section L. Resolutions - Second and Final Reading. So, ifthere is
anybody else who would liketo testifyon this item, please identifyyourself in the
meeting chat or to the appropriate staffperson. Doug Spencer, thisisyour time to
testify.
CHAIR LEE: Let's move on.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We'll call the next testifier. Junya Nakoa.
MR. DOUG SPENCER (testifying on Resolution No. 22-206):
Oh, I'mhere. Can you guys hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Spencer?
MR. SPENCER: Yeah. okay. I'm sorry,I'm using my phone. Ididn'tknow what buttonto
push.
CHAIR LEE: Please proceed.
MR. SPENCER: Can Itestifynow? Alright,thank you. I'm testifyingin oppositionto the
resolution.And !justwant to clarifytwo thingsvery quicklythataffectmy personaland
my family'sintegritythatpeople brought up. That number one, Lynn Britton'scomment
thatwe reneged on the deal with them. That'sjusta falsestatement and Ican prove
itinmy ... We proceed ahead withthe exact agreement thatwe reached withMaalaea
and Maui Tomorrow, and they are the ones that reneged on the agreement and fileda
lawsuitagainst us. So, that'sthatfact.
And Mr. Perez said that we pulled the rug out at the last-minute.Another false
statement. Two-and-a-half years we were waitingaround fora contract.No contract
was even forthcoming when we entered intoour deal with Mr. Martin. And Ikept in
contact constantly with TPL. And you can check with the folksover there,they'lltell
you that. You guys have my email Isent layingallthatout foryou.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 120
But thataside,with regard to the present resolution,thisisa reallythe wrong move on
the partofthe Council. Rather than doing something thatcould be a win-win,you guys
can have allthe environmental remediation thatyou want and need there at no cost to
the County, and Mr. Martin can do housing there. You can have both. There's been
no testimony presented by any expert to tellyou thatputtinga development with proper
retentionbasins,desiltingbasins,everythingto stop the erosionfrom going to Maalaea
Bay. No expert has testifiedthat puttinga development inwillincrease that. To the
contrary,itdecreases that.
So, ifyour purpose in doing itis to protectMaalaea Bay, you're actuallydoing the
opposite ofwhat you’resaying thatyou'redoing itfor. Because thisCounty has a very
poor historyof taking care of propertiesthey purchase. Go around and look at some
of the propertiesthey purchased in the past. They are homeless camps. They are
dumping grounds. No plan was ever put intoeffect.No money was ever spent to take
care of them.
So, my suggestion to you, take a step back, sitdown with Mr. Martin and tryto come
up with a win-win. ... Maalaea Bay thatneeds to be protected. That's the appropriate
solution.Sitdown and work together ratherthan everybody buttingheads allthe time.
That's justnot the way to get things done. And Iwould reallyencourage . . .take a
step back. There's no hurryto get thisdone rightnow. No hurryat all.And Iwould,
you know, justsay thatwe triedour best to get thisdeal to go through. . . .years of
waiting around and not a singlecontract.
And Iwould also add, not one communication from any Councilmember to myself or
any member of my familyto see what the holdup was. And to say thatwe somehow
pulled thisout the lastminute, you know, that'slikea slap inour family'sface. And 1
can tellyou that Iworked hard . ..
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Spencer, you're breaking up.
MR. SPENCER: I'm sorry. Ijustwant to thank you guys forallowingme to testify.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? No questions.Thank you very
much.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the last person we have signed up to testifyisJunya
Nakoa.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 121
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on Resolution No, 22-206):
You guys can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. NAKOA: Yessah. Okay. Sorry,brah. Stay sweating over here helping my frienddo a
celebrationof life.But, kay, gang, kind of coincidentthatthe,the lasttwo, what this,
da kine,eminent domain, yeah, was with the two developers that Ino likefornothing.
Yeah, the one, the Greg Brown house, the one Itold you guys no do em, no do the
eminent domain cause no waste our money forgo save his okole fordoing, fordoing
illegalstuff,yeah. And then, yeah, so, no, no vote forthat,so good job.
Now, forthisone, eh gang, you guys heard. But especiallyfrom the two people who
was raised there and all that stuff. This eminent domain isgood inthispart to protect
our resources and do um the rightway. Again, I know on Wednesday when we was
talkingabout Bill152, one of the Councilmembers when mention thisdeveloper. And
in a way maybe we no forget we gotta go do, we gotta go do thisstuffforthe,this
developer too. But you know what, the developer has done nothing but shown, nothing
but disrespectto the localpeople. And Igoing to tellyou straight-up,Iknow, me, ino
scared throw people under the bus.
But thisthing,hey look,he trysneaky buggah forpurchase thisthingwhile the County
istryingto purchase um. And then, Iheard that,you know, thatthey going tryto talk
to people. But so far,the people thatthey should be talkingto,they never talkto him,
yeah. So, it'sa steady tacticby developers,yeah, thatmake likethey going talkto the
community, they going talkto some people. Oh, we talkto the community, but they
never talkto the rightpeople.
So, Isupport the eminent domain to purchase thisthing to keep itaway from crooked
developers. And I going be straightup tellingyou guys that. That's what, we gotta
keep fightingforthat. You know, yeah, allof the good people when talkabout why we
should do um. So again, you know, try listento the people. That's what allus guys
are doing. IfIwin, Igoing to listento the people. So, Ihope you guys going listento
the people thatjustwhen testifyand not forthe developers who when testify.Yessah.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions? Any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. Mr. Nakoa.
MR. NAKOA: Yessah. Bye-bye.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 122
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testifyon
agenda section L. Resolutions - Second and Final Reading. So, we'lldo lastcallat
thistime. Ifthere isanybody else who would liketo testifyon thisitem,please identify
yourself now. I repeat, lastcall. Chair, no one else has identifiedthemselves as
wishing to testifyon thisitem.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections to closing publictestimony and accepting written
testimony forresolutionsforsecond and finalreading?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with resolutionsforsecond and finalreading.
RESOLUTIONS - SECOND AND FINAL READING:
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-206
AUTHORIZING PROCEEDINGS IN EMINENT
DOMAIN FOR THE ACQUISITION OF
APPROXIMATELY 257 ACRES AT MA'ALAEA
MAUKA/POHAKEA WATERSHED, MAUI,
HAWAI‘1 FOR PRESERVATION
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
1 MOVE TO PASS RESOLUTION 22-206 ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER SiNENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 123
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member Sinenci,moved by Member King, to pass Resolution
22-206 on second and finalreading.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Members, Resolution 22-206 passed first
reading on October 2 [sic],with six "ayes",two "noes", and one Member "excused".
This resolutionauthorizes eminent domain proceedings for the acquisitionof real
property comprised of 257 acres, more or less, and identifiedas Tax Map
Key (2)3-6-001:018 in Maalaea, Maui, Hawaii forpreservation.
As we have discussed at both the CARE Committee and Council, this resolution will
provide another toolto the Administrationto use ifitwants to pursue ownership of this
property. As noted by the Committee, the publicinterestto acquire the propertyisfor
watershed projects,open space, reservoirdevelopment, firesuppression, publicparks,
and possible forestrypreserve.
Housing development agreements were tried on this property and have been
subsequently turned down by the South Maui community over and over again,
including the most recent proposal for gentlemen farming estates. The Council
recognized thatthe water tablecould not support both the Waikapu Town Estates and
development inthisMaalaea area. As our Maui Island Plan expert Dick Mayer stated,
thispropertywas never meant to be developed forhousing.
The Pohakea Stormwater Management Plan recognized thisspecificparcelas having
significantpotentialto mitigatesediment transportto the ocean through a number of
restorationactivities.This parcel has been well-recognized as more valuable to public
purpose ifkept in conservation,especiallysince the State DLNR has supported the
County's recent effortsto preserve the land as open space.
The Trust for Public Land has triedto negotiate with the previous owner, and again
with the current owner, with no luck. Itwas not the, that once we approved the Trust
for Public Land funds going, the County funds going to Trust for Public Lands, itwas
not up to the Council to negotiate. This was put in the hands of the Trust forPublic
Lands.
To reiterate,thisresolutionisan authorizationto give the Administrationanother tool
to negotiate the purpose, the purchase of the named property. Itdoes not bind the
Council or the Administration. But having this tool will hopefully expedite the
negotiationfor the property to be finallyplaced in conservation as soon as possible.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 124
And you allheard the urgency from our community. Thank you, Members. Iask for
your continued support ofthisresolution.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot.rollcall.Rollcall.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with a rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
EXCUSED.CHAIR LEE:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 125
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCl, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are seven "ayes",one "no",one "excused": motion
carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Next item.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on bills.The firstperson
signed up to testifyon billsisHayden Pogni. To be followed Wendy Pogni.
MR. HAYDEN POGNI rtestifvina on Bill159 (202211:
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha, Councilmembers. IfI sound nervous, it'sbecause I am.
Thank you forthe opportunityto testifytoday. Iknow you’ve worked many long hours
on thisBill159, and 1appreciatethat. But my name isHayden. IliveinLahaina. We
have two girls.One isin Lahainaluna High School, one isinSacred Hearts. And I've
livedon Maui for 30 years. Started out my lifehere as a bartender. My wife was, and
stillisa hairstylist.Over the last25 years,we've builtnumerous businesses. We had
four storeson Maui. We've purchased multiplerentalunitsthatwe rentout long-term.
We builta salon and spa that'sbeen running for 18 years. And about 18 years ago,
we purchased a B-2 zoned propertyat242 Lahainaluna inthe Lahaina HistoricDistrict.
About fiveyears ago, we spent our lifesavings and repurposed the B-2 zone property
on Lahainaluna into a four-bedroom TVR, which is a legallyzoned use. We went
through the County for allthe necessary permitting. Ittook three years to get itall
done. We had to put a manhole to accommodate a 20-room hotel,went through
historic,planning,building,etc. But we got itdone, and we obtained allthe permitsto
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 126
have a legalTVR rentalbusiness. Now, over the last25 years, my wife and I have
employed and housed hundreds of hardworking Maui localfamilies.We're not rich
people whatsoever, at all.Everything we’ve done has been reallyhard.
But now, I hear you'retryingto shut down my TVR business. And I have to wonder
why. Why would you do this? It'sa legaluse. You willbankrupt me and Idon'tthink
that'swhat your goal is. Now, Isupport in a managed visitorindustry. Iget thatwe
need to stop approving vacation rentals moving forward, and the infrastructurecan't
handle unlimited vacationers. But, and I'm for that. But to take rightsaway from
people, Ifeeliswrong. Ifeelit'sreallywrong.
These are hardworking Maui localbusiness owners that you'llbankrupt,the families
that own these TVRs that are legal. Now, I know a lotthat willbe affectedby this
proposed bill,and some are in their80's. Imean, that'sour kupuna thattook a risk,
opened a, you know, bought a property, vacation renting it. And to imagine their
income being taken away intheir80's,1don'tthinkyou want that.
So then, Iwas thinkingwhy else would you do it? Do you thinkit'smaybe going to
force the property owners to reduce theirrents,so they'recharge a fairrentto long
term tenants? It'sjustnot going to work. You know, a lotofthese propertiesare multi-
million-dollarproperties.You know, my friendisrenovating a cane home inWainee
Street rightnow and a familyfrom Californiaofferedhim $2.2 millionforit.He's not
going to take it,but Ican'tafford$2.2 million.Anybody thatdoes isn'tgoing to long
term rentitforthree or $2,000 a month. They're going to want $10,000 a month forit.
So, takingpeople'szoning away rightswon't help with affordablehousing.
It'salso going to negativelyimpact so many people's abilityto feed theirfamiliesifthis
goes through. So, IvisitedWest Side Glass yesterday, and the owner ofthe property
said that most of her business is from vacation rentals,most. Imagine ifmost of her
business got taken away? Itwould ruinthem. They've been in business 30 years.
Now, ifyou followthrough with this,you're going to put a large number of Maui
businesses out of business that depend on TVR guests. And at a loss of income to
hardworking Maui localpeople who depend on thisincome. Vacation rentalson the
west side of Maui, oh I'msorry. Can Igo a littlebitlonger?
CHAIR LEE: One minute. One minute.
MR. POGNl; Okay. Itprovides so many jobs such as wedding coordinators,wedding
photographers, restaurant employees (our guests eat at restaurants),landscapers,
housekeepers, furniturestoreemployees, repairpeople. 1mean, TVRs reallygivejobs
to plumbers, electricians,handymen. Front Street,the mom and pop shops, bakeries,
coffee stores,grocery stores. Plus,the tax revenue loss ishuge.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 127
So, Ijustimplore you to thinkgrowth, and thinkabout buildingaffordablehousing like
crazy. There's so much land above Walgreens and above the bypass. And I know
you know more than I do. But, you know, think growth instead of strippingpeople's
rightsaway to run a legalbusiness. So, please don'ttake my TVR rentalzoning way
from me in my B-2 zoned property. Ioppose Bill159, unless it'samended to protect
my vested rightsand the rightsof others.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Yes, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Pogni, foryour testimony. 1
believe Idid textyour wife back lastnight.
MR. POGNI: Iknow. You did. 1appreciate that. But Iwanted to talkto-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, cool.
MR. POGNI: Just cause ofthe--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, Ijusthad a question.
MR. POGNI: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You want to continue doing TVR, but you don't have any
intentionto do timeshares ortimeshare plans?
MR. POGNI: No. No. Our house is fantastic. Because it'shistoric,we had to keep the
originalfootprint.I mean. I'm talkingthe windows have to be exactlythe same. So,
it'sbeautiful.But we don't,no, we love itas is.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No. No, was good.
MR. POGNI: I'm not going to builda 20-room hotel there.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And, and so, you don't,you don't mind not being able to do
timeshares ortimeshare plans?
MR. POGNI: No. No, no, no, no.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just TVR?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 128
MR. POGNI: Just TVR, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Got it.Thank you.
MR. POGNI: To rentto,you know, familiesand ...
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Thank you. Any more questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, forbeing here. Sorry, I'mon the
screen here. was in chambers earlier,I wish I was, I was stillthere. But I'm just
looking at the billthatyou're,you're testifyingon and I'm not sure which section that
you're referringto that would take away your business. Because basicallythis is
capping the number ofTVRs thatwe have rightnow, and the footprintofthe TVRs that
we have rightnow. So, ifyou, you currentlyhave a permit?
MR. POGNI: Oh, yeah. It'sinthe zoning, TVR isinthe zoning. But on the PowerPoint that
was sent to me itissays "restrictthe use inthe Lahaina HistoricDistrict".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And-
MR. POGNI: And/or make itlegal non-conforming. And Iwould prefer itnot be legal non-
conforming because I'dpreferitto be legal,because itislegal.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. But ifit'slegalnon-conforming it'sstilllegal.
MR. POGNI: Yeah, but that'sa gateway to then making itcompletely non-conforming. It
could open up a gateway to then send itto Airbnb and VRBO that it'slegal non-
conforming, and thatcould conflictwith theirruleswhich would basicallyshut us down.
IfAirbnb and VRBO got wind that itwas legalnon-conforming thatcould conflictwith
theirterms of business. And then, we pretty much are done, it'sgame over at that
point.
So, it'sa zoned use, ithas been forever. And Ijust,you know, liketo keep ita zoned
use. In my opinion,it'salmost liketellinga gas station,oh. I'msorry,you can'trun as
a gas stationanymore, because you can put. . . in the kitchen,inthe backroom. All
of a sudden, you'relegalnon-conforming. I'dliketo stay legaland operate likethat.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 129
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I understand your concern now. But I,I don't think that thisis
what the billwould do to you. Ithinkyou would stillbe legal.Thank you. Thank you,
Chair.
MR. POGNI: Okay. Iapologize,cause itdid say legalnon-conforming, so I...
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions,Members? Any more questions?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.Thank you very much.
MR. POGNI: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisWendy Pogni in
the chamber. To be followed by Penny Thomas.
MS. WENDY POGNI ftestifyina on Bill 159 (2022)1:
Aloha, Councilmembers. Thank you for,Idon'tliketo talkquiteas much. But, so, he
said most of it.But Ijustwanted to statethatwe were given no noticeabout this. I
found out about thisfrom clientsin my hairsalon. So, thatwas kind of a surprise. We
also don'treallyunderstand the legalmeaning of a "legalnon-conforming",what that
would mean forour property.
So, we purchased 18 years ago, an old cane house on Lahainaluna. Itwas B-2 zoned.
And inthe originalB-2 zoning, TVR use isa legaluse. We didn'tapply fora permitfor
that,that'sthe originaluse, which you probably are allfamiliarwith. So, Idon'tknow if
you remember 18 years ago what that streetused to look like? The homes were
dilapidated.We completely put our whole lifesavingsintoremodeling the home. And
we have a beautiful TVR that families can come and stay in. They are providing
business to the restaurants,shops, and activitieson the west side.So, 1would justlike
you to consider to keep itthe originalTVR use for B-2 zoning inthe HistoricLahaina
District.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. And you're okay with you guys doing it,but not
futureB-2 zonings doing it? Like,Imean, ifyou were to sellit,thatone would be an
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 130
existinguse. But allthe restof the B-2s inMaui County thataren'tcurrentlydoing TVR
use, you'reokay with us stopping that,because ofthe tourism issue?
MS. POGNI: Ithinkthatifthatwas originallyallowed inthe B-2 zoning, and that'swhat they
use when someone purchased the property. Because we also went through, when we
purchased this,to get additionaluses on our B-2 zoning, and that took four years of
being infrontofthe County, the Planning Department. So, it'snot an easy thingto do.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: What do you mean additionaluses?
MS. POGNI: Additionaluses forthe B-2 zoning. So, the,when we purchased it,the only use
that itwas allowed for was likean office,or a TVR.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Got it.
MS. POGNI: So, it'snot thateasy to get a B-2 zoned property approved forjustany use.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, got it.
MS. POGNI: Okay. Any more questions?
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo foryour testimony today.
MS. POGNI: Okay, thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I-
CHAIR LEE: Oh no, wait. We stillhave one more question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You understand why itwas so challenging to get
those uses?
MS. POGNI: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Because those uses are not something thatwe, that
the community reallysupports. And so, that'swhy there are hurdles and hoops tojump
through, because there'sa lotof oversight in restrictingthat kind of activity.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 131
MS. POGNI: So, are you saying thatallB-2 zoned propertiesare not, a TVR use isnot an
allowed use for them from the start?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No, that ithas that oversightforthose permits.
MS. POGNI; It'snot a permitted use. It'salready inthe zoning.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; In B-2, oh okay. It'sfine.
MR. POGNI; So, and Iappreciate it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Go ahead.
MR. POGNI; Yeah, so you'retalkingabout the challenges of getting multiple uses on the
property.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; What Member Paltin asked.
MR. POGNI; Oh thatwas, okay, I'msorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Those additional uses.
MR. POGNI; Yes. And we went through, and absolutely,and so the listissmall ofthe uses.
And the whole neighborhood participatedinthat,and the Council was great. And they
were forevery one of our uses cause there weren't any kind of nightclubs,or latenight
restaurants,or any kind of jazz clubs. These were things that got strikingfrom it,
because there's allthese, like,aunties and uncles that kind of live behind that have
owned the homes formany, many years. So, they were forthe additionaluses. They
allcame here and they said,no, we're forthese uses. Because they'relike,you know,
coffee stores and, you know, the bakery, stufflikethat. Because there is,currently,
there'ssome prettybad activityhappening inthispropertypriorto us purchasing it.So,
the uses thatthe County gave us were very appropriateforthe neighborhood that it's
in. For sure,there'sno concert,venues thatcan go on.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo for that.
MR. POGNI; Small, small business stuff.And currently,the neighbors--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yeah, you answered my question.
MR. POGNI; Okay, Ican go on and on. I'm sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 132
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 1 heard, your wife letus know. But, yeah, I'm just
asking ifwith those additionaluses that Member Paltinhad asked about, ifyou
understood why itwas so challenging?
MS. POGNl: Yes. Ido.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; And so, Ithink you both clarified.So, I appreciate
that. Mahaio.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. You answered her question.
MS. POGNl: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no more questions. Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Penny
Thomas. To be followedby Richard Biernacki.Irepeat.Penny Thomas, itisyour time
to testify.Then, we'llmove onto the next testifier,Richard Biernacki.Irepeat,Richard
Biernacki. We'll move onto the next testifier,which isJordan Hocker. One more time,
Jordan Hocker it'syour time to testify.
MS. JORDAN HOCKER [testifying on Bill159 (2022)1:
Can you hear me?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, yes.
MS. HOCKER: Okay. Iam no longer inthe Council chambers. I'minmy car and so I'lljust
keep thisshortand sweet. Ikeep gettingmuted by the moderator. Can you hear me?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we can hear you.
MS. HOCKER; Okay. So, my name isJordan Hocker. I'mtestifyingon Bill159, insupport
of transientaccommodation caps. And that is allI have to say, because I have an
unruly childinthe back seat. So, thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyafterJordan
Hocker isBianca Isaki.Irepeat, Bianca Isaki,itisyour turntotestify.We'llmove onto
the next testifier.Robin Knox. I repeat, Robin Knox.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 133
MS. ROBIN KNOX [testifying on BillNos. 154 (2022) and 159 (2022)1:
I'm here.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
MS. KNOX: I'm here. Can you hear me?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we can hear you.
MS. KNOX: Hello? Okay, great. Yes, Ijustwant to testifyin support of the cap on transient
accommodations. Ithink it'sespeciallyimportant to consider that,you know, where
new accommodations can be builtisalready very limitedand most ofthose,especially
hotels,willbe Lahaina or Kihei where we already have more than our share of the
burden of tourism.
So, you know, as a residentof Kihei,I definitelywant to see the accommodations
capped, because 1thinkthat isreallyone of the only toolswe have to limitthe number
of tourists.And rightnow, our town isso overrun with touriststhatwe can'tget inand
out of town. We can't,you know, timely run errands, or go to a restaurant,or find
parking at the beach. So, itreallyhas become an imposition on our lives. And I
appreciate the Council bringingthisup. And I'm in support of the capping tourism
accommodations.
CHAIR LEE: Questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisCamille Ala. To be
followed by Pamela Tumpap.
MS. CAMILLE ALA [testifying on Bill159 (2022)1:
Hi. Can you hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. ALA: Wonderful. So, aloha. My name isCamille Ala. My familyspends time between
Alaska and Hawaii. Alaska has a lot, Hawaiians who spend time in Alaska. We
purchased a condo in Puamana and was told Puamana was grandfathered forshort-
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 134
term rentals. We purchased a one-bedroom condo with the intentionof adding
additionalbedrooms formy three sons. We submitted our firstpermit forexpansion in
July 2019. After close to three years inthe permittingprocess, we received a special
permit approval from the Planning Department thatexpires November 30.
Ijustwent intothe Planning Department and was toldthat because we haven't started
our project,we would probably be no longer be allowed to continue with our plans of
adding additionalbedrooms. Again, we have been working on thisproject3.5 years.
Much time, energy, stress, and money has been put into this project. I find it
unconstitutionalfor Maui to take away my property rightsto add additionalbedrooms
thatwere grandfathered inforshort-termrentalswhen Ipurchased my unitin2019.
This billhurts familiesby not allow additionalbedrooms. Families are criticalfor the
success of a community. By limitingexpansions of bedrooms in current short-term
rentals you willbe driving familiesaway from Maui. Itwould be irresponsibleand
morally wrong to pass thisbillwithout allowingthe Planning Commission to complete
their review. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisPamela Tumpap.
To be followed by Nick Drance.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP. MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE [testifyingon Bill159 (2022)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of Council. It'sgreat
to be back with you again. We appreciatethe changes made during the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee yesterday. From what we heard, itseemed likethat
you were working to address many of the concerns shared by testifiersand focused
on your goal of allowingexistingpropertiesto continue the short-termrentals,allowing
owners to rebuild,remodel and maintain theirproperty, and have an opportunity to
consider new unitsbeing hotelunitsinsome instances.
While we have not had the chance to review the amendments discussed yesterday in
writtenform and see ifthey completely address our concerns thatwe shared from our
professional rentalmanagement association and others, we cannot provide our full
support of thisbillat thistime, because we haven't seen what's going to be addressed.
However, from the conversation, it seems like the amendments that were being
discussed were a good compromise.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 135
As you vote today on the amendments, we would liketo reiterateour thoughts on a
few areas. Given allthe work on creatingthe section on planned developments inthe
past and the limitednumber of propertiesincluded,we believethose propertiesshould
be allowed to continue their short-term rental use legally.We believethisshould also
be the case forpropertieszoned inhotelinthe Lahaina HistoricDistricts.And we also
support the amendments brought forth by the Hawaii Hotel Alliance that were
discussed yesterday.
We are concerned about the levelof transparency inthe process. As we understand,
the intentof the billis to pass ittoday on firstreading before the public has had a
chance to see the written amendments, which is a littleconcerning. Given this,we
would appreciate a public hearing on the bill,as was suggested yesterday to ensure
the publichas the opportunityto share theirthoughts on writtenamendments priorto
second and finalreading. And again,we do feelthe Planning Commission should be
allowed to ring in. Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony. And thank you
again forthe work we saw done inCommittee yesterday.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Pam, fortestifying.Yeah, a lotof
work was done thanks to Tamara Paltin. I,Iwanted to justget clarificationyour, your
thought of having a publichearing, because we did hear from the community thatthey
did not know about thisand the changes that were made yesterday also. So, can I
have your thought about a publichearing?
MS. TUMPAP: Yeah, and that'swhy. Ithinkthere'sstilla lotof confusion. We're not able to
see the written amendments. We're not sure how well they align with a lotof the
thoughts thatwere there yesterday. But itseemed likeeverybody was moving inthat
direction. But again, we're stillhearing a lot of people didn'teven know about
yesterday's meeting. We don'tknow how many know about today'smeeting. And this
is a complex piece of legislation.So, you know, we have triedto advocate for
transparency and givingthe publicthe opportunityto ringin and get itdone right.So,
we would support a publichearing.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just wanted to clarifythe public hearing would be before, I
mean, between firstreading and second reading. Isthat what you're saying?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 136
MS. TUMPAP; We did hear that discussion, and that was okay with us, yeah. I mean, the
sooner, the better.You know, we do want to have the public have a chance to ringin.
And we do want to have a chance. We've even called today, but of course, we can't
see a writtendocument now to see any of the amendments in writing.So, you know,
we justthinkthat'simportant and make sure that,again, we're allon the same page.
But appreciatethe great work done inCommittee yesterday.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And, you'd be open to that,having that inthe evening time?
MS. TUMPAP: Preferablyformost of our members, because thatwould allowthem to come
after work.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Ithinkwe stillneed a seven-day noticefor
that. So, itcan'tbe earlierthan that,right?
CHAIR LEE: More likea ten-day notice.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, ten days.
CHAIR LEE: Because we have to publishitinthe Maui News.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Alright.Okay. Thank you.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you, Pam.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo forthe opportunity.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Nick Drance. To be
followed by Mike Moran.
CHAIR LEE: Can't hear you.
MR. NICK DRANCE [testifying on Bill159 (202211:
Mic is on.
CHAIR LEE: Muted on his side?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 137
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: He's unmuted on his side. Yes, Mr. Drance, we can'thear you.
I don't know ifperhaps you're,like,too far from the mic. Sometimes I hear you very
faintly.
MR. DRANCE: Okay, isthatany better? I'mshouting.
CHAIR LEE: Little bit. Little bit better. Little louder.
MR. DRANCE: Oh, okay. Alright.Wow, I'm reallyshouting. Alright.So, you can hear me
now, yes?
CHAIR LEE: More or less,yes.
MR. DRANCE: Okay. Alright.I'mtestifyingon BilM 59. You allhave heard thistestimony
on thisad nauseam. I only want to quickly say that a vote for thisbillis a vote for
residents and residents' interest. More hotels doesn't do anything with qualityof lifeof
residents. This billdoes not do anything to hurtjobs, particularlyconstructionjobs.
Right now, the Carpenters' Union is looking for additionalmembers. So, there's no
shortage of constructionjobs on Maui, reallyat any time and that'sunfortunate. But
that'swhat Iwant to say. Idon'twant to.you know, rehash my own priortestimony
and everything you've listenedto up untilnow. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much. Next testifier.
MR. DRANCE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisMike Moran. To
be followed by Sherry Boonstra.
MR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION rtestifyino on Bill159 (2022)1:
Aloha once again, Chair and Councilmembers. Mike Moran forthe KiheiCommunity
Association on Bill159. I'vegot the, Ithink I'vegot the rightnumber thistime. We are
in support of it,and we commend you. We triedto,but to watch the entiremeeting
yesterday, which went on and on and saw thatitwasn't likean ironclad thing. Now, it
was said,itwas likewe're willingto compromise or make exceptions. And so, we feel
the Council has made a valiant effort to make the best of the situationthat you have.
So, we continue to support that.
And we have found over the years, no matter what isdone, there'salways a certain
segment that comes in and says, we didn'tknow anything about it,or you didn'tgive
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 138
us enough time,or we need some kind of a delay. Ifwe can'tstop it,let'sdelay it,and
then maybe we'llhave a chance to stop itlater.
So, I mean, that could go on infinitum.There's always going to be somebody who
wasn't aware, and, you know, you can only do so much. People who want to be aware,
participate,or they joinorganizationslikeour littlenonprofitthatdoes tryand keep up,
so they can be aware thatway. So, we justfeelthat,you know, therewillalways been
somebody. That doesn't seem likea justifiablereason to not go forward. Ithinkyou
have devoted a lotof time to this.And we are insupport. So, I'llleave itthere. Mahalo
forthe opportunityonce again today.
CHAIR LEE: Thanks, Mike. Questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Mike. Nice to,thanks forstickingwith
us, coming in and out allday long. So, I was told that the Kihei,the South Maui
Advisory Committee was able to make a statement about this.Iknow Ididn't,the Maui
Planning Commission didn'thear itinthe 120 days they were given. But so, Imean, I
know you'renot speaking on the South Maui Advisory Committee's authority,but didn't
you guys actuallydiscuss this? And Iwas toldthatyou, you voted to approve.
MR. MORAN: Yes. You're correct,Councilmember King. We did mention thisatyesterdays,
when we testifiedyesterday that what had happened, we had our firstmeeting, and
thiswas on our agenda. We participated. We voted unanimously in support. And
then, I don't know, weeks after,we were contacted by the Planning Department that
said,oh, sorry,we didn't,you weren't authorized to meet already. We forgotto,you
know, dot the i'sand cross the t's. So, it'slikethat didn'thappen. You know, it's
deja vu.
So, we did have a second meeting and we did approve itat the second meeting. And
with thattranspiring,partofthe problem thatthatcreated not only inconvenienced our
volunteers,but that,when the Planning Commission thought they could go ahead after
our firsthearing,they too were told,no, no, wait a minute, thathearing didn’t,you have
to wait tillthey do the second hearing. So, that was part of the reason that itwas
delayed at the Planning Commission, because of that,that misstep by somebody in
Planning. But no, we did,we did vote insupport of it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright.Thank you. Maybe we'llhave to look intothat
further offline. Thanks, Mike.
MR. MORAN: You're welcome.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 139
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you, Mike.
MR. MORAN: A hui hou.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisSherry Boonstra in
the chamber. To be followed by Dave Jorgensen.
MS. SHERRY BOONSTRA ftestifying on Bill159 (202211:
Thank you very much. Iappreciatethe time thatyou have given forus to at leastshow
you that we are real Maui business people, and thisisvery,very importantto us to be
able to continue with the businesses that we have.
I had about, same as Wendy and Hayden that were up here, purchased a property
18 years ago. And one of my propertieswas, iszoned hotel. It'sa small duplex right
in Lahaina's HistoricDistrict.But Idid purchase thisworn down, beat up, disastrous
propertywith thatinmind thatitshotelzoned. And my plan, Imean, at thattime, you
know, we got 2008, then we had COVID. So, there'salways likeI'm ready to get go,
do the remodel, and change the whole structure.And then, you know, catastrophe
hits.
But with the terminology that! believe,ifI'm not mistaken, ifin hotelzone you want to
do any renovations,you can'tchange the amount of rooms, etc.,thatyou have. Now,
thiswould be a very small property. It'snot large. But Idid purchase itbecause itwas
hotel zoned.
CHAIR LEE: So, did you want to add rooms? Isthat?
MS. BOONSTRA; Yeah. That was my plan when Ioriginallypurchased it.And, you know,
we purchased itdowntimes and, orjustplanning forthe upside,which likeIsaid,there's
been a lotof bends in the roads. But I'm not looking at a huge hotellike,you know,
the Kaanapali Hotels, or. It'snot a property that would be necessarily for long-term
rentals.There isthe whole littlecommunity there,isallvacationTVRs. Or Idon'tknow
thatthey have permits because they are hotelzoned.
But what I,what Ifindisthat today was a littledisturbing.Ihad a young woman that
came to my home, because she's being evictedout ofthe Sunset Terrace Apartments,
which I'm not sure was through her, that they'renow talkingabout turningthat into
short-term rentals. So, people that are long-term there are scrambling to get out to
leave space for short-term rentals. Now, that to me, is more the problem, because
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 140
they were already long-termand now they'reevictingthe people. You know, that'sfull-
on apartment complexes inHonokowai.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any-
MS. BOONSTRA: And that,likeI said,that Ijust heard today, so that'sstillhearsay. But I
had, had someone else with the same scramble mentality.And then, there isno place
forthem to go.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have questions?
Member Johnson has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Good afternoon.
CHAIR LEE: You can look at the monitor.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Sorry, I'mon Lanai,so.
MS. BOONSTRA: I'm okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you for your testimony. You mentioned you
purchased: thiswas one of the properties that you purchased. Are there any other
propertiesthatyou purchased that might have an effectwith thisbill?
MS. BOONSTRA: Yes. Iown the home rightnext door to Wendy and Hayden, which would
be B-2 zoning.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Anymore? Any other homes, or any otherproperties
that you own?
MS. BOONSTRA: I have the old Lahaina house, which in May Icelebrated my 30th year in
business. And itis because of my home that there isa B&B permit in Maui County.
And these are, thisisa family business. We have; I have children. It'salmost likeit
may sound likeno. I'mnot one ofthose thatflew infrom the mainland, bought property.
Itwasn't easy to pick up these properties. Everyone knows it'sreallydifficultand
challenging to own a home here.
My passion issharing the world with my properties.And Imeet amazing people. It's
a wonderful business. So, Idon't want you to think that I'mgreedy. But it'salmost like
ifyou grew up in a business where you're doctors, you pass on being doctors. And
unfortunately,thisisa hot topic.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 141
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Okay. And that'sthe firstIheard of the doctors. But okay
ifthat's the case.
MS. BOONSTRA: Well, Imean, we pass on the knowledge, right?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I guess. I'm going to be a constructionworker, because
that'swhat my mom was. Alright,thank you so much.
MS. BOONSTRA: Well,that'swhat my dad was, too. That's a great profession.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Itis.Thank you.
MS. BOONSTRA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MS. BOONSTRA; Thank you, Ms. Lee.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Dave
Jorgensen. To be followed by TrinetteFurtado.
MR. DAVE JORGENSEN. AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION OF
HAWAII rtestifvina on Bill159 (2022)1:
Good afternoon, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers, and
staff.Iapologize,Iwas allset up to be correctlybroadcast, but then I had grandpa
duty and I'mkindofstrugglingon my iPhone now. And I'mnot,cameras aren'tworking,
so Iapologize. My name isDave Jorgensen, and I'm here today to testifyon behalfof
the American Resort Development Association of Hawaii inoppositionto BillNo. 159.
Iam a registeredlobbyist.
Bill159 was initiallyreferredby the Council to the Maui County Planning Commission.
The proposed measure was sent to the Paia-Haiku, South Maui, and the Hana
Advisory Committees forinput.The Planning Commission initiallyheard the resolution
and received testimony:however, due to the procedural errorwe justheard about,the
measure was postponed so thatthe requiredrecommendation could be received.
The Planning Commission has received significantcommunity input and stillhas
testimony open forBill159. Accordingly,the Planning Commission has not provided
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 142
a recommendation, which would include the comments of the Advisory Committees
and community members.
ARDA Hawaii stronglyopposes Bill159 as currentlydrafted.The measure willrepeal
the temporary moratorium on new transientaccommodations and instead make the
moratorium permanent. The originalmoratorium was justestablishedinJanuary. This
moratorium isalready ineffectand should be reviewed foritsoveralleffectivenessin
tourism management before another moratorium overrides and makes itpermanent.
The current two-year moratorium should be utilizedto gather data to determine
whether stopping the development oftransientaccommodations willactuallydecrease
the number of visitors.Further, ARDA Hawaii maintains itspositionthatthe proposed
billwillnot accomplish the overalldesired effect,limitingarrivalsto Maui.
From an economic standpoint,and you've heard a lotofthisbeforeformonths, ARDA
Hawaii is concerned thiscap willlimitjob growth in Maui. Reducing job growth will
reduce tax revenue growth forMaui and also reduce opportunitiesforMaui residents
to findgood localjobs. Timeshare resortscontributesignificanttaxes inrealproperty
tax, GET, TAT, and provides substantial charitable giving to the community.
Specifically,as you allknow, timeshares pay the highest rateof realpropertytax.
Finally,a unilateralcap on timeshare resorts,could resultinthe flourishingof illegal
transient rentals which evade taxes, do not contribute to job growth, and negatively
impact the qualityof life.
Ultimately,the proposed legislationwill unnecessarily establish a permanent
moratorium. While ARDA Hawaii acknowledges the growth. I’llwrap up, ifImay? That
growth to the tourism industryof Maui should not be infiniteand should be sustainably
managed, preventing any form of growth fortourism industrywillresultin unintended
negative consequences. Growth should be reasonable and properlymanaged rather
than precluded.
ARDA Hawaii isinfavor of working with allCouncilmembers and stakeholders. We're
very encouraged to hear therewas compromises discussed. But as withthe Chamber,
we haven't seen those in writingyet and would likethe opportunityto comment on
those as well. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Dave. Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
We willbe takinga ten-minutebreak rightafterthe next testifier.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 143
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next testifierisThnette Furtado. She, itseems she's
not present in the meeting rightnow. So, Chair, do you want to move to the next
testifier?
CHAIR LEE; No, I,Iwant to talk to the Members. Members, we have 16 people signed up
to testify.I'm not sure, are you availableto work intothe night? Are you, everybody,
can you raiseyour hand? Raise your hand, work intothe night? Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Does thatmean past 5? Past 6? What, what night?
CHAIR LEE: Past whatever time.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Forever?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm available till8. After that,it'smy bedtime.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair, 7.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, 7. We got a 7. We got an 8. Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I am available after 7.
CHAIR LEE; What do you mean after7? You mean, you're not availablenow?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I.Ihave to leave at 4:30, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Johnson and Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez ?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Ihave a meeting. Chair. Chair,Ihave a meeting at 5, but I
could put itoff,or maybe a 15-minute meeting and come rightback on. But I'm here
for this.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? Your availability?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Iam here for whenever this is done.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 144
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We okay, so, 1heard thatsome are availablenow-
CHAIR LEE; Ididn'tget Member King yet.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh okay. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ican be availableas long as we take a dinner break. I'dliketo
request at leastan hour dinner break. So, you know, IthinkIcan stay til!8 ifwe have
a dinner break in between.
CHAIR LEE; Alright,Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, you said we had 16 more
testifiers.So, ifwe completed testimony, and then started action,and then took a
dinner break, then we would get back Member Johnson and Member Sinenci. But
then. Member Paltinisa hard stop at 8?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, I'llextend my bedline for,bedtime foryou folks.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Because you're actuallythe main person. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Iguess, since it'sSaturday tomorrow, I'llask my kidsto letme
sleep in.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Then let'stryand take, well,allof the testifiersand see where we are
when they'redone, okay. So, do you want a break now? You want a ten-minutebreak
now to make phone calls,tellyour familyyou're not coming home, you know, things
likethat? They're on theirown fordinner. Okay, go forwhat? You guys want the
recess? Okay, you want to go straightto testimony?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm,I'm willingto go straightthrough testimony,but Iwillhave to
leave at some pointfora few minutes and use the littlegirls'room.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.Okay, Members, we're going to proceed withtestimony then.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 145
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person signed up to testifyis,is the person
connected to the meeting under the name Johann L. To be followed by Kaniloa
Kamaunu. Johann L.
MR. JOHANN LALL [testifyingon Bill159 (202211:
Hi. Johann Lall,testifyingon my own behalf offthe clock. Good afternoon,Chair and
Councilmembers. I'm testifyinginfavor of Bill159. And I'mnot anti-tourism.I'mfrom
the Caribbean. And I'm from an island that doesn't have much tourism, and instead
relies on more extractive economic activities. And so, I see tourism as a really
beneficialthing.Also,acknowledging, you know, some reallybad historyinvolved.But
overall,it'sgood. It'sjustIdon'tthinkwe reallyneed any more. And Ithinkmost of
the community agrees.
But there are some reallypracticalreasons fora cap thathave, you know, there'sa lot
of benefits.And one thing isthere'sa shortage of constructionworkers and building
materials right now. And so, not spending resources on additionalvisitor
accommodations would free up more workers, man hours and materialsforhousing,
especially affordable housing. Maintaining levels at their current, you know,
accommodations would help withvisitorexperience, Ithink.Ithinkover-tourismharms
tourism.
And lastnight,Iwatched some of the Committee meeting yesterday. And the Hawaii
Hotel Association testified,"Idon'tthinkthere'sanybody who's talkingabout increasing
the numbers of units". And she had said thatthey'reat 76 percent capacity.So, you
know, with that additional24 percent, itseems likethey have room foradding more
visitors.So, capping itdoesn't reallykeep itat the levelitisnow. Itstillallows for
growth withintheirexistingunits.
I know probably someAnd all that said, I have an idea for a compromise.
Councilmembers and some, and a lotof community does oppose thiscap. So, it's
totallypossible to exempt some Council districts.For example, inUpcountry,thereare
Ithinkmaybe zero hotels. So, ifwe want to keep adding units,why not have a cap for
South and West Maui where we have, you know, many thousand of hotelrooms.
And we can do rezoning. We can build infrastructure.And we can buildhotels
Upcountry. A lotof touristswould love to stay in Kula. The weather isbeautiful.I
would probably go up therefora longweekend or something likethat.So, you know,
that'smy proposal for. .. You can go to the lavender farm. You can go on horseback
rides. There's more stuffthan justthe beaches. And Ithinkwe allappreciatethatkind
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 146
of activities.You know, it'dbe reallyeasy to go to Haleakala ifyou're already within
an hour and an hour-and-a-half.So, that'smy testimony. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Johann. Thanks for your testimony.
So, Ijustwanted to clarify.So, your suggestion was we keep the cap forSouth and
West Maui and then we exempt some of the areas thatdon't have tourism rightnow.
And Ijustwanted to clarifythat. Okay, thank you.
MR. LALL: Yes, that'scorrect.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: My community isreallyhappy thatyou said that. Because we've
been overrun for--
CHAIR LEE: But not Kula or Upcountry. Alright,any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very
much.
Next testifier.Let’sgo through thisas quicklyas we can.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisKaniloa Kamaunu.
To be followed by Angela Leone.
MR. KANILOA KAMAUNU [testifyingon Bill159 (202211:
Aloha mai kakou, Council and Chair. Thank you for the opportunityto speak once
again. I'mforthe bill.You know, a lotofthese people are speaking, likethe gentleman
previous,they reallydon'tknow the history.The difficulties,we as kanaka, as wellas
long-timeresidentshave been puttingup with touristsand tourism. It'salreadya fact
known thattourism doesn't benefiteverybody. Itbenefitsa few. And what people don't
realize,you're talkingabout, okay these people come and buy a place thatlady talked
about. She bought a hotelzone. And people don'trealize,oh yeah, it’sjustsmall. But
again, how many of them? ifyou have a 100, ifyou have 200, 300, 1,000, Imean, you
have to put them collectively.You can'tfigurethem allseparately.And then,what is
the impact then?
And then, you add another 2,000, maybe 3,000, 4,000 more people. And what people
don't realizeisthe takings. The takings meaning resources. The impact ithas, we
talked about our reefs already. We talked about our beaches. What alDoutthe water?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 147
. . . that don't have a water resource. Places like Kula that'shaving problems with the
wells they have up there now. People don'tthinkabout the whole picture.They think
about, yeah, I have this,Ibought this,and I have the rightto do that. But they don't,
they don'tsee what they impose upon the restofthe community, especiallywiththose
that advocate to be able to have resources.
We went through howmany droughts withinthe lastthreeyears? A lotof people realize
that the end of 2021, Icould count how many on how many on one hand how many
days we actuallyhad downpour. And then, people don'tthink about recharge. They
thinkabout use. They thinkabout taking.That'sallthey thinkabout. Where the sewer
going to go? How is itgoing to impact? Where is itgoing to go? 2,000 more units
means 2,000 more imposing upon what isalready stressed.
And that'swhy you have to look at itcollectively.You can'tlook at itas individuals.
One person would build one. One person would buildten. One person would build
20. You know, and then we have Grand Wailea. Our iwi allover the place. The
historyof the area. And yet,they want to add on. And they want to. they want to
impose upon us as kanaka forthe degradation that'sgoing to happen, because it's
going to happen. Italways does. And the one that brunt'sthe force of itisthe kanaka
people. It'sour home. . . .Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisAngela Leone. To
be followed by WillSpence. !repeat,Angela Leone, it'syour time to testify.
MS. ANGELA LEONE ftestifyinq on Bill 159 (2022)1:
Hello. Can you hear me?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we can hear you.
MS. LEONE: Okay. Thank you. Aloha, Maui County Councilmembers. Mahalo for the
opportunity to speak this afternoon. My name is Angela Leone, and I'm a small
business owner in West Maui. When Ifirstmoved here, Iworked as a speech therapist
in the public schools. And when my kids were born, ! retiredfrom that career and
started a small property management company, which I stillrun today, eleven years
later,employing many localemployees.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 148
But today, I'm speaking on behalf of PRMA, the Professional Rental Management
Association, a coalitionof professionalproperty management companies representing
legallyzoned condominium vacation rentalunitsthroughout Maui. Our members are
licensed in the State of Hawaii, engaged in the management of legalvacation rental
properties,primarilycondominiums, and comply with the realestate laws and codes of
ethics.
200 employees and over 300 independent contractorsand vendors.
Our companies represent 216 years in business, employing nearly
We submitted writtentestimony foryesterday'smeeting and would liketo thank you for
receivingthe feedback from the testifiersand being open to making some changes on
the bill.We are insupport of balanced tourism;itseems to be the goal inthe writing
of this bill. And we also want to make sure that our members' businesses and
employees' jobs continue to be secure ifthisbillpasses.
In the event that the billmoves forward today, we would request that the Council
consider and approve the suggestions proposed by testifiersreferencing Section 11,
19.32.040, regarding planned developments, as well as an amendment proposed by
the Maui Chamber of Commerce that references Section 15, regarding historic
districts.
Firstwe'd request that the codified wording remain intactthat was implemented,
surrounding planned developments, which would allow those defined properties,
Puamana, Kaanapali Plantationand Alaeloa to remain as legaloperating vacation
rentals,which they've been doing formany, many years. Leaving the current language
in the Code does not allow for any new TVRs to be established,which seemed to be
a concern ...
CHAIR LEE: Hello?
MS. LEONE: Secondly, we would request thatTVRs in hotelzoning inthe historicdistricts
would be allowed to continue as fullypermitted,and not grandfathered in as non-
conforming. Properties such as Lahaina Shores and Aina Nalu have always been
zoned hoteland are operatingas vacation rentals.And we believethey should be fully
allowed to continue to do so.
PRMA would oppose thisbillin itscurrent form. We'd likethe opportunityto weigh in
further and act as a resource in any additionaldiscussion. But without seeing the
writtenamendments or changes made to the bill,it'sdifficultforus to support it.Ifthe
billdoes move forward though, we'd kindlyask thatyou consider these two changes
justmentioned. Mahalo forthe opportunityto provide testimony. And thank you again
forallof the hard work thatyou've done on thisbill.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 149
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members? Apparently no questions. Thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisWillSpence. To
be followed by Sarah Sparks.
MR. WILL SPENCE [testifyingon Bill159 (2022)1:
Good afternoon, Members. I wasn't reallyplanning on testifyingthisevening, but I
understood thiscame up, and Iwas, itcame on such short notice Ithought! should
jump in.There's two thingsabout thisbill,some have already been said.
One, 1thinkthere willbe unintended consequences. And without seeing the changes
to the bill,it'svery difficultto say ifthishas been taken care of. But at leastthe copy I
have has brackets around hotels within the Lahaina HistoricDistricts.Other people
have mentioned things. I'm aware of the historicPioneer Inn. I'm also aware of
Plantation Inn. And I don't think that'ssomething that,you know, the Council is
intendingto make non-conforming. Non-conforming, yes, it'sstilllegal,but it'snot,it's
not a good stateto be in. It'sgoing to limitinvestment. It'sgoing to limitthe abilityto
operate. Ithinkthere could be reallyheavy consequences with thatdown the road.
The second thing iswith the temporary moratorium, there was a provisionforaffordable
housing thatifsomebody builta hotelroom, they would have to also buildan affordable
unit on a lower income level. And I think that was a reallygood provision of that
temporary moratorium. Ithinkwe could be missing an opportunityto provide more
affordablehousing, ifwe don'tincludesomething likethat. And as you know, the one
room is not going to generate one additionaljob or requireone additionalunitof
housing. It'sgoing to be liketen rooms thatmay generate an additionaljob.
So, Ithinkthe County, ifthatmakes sense, Ithinkthe County would come out ahead
if,ifwe includethatprovisionforaffordablehousing. I'maware of a couple landowners
that are considering itrightnow. So, anyway, thank you very much foryour time. I
appreciate the Members staying lateand working on this.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very,oh, we have one.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you, Chair. 1just wanted to clarify,hi Will,!just
wanted to clarifysomething thatyou said,thatyou were suggestingwe put inone unit,
did you say for one unit,one hotel room unitfor one affordablehousing unit? Isthat
what you were suggesting? That requirement?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 150
MR. SPENCE; That iswhat isinthe currenttemporary moratorium thatwas going to sunset
intwo years'time. So, rightnow ifsomebody wanted to buildadditional-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Like,ifthey wanted to build-
MR. SPENCE: --additionalhotel rooms, they would be requiredto buildone additional-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Housing unit.
MR. SPENCE: -affordable unit.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Yeah, Iwas a littleconfused about the way you worded it.
But thank you.
MR. SPENCE; Yeah. Well, it's,sorry,it'sshort noticeon this.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We have one more question.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good afternoon,Mr. Spence. Just
briefly,in your testimony, you mentioned impact on investment. Can you citean
example how thisbill,as you see it,could impact investment? And Iappreciate your
testimony,because you have been a former Planning Director,so you have a lotof,I
guess, insightwhen itcomes to planning issues,zoning issues,and whatnot. But that
kind of caught my ear. So, can you justtellme how thiscould affectinvestment?
MR. SPENCE; If,and I'm not a banker. So, but ifIwere one, and say Pioneer Inn came to
me and said,you know, we need to upgrade this,we need to do some improvements,
and we need a loan to be able to do it.Ifyou go to a banker and say, yeah, my historic
inn isnon-conforming, Ican'trebuildit,Ican'tdo whatever. You know, that'sgoing to,
ifIwere the banker, Iwould say that would be, that'sa problem forme. Iwould be
hesitantto loan on something that1couldn'tget my loan back on, Icouldn'trecoup that
money.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you, Mr. Spence. Thank you. Madam Chair.
MR. SPENCE: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 151
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Spence, foryour testimony.
Ijustwas wondering ifyou ran thatby the Hotel Allianceabout the affordablehousing
continuingon?
MR. SPENCE; No, Idid not.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And then, the other question was did you, you didn't
watch yesterday'smeeting on this?
MR. SPENCE: No, Icouldn't. It,again, Ihad a conflictin scheduling. My apologies.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Then, the biggest drawback Ibelieve,when you were talking
about non-conforming, and tikethatisusuallythe Planning Department doesn'tallow
renovation, remodel, and expansion. And so, ifwe do allow that,does thattake away
that drawback?
MR. SPENCE: Being non-conforming has multiplelayersof ramifications.And it'sgoing to,
a lotisgoing to depend on how the Code isinterpreted.And that'sgoing to change by
director,by director.And so, our Code isso old and so vague, it'srespitewith issues
for non-conformities. Itisnot a good status to be in for any property owner, letalone
a fullypermitted hotel.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
MR. SPENCE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Somehow, we stillhave 15 left.It'sprobably going to
grow. May we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisSarah Sparks. To
be followed by Stewart Marshall. Sarah Sparks, itisyour turnto testify.
MS. SARAH SPARKS ftestifyina on Bill159 (2022^1:
Hi. Yes, I'm here. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Proceed.
MS. SPARKS: Aloha. My name is Sarah Sparks and I'vebeen running the Paia Inn with
Michael Baskin forthe past 15 years. Iam here to testifyagainst Bill159 today, as I
do believe that thisbilldirectlytargets our business in the B-CT zone. This billwas
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 152
writtenby Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez. And yesterday in testimony, she stated thatshe
did not feelthat itwas directed towards us in any way. But Iwould liketo referto a
CivilBeat articlethat was written last month, in which the articlestates,"The billis not
designed to put anyone out of business, Rawlins-Fernandez said,
acknowledged includingthe provisionthatcould killBaskin'sinnafterhearing concerns
and reading testimony from some of his neighbors, includingAarona."
But she
Aarona is Mopsy Aarona, one of our neighbors, who has declared that she is on a
mission against us. We have made numerous attempts over the past decade to reach
out and have good neighborlyrelationswith her. But she has made itvery clearthat
she does not have that intentionin mind. She staged protests claiming that we're
illegal,waiving the Flawaiianflagin frontof our business, which isan indicationthat
she believes we're not Flawaiian and we are haole, so we don't belong running a
business in Paia, which isvery disheartening forme and my children,who Iraisehere.
She's harassed our guests, our employees. She's triedto sabotage our business.
CFIAIR LEE: Ms. Sparks. Ms. Sparks, can you focus on the bill?
MS. SPARKS: Isure am. Ialso feelthat,yeah, Ifeellike1justgot interrupted,so letme just
get a second to get my thoughts together. Because thisisan emotional issueforus,
because we are a small family-runbusiness. Iam raisingmy three kids here. They
were born in Paia. And Ido feel I have the rightto explainmyself and defend myself
in publictestimony. So, thank you forlistening.1feelshe has been collaboratingwith
the County, includingMs. Rawlins, on allcorrespondence regarding anything having
to do with our business.
Iwould liketo note that we have worked very hard to preserve the historicbuilding,
and that the Paia Inn is housed in. That we have cared very much about continuing
itshistoricuse. We create tons of jobs over the course of the years. We've created
hundreds ofjobs thatsupported many, many, many localfamilies.We help diversify
the Paia,the Paia community. We help stimulatethe Paia community. And we donate
to allcharitable contributions on the, on the island of Maui.
We have had a contentious relationshipwith the County of Maui, but we have come to
a pointwhere we have resolved allmatters and we are fullypermittedand operational.
And now thisbillputs our business injeopardy. We've spent an astounding amount of
time, money, and resources defending ourselves and protectingour business. And
the tollthis has taken on us is immeasurable. But we do continue thispursuitas we
deeply believethatthe Paia Inn isbeneficialto thiscommunity.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 153
So, Irespectfullyurge you to remove the section thataffectsthe B-CT zone. Because
the Maui Island Plan callsfor small,sensitivelydesigned inns in our small towns in
order to help our small town economy. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? Ifnot, thank you very much. What
happened? Okay.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,next person signed up to testifyisStewart Marshal. To
be followed by Kelly LaPrade. Stewart Marshall?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Marshall?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Stewart Marshall,we see you, but we don't hear you. It'syour
turn to testify.
CHAIR LEE: You may startspeaking.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Perhaps Mr. Marshall isencountering technicaldifficultiesatthis
time. We will be sure to come back to him. We'll move onto the next testifierwho is
Kelly LaPrade. Kelly LaPrade?
MR. STEWART MARSHALL ttestifyina on Bill 159 (202211:
Sorry, who has been called?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, Mr. Marshall,we can finallyhear you. Yes. it'syour turnto
testify.
MR. MARSHALL: I'msorry,Ididn'thear my name called.Well,thank you forthe opportunity
to speak. My name isStewart Marshall. I am a condominium owner at Puamana in
Lahaina. 1 provided testimony at yesterday's Planning and Sustainable Use [sic]
meeting. I'vehad great difficulty,almost 12 months and counting,gettinga permitfor
a fairlystraightforwardrenovationdue to the visitoraccommodation moratorium.
The obstacle that we are confronted with is that we are in an area zoned for TVRs
since the 1960's. Iwas relievedto hear thismorning about the revisionsproposed at
yesterday'splanning meeting. But Iremain concerned about the specificwording that
said to the effect that renovations would be allowed, as long as there were no new TVR
rooms or units.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 154
This is a follow-up to stress two points. The renovation for which we have twice
submitted plans adds no new bedrooms. And that'sper the Planning Department's
insistence,even though we added an ensuite,a small laundry room, and a storage
room. I'm concerned about what constitutes a room. 1 know another owner plans to
add an addition,an additionof a handicapped bathroom and a powder room. My point
isthatspecifying"no new rooms" ratherthan no new bedrooms creates more problems
than itsolves. I believe the intent of the ordinance was to stop new TVR capacity,not
restrictthe modern design amenities.
I also want to again object to the removal of the language in County Code 19.32.45,
which specifiedin2014 Puamana's legallypermissibleTVR use. Our community has
done TVRs for many decades, but more importantly,our community isfullybuiltand
therefore, no new TVRs can ever be added. Leaving the existing language intact
simply protectsour righttodo TVRs. Homeowners should not be strippedofthisability.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. Any questions. Members? No questions. Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Kelly
LaPrade. To be followed by Genesis Young.
MS. KELLY LAPRADE ftestifyinoon Bill159 (2022)1:
Hi. My name isKellyLaPrade. IliveinPuamana full-time.Ido not rentitout,and my
family has been livingthere fora while. It'sbeen our plan to livethere with our kids,
raise our kids there. And pursuant to our understanding that it'sa vacation rental
community, thatwe would be able to vacation rentitlaterwhen, you know, much later.
It'sbeen kind ofour retirementplan forus. And thishas reallyput,you know, a damper
on us specificallyand personally.
And, you know. I'dlove foryou to tellme thatthislanguage isn'tgoing to apply to us,
you know, our unit'sgoing to be protected. But! feellikewe'rejustbeing penalizedfor
not vacation rentingour house sooner when we were able to. And, you know, we've
been relyingon the fact that this is a vacation rentalfullybuiltcommunity, as the
previous individualtestified,fordecades and decades. And justto take thataway from
us, it'sgoing to hurt us. And we are members of the community, not people livingon
the mainland. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions? No questions. Thank you. Next.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 155
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisGenesis Young.
To be followed by Mark Marchello.
MR. GENESIS YOUNG [testifying on Bill 159 (2022)1:
Aloha. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. YOUNG: Thank you. Genesis Young testifyingin support of Bill159. We need to cap
our tourism accommodations as a criticalneed to protectallof us. This protectsfrom
an excessive growth ofthe tourism industry,which willactuallykillthe tourism industry.
And unfortunately,that'sa big partofour economic driverhere on thisisland.And we
need more diversity,obviously,but we willkillitifwe have too many tourists.It'sgoing
to killthe environment. It'sgoing to make the place unlivableforus and forthe tourism,
the tourists.They don't want a crowded place either. And the resolutionthat the
County has passed earlier,having and supporting qualityover quantitytourism,Ithink
is,isimportant to note.
And also, that thiswillnot decrease jobs. This is a cap. As the only way we could
reallycome up with to,to tryto slow the growth of tourism. It'snot going to probably
stop the growth of tourism. It'scertainlynot going to decrease the number of tourists
we have, which isalso something we need to do because we have too many. As we
look at the ratios,it'swell over the community plan ratioalready. And so, we really
need to protectour beaches, protectour cultureand our livelihoodsby, by having
qualityover quantitytourism,which usuallymeans, actually,more jobs. Cause when
you have higher qualitytourism,ittakes more people per touristand they spend more
per tourist,so it'sactuallya better,bettereconomy.
And you can'tstop the people coming here. You can'tput a choke on the airplanes
and travel.Itjustisn'tallowed. So, really,the onlythingwe can do istryto restrictthe
accommodations. And this cap is an important way of doing that. And itcertainly
doesn'ttake away, or shouldn'ttake away existingrights,existingpeople who already
have theirshort-termrentalspermitted. And Ihear thatsome ofthe amendments that
were talkedabout yesterday,Iwasn'tatthatmeeting,sound likesome were good idea.
And I'veheard that they were thinking about actuallyallowing hotelsto have an
exemption to buildabove the sea-levelriseline. 1don'tknow the detailsof that,but
that seems unwise. Sea-level rise is an issue and we should be creating a place so
that the hotel can build above the sea-ievel rise. They should also get ridof rooms,
room for room at the, inthe sea-level risezone. So, only buildifyou'regoing to replace
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 156
as opposed to enlarge. So, the cap would stillapply. Itwould justbe a trade-off.I
thinkthat'sthe appropriate way to do it,because we have to deal with sea-levelrise,
and we haven't even figuredout how to affordthat and how to help our community
make that move.
Anyway, so it'sfor allof us to cap it,because over-tourism killstourism and killsthe
environment, and killsour qualityof life.So, let'shave qualityover quantitytourism.
Let'shave the cap. And. . ..
CHAIR LEE: Any questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the next
testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Mark Marchello. To be
followed by Clare Apana.
MR. MARK MARCHELLO rtestifvina on Bill159 (202211:
Aloha. Mark Marchello. Aloha, County Council. Mark Marchello of Lahaina. I livein
Puamana and testifiedyesterday. Iwant to circleback. I thinkthe question for me
about the abilityto buildadditionaltownhomes inthese projects.And Iwasn't able to
get . . .to get the answer, but Ithinkthe easiest way would be justto change, you
know, put one word in the current verbiage, transient vacation rentals shall be
permitted in planned developments, planned development structures builtpriorto
1981. So, instead of just saying planned development, say planned development
structures....thatsolves thatproblem.
But I also want to kind of reiterate that I'm also very concerned to hear about the
changes basicallyin the legalstatus for the planned developments and, you know,
turning them into non-conforming uses. Itseems like,I’m not sure why we’re doing
thisto allthese differentgroups. But allthe differentcategoriesseem likeit'snot really
a fairthingto do to turn these people, allthese, thatown allthese differentproperties
that are legalintoa non-legal status.
And so, you know, inPuamana at least,1know the previous Planning Department, the
County Council at the time,thisis2013, again Iwas . ..and worked fortwo years to
validate short-term rentals that they are legal in Puamana and kind of confirm the
50-year history.We completed the whole process working on, they'reworking on the
hearings,meetings, testimony back and forthwiththe Planning Department. Thorough
reviews of the verbiage and research to make sure itslegaland itdidn'taffectother
properties.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 157
This finallyledto a unanimous Council vote confirmingthe 50-year-oldhistoryofshort
term rentalsPuamana. They realizedhow unique Puamana isand the guest revenues
generated finalsource of revenue for small business owners and familiesof Lahaina
Town. ...have, you know, Ihave kids,Ihave grandkids,1have nieces, nephews, you
know, thisisa, you know, to take away, to do thisand thinkyou're going to be taking
away allthisincome from these people isjusthard forme to manage.
Please do not remove the legalstatusforvacation rentalsin planned developments,
as stated inthe current language inthe Maui County Code, 19.32.040.1. This ...only
. . .Puamana, Kaanapali Plantation,Leiaioha. Istillfeelforallthe other people that
are. are being, are turned in,intoan, you know, nonconforming us. And I hope you'll
completely reconsider that situationforthem. too. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members? Isee no hands. Thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Clare Apana in the
chamber. To be followed by Lei Sato.
MS. CLARE APANA [testifying on BillNos. 154 (2022) and 159 (2022)1:
Thank you very much for allowing me to testifyon this,this motion. Yesterday's
meeting reallybrought a lotof things to lightthat leftme a littleconfused about what
I'mtestifyingon today. Iam infavor of the billas Iread itfortoday'sagenda. I'm not
sure about the amendments made. There are amendments that were made directly
for or proposed by the hotel industryand various other interests.And Iwould liketo
ask you to make an amendment for the kanaka, iwould liketo ask you to make an
amendment to prohibitnew ground disturbance,or old ground disturbance in known
burialgrounds fortransientvacation rentals.
I'veheard many people who come to thisplace talkabout how they belong here, and
theirchildrenbelong here. My ancestors belong here, and our iwikupuna belong here.
And Iask you to make thisone amendment forthem, so thatthey willnot continue to
be builtupon. And Ican give you more particularsof how to make ita good bill,and
good language. But Iwant to tellyou thatthiswould strengthen any caps billbecause
itwould be addressing a reallyhorrendous problem.
As you know we have been intervening in the Grand Wailea case, primarilyfor
protectionof our burials.And we have gone through so many differentthingswhere
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 158
big money, big corporations and influenceover the County has come intoplay over us
being able to protectour burialsthatare stillinplace, inthe ground. So, please make
an amendment for the kanaka. Make an amendment to not allow further ground
disturbance forremodeling, renovation,or new buildingof transientvacation rentalsin
any place. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Questions? No questions. Thank you.
MS. APANA: Thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyis Lei Sato, in the
chamber. To be followed by Bryce Barbier. Itappears that Lei Sato has left.Then,
the next person signed up to testifyisBryce Barbier.To be followedby ElaineWender.
MR. BRYCE BARBIER [testifying on Bill 159 (2022)1:
Aloha, Council. Iappreciate the opportunityto share. You previously heard from my
mom, Sherry Boonstra, who spoke earlieron inthisdiscussion. And Ithinkthe thing
that strikesme most today isseeing the people show up here. You know, you're not
seeing a lobbyistgroup from the hotelscoming into stop them because thisbilldoesn't
reallyaffectthem.
Whereas, we run,you know, our, our house, a bed & breakfast for30 years. Igrew up
inthatbusiness, carryingguest bags from a very young age. And with something like
this,likeour livelihoodgets, you know, shut down withina year if,ifyou know, we go
from non-conforming to not gettingthat,you know, renewed. So, Iprettymuch urge
you to reallythinkabout, you know, who thisimpacts.
You're seeing the faces of the people who make a very small impact compared to the
instances where Idrivethrough towns thatare,you know, developed. Idrivethrough
Kaanapali, the whole place isdeveloped. Idrivethrough, you know, Wailea, wherever.
It'sjust,we have one house and a neighbor, you know, these plots,one B-2 plot,or a
hotel-zoned plot.
These are not the impacts that,you know, are destroying the island,whereas, you
have entire,like,diversions and infrastructurebuiltfor big facilitiesthatare owned by
privateequity money. So, thatthe money thatwe make, you know, itgets spent at
Foodlands. Itgets spent at the hardware store. We are, it'snot leavinghere. But
because we have the face, it'seasier to,you know, to come afterus.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 159
So, and above anyone else, v/e reallyhave the vested interest. Whereas, the
corporations do not. Their money leaves. Our profitsmade get taxed by the County.
We don't have offshore accounts that's .... I think that this billreallyimpacts the
people thatare tryingto help,and do things inthe rightway, and willonly leave those
who are abusing and extractinginplace.
So, appreciate the opportunity.Appreciate you alltaking the extra time to hear us all
out. And Iwould request thatwe have more time to consider the impacts on, you know,
the people likeus sittinghere. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? No questions. Thank you. Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testifyis Elaine Wender. To be
followed by Zachary LaPrade.
MS. ELAINE WENDER ftestifvina on Bill 159 (202211:
Aloha kakou. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Aloha.
MR. WENDER: My name isElaineWender. I'mtestifyinginfavor of Bill159. First,Iwant to
thank the Council forthe remarkable work you've done in the past few years in really
focusing on and tryingto provide forthe needs of the residentsof Maui Nui and of the
islandsthemselves. I'vebeen observing the Council for50 years and I'm happy to say
that you are the best Council ever. Mahalo.
Twenty years ago, Ifirsttestifiedbefore thisbody concerning transientvacation rentals.
In the ensuing decade, i frequentlytestifiedbefore the Council and the Planning
Commission. I and many others warned of the consequences of loosening the
restrictionson establishingsuch rentals,but the Council then did not listen.Allof what
we predicted then has come to pass, and I'm gratifiedthat the Planning Department
and the Council realizethe past mistakes. Iwhole-heartedly support Bill159. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? No questions. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisZachary LaPrade.
To be followed by Karen Comcowich. I repeat Zachary LaPrade, itis your turn to
testify.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 160
MR. ZACHARY LAPRADE [testifyingon Bill159 (2022)1:
Thank you. Can hear me? Zachary LaPrade here.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we can hear you.
MR. LAPRADE: Excellent. Thank you very much forthe opportunity to testify.And thank
you, Councilmembers, for staying latetoday to hear thisimportant issue. Also, thank
you foryour service. I'llkeep my testimony quick. I'llletyou know that Iam a resident
of Puamana. I'masking forthe revisions,excuse me, speaking inopposition of thisbill
and asking there be no revisionsto the PUD exception forthe transientvacation rental.
We residein Puamana and have foralmost 15 years with our family.
This bill,ifyou hear me clearly,completely rewards those that have been conducting
transientvacation rentalsinthiscommunity, while us, who livinghere, willnot have the
same opportunitiesthatwe reliedon when we conducted our due diligenceto purchase
this property. Please consider revisingthe billto remove the exception to the PUD
transientvacation rentalexception, because thisparticularcommunity isfullyequipped
and has always been for over 50 years to handle transientvacation rentals.Thank
you foryour time.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? No questions. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisKaren Comcowich.
To be followed by Cheryl Hendrickson. Irepeat,Karen Comcowich. Itisyour turnto
testify.Chair,we'llmove on to the next testifier.That would be Cheryl Hendrickson.
MS. CHERYL HENDRICKSON ftestifyino on Bill159 (2022)1:
Okay. Coming up.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Cheryl Hendrickson, we can hear you.
MS. HENDRICKSON: Yes. I'mjustgettingmy video up. There we go. Okay. Hi. Good
afternoon,everyone. Ijustwant to elaboratea littlebiton past testimony insupport of
this bill.When I mentioned in the past, when I was here in the 80's to make good
money as a waitress, that was because there was a limited amount of
accommodations, limitedamount of flights.Now thatthe airlinesare bringingthem in,
like,stronger than ever before, we have, this is our only recourse to curb that,which
should bring the balance back to Maui as faras population versus tourists.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 161
It'sscary, just how crowded it'sgotten. This billis a step in the rightdirection. I
commend Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez forcoming up with it,at leastshe came
up with,I mean, she did something. Nobody else has proposed anything else. And
it'sa step inthe rightdirectionand she should be commended forthat.
Also, those that statethatthey won't stop,that are pessimisticabout itnot stopping
people from coming here. Well, yes, that'strue. But itwon't get worse. So, the point
is we justwant to cap it. Jobs willremain. Existingjobs would remain. Ifyou're
pessimisticabout it,do something positive.Figure something out. But she did,so let's
support her.
Also, Paia Inn, hundreds of jobs. You guys have 6, 8 rooms, please. And help
community families,Idon'tthinkso. I'veseen papaya, Paia go to pot because of your
business. And the rubbish level,the rubbish level,what are we doing with the rubbish
rightnow? Can you imagine having to dispose more? We have stress on our
emergency services,our lifesavingfrom these people that aren'tocean people, our
environment, our wildlife.
Again, I'm hearing allthese personal,financialinterest.What's more important than
where we live,Maui? Nothing is more important than that. And the existingpeople
that livehere should realizethat. It'snot a place to make money offof. It'sa sacred
place and you're luckyyou livehere. It'svery emotional to me.
And again, there willbe no decrease injobs. There's plenty of constructionjobs out
there. Our infrastructureiscrumbling, remodeling. We livein a saltairenvironment,
we need, we need construction workers. And itwillalways be busy because of that.
So, Ifullysupport thisbill.
Let'sback Keani. She did something about it.She found a step inthe rightdirection.
It'snot an end all,but it'sa beginning and let'sgo forit.We need to protectthe island.
We need less people. I mean, look at us all.We're sweating. The climate isgetting
hotterand with more people, it'sjustgoing to get worse. So, please,please, let'spass
thisbilland startgoing inthatdirection.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? No questions. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisKaren Comcowich.
To be followed by Lisa Paulson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 162
MS. KAREN COMCOWICH Ftestifyina on Bill159 (2022)1:
Aloha, Karen Comcowich speaking on my own behalf. I submitted basic written
testimony for Bill159. But after listeningto the testimony, I would like to speak
specificallyabout Lahaina-side and the impact these zoning loopholes have had on
our housing stock. The ...there'stalkabout the dilapidatedhouses they fixed up for
tourists. Because those houses used to be homes. Lahaina used to be a
neighborhood.
In the early 2000's before the riseof Airbnb and VRBO, my friendslivedinthe houses
in the Historic Districtin Lahaina. One house on Lahainaluna, we used to call the
mango tree house because of the large mango trees inthe yard. Ithas been improved
by removing the old ...concrete and tropicallandscaping. Easier forthe landscapers
for sure.
Then, the cane houses by Kamehameha IIIElementary School were an awesome
place for surfers to live. Knowing your neighbors offersan element of safety for
schoolchildren,but tourism doesn't. The apartments in Honokowai were an affordable
...walkable, bikeable area. Another area where many of my friendslived.Now, those
apartments are an expensive luxury. This billdoesn't give those housing unitsback,
but itdoes stop the bleed. Please support Bill159. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisLisa Paulson inthe
chamber. To be followed by Lahela Aiwohi. Lahela Aiwohi isthe lastperson we have
signed up to testifyon agenda section M. Bills.So, ifthere isanybody else who wants
to testifyon any of these items,please identifyyourselfnow inthe meeting chat or to
the appropriate staffmember. Lisa Paulson.
MS. LISA PAULSON. MAUI HOTEL AND LODGING ASSOCIATION [testifying on Bill 159
(2022)1;
Thank you. Aloha, Chair and Members of the Council. I'm Lisa Paulson. I'm a paid
lobbyistand I represent the Maui Hotel and Lodging Association. First,Iwant to say
thank you for allyour due diligence and hard work on thisand allof the long hours,
especiallyyesterday. Really appreciated to be able to share our concerns and have
them heard. So, Iwant to reallysincerelythank you forthat.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 163
And then Iwould liketo say thatwe're very supportiveof the amendments, you know,
and working on the finallanguage to support efforts.Particularly,in exempting new
hotel units mauka of 3.2-feet of the erosion line. I'djustliketo repeat that,you know,
our hotels and timeshares do contributesignificantlyto RPT, GET, and TAT, and
provides substantialcharitablegivingto the community, and are already beholden to
very strictdevelopment and zoning laws.
There's no doubt we can allagree there needs to be betterbalance forMaui's tourism.
And Ido believe it'sa collaborativeeffortgoing forward between the government, the
industry,and the community. And Iwould reallyliketo have thatopportunityto share
inthose discussions. So, please consider working with us on the amendments. And
again, Iappreciate your time. Thank you forallowingme to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MS. PAULSON: Thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyis Lahela Aiwohi in
the chamber. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
MS. LAHELA AIWOHI. HAWAII HOTEL ALLIANCE rtestifvina on Bill159 (2022)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and allCouncilmembers here today.
Iam Lahela Aiwohi, and Iam testifyingon behalfof the Hawaii Hotel Alliance.So, I'd
liketo firstsay mahalo to allof you foryour hard work and dedication,and forthose
thattook the time to meet with myself and Mr. Cal Chipchase over the weekend to end,
after hours, to make discussions that we could find a balance in bringingthisBill159
to present.
Through these discussions,Ibelievewe've come to a fairand compromised solution
and we've been able to finda balance or at leastmiddle ground with the revised Bill159
thatwas discussed lastnight,or yesterday, inthe PSLU meeting. With that,on behalf
of the Hawaii Hotel Alliance, we support this billifthe Council adopts the revisions
discussed at yesterday's PSLU meeting.
Iam kind ofexcitedto actuallystand here today, and insteadofsayingwe oppose, that
we actuallysupport. And Ifeel that that was reallydone with the hardwork and the
efforts that we were able to find this balance. And I,Iam very, very appreciativeof
that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 164
In closing Iwould liketo say again, and I know I'vesaid itmany times, that HHA, we
do understand that there,that we reallyneed a better,a better system of managing
tourism. We hear the,we hear the community. We hear the Council.And we are here,
or Iam here to say thatwe want to be part of the solution.We don'twant to continue
to be part of what isconsidered to be a problem. So, Iam statingthat,yes, you know,
as we move fon/vard,please feelfree to reach out to me. And again, Ido want to be,
or HHA wants to be part of the solution.So, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo. Questions? Ifnot,thank you.
MS. AlWOHI: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyisJunya
Nakoa. To be followed by Thomas Croly.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA [testifying on Bill159 (2022)1:
Yessah. Eh, howzit. You guys gotta hear my ugly voice again. Well, you guys know
how many times 1testifyabout thiscap. It'swell overdue. Boy, you guys heard the
numbers likewhat, allthese, allthese fricken hotels, they,they get plentyalready. Get
enough. Get enough. So, we no need buildany more hotels.And according to what
the numbers show, they only 75 percent isfull.And they consider thatfull.So, you
know what I mean, enough already,enough, enough. Just put a cap on everything,
okay. We can learnhow to adjustwithoutthistoo much tourism. We got to learn how
to adjust.
You know, the pandemic, we allsay thatthe pandemic when teach us. We no need,
we no need, we can do without it. You know, Lahaina, whoa, was peaceful, yeah.
Was very peaceful. But the whole thingwith the whole put iton the cap, number one
thing iswe gotta educate the tourists.Never mind puttingthe tour kind stuffand all
thistouriststuffon top the videos. What about the safety? What about everything
about no turn your back toward the water? Talk about fixingour, protectingour reefs
and allthat kind crap.
But Igoing tellyou guys this,itisthat,brah, put a cap on urn. Once we get,once we
get used to um, and then maybe we can hemo the cap. But fornow, put thatcap on
and leave italone. And let'sprotectthe islandand our resources. Okay, guys, Igotta
back go set up. Shoot. Ipau.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 165
CHAIR LEE: Oh, shucks, you have to leave? Okay. Any questions? Thank you very much.
See you, Junya.
MR. NAKOA: Okay. You guys have a good weekend. Yessah.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIR LEE: Molina. Molina, Mr. Molina, had a question. Wait, wait,wait.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, no, no, no, no. No question,Mr. Nakoa. Ijustwondering,
we hit5:00 already and Iknow, sounds likewe're gettingclose to the end of testimony.
But it's5, and we've been going at itforabout three hours. Any chance we could just
take a ten-minute break,justat leastforour staffto-
CHAIR LEE: Oh alright.Any objections,Members, taking a ten-minute break? Alright,itis
5:00. So, 5:10, we can reconvene. Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 5:00 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 5:23 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBERS KAMA AND SINENCI,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of October 21, 2022, please reconvene. Members,
okay, there'ssome of us thatfeelthatwe could keep going and probably get through
allthe business somewhat quickly.So, isitpossibleforallofyou, like,to handle maybe
another 45 minutes and then finisheverything up? Another 45 minutes and finish
everything up? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Ifwe can do 45, go, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: 45.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: As long as ittakes, Chair,forme.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,continuingwith testimony on M. Bills.The next person
signed up totestifyisThomas Croly. To be followed by the individualconnected to the
meeting under the name Bianca.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 166
MR. THOMAS CROLY [testifyingon Bill159 (2022)1:
Aloha, Council. Thomas Croly,testifyingon my behalf. Mr. Molina, ifyou would just
letme go, Iwas the lastone, and now you got four. So, there you go. I'm sorry about
that. Iwant to be as briefas possible. Iknow. I'vebeen with you forevery minute of
yesterday's meeting and every minute of today's meeting, so I know, 1 know where
you’re coming from.
Iwas glad today that you heard from so many of the people that Idon't know, okay,
and Idon't represent,but 1recognized would be affected by thisbill.Turning some of
those folks uses from an outrightpermitted use intoan existingnon-conforming use
creates a host of problems. And anything thatyou can do in thislegislationto allow
theiruses to continue and not fallintothe existingnon-conforming isfine.Capping the
uses thatare inthe districtsthatyou want to use, that,thatyou want to cap isfine.But
I’mconcerned about those existinguses not being cut offatthe knees or,or not having
the problems thatyou heard about gettingtheirbuildingpermits and thatkind ofthing.
So, please consider those folks.
And then, the Alaeloa and Puamana folks that are, that fallunder that 19.32.040, alt
you have to do is restore the language thatwas proposed to be taken out,and those
guys are fine. Allthey'regoing to be able to continue to make theiruses. Nobody is
ever going to be able to starta new use inthose districts.So, there'snothingwrong
with leavingthatlanguage in,thatthe Council worked so hard on in2013 and 2014 to
establish.So, please leave that language inand please do something to protectthe
interestsof the folkswhere you are going to be removing short-termrentalor transient
vacation rental from those districts. Good luck. I'llbe with you tonight,and Ihope we
get something done. Alright.Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Tom. Any questions? Ifnot,no questions. Thank you very much.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person signed up to testifyis Bianca. To be
followed by Carol Lee Kamekona.
MS. BIANCA ISAKI [testifying on BillNo. 159 (202211:
. . . I'm Bianca Isaki. I'm here in my personal capacity to stronglysupport Bill159,
imposing a cap on tourism accommodations as written. However, we understand
amendments were discussed last night allowing timeshares.
timeshares, or Idon'tthinktimeshares are appropriate. They bringallthe problems of
We don’t think
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 167
hotels without labor benefits,and they contribute nothing to the community while
demanding space, land, and services.
I also want to comment that a lotof people are saying the billwillstop hotels from
expanding. And thatiswrong. Also, thatitmight affectpeople or commercial owners
and not the measure. You have publictrustduties to affirmativelyprotectnaturaland
culturalresources on Maui. That's your legal duty. Very clear in allthe case laws.
Whether commercial owners might have trouble gettingbuildingpermits is not the
measure of your duty.
1want to mention, Ithink others have mentioned this,but the hotelindustryissupposed
to tie the billto an erosion hazard line to avoid any caps on existinghotels. But, you
know, according to theirlaw firm,that same erosion hazard lineisfaultybecause it
"results in shoreline setback that is determined without regard forthe actual locationof
the currentshoreline".They pointout thatsea-levelrisereport,which developed that
linesays, "the reportshould strictlybe used as a planning reference tooland not for
permittingforother legalpurposes."
So, I mean, it,itdoesn't make sense that they're proposing something, they're
proposing to tether this billto that line. But they're also saying would make the
shoreline rules invalid, instead, I would just make the billapply to alltourism
accommodations thatare standing withinthe Special Management Area. 1mean, and
this,Ithink other have said,willalso protect iwikupuna inthose areas, up inthe sandy
areas. And that's,I,1think isamply illustratedespeciallyinyour culturaloverlay.
Finally,exempting a tourism expansion projectjustbecause ofthe ...permit isunwise,
there'sno way itgenerated justby applying for a permit. And having worked against
the Grand Wailea's application,the reason ithasn't been approved is because the
underlying project can't meet the required criteria. They're trying to expand
nonconforming, expanding luxuryuses inan area with no water resources, while being
the largestwater user on allof Maui and on the burialground. So, thank you for
listeningto my testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Isaki.Ijustwas wondering,
you know, ifwe did not exempt the hotels likeyou say and do the SMA, and then it
doesn't get the six votes. Then, would itbe okay to do the otherway? Imean, it's,it's
not, it'sallor nothing.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 168
MS. ISAKI: To get something isbetterthan nothing. No, Iunderstand thatgettingsomething
isbetterthan gettingnothing. I'mjustexpressing what Ithink isright.But thank you
forthe question,Councilmember.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, some isbetterthan nothing?
MS. ISAKI: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: More questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the next one?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyis Carol Lee
Kamekona. To be followed by Michael Baskin. Carol Lee?
MS. CAROL LEE KAMEKONA ftestifyina on BillNos. 154 (2022) and 159 (2022)1:
Can you guys hear me?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we can hear you.
MS. KAMEKONA: Can you hear me? Itkeeps going to mute. E kala mai. Aloha ahiahi.. .
kakou, Chair, Vice-Chair, and Councilmembers. Mahalo nui for pushing through and
listeningto everybody. Iknow it'sgettinglate.Itriedto comb through the 378 pages
that you guys have of writtentestimony. Ididn'tfindmy testimony inthere;therefore,
IfeltthatIwas compelled to come on and at leastletyou hear partofwhat my written
testimony states.
So, with regards to Bill159, 1totallyand whole-hearted support a cap on tourism. The
Maui Island Plan does state the ratio 1 to 3, one resident, one, sorry,one visitorto
every three residents. Where isthe adherence to the time and effortthat the people
that draftedthisplan put intoputtingthatin? Where isthe accountability?Where is
the oversight? We need to stop the influxcoming inand we need to malama our own.
We have to take care of our own. We have very limitedresources. We ailknow that,
very limited.
So, Iam in support of the cap. However, what I oppose is any kind of remodeling,
renovating,or reconstructionof any kind to any kind of accommodation forvisitorsthat
have, that were builtor that are going to be done. Reason being is a lotof these
structures,I'm not going to be specificon the type,a lotof structureswere builtpriorto
6E laws and any kind of SHPD oversight as far as protectionof our iwikupuna. You
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 169
guys very well know Iam a strong advocate forprotectingour iwikupuna. So, what I
ask you isto say, "no, no, no to any remodeling, renovating,reconstructionof any kind
of any accommodations of visitorsthat are going to be done in any area that iseither
previouslydisturbedor has been disinterredwith our iwikupuna.
And that iswhy now, Isupport Bill154, which isthe culturaloverlay. Again, priorto
SHPD and 6E, a lotof these structures were built. So, there was no oversight to the
desecration of our iwikupuna. So, Isupport Bill154. Utilizethe culturaloverlay and
don't allow any more desecration of our iwikupuna. Mahalo. Enjoy your pizza and
your salad. A hui hou. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: You were eavesdropping. Any questions? Ifnot,thank you.
MS. KAMEKONA; A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Carol. Next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lastperson we have signed up to testifyon items in
Section M. Bills is Michael Baskin.
MR. MICHAEL BASKIN [testifying on Bill159 (2022)1:
Aloha. This is Michael Baskin. I'm the owner of the Paia Inn. Thank you for the
opportunityto testifyagain. And thank you forthe opportunity,as well,to consider
amendments to the bill.
We purchased the Paia Inn 20 years ago and it'san existingbuilding.And we are fully
permitted. We don'twant our permit to be changed to an existingnon-conforming
because of the concerns that were mentioned previously by the former Planning
DirectorWillSpence. This could lead to difficultieswithobtainingfinancinginthe future
and a whole host of other issues and concerns that he mentioned. So, therefore, we're
justlookingforthisportionof the B-CT tojustbe leftalone as itwas done and passed
by the Council back in2014. Thank you so much foryour time. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are several more individualsto testifyon these
items. The next person signed up to testifyisFay Macfarlane. To be followedby Dick
Mayer.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 170
MS. FAY MACFARLANE [testifying on BillNos. 154 (2022) and 159 (2022)1:
Aloha, ahiahi kakou. Ihope you can hear me. O Fay Macfarlane kou inoa. Lahaina
iswhere I'm callingfrom tonightas an individual,not a paid lobbyistand not on behalf
of an organizationto support 159 without any hotel exemptions, and support 154
without amendments. Mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions? Ifnot,next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyis Dick Mayer on
Bill159. To be followed by Albert Perez.
MR. DICK MAYER [testifying on Bill 159 (202211:
Good evening. Thank you fortakingmy testimony. This issomething that'sso obvious
to you allthatIshouldn'thave to say it.But Ifeelgiven allthe testimony thathappened
yesterday afternoon,apparently, it'sneeded.
The Maui IslandPlan and the Countywide PolicyPlan should govern allofyour actions.
That's required,that'slaw in Maui County Code. And inthere,itsays, inthe Maui, I'm
going to read fivesentences. From the Policy Plan, itsays "Support the renovation
and enhancement of existingvisitorfacilities".Don't expand. Itsays, improve the
qualityof the existingfacilities.Many of them are 40 and 50 years old.
Number 2, "Support policies,programs, and tax structurethatredirectthe benefitsof
the visitorindustryback intoour localcommunity". Allowing more hotelsto come in,
operated by mainland corporationssuch as the Grand Wailea, only drainsmoney for
our economy.
The Maui IslandPlan says, very specifically,"Comprehensively manage futurevisitor-
unitexpansion". Itdoesn't say expand. Itsays comprehensive manage the expansion.
In additionto that,itsays "Cap the number and type of visitoraccommodations that
can be permitted,
accommodations that can be permitted". In other words, overall,every statement in
there isto manage the number.
And finally,"Manage the number and type of visitor
I heard yesterday thatyou were going to do some amendments to allow more hotels
to come in. Ifyou were to do that,Iwould put a proviso in any hotelexpansion that
they pay a minimum of $25 an hour to our employees. They are rightnow sucking out
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 171
of this community millionsand millionsof dollars,and they're not paying their
employees enough to even be able to livehere and be able to afforda house.
Ithinkwhat you need to do istieany expansion thatthey so greedilywant to increase
the minimum wage, not the average wage, but the minimum wage for all hotel
employees to at least$25 an hour. There's no reason for us to be staying with the
State numbers around $12-15 an hour, which are much too low for anybody on Maui
to live.Please consider not only managing the hotelsbut making sure thatthe workers
in those hotelsget a decent wage.
And finally,there is no reason to build more hotels right now or more visitor
accommodations, because our unemployment rate isessentiallyzero. It's3 percent,
which isabout the lowest inthe whole country. And any new employees thatwould
come inforexpanded facilitieswillbe coming from elsewhere and threateningthe short
supply of housing forour localemployees. So please,let'sput a cap. and not succumb
to words of oh, we need to do this,we need to expand that. Let'sput the effortinto
renovating the hotels,and not expanding them. And Ithank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions? Ifnot,next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisAlbertPerez.
MR. ALBERT PEREZ. MAUI TOMORROW FOUNDATION [testifyingon BillNos. 154 (20221
and 159 (2022)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee, everybody. Good morning. Imean good evening. I'mtestifyingon
Bill154, as well as 159. So, forthe culturaloverlay districts,we're definitelysupporting
that. Ijustwant to say brieflythatwhen iwiare disturbed,that isdesecration at the
moment itoccurs. And that desecration cannot be undone. So, this billwillhelp to
prevent that.
And even from the developer's perspective, developers don't want to get halfway
through construction,and then have to stop when a burialis discovered. So, the
culturaloverlay willhelp to protectvaluable culturalresources and itwillhelp them to
avoid all the problems that they run into when building in areas where cultural
resources are known to exist.So, Iurge you to pass that bill.
Moving on to Bill159, transient accommodation caps. Maui Tomorrow supports that
bill,but we ask that the exemption that was discussed yesterday to allow hotel
development mauka of the erosion hazard linenot be included, unless there'ssome
kind of requirement thatoccupancy of the hotel unitsmakai of the erosion hazard line.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 172
and before occupancy mauka isapproved. Otherwise, there'dbe no limiton additional
development of hotels. And we'llhave hotel rooms both mauka and makai. And since
this billrepeals the moratorium, that hotel development would be able to start
immediately.
Ialso urge you not to adopt the hotelindustry'sproposed additionto the purpose and
intent statement that talks about the benefits of the hotel industrywithout mentioning
the impacts on our community. The entire paragraph is unnecessary and is also
inconsistent with the Maui Island Plan's call to balance the effectsoftourism by limiting
accommodations. The Maui IslandPlan was adopted by ordinance,and we don'tneed
conflictingordinances.
As Bianca Isaki mentioned, the authors of the hotel amendment that suggested the
use of that erosion hazard line expressed opposition to use of that line in their
comments to the Maui Planning Commission. They said thatthe erosion hazard line
isfaultybecause it’sdetermined without reference to the shoreline.They pointout that
the sea-levelrisereportitselfshould strictlybe used as a planning referencetooland
not for permitting or other legal purposes. They point out that where there has
historicallybeen accretion,where sand is buildingon the shore, the erosion hazard
linemay be located makai. Inother words, out inthe ocean.
So, the authors of thisamendment toldthe Planning Department thatthe opposed use
of that line,they'renow tellingyou to use it.IfIwere you, Iwould not be happy with
thisattempt to manipulate the Council. So, Ihave to ask, isthatamendment a poison
pill? Are they hoping that you willadopt the erosion hazard lineso they can filea
lawsuit and have this whole ordinance thrown out? I applaud the actions that this
Councilhas taken tosupportdiversification,so people can have careeroptionsbesides
tourism.
We urge you not to exempt hotelswithinthis,within,mauka of the erosion hazard line
without requiringoccupancy. Ithinkthatmaybe you could substitutethe SMA, special
management area, referenceto that,instead of the erosion hazard lineand thatcould
work. So, please pass the billina way that supports the Maui IslandPlan,which says
to cap the number of visitoraccommodations adopted by thisCouncil,and iscurrently
law. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Hi Albert. Can you justclarifywhat you meant
by not,you were urging us not to adopt the erosion hazard linewithoutoccupancy,
was what you said. so.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 173
MR. PEREZ: So, Idon't think the erosion hazard line isa good thingto adopt because ofthe
comments of the firmthatproposed it.But the basic idea isifyou are going to allow
development mauka of something, likethe specialmanagement area, thatyou remove
the occupancy permits of the hotel unitsthat are makai, so thatwe're not doubling up
on the number of hotels.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Isee. Thank you. Thanks forthatclarification.
MR. PEREZ: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you, Albert.
MR. PEREZ: Okay. Mahalo and aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, before doing lastcallfor items on thissection,1did want
to bring to the body's attentionthat we do have an individualhere in the chamber
signed up to testifyon an item in,actually,agenda Section N., ifthe body wanted to
consider allowinghim testifyingatthistime?
CHAIR LEE: N. isthe bicyclebill?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. He has indicated that he wants to testifyon the bicyclebill.
CHAIR LEE: Members? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.Callhim up.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Mr. Feliciano,you are welcome to testifyat thistime.
MR. PHIL FELICIANO [testifyingon BillNo. 45. FD1 (2022)1:
Thank you. Members. Iknow it'sbeen a long day foreverybody. Ikind of feellikeI've
been on an airplanewith you. My body's prettysore. Iwanted to be here in person
because the lastmeeting, Ibelieve Igot calledout because nobody from the bicycle
tour companies were here. And unfortunately,Ijustdidn'tget notified.Iwas unaware
of it.Icertainlywould have been here.
The bicycle tour industry is 40 years old. It'sabout Haleakala and ridingbikes.
Haleakala isvery importantto our County. There itis,rightup there on thattapestry,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 174
on the County seal,on the County flags.And yes, somebody along the linedecided,
hey, itwould be a great idea to ridebicycles.And that startedinthe 80's. The industry
isnow 40 years old. People want to say it'sunsafe. Mow'd thisindustrygrow 40 years
ifitwas so unsafe? We've had people come on theirhoneymoon. They bring back
theirkids. They bring back theirgrandkids. It'snot as unsafe as people want to make
itto be.
And, and you guys have lostsight that bicyclistshave rights. We have been in this
process, and we've asked you and begged you, come and check out our operations.
Only one person did. That was Tasha Kama. She walked into one of the operations
and talked story. She also gave us time. She calledus. We had a Zoom meeting.
And she didn'tput a time limiton it.
Mr. Molina, thank you. You made me a resource. We talkstory many times, yeah.
Ho'oponopono. That's what we triedto do. And on that lastCommittee meeting, we
had serious solutionsthat could solve this. Instead,you decided to just gut it.And
totally,you'rebanning bicyclesfrom ridingthrough Kula. We had good solidsolutions.
Because, what did they say? We're a nuisance. We're intheirway.
So, we solved that. We're going to do time, timings on that,group sizes. We decided
thatwe would stop ridingone day of the week. That's 52 days out of the year. We
added inspecialholidays thatwere specificto Hawaii, to add thatinto add more days.
You count the number of rainout days. There's a bunch of days that we don't ride.
We're willingto do allthat to solve the issue of not being on the road when there's
heavier traffic.But you decided against that.
So, Kula community asked you guys, hey, come up here to the road,take a look. Two
Members went to do that. We were asking you allto come to us so we can show you
what we do so you know we're culturallysensitive. I ask you today, look intoyour
hearts. Did you treatus as fairly?Was ita fairand balanced thing? In closing,Iask
thatthe implementation date, ifyou so choose to go through withthis,be one year from
signing. We need time to make thiswork and figurethings out. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Oh, question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Iwas, Ididn'tget his name.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Feliciano.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, Ijustwas wanting to clarify.The lasttime you were
before us,you said itwasn't your riderdown. And thatwas the lastIheard of it.Isthat
stillwhat you're saying?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 175
MR. FELICIANO: When you guys asked me that and Iwas on camera, Idid not know about
that. But yes, itdid turn out to be our rider.And itwasn't as serious as 24/7 made it,
because they denied the ambulance. But people do fall,and we cannot legislate
everybody.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And, and you didn'twant to clarifythatwith us, thatthe answer
was wrong?
MR. FELICIANO: I didn'tknow about it. At the time you asked me, I was in frontof the
camera, and Iwas unaware of it.Afterwards--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'msaying between now and then, you didn'twant to clarifythat
you gave us a incorrectanswer?
MR. FELICIANO: I didn't know I had to.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. No furtherquestions.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Chair. And thanks, Phil,foryour testimony. Just
clarifying.So, the implementation dates, so let'ssay ifthe billpasses this month
October, you'd likeitpushed back tosay October of2023 insteadofthe February 2023,
am Iright?
MR. FELICIANO: That's correct. Because when we started talkingabout it,you know,
February was a long ways off.We startedthisin November of lastyear. But now, it's
rightaround the corner.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Alright.Thanks, Phil.Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Feliciano.
MR. FELICIANO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, returningback to agenda sectionM. Bills,Clare Apana is
here to testifyon a separate billthan what she previouslytestifiedon, Bill154.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 176
MS. CLARE APANA ftestifyina on BillNo. 154 (2022)1:
Thank you. I'llmake thisvery brief.This is,Ijustv/ould liketo stand instrong support
of thisbill.And it'sbeen a long time coming. And I hope that you willpass thisbill,
because I think itwillhelp many processes in this County and give much better
protection forthe culturalresources that we have here. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Apana foryour testimony.
Iwas wondering ifyour previous amendment that you requested could be put in this
bill?
MS. APANA: Idon't know. Iwould trustyou to know that. But Ithinkbecause you're talking
about transientvacation accommodations, to state clearlythat there'llbe no more
disturbance ofour iwikupuna isreallygood. Iwould trustyou to know whether putting
that in the culturaloverlay'sbillwillbe enough and whether thatwillbe sufficientso
that we willnot have to be going to court or doing legalactionsto protectour kupuna.
Thank you very much. Iwish Icould answer you betterand Iwilllook forthatanswer
to see if,ifitwould not be better to have itin both places or not. Thank you very much.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individualssigned up to testifyon bills.
So, we'lldo a lastcallat this time. Ifthere isanybody else who would liketo testifyon
any items inagenda section M. Bills,please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closing public testimony and accepting written
testimony forresolutionsor bills?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with bills.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 177
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 154 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 18, 19 AND 20, MAUI
COUNTY CODE. TO ESTABLISH CULTURAL OVERLAY DISTRICTS
The recommended actionisthatBillNo. 154 (2022) be referredto the Agricultureand Public
Trust Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, sorry.I'mon the wrong page. Okay, so itcame out of Mr. Sinenci's,but
I'm not sure who the initiatorwas.
Mr. Sinenci.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: This item isjustrecommended forreferralto the APT--
(Councilmember Sinenci returned to the meeting at 5:54 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Oh, justforreferral.Okay. I'msorry. Okay. So, move on then.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes. Chair.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 155 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE
COUNTY OF MAUI, TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII, DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION FOR A GRANT UNDER THE HIGHWAY SAFETY
REIMBURSEMENT PROJECT NO. AL23-M-09, ENTITLED "MAUI
COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE - 2023 IMPAIRED DRIVING"
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 155 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance,and
Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 178
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 155 (2022) IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rules of the Council regarding thisitem. Any more discussion? Ifnot, all
those-
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, this intergovernmental
agreement isa grant funds ...billisapproved so thatthe agreement can get executed.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Now, Ihave to findout who's missing. Who's missing besides Member
Kama? Oh, and member, oh, everybody's here. One, two, three,four,five,eight
"ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 179
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 155 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass Bill155.
Discussion. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the purpose of thisbillis
to authorize the Mayor to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the
Department of Transportation for the grant funds through the Department of
Prosecuting Attorney for Impaired DrivingGrant inthe amount of $30,742.50. These
grant funds were included in the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget, Appendix A, Part I,
Department of Prosecuting Attorney, Highway Fund, Safety Grant Program. A copy of
the grant award was transmitted to the Council and posted on today's agenda as
County Communication 22-259. Representatives from the Administrationare available
ifthere are any questions. Irespectfullyask forthe Members support of that motion.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavor,did you get the bug?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Idid. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Eight "ayes",one "excused"; Member Kama. Motion carries.
Next item.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 180
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 156 (2022^
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, STATE OF HAWAII,
FOR THE CAREER CRIMINAL PROSECUTION PROGRAM GRANT 23-CCP-01
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 156 (2022) IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: It'sbeen moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to waive, forthe waiver of committee reportand referral.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This intergovernmen talagreement
isalso forgrant funds and the sooner thisbillisapproved, the sooner the agreement.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Oh, allthose in favor of the motion to waive the Rule, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA,
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 181
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries. Excused isMember Kama.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVE TO PASS BILL 156 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. seconded by Member Sugimura to
pass Bill156.
And discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the purpose of thisbillis
to authorize the Mayor to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the
Department of Attorney General, State of Hawaii, fora grant to the Department of the
ProsecutingAttorneyforthe career.Career CriminalProsecutionProgram grantinthe
amount of $144,736.
These grant funds were added to the FiscalYear 2023 Budget, Appendix A, Part I,
Department of Prosecuting Attorney by Ordinance 5432, which took effecton October
11,2022. A copy ofthe grant award was transmittedto the Counciland posted on the
August 23, 2022, Council agenda as County Communication 22-197. Representatives
from the Administrationare availableforquestions. Irespectfullyask forthe Members
support of thismotion. Mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose in favor of the motion, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 182
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",one "excused": Member Kama. Motion carries.
Next item.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 157 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY,
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLY\N AREA,
WATER SUPPLY, WATER FUND - RESTRICTED, WATER FUND - UNRESTRICTED
WEST MAUI RELIABLE CAPACITY;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ifthere are no objections,may I
request the Clerk also callup Bill158 (2022)?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 158 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY,
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
WEST MAUI RELIABLE CAPACITY
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 183
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILLS 157 (2022) AND
158 (2022) IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RULE, WITH
RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bill157 and 158.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, these billsare time-
sensitive,as thisprocess began inDecember 2019. And furtherdelays willnecessitate
startingthe bid process again.
CHAIR LEE: Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries. The excused is
Member Kama.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 157 (2022) AND BILL 158 (2022) ON
FIRST READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 184
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura to
pass Bills157 and 158 on firstreading.
Discussion Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. Members, the purpose of these bills
are, the purpose of these billsisto amend the FiscalYear 2023 Budget, Appendix C
to increase the estimated revenues from Special Assessments by $10 million,and from
Carryover/Savings from the Water Fund by $7.2 million,appropriate the funds to the
Department of Water Supply, West Maui Community Plan Area for the West Maui
Reliable Capacity, and add a projectto the projectdescription.
The Mayor has provided a certificationof additionalrevenues for Carryover/Savings
from the Water Fund for $7,200,000. In December 2019, Department received a bid
of $12,881,675, but was not able to contractwith Alpha because of bid protest.
The Department isnow in receiptof Alpha's best and finalofferdates September 28,
2022, inthe amount of $15,886,300.17. The cost increase isdue to the pandemic, the
war in Ukraine, supply-chain issues, energy inflation,fuel costs, and material
escalations.
The Department received State HistoricPreservation Divisionapproval on March 16,
2022; and the Commission on Water Resource Management approval on the pump
installationpermit on August 10, 2022, and isready to proceed with the construction.
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer any questions. I
respectfullyask forthe Members support. Mahaio, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 185
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes' one "excused": Member Kama. Motion carries.
Next.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO.__159_(2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS
CHAIR LEE: Planning refer?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think there's an ASF available-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -that we can look at during dinner.
CHAIR LEE: We weren't going to take dinner.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We got this.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. No? Disagree? Okay.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 159 (2022) IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL
CHAIR LEE: Second anyone?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 186
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernan dez
seconded by Membler Paltin,to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bill159.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, this isa straightforward
billthatwillbegin to address some our residentsconcern regarding overtourism. We
should take actiontoday to provide them with reliefas soon as possible. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand
say "aye".
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aye.
CHAIR LEE: Isee eight"ayes",one "excused"; motion carries.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. We do not see Counciimember King.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Seven "ayes",two "excused"; motion carries.Excused, oh, Isee her head
now. Oh. Okay, Member King, did you hear the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I'msorry,Chair,Ididn't.Iwas, Ihad thought we were taking
a break at 6:00 too,so Ihad to go.
CHAIR LEE: Iknow. I'msorry.But thisisnot turningout to be how we expected. The motion
was to pass, well,to waive the Rules on Bill159, and thatwould be the caps bill.To
take itup on the floor.So, that'swhat we justvoted on. Are you infavor?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 187
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright.So, eight"ayes",one "excused": motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVE TO PASS BILL 159 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: It'sbeen moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin
to pass Bill159 on firstreading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Members the purpose of thisbillis
to amend the comprehensive zoning ordinance relatingto transientaccommodation
caps. The deadline forthe Planning Commission comment was August 22, 2022. So,
we are able to pass the billtoday with two-thirdvote withoutwaitingfortheircomments.
The record of the votes today on thisproposal are as follows:July 14, Hana Advisory
Committee, 4-0 in support of the billas amended by the Department. They prefera
lower number of allowed units for transient accommodations in B-2 District in Hana.
July 19, Paia-Haiku Advisory Committee, 5-1 insupport of the billas amended by the
Department. They expressed concern about the enforcement ofthe RV provisionsand
recommended furtherresearch on other jurisdictionsthat implemented moratoriums.
August 9, Maui Planning Commission vote deferred pending South Maui Advisory
Committee recommendation.
August 10, Molokai Planning Commission, 5-0 insupport ofthe billas amended by the
Department. They would liketo see no RV used forTVR, RV used forTVR on Molokai,
more enforcement on Molokai, and clearsignage forparks to make itclearRV camping
is not allowed.
August 17, Lanai Planning Commission, 5-3 insupport of the billas amended by the
Department.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 188
September 9, South Maui Advisory Committee, 5-1 in support of the billas amended
by the Department.
We also had significantdiscussionofthisitem inthe TIG. The finalreportwas provided
to or transmitted to the Council on February 23, 2022. The billforthisproposal was
transmitted for referral to PSLU on March 4, 2022. It was discussed in PSLU
Committee on March 17, 2022 and then with the recommendation to transmit to the
planning commissions on, at Council on April 22, 2022. We also had significant
discussion on this item. Itwas attached to Resolution 22-7 during yesterday's Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee meeting.
Chair, at thistime I'dliketo proceed with a proposed amendment thatwillbe, that has
been distributedby the County Clerk at 5:24 p.m. Mahalo, Chair. And we can do that
in sections. And they reflectthe discussion that took place in yesterday's PSLU
Committee meeting.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.12.020 AS FOLLOWS:
1. INSERT THE WORD "LEGALLY" BEFORE "CONDUCTED"
IN SUBSECTION G(2).
2. INSERT "EXISTING TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS
MAY BE RECONSTRUCTED, RENOVATED, OR EXPANDED IF
NO NEW TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL ROOMS OR UNITS
ARE ADDED". AS THE SECOND SENTENCE IN SUBSECTION
G(3).
3. INSERT UPDATED MAUI COUNTY CODE LANGUAGE
FROM SUBSECTIONS 19.12.020(G)(3) THROUGH
19.12.020(G)(5) AND UPDATE NUMBERING TO REFLECT
SUBSECTION 19.12.020(G)(3).
And then, I'llneed a second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 189
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin,forthat
amendment as just read.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The word "legally"was included in
the recommendation from Deputy DirectorTakakura yesterday requesting thatwe add
the word "legally"inthe second subsection. "Transientvacation rentaluse was legally
conducted ina lawfullyexistingdwelling",etc.,etc.
The second part is adding the "Existing transient vacation rentals may be
reconstructed,renovated, or expanded ifno new transientvacation rentalrooms or
units are added." And that is a reflection of the discussion thatwe had yesterday that
would allowforthe use to continue. Not as existingnon-conforming, but legally.And
that itwould be allowed to be reconstructed, renovated, or expanded so long as no
new rooms or units are added.
We, there was one thing that . . . and that'sthe word "rooms",
renovated, or expanded ifno new rooms or transientvacation rentalunitsare added.
And that was to reflect the discussion that Member Paltinhad inCommittee yesterday,
which was that the, that sometimes media rooms, or dens, or other rooms are
requested to be constructed and then are used as a bedroom. And so, Mahalo, Chair.
Reconstructed
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I do have an amendment to 19.14.040 in linewith legalities.
But Iwas wondering ifMembers would consider taking a dinner break and looking over
the Amendment Summary Form and then we can come back to this?
CHAIR LEE: It'sup to you. It'sup to you. We, cause we, we're,well.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I mean, she's going to tellitto us and I'm more of a visual
person. And if1,ifallof us can look at itforan hour and then she tellitto us, itmight
sink in a littlebetter.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Cause she was going to go over one item at a time, one section at a
time, yeah. But ifMembers prefertaking a one-hour break?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 190
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Members, we would, how about less than an hour? Come back at 7? 7:00
everybody? Alright,thismeeting isinrecess until7:00.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 6:12 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 7:05 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE; Willthe Council meeting of October 21, 2022, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the body right now, the item before the body is
Bill159 (2022). And currentlypending before the body isan amending motion made
by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez to amend Section 19.12.020 inthe bill.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Iknow she read it.Did we, but no actionwas taken,right?Okay, I'llturn
the floorback over to you, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. ... for everyone?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. IthinkMember King wasn't here atthe time.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay. Okay. Well, I can justdo it.I'lldo itreally
quickly. Okay. The motion isto amend Section 19.12.020 as follows; 1. Insertthe
word "legally"before "conducted" in Subsection G(2). 2. Insert"Existingtransient
vacation rentalsmay be reconstructed,renovated, or expanded ifno new transient,if
no new rooms or transient vacation units are added." as the second sentence in
Subsection G(3). And 3. Insertupdated Maui County Code language from Subsections
19.12.020(G)(3) through 19.12.020(G)(5) and updating numbering to reflectnew
Subsection 19.12.020(G)(3). And again, as, before we went on break, Ijustmade that
comment about moving "room" to rightafter"new". So, no new room, or transient
vacation rental unit are added. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, so from pluralto singular?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Itcan, itcan have an "s".
CHAIR LEE: Okay
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 191
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you, Chair. So, so you were changing, you were
puttingthe no new rooms? But wasn't the concern thatrooms could mean likean extra
bathroom, or an extra den or something likethat? So, no, no new bedrooms, isthat
what you wanted to add on or? I'm not,1thought itwas, so rightnow itsays, ifno new
transient vacation rental rooms or units are added.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, I can clarifythat. It,that was a typo. Itshould be
"Existing transient vacation rental, rentals may be reconstructed, renovated, or
expanded ifno new rooms or transientvacation rentals unitsare added." And the
reason forthat isas we saw inthe Greg Brown house, there were media rooms, dens,
and all sorts of other rooms that weren't bedrooms.
So, even ifyou'readding another bathroom, the intentionisthe capacityismore than
what itwas. You can remodel your bathroom and make itADA accessible,but we've
heard prettyloud and clear from the community no new rooms. Ifyou bought a one-
bedroom unitand you have three sons, then you know, that’sa problem. Ifyou're
going to turn one room intothree rooms, and you're not going to be there,that'sa
three-bedroom TVR that would have been a one-bedroom TVR.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. But ifyou, 1 think the argument was, 1 mean what
somebody was talkingabout was ifyou wanted to add on a room to make itmore
convenient for you. You know, say you have a four-bedroom, four bedrooms that
you're renting out and you only have one bathroom, you decide to add on a second
bathroom forthose four bedrooms. Then you wouldn't be allowed to do that? Why,
why would that,why, why, what's the reason forthat restriction?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Because itadds on to the capacity of,1mean we're tryingto
keep itat what itisrightnow. We're not tryingto expand the capacityto make iteasier
to,to have more people. We're justtryingto keep itat what itis.We're seeing,what
we discussed in Committee yesterday was we're okay withyou reconstructing.We're
okay withyou renovating.We're okay withyou expanding existingspaces. But adding
on rooms adds on capacity.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 192
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Ikind of disagree with that Ithink adding on bedrooms
adds on capacity. But ifyou wanted to add on, say a meeting room or an extra
bathroom, because you know, thatwas what your,your place isnot as convenient as
that could be foryour, your guests. I reallydon'tsee a problem with that. But. you
know, okay. Iunderstand what you are tryingto do.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Under thislegislation,could an owner ask fora variance inthe
event of likea bathroom, versus a bedroom? Because Ican kind of see where Member
King iscoming from on this,cause.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you forthe question. I believe anyone can ask for a
variance at any time.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. So, they would have thatoption of going fora variance
then. Alright.Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Let'scheck. IsCorp. Counsel on the line? Just double-check. Oh, everybody
went home. Oh, we have Mimi. Mimi. Mimi, thank you forstaying.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL MIMI DESJARDINS: But I’m not going to be much
help. I'm sorry. Mr. Hopper was unable to, to remain on the line. He's reallythe
residentexpert here.
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear the question?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: Idid hearthe question. But Ithink I'm
going to have to defer to Mr. Hopper, who's not here rightnow. So, between firstand
second reading when the dust settlesand you folksdecide what you want to pass,
we'd reallylikean opportunityto review the billand to be able to sign offon it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Mr. Raatz is here.
CHAIR LEE: David. Whether or not a variance could be applied for?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ: Yes, thank you. Chair. This
is David Raatz with Office of Council Services. The comprehensive zoning ordinance
does have a process where anyone can go to the Board of Variances and Appeals to
eitherseek a variance, or appeal a decision made by the Planning Directorinenforcing
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 193
the zoning code. Itisa relativelyhigh standard to be granted a variance. But that is
an optionthat'salways available.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any otherquestions,Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No. not at thistime, Madam Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.So. isthe plan to vote on this,Vice-Chair, one by one?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, you made a motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. With the change? With the change?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: With thatchange; rooms and TVR units.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. Any more discussion.Members?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: What section? Sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That is Section 19.12.020.
CHAIR LEE: Itwould be good to have the ordinance rightnext to you, along with the ASF.
Then you can, you know, reference it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes, mom.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, my baby girl.And now, children,can we move on to the second item for
today? Her hand ison her mouth.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, Iwas justgoing to say ifyou go to the,what's,you know,
attached to the ASF, the bill,ithas the, in,inyellow highlights,ithas the changes in
the body. But that,the change that,but then the Member, Vice-Chair changed the
wording to,inthat,inthat second paragraph, so it'snot the same as inthe highlighted
area.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 194
CHAIR LEE: Thank you forthat confusing answer. Okay, shallwe get back to where we
were? Like, we were on number one. Now, we're on number two.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Callforthe question on the first,the firstamendment.
CHAIR LEE; I'msorry,what did you say. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Callforthe question on one and two, cause there weren't any
changes inone.
CHAIR LEE: One and two.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I didn'tmake any amendments to section one
that'swhy. So, we justdid,we justmade amendments to sectiontwo ofthe ordinance
and that's19,12.020, and there were three amendments within that section.
CHAIR LEE: Does everybody understand that? No? Can you explainitagain, please?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, there are differentsections. And the first
sectionon page one isamend Section 19.12.020 as follows.And then,there'sa one,
two, and three. And those are the only amendments thatwe're considering rightnow
when we callforthe question.
CHAIR LEE: And can you repeat—
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You want me to read the whole thingagain?
CHAIR LEE: No, no. Just what you, ifno new rooms or transientvacationrentalsare added.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, that'scorrect.
Chair, can I, can I just ask forDEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS:
clarification?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Mimi.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: Thank you. So. ifyou're allowing
expansion, but not allowing new rooms, Ijustneed to understand a littlebit,a littlebit
of claritythere what you, what kind of rooms you'retalkingabout here on that?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 195
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Expansion of existingrooms, but no new rooms
like four walls and a door.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: So, ifin the language, and say for
example number three, it says "Existing transient vacation rentals may be
reconstructed, renovated, or expanded". So, when I read that term "expanded", it
means you could make itbigger?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: But it’salso saying with no new rental
rooms. So, do you mean forexample thatrooms thatare intended to be used to sleep
in?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No. The amended version is in the chat. But ifthey have a
livingroom and they want to push itout a couple feet. Ifthey have a bedroom, and
they want to push itout a couple of feet. Ifthey want to make a patio,you know, they
can expand theirexistingfootprint.But ifthey'regoing to create another room for
whatever purpose, we've seen extra rooms take on whole new meanings. Media room,
den, then becomes a bedroom, regardless of what you callthe room.
And we’re talkingabout a compromise between lettingfolks expand and not having
more transientvacation rentalcapacity interms of,you know, making iteasier formore
people to come to Maui. We’re talkingabout managing tourism, and so forth. So, if
it'sto make your livingroom bigger,to make a bedroom a littlebigger,we're not trying
to stop that. But we're tryingto stop additionalcapacity.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: Okay. Thank you. That, that'sreally
helpful.Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions before we vote?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Sorry, it'snot a question. It'sjust
once we get through this,we're going to repeat thisamendment throughout the bill.
So, now that we’ve had a prettyfulldiscussion on what rooms are and what rooms
aren't,what, thatexistingtransientvacation rentalsmay be reconstructed,renovated,
or expanded, itwon't,we won't need to continue to have thislengthof discussionfor
the future amendments that I'llbe making. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I am so relieved.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 196
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions? Alright,you ready to vote? All those in
favor of the motion, oh no.
Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, no, Ijusthad a question about the vote, because Iwas told
that we needed six votes to pass this bill.But do we need six votes to pass each
amendment, or can we pass itwith five?
CHAIR LEE: Well, we have more than, we have what, three? We have six people, seven
people, oh, eight. I'msorry. We have eightpeople here tonight.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, Iunderstand that.I'mjustwondering ifwhen we startgoing
through this,ifwe don'thave more than fivevotes,isthatan issue?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Member, Imean not Member, but David. David, do you have a comment?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We should be able to make amendments with justfivevotes.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes, thank you, Chair. A simple majority
for amendments at thispointare allthat is needed. The ultimateactionifthere isa
vote to pass the billwould require two-thirdsor six affirmativevotes of the nine
Councilmembers. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thanks for that clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, you could help me out when you, ifyou know you'regoing to
vote "no", letme know, so we can take a rollcall.Okay. So, now are we ready to vote
on this firstone? All those in favor of the motion raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 197
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight"ayes",one "excused";Member Kama. Motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.14.040, AS FOLLOWS:
INSERT ",UNLESS SUCH ROOMS OR UNITS ARE SITUATED
LANDWARD OF THE MAPPED LINE FOR COASTAL EROSION
AT 3.2 FEET OF SEA LEVEL RISE, AS DEPICTED ON THE
STATE OF HAWAI'I SEA LEVEL RISE VIEWER HOSTED BY
THE PACIFIC ISLANDS OCEAN OBSERVING SYSTEM" AS
THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE; AND
2. STRIKE SUBSECTION 19.14.040(B) IN ITS ENTIRETY AND
REMOVE "A." FROM THE REMAINING SECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Did everybody get that? Could you read the firstone?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. And I'llput itinthe chat unless such rooms
or unitsare situatedlandward of the mapped lineforcoastalerosion at 3.2 feetof sea
levelrise,as depicted on the State of Hawaii sea levelriseviewer hosted by the Pacific
Islands Ocean Observing System" as effectivedate of thisordinance. And Iwillpost
itinthe chat.Okay, it'sinthe chat.
CHAIR LEE: Everybody got that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
make that amendment.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This amendment would allow rooms
and units mauka, so landward of the 3.2 feet sea level rise area.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 198
CHAIR LEE; Okay, everybody got that?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, so we’re talkingabout rooms or unitsthat are in existing
permitted transientvacation rentals. Not brand new transient vacation rentals? Or is
thisallowing brand new transientvacation rentals?
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. So, 19.14.040 is the Hotel District,
and itwould allow for rooms and units, new rooms and units to be builtin Hotel District
mauka.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; So, does that mean itwould allow for new hotels to be builtor
justnew rooms inexistinghotels? We're talkingabout brand new hotelsas well?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yeah, that's what rooms and units would.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, yeah. I'mjust,I'm reallynot infavor of this,because this
doesn't reallyhonor the idea of the cap. So, I'm probably going to vote againstit.I
mean, it'sgoing to allow more hotelsto be builtin our districtsand I'm not infavorof
that.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? So, the motion ison the flooras, as read by the Vice-Chair.
Any more discussion? I'mgoing to take a vote with rollcall.
Member Sinenci. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you. Chair. Just forclarification,was thisopposed by
the Hoteland Lodging Association? Was this,not thisone? Okay. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Wait. I called on Member Molina. Are you going to clarifyMember Sinenci's
question?
Okay. Vice-Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 199
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Yes, thisproposal was provided by
HHA. And thisispartof the compromise thatwe were talkingabout earlier.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; And to clarify,Iwas the one who requested the erosion hazard
line,not them.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: So, this would apply once the
moratorium isliftedor does thisgo, isiteffectiveimmediately, assuming ifitpasses?
Yeah, just clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Afterthisispassed, yeah.
Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. To answer your question, Member
Molina, upon passage of thislegislation,itwould repeal the moratorium.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Are you ready forthe vote? Rollcall.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, sorry, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, just one more
question for our Vice-Chair. When is the moratorium set to end? Date specific,if
somebody could provide me thatinformation.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: January 7, 2023.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, not too faraway, yeah. Alright,thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: January 7, 2024. Two years. Up totwo years. Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Could we make itdate specificto once the moratorium islifted
then thiscould be, go intoeffect? Imean. Go ahead, Vice-Chair. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, Iwillturneveryone's attentionto
Section 19. It'sthe lastpage on the ASF of the bill.Ordinance 5316, 5-3-1-6 is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 200
repealed. So, upon passage of thislegislationitnot only enacts everything in this
legislation,itsimultaneously repeals the moratorium.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Alright.Rollcall.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 201
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCl,
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON AND KING.NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are six"ayes",two "noes'
carries.
one "excused"; motion
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.15.020 TO REMOVE THE
RAMSEYERING BRACKETS FROM "TRANSIENT VACATION
RENTALS" AND "ONE TO TWELVE BEDROOMS" AND
INSERT ", IF A SPECIAL USE PERMIT WAS OBTAINED BY
JANUARY 7. 2022" AFTER THE WORD "BEDROOMS".
And ril need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins moved, oh. I'm sorry. Member Sugimura, was ityou that?
Member Paltin. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Paltin.
Discussion on your motion? Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, this isa Country Town Business
District.By removing the brackets,itmakes the use. permissibleuse outright,so it's
legal.It'snot existingnon-conforming, it'soutrightallowed. "One totwelve bedrooms,
ifa specialuse permitwas obtained by January 7, 2022."
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 202
So, forthe one property in Mr. Molina's district,itwould allow continued operations.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: In Committee discussion we were talkingabout Molokai
also,right,Chair, Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez? Isthat right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. So, that property. Chair, would also have
received itspermit by January 7, 2022, as well. Italready has a permit. Itwould be
included in that.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? No one else. Ready to vote?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Could we get a rollcallforthisone?
CHAIR LEE: Roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: We didn'thear you, Gabe.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Ibeg your pardon.
AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 203
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: NO.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused": motionDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are six "ayes", two "noes’
carries.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Next. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.18.020 TO STRIKE THE
EXISTING CRITERIA OR LIMITATION FROM TRANSIENT
VACATION RENTALS AND INSERT "IF THE USE WAS
LAWFULLY INITIATED PRIOR TO JANUARY 7, 2022.
EXISTING TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS MAY BE
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 204
RECONSTRUCTED, RENOVATED. OR EXPANDED IF NO
NEW ROOMS OR TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL UNITS
ARE ADDED".
And I'llneed a second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\wlins-Fernandez,seconded by Member Paltinon that
amendment.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This is in the B-2 Community
Business District.Again, thisallows forTVR use to be outrightpermissible,so long as
itwas lawfullyinitiatedpriorto January 7, 2022. Expansion, reconstruction,renovation
would be permissible as well so long as itdoesn't add new rooms or TVR units.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions? Any discussion? Ready to vote? Rollcall? Rollcall?Allthose
infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand, say "aye"
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Those opposed?
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, it'seight"ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.Excused isMember
Kama.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ijustgot good news. My family's,I
can continue doing fora littlebitlonger. Okay. Imove to amend Section 19.22.020 to
remove the ramseyering, oh sorry,did Ido thatone already? Oh yeah, okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 205
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.22.020 TO REMOVE THE
RAMSEYERING BRACKETS FROM "TRANSIENT VACATION
RENTALS" AND "UP TO AND INCLUDING TWENTY
BEDROOMS" AND INSERT "FOR NEW TRANSIENT
VACATION RENTALS IF A CONDITIONAL PERMIT IS
OBTAINED AND THE USE IS SITUATED LANDWARD OF THE
MAPPED LINE FOR THE COASTAL EROSION AT 3.2 FEET OF
THE SEA LEVEL RISE, AS DEPICTED ON THE STATE OF
HAWAII'S SEA LEVEL RISE VIEWER HOSTED BY THE
PACIFIC ISLANDS OCEAN OBSERVING SYSTEM", AS THE
EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE.
CHAIR LEE: Second? I'mtryingto findit.What page isiton?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay, it's,Iput itinthe chat. This isnot on the ASF.
Itamends Section 19.22.020. And then, itreads, it'son page 2 of the ASF. And it's
on page 9 of the bill.So, it'sremoving the brackets so that TVR use is permissible.
And then in the note section in second column, what Iposted inthe chat iswhat itwill
read.
AND SO, AGAIN, I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.22.020 TO
REMOVE THE RAMSEYERING BRACKETS FROM
"TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS", IN THE FIRST COLUMN.
AND UP, AND IN THE SECOND COLUMN, TO REMOVE THE
BRACKETS "UP TO AND INCLUDING TWENTY BEDROOMS"
AND TO INSERT AFTER THAT LANGUAGE, "FOR NEW
TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS IF A CONDITIONAL
PERMIT IS OBTAINED AND THE USE IS SITUATED
LANDWARD OF THE MAPPED LINE FOR THE COASTAL
EROSION AT 3.2 FEET OF THE SEA LEVEL RISE, AS
DEPICTED ON THE STATE OF HAWAII'S SEA LEVEL RISE
VIEWER HOSTED BY THE PACIFIC ISLANDS OCEAN
OBSERVING SYSTEM", AS OF THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF
THIS ORDINANCE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, who, did somebody second it?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 206
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Moved by Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paitin
to approve the amendment juststated by her.
Discussion. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ithink Iexplained, but I'llsay itagain.
CHAIR LEE; No, you don'thave to. You don'thave to. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Isaw a hand. Was itMember King, then Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Again, thisis,thisisactuallyputtingthe ability
for new hotels back into our community, which I thought this billwas supposed to
restrict.
BUT IWOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO AMEND THE MOTION, THE
AMENDMENT TO CHANGE THE WORDS "MAPPED LINE FOR
COASTAL EROSION AT 3.2 FEET OF SEA LEVEL RISE" TO
"LANDWARD OF THE SMA, SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA".
CHAIR LEE: Is there a second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member King,seconded by Member Sinenci,to amend the language
to say, to move thatmapped lineto the SMA boundary.
Any discussion, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you, Chair. This gives us a littlemore of a fighting
chance inthe Hotel Districtto,to serve the purpose of thisbill.But,and itwas also,it
was also requested by several of the testifiersto use the SMA insteadof the sea level
risearea. So, you know. I'm having a reallyhard time thinkingabout what's going to
happen ifwe, ifwe are allowing new hotelsjustup to the,you know, justabove the sea
levelrisearea. So, you know, that'smy proposal.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 207
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Any more discussion on thismatter? On thismotion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. And Icompletely agree with Member King.
I'mjustconcerned thatwith thatlanguage the billwouldn't be able to pass the threshold
of sixvotes. And thatwould be a reason why Ican'tsupport the amendment, although
Iagree with it.Ithinkgettinga littlebitisbetterthan gettingnot the bill.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Just formy second and final.Ithinkifwe're
using the sea levelrise,Iprobably wouldn't support thisbill,because what we're talking
about isnot justclimate change, we're talkingabout the comfort of our residents. So,
putting more hotels whether it'sup above, or it'sdown below, you know, the whole
pointofthiswas to cap those,those TVRs, so thatwe wouldn'thave thatextrapressure
on our residents,that extra pressure on our environment.
And thisdoesn'thelp us inthe Hotel District.You know, it'sjustreallydishearteningto
thinkthat,you know, the two districtsthathave the most pressure on us are going to
continue to have thatpressure. So, you know. I'm sorry,but Ican't,Ican'tsupport this
billifit'sgoing to,ifit'snot going to help us who are the ones who have been putting
up with the most touristsforthe most time, and been subjectto allthe inconveniences.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Well, I'msorrythatyou'releavingthe
Council, Member King. This iswhat we have to work with rightnow, and thisiswhat
I'm supporting cause I'dratherhave something than nothing. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other discussion? Ready forthe vote? Rollcall.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with a rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 208
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; AYE, WITH RESERVATIONS.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
Councilmember King?
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Isaid "no". Can you hear me?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE; Wait, thisisn't,sorry. Member King, you'revoting "no" on your amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, I'msorry,are we on my amendment?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ibelieve so.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, where's thatfeedback coming?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: OKAY, AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawiins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 209
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
PALTIN.ANDSINENCI.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are five"ayes",three "noes",one "excused"; motion
carries.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.This ispivotalbecause itchanges everything.Her motion passed. Her
motion passed.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright,my motion as amended.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, well,thischanges everything. I mean, Ican'tsee how we can go
forward without, with this.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, can Iask. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Who's, who's talking? Oh, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, can I ask for a revote, as the winner, or whatever you
call that?
CHAIR LEE: On the winning side.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, you can. Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I'mjustgoing to,well,can ido a discussionor we justgoing
rightinthe vote?
CHAIR LEE: No, you, okay, there has to be a motion, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 210
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: You need to make a motion.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
I MOVE TO RECONSIDER.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion for the reconsideration, Mr. Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I don't want to killthis bill.
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Need a second, yeah. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Can we-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: We have a second. But can you hold on one second? Okay. The discussion
would be only to the reconsideration and not the subject matter necessarily. Okay.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Idon't want to killthis bill,so Iwant to switch the vote.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.More discussion on the reconsiderationpart of it,okay.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I also don't want to killthe bill.I likethe SMA, but Idon't want
to killthe bill.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. You know, I'mdisappointedinthe outcome of
thisbillifthisdoesn't pass, ifthisdoesn't stand. 1would personallypreferto have the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 211
moratorium stand thatwe already have inplace because that protectsour community.
This one does not protectour community. So that's,you know, me. Ifit'sgoing to be
watered down, then I would rather us just not do anything, and just letthe current
moratorium stand, because Ifeel that protects our community much better.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. We're going to get intothat discussion ina moment. Right now,
we're only talkingabout the reconsideration.Anything else on the reconsideration?
Okay, let'stake the vote on the reconsideration.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair shallIproceed with rollcall?
CHAIR LEE: I'mgoing to need a fiveminute recess. Recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 7:45 P.M.,AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 7:52 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council Meeting of October 21, 2022, reconvene. We were about to
take a vote on the reconsideration. Ready, Members? Rollcall.
Chair, proceeding with the rollcallvote on the motion toDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
reconsider.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 212
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE; AYE.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused"; motionDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,there are seven "ayes",one "no'
carries.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so on the floornow isthe originalamendment.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Itwould be Councilmember King's amendment to-
CHAIRLEE: Oh, okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -Vice-Chair’s amendment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 213
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Alright.So. we willtake up Member King's originalamendment, alright.
Do you want itrepeated? Okay. And the Clerk willrepeat itforyou.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,our understanding of Councilmember King's amendment
was to change, was to amend Vice-Chair'samendment by replacing the words "the
mapped lineforcoastal erosion at 3.2 feet of sea-levelrise"and to change thatto "the
Special Management Area".
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Isthatcorrect,Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, itis. Can Ispeak to itagain, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Are we on discussion now? Yes, you can.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. Chair,there's,Grand Wailea ispartiallyabove
the sea-level risearea, and itcould be expanded back thatway, Isuppose, ifthey got
that property. There are other,other propertiesin South Maui that are similar.What
we've heard from our constituents was to not allow thisabomination and, you know,
that'sone of the areas where we've been having major problems with theirdesire to
expand, because they'refindingiwikupuna.
So, Ijust,Idon'tsee this,Ifeellikethisbillishelping every districtexcept forthose two
districtsthat need itthe most, which is West Maui and South Maui. So, you know, I
mean. I'm not sure what we're giving up, but ifwe don'tdo the bill,ifwe don'tget the
six votes, then the moratorium stands, at least tillJanuary 2024.
And I,1,to me, itdoesn't, ifwe do thisbilland the moratorium isoverturn,you know, is
repealed as soon as thisgoes in,that doesn't help us. That reallyhurtsSouth Maui.
And IthinkWest Maui, too. So, to me, it'snot gaining anything. It'sallowing,Idon't
know how many, has anybody calculated how many unitswe'd be saving, keeping
from happening with thisnew billthe way it'swritten?
Ithinkwe're going to go fullintoexpansion with thisbill,withthe way it'swritten.So, I
just can't,I can't understand the desire to do something more meaningful than the
moratorium, and going, and doing something less than half as meaningful. So,
anyway, that'smy position.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 214
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Again, Iagree 100 percent. But we don't
have the votes to do that. And with the expirationof the moratorium, then we'llbe
worse than ifthisbillwould have passed. So, I'mjusttakingthe lesserof two evils.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. That argument fallsapart. The
moratorium, there's no guarantee. Ifcan be repealed at any time, just likethis
legislationisproposing to do. At any time,itcan be repealed. There's no guarantee it
willlastallthe way till2024. So, what we're doing isa step forward. Itdoes so much.
ItprohibitsRVs and camper vans. Itprohibitsexpansion in lotsof differentdistricts.
We talked about collaboration. We're tryingto figureout where common ground is.
And forthose that are returningnext term, we can come back and continue thiswork.
And for those that aren't,it'sunfortunate. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments?
Member Sinenci. Can't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Sorry about that.
CHAIR LEE: You're muted. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, thank you for my opportunity. And I agree with
Member King; however, I'm going to go ahead and I'llsupport, I won't support the
amendment on the floor.
CHAIR LEE; Wait, you're going to support the reconsideration?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Correct.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry,I meant you're going to vote, you're going to support the previous
amendment. Okay. Yeah. Alright.So, anybody else?
Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 215
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: The expression comes to mind, a bird inthe hand isworth
two inthe bush, right? So, Ithinkthatthe 3.2 feetsea levelriseis,is,itpulls,pullsthe
hotels back, and you stillneed a conditionaluse permit forit.And Idon't know, Idon't
want to killthisbillonce again. So, I'mjusttryingto,you know, Igot to give a littletoo.
You know, Iagree with what Councilmember King issaying. But not at the point of,
you know, we get nothing out of it.So, that'smy point. I'vemade my points. Idon't
want to belabor it.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? No one else? Ready forrollcall?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll-callvote on . . .
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: YES.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 216
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE; NO.
AYES; COUNCiLMEMBER KING.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,there isone "aye",seven "noes",one "excused": motion
fails.
CHAIR LEE: Shall we take the vote on the originalamendment now?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez' originalamendment is
before the body again at thistime.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Any more discussion on that? Rollcall.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with a rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 217
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are seven "ayes",one "no",one "excused"; motion
carries.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Proceeding with the amendments. Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 218
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
IMOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.32.040(1)AS FOLLOWS:
1. DELETE "NOT" AFTER "ARE." AND DELETE THE
RAMSEYERING BRACKETS FROM THE REMAINDER OF THE
SUBSECTION.
2. INSERT A NEW SUBSECTION 19.32.040(l)(3)TO READ
"EXISTING TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS MAY BE
RECONSTRUCTED, RENOVATED, OR EXPANDED IF NO
NEW ROOMS OR TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS,
TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL UNITS ARE ADDED".
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: So, crossing out "rooms" and justleaving"units"?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, it'sthe same as earlier.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez , seconded by
Member Paltin,to make that amendment as stated.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
developments such as Puamana. It,thisamendment allows the use to be outright
permitted,as we discussed inPSLU Committee yesterday. Itallowsforreconstruction,
renovation,and expansion so long as no new rooms orTVR unitsare added. So, this
iswhat was requested intestimony. Mahalo, Chair.
This section is for planned
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Vice-Chair, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So. justto be clear-
CHAIR LEE: Prettysoon I'llmake you president.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. mom.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 219
CHAIR LEE; Excuse me, you'reolderthan me. Okay, proceed.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Iam not. But anyway, so justforclarification,forallthose
people from Puamana who are watching, who were watching, as well as ElleCochran,
who came back and testified,right,cause she put thisin at that time, that we are
keeping what you want in here. And somebody can correctme ifI'm wrong, right?
And the only additionisjustto clarifywhat isallowable,which isthe numbers, "Existing
transientvacation rentalsmay be reconstructed,renovated and expanded". So, that's
the clarificationpart,"ifno new transientvacation rentalrooms or units are added".
So, you cannot have a one-bedroom thatyou're going to add three bedrooms, right?
Was that the one?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, it's,it'sthe language in the chat, "expanded ifno new
rooms or transient vacation rental units are added". It'sthe one in the chat that we
went over earlier.It'sthe same language throughout.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that'sthe one we using throughout.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so that'sgood, right? Then, tomorrow morning we
won't have allof these email messages from the Puamana people?
CHAIR LEE: We probably will.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, then,we'lljustsend itto Planning for--
CHAIRLEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay, anyway, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just a question. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, we, the, Ithought Iheard we're adding the word "not"in,was
that in "I"?
CHAIR LEE: Question, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Clarification.Member King, can you
repeat your question?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; ...say we were adding the word "not"somewhere.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 220
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Delete the word "not".
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, where was that? Because Idon'tsee ithighlighted.
CHAIR LEE: Number 1 about the . . .
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, it'sgoing to read "Transient vacation rentalsare
permitted inplanned developments."
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. Okay. So, it's,thisiscorrectthen, the highlightedone?
Okay, and then Ijustwanted to clarifyfor Member Sugimura that the number 3 isthe
same language. It'snot,it'snot allowingany new rooms, not justbedrooms, but any
new rooms.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Igot thatearlier.Butthankyou. Everybody's bugging me.
Prettysoon I'mgoing to have a tantrum. I’mjustkidding. So, not-
CHAIR LEE: Calm down. Calm down.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, unlike me.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, have a glass of wine, yeah. Okay, any more clarifications,boys and
girls?Anymore clarifications,so we can, like,move on to page 3?
Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Call for the question.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, comments? Do we need rollcall? Member King, do we need roll
call?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No.
CHAIR LEE; No. Allthose infavor,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 221
CHAIR LEE; Okay. All"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.One "excused"; Member Kama.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVE TO AMEND SUBSECTION 19.36B.120(G) TO DELETE
"AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES IS PROHIBITED IF RENTED
FOR SHORT TERM ACCOMMODATIONS OR COMMERCIAL
PURPOSES UNLESS IT IS ALLOWED BY ZONING AND THE
PROPER PERMIT IS OBTAINED." AND INSERT IN ITS PLACE,
", RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. TRAILERS. OR SIMILAR
APPARATUS THAT ARE USED OR RENTED FOR
COMMERCIAL TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS IS
PROHIBITED. ADVERTISING THAT OFFERS TO RENT A
CAMPER VAN. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, TRAILER, OR
SIMILAR APPARATUS FOR COMMERCIAL TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS CONSTITUTES A PRIMA FACIE
EVIDENCE, CONSTITUTES PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF THE
OPERATIONS OF THE APPARATUS."
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin
to insertthe words thatshe juststated.
And discussion? Do you have any discussion on that,Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Again, inDeputy DirectorTakakura's
presentation, this is the amendment that she proposed to the temporary parking
section thatwould prohibitthe use of these apparatuses fortransientvacationrental
And itwas supported by all of the planning commissions and advisoryuse.
committees. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 222
CHAIR LEE: Isthere such a word as apparatuses? But anyway, any more discussion? No?
Ifnot,ready forthe vote,everyone? Don'tforget,please tellme ifyou'regoing to vote
no, let'ssave time,justsay rollcall,okay. Allthose in favor of the motion, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.One "excused"; Kama.
Okay. Proceed Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.37.010 AS FOLLOWS:
1. ADD ALL SUBSECTIONS TO THE BILL.
2. IN SUBSECTION 19.37.010(C) DELETE THE CURRENT
LANGUAGE AND INSERT "NEW TIME SHARE UNITS AND
TIME SHARE PLANS ARE ALLOWED IN THE HOTEL
DISTRICTS WITH A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROVIDED
SUCH TIME SHARE UNITS ARE SITUATED LANDWARD OF
THE MAPPED LINE FOR COASTAL EROSION AT 3.2 FEET OF
SEA LEVEL RISE, AS DEPICTED ON THE STATE OF HAWAII
SEA LEVEL RISE VIEWER HOSTED BY THE PACIFIC
ISLANDS OCEAN OBSERVING SYSTEM AS THE EFFECTIVE
DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE." AND ADDING AT THE END OF
THAT
RECONSTRUCTED, RENOVATED, OR EXPANDED IF NO
NEW TIME SHARE ROOMS OR UNITS ARE ADDED."
EXISTING TIME SHARE UNITS MAY BE
AND TO SECTION A, TO ADD AFTER 19.12, "19.14".
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 223
CHAIR LEE: Second. Second, somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTiN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin,to
approve the amendment as stated.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. Okay. So, by adding 19.14 to
Subsection A, makes consistent the deletion of TVR in Subsection C. And what this
amendment does is require new timeshare unitsor plans to require a conditionaluse
permit,sorry,conditionalpermit,which requiresboth planning commission and Council
approval.
Existingtimeshares would be allowed to be reconstructed,renovated, or expanded, as
long as no new room .. . Mahaio, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,yes, Ispeak againstthe allowance of additionaltimeshare
units. There's no cap on the number of timeshare units. There's no cap on any
additional hotel or TVR units in the hotel district. So, you know, we’re, we're actually
voting forexpansion of our hoteldistrict,and thisiswhat we're tryingnot to do inhotel
districts,at least in South Maui.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair, Once again, Iagree. And itallcomes down
to votes and politics.So, ifa conditional permit isrequired,itneeds to go through the
Council. Ifyou don't have the votes at Council,you won't get your timeshares. It's
kind of simple but,you know, you got to do what you can get the votes for.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Ready forthe vote? Rollcall.Roll call.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 224
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 225
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are seven "ayes",one "no'
carries.
one "excused": motion
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVE TO AMEND SUBSECTION 19.52.090(B) AS FOLLOWS:
1. DELETE THE RAMSEYERING BRACKET AROUND
"15. HOTELS" AND RENUMBERING THE REMAINING
SUBSECTIONS ACCORDINGLY.
2. INSERT ", IF THE USE WAS LAWFULLY INITIATED PRIOR
TO JANUARY 7, 2022. EXISTING TRANSIENT VACATION
RENTALS MAY BE RECONSTRUCTED, RENOVATED, OR
EXPANDED IF NO NEW ROOMS OR TRANSIENT VACATION
RENTAL UNITS ARE ADDED" AFTER HOTELS.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
Ido have a friendlyamendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I WOULD LIKE TO ADD "AND ANYAFTER "ADDED
PROPOSED GROUND ALTERING ACTIVITY IN CULTURALLY
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 226
SENSITIVE AREAS AS DETERMINED BY THE COUNTY
ARCHEOLOGIST IS REFERRED TO STATE HISTORIC
PRESERVATION DIVISION PURSUANT TO HRS
CHAPTER 6(E).
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objectionto my motion.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; To my, the amendment to my motion.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.So, discussion,Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; This islanguage thatwe've worked on and isacceptable to the
hotel alliance.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. So, this section is in the Lahaina
Historic District1 and 2, as we discussed. And again, this would allow for
reconstruction,renovation,or expansion to existingTVRs, assuming no new rooms or
unitsare added. So, forthose thattestifiedtoday thathad TVR properties,they would
be able to continue. They would not be existingnon-conforming. It'san outright
permissible use. So, to clarifyforthose thattestifiedwho have propertyinthe Lahaina
HistoricDistrict.No new units after January 7, 2022, ifitwasn't already lawfully
initiated.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Questions? Discussion? Rollcall? Rollcall? Member
King, rollcall?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No, that'sokay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 227
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 20 TO DELETE "AND APPLIES
TO NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION APPLICATIONS
THAT HAVE NOT RECEIVED FINAL DISCRETIONARY
APPROVAL PRIOR TO JANUARY 7. 2022." AND INSERT
"APPLICATIONS FOR TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS
SUBMITTED PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS
ORDINANCE MAY BE PROCESSED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE PROVISIONS IN EFFECT AT THE TIME OF
AND THE BEGINNING PART OF THAT
THIS TAKES EFFECT UPON
APPLICATION.
WOULD ALSO READ
APPROVAL." AND IT WOULD SAY "UPON.
SO, I'LL READ THE WHOLE THING IN ITS ENTIRETY. SO.
THE NEW, IMOVE TO AMEND SECTION 20 SO THAT IT WILL
READ, "THIS ORDINANCE TAKES EFFECT UPON
APPLICATIONS FOR TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS SUBMITTED PRIOR TO THE
EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE MAY BE
PROCESSED IN ACCORDANCE WITH PROVISIONS IN
EFFECT AT THE TIME THE APPLICATION WAS SUBMITTED."
APPROVAL.
CHAIR LEE: Any comments, questions?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 228
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, Ithought we did that. Yeah, great.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Yeah, Ithought we did thattoo. Alright.
Any more discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. In PSLU Committee yesterday, we
had a discussion with Mr. Hopper about that language in Section 20. And aftersome
work, thisisthe language thatwe developed to address those concerns thathe had.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorthe motion, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes",one "excused":motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND 19.12.020(G)(5), FORMERLY 4. TO
INSERT "TO THE BEST OF THE DEPARTMENTS'
KNOWLEDGE AT THE TIME THE LIST IS POSTED." AFTER
"UNDER THIS SECTION."
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 229
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin,to make
thisnext motion, a motion. I'm going cuckoo.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: And discussion. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This was inadvertentlymissed when
doing the ASF. This was an amendment thatthe Planning Department had requested,
and the planning commissions and advisory committees did vote to approve. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion or questions? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes",one "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. This isthe last amendment.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.14, RIGHT AFTER THE
PERIOD AT THE END OF THE SENTENCE TO READ. "FOR
ALL SUCH ROOMS OR UNITS, ANY PROPOSED GROUND
ALTERING ACTIVITY IN CULTURALLY SENSITIVE AREAS AS
DETERMINED BY THE COUNTY ARCHAEOLOGIST WILL BE
REFERRED TO STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION DIVISION,
PURSUANT TO HRS. CHAPTER 6E."
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 230
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by Member Paltin
with this amendment.
Any more discussion? Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Similar to the amendment that we
made in the Lahaina Historic District1 and 2, thisamendment would be applied to the
hoteldistrictto address many of the testifiersconcerns thatwere brought up regarding
iwikupuna thatare located insome of the hoteldistricts.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And to clarify,we did work with the hotel alliance on that
language.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
Vice-Chair?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes' one "excused"; motion carries.
Now the motion as, the main motion as amended, or do you have some more?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Those are all the amendments that I had. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,Members, we're going to be votingon the main motion as amended?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 231
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. While thismay not be exactly what I
wanted, it'sa step in the rightdirection.This wasn’t easy for me to do. This wasn't
what! wanted. Iappreciate allthe Members thatwere being supportive of not throwing
the baby out with the bath water. I look forward to working with everyone in the next
term to continue thiswork, because thisisjustthe beginning. And Iwant to mahalo
everyone inthe community, hundreds of testifiers,and comments.
I'llbe voting to support the motion as amended. Mahalo to everyone for working
together on this. Mahalo to Ms. Nishikiand Ms. Pajimola for doing a lot of the
groundwork behind the scenes to make thishappen. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Callforthe question,please.
CHAIR LEE: Iwish itwas thatsimple.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. This isa reallyhard, hard one for me, but I
feel likeIhave to stand up for my community and forthe many testifierswho said let's
put the kamaaina first,let'sput the kanaka first,let'sput the aina first.This billdoes
not put a cap on any new hotel rooms in South Maui. Itjustsays thatthey can'tbe
within the sea level rise area. And there's a lot of area above the sea level rise line.
So, you know, 1appreciatethatthe Members are tryingto take a step.
To me, it’sa step backwards from where we are with the moratorium. And Iknow the
moratorium can be repealed and thislaw can be repealed too, but we ratherletthe
moratorium stand. I feel for all the folks who are fightingthe expansion of the Grand
Wailea and other areas. And thisisgoing totake the wind out oftheirsails.So, Iknow
that'snot what Members intended, but Ijustfeel likeI need to stand up forthe folks
that have asked us to stay strong.
And you know, I love my community. And I was hoping that we would get some
protections,even some, you know, some sortof cap. There's no, there'sno cap at all
on the,where new hotelrooms can be built.It'sjusta, it'sjusta designationofwhere,
and above the sea level rise area. So, that doesn't help those of us who. you know,
are worried about the expansion, or worried about the overcrowding,our dealingwith
the traffic,and the environmental pressures rightnow.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 232
So anyway, Iappreciate everybody's input.And Iunderstand where folks,some folks
see thisas a necessary compromise. But you know, formyself, Idon't,Idon'tsee that
it'shelping us inSouth Maui. So, Ineed to stand up for my community. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Let'shave other people.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ididn’tsee any other hands.
CHAIR LEE: Well,I'mtryingto encourage them so they can get itout of theirsystem.
Member, I'llcallon you Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'llmake itquick. We did add, we did
add no ground alteringactivitiesconducted inculturallysensitiveareas. Iam kanaka.
I have been a champion for our people. I have put blood, sweat, and tears intothis
legislation.I don't appreciate fake champions tryingto speak up rightnow without
doing any work to advance thislegislation.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.IbelieveMember Sinenci had hishand up.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair,formy opportunity.And mahalo to,fortoday
to people who came out and testified.And likethe other Members, thisisnot exactly
what allof us might have thought itwas, or what we had inmind. But itisa step,itis
a firststep.
Yesterday, we had two visitorswho losttheirlivesinthe ocean in East Maui. And our
residents'keikihad tojump inand to retrievethem from the ocean. We've continually,
you know, even though we cannot stop more visitorsfrom coming, we did put inmonies
in thislastbudget to tryand lobby the, the FAA to see ifthey could at leastto put
educational videos on incoming flights,or at leasttryand, you know, give people what,
you know, justso thatwe can be betterstewards, betterhosts to our guests.
I think this pause, this small step willgive us a pause so that we can address the
infrastructure. We don't have the current infrastructure to do any more visitorsat this
point. We don'thave any sidewalks. We don'thave any parking,...you know, allof
those thingswe cannot be good hosts ifwe don'thave the infrastructurethatcan'tkeep
up with the numbers that we're seeing, the return of the numbers. So, I speak in
support of,of thisbilltonight.Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 233
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I'm going to support thisbill.And the
good news we allagree on no Chevy van camping. So, I'm happy thatwe aren'tgoing
to allow campers. That'sallIgot. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, this iswhat happens
when we sometimes work lateat night,too,yeah, everybody's tired,on edge. But you
know, passion cannot be questioned formy Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez and
my colleague from South Maui KellyKing. Thank you both, you know. Member King,
you're doing your job foryour community. And Vice-Chair,you know, you've brought
up some very good suggestions to how we can put some controlson some ofthe things
that our greater communities concerned about; the camper vans, controllingthe TVRs.
And Ithinksome of us never would have imagined the proliferationofthe TVR industry
from way back when.
So, thisCouncil,you know, Chair,you and Ihave been on the Council formany years,
yeah? We're the, I guess the old-timers,we've seen a lot,yeah? This is,thisone
issue I'venever seen so much passion on thisone issue. I mean, the blood, sweat,
and tears,and what everybody is,you know, sharing with not only with each other,but
with the community. It'sa reflectionof allwhat we're allgoing through rightnow.
The touristindustry,we're tryingto one, we want to certainly,we understand we need
the tourism dollars,but at the same time, the kamaainas, it'sabout qualityof life,too.
You know, sometimes having too much ofa good thingcan have some negative effects
as well.
So, I'm going to miss this. You know. I'm a short timer. I'm one of those that'snot
going to be returning,you know. But (do want to thank allof my colleagues fortheir
passion. And Iwillsupport this. Itmay not be perfect as Member Paltinsaid,you
know, sometimes, you know, halfa loafisbetterthan no loafat all.But itiswhat itis,
and certainlya futureCouncil can make changes ifitcallsfor it,likein any legislation
thisCouncil passes. Cause we don'tknow what the futureholds as faras how long
lastingthe legislationis. People change; conditions change inthe community. So, all
isnot lostforthose who may not agree withwhat looks likewillpass out of Committee
tonight.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 234
But Ijusthope aftertonightwe allcan go back to,you know, we chillout. And it'sjust
business and, you know, we allgo back to being friends,and what not. This isjust
business,yeah. But thanks to allforeverybody's mana'o. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
Anybody else? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Iwant to say, really,thank you forworking on this. Ihave
to commend Keani, and Tamara, and Chair Lee. Ifyou could have been inyesterday's
meeting which, you know, most of allof us were. But itwas, itwas amazingly smooth,
you know. Although we had lotsof testifiers,but just seeing the Chair, which was
Tamara Paltinand Keani working through this,and, and findingthatwe ended up with
some solutions,you know, and kind of worked together. Itwas a beautifulfeeling
actuallyto sitinthischair,and feelthatwe're taking on a big challenge,and it'snot
only one way. Cause Iguess we know, you know, ifwe stuck to where we were, we
would not be here today. So, I have to commend everybody. It'stough decisions.
Nothing's perfect.And I'm actually,you know, Igladlysupport thisbill.
As you know from the beginning,Iwas very cautious about a moratorium, because we
were already having hard times with,you know, COVID and everythingshut down.
And then,the firstthingwe do iswe take on a moratorium and we needed thatbreak,
I guess, and thisisthe outcome of that. So, ifthat break was this,then, you know,
very appreciativeof everybody, because it'snot what everybody wants. But it'll,you
know, support our economy, which issomething that Ithinkisimportant.
The visitorindustryisour main economic driver,whether we liketo admit itor not. It
provides many jobs. Imean, itprovides,trickles,trickle-downeffectofjobs,right?Not
only the hotels. We talkabout the hotels,but it'sa lot.They provide us our biggest
tax break, our tax base rather. You know, so this billhas, has many rippleeffectsof
good things.And thank you everybody forworking on it.And thank you everybody for
walking together. Our dance steps were instep,and I appreciateeverythingyou've
done. And let us continue.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, everyone. Anybody else? Alright,most ofwhat Ithinkshould have
been said has been said. I'dliketo thank everybody, especially,you know, especially
the Vice-Chair, and Member Paltin,who put this package together. And of course,
being a compromise, nobody loved it.And itwas hard work. And as any compromise
in reaching middle ground, you have to give something up. And so, I understand
perfectlywhat Member King issaying,and what everybody else issaying. Because
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 235
it'shard. This isa hard,hard problem, challenge,and it'snot the end, you know?
There's lots more to do on this.
But ifwejusthang intheretogether,you know, we can make some very serious strides.
And, you know, get over tonight,have a glass ofwine. These are the kinds of nights I
wish Icould drink. One day itmight driveme to drink. But really,you need to relax,
because allof you have worked so hard. You gave so much of yourselves, each one
of you. Itwasn't easy. And I'mvery proud of you, allof you. And so, hopefully we can
move on from here.
And where are we now, Mr. Clerk? We have a couple more things to do, right? We
have to take the vote on, we have to take the vote on allof these amendments, which
I know you have committed to memory. IfI asked you any one question, you folks
would know itrightoffthe bat. Alright,allthose infavor ofthe main motion as amended,
roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Before Isay my vote, Iwanted to acknowledge my colleague
from West Maui, too. Member Paltin,thank you forthatCommittee meeting yesterday.
Itwas very helpful.
AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Before Isay my vote, I'dliketo acknowledge my community and
I'mstandingup formy community, and IwillrepeateverythingIsaid,thatIappreciate
everybody else'spointof view. Idon'tappreciate the racistattackon me, but Ithink
that we allhave our own points of view, and we allhave to accept our own pointsof
view.
MY VOTE IS NO.
Thank you, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 236
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Before Itake my vote, I'dliketo also thank Member
Paltin,for her work yesterday. That was actuallyprettysmooth. Thank you.
I VOTE AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER KING.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused"; motionDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are seven "ayes", one "no’
carries.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 237
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Let'sfinishthisup, and so we can go home.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIRLEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'mso sorry,my familylanded. I'vegiven my notes
to Member Paltin,and she willtake over as BFED Committee Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: BFED Committee Vice-Chair. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well,you have a wonderful weekend with your family.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You too, as I hope everyone else also has a
wonderful weekend. And should be smooth sailingafterthis,right? Mahalo.
(Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez was excused from the meeting at 8:38 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: We'llfindyou and callyou back.
May we have one more item,Ibelieve. Do we have testimony? Actually,we have
believe itor not,folks,we have testimony.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Ithink we're on 160.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Yes, Chair, there are several billsremaining and, and then
there are the second and final bills.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 238
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 160 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 22.04A,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO KUIA AGRICULTURAL
PARK PHASE I EXPANSION AREA
The recommended actionisthatBillNo. 160 (2022) be referredto the Agricultureand Public
Trust Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Refer? No objectionsto the referral?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 161 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.08.060, MAUI COUNTY
CODE. TO REVISE POSITION TITLES IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 161 (2022), IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,second by Member Sugimura, towaive the Rules of
the Council on this item.
Discussion. Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 239
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. This billistime sensitive,as these changes
need to be inplace before the startofthe next Council term.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Allthose infavorofthe waiver,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
PALTIN. SINENCl, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: Itlooks likeitis seven "ayes",two "excused": motion carries. Excused are
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Member Kama.
Vice-Chair, I mean. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
IMOVE TO PASS BILL 161 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Sugimura, to move
Bill161 on firstreading,did you say?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Members, the purpose of thisbillisto
amend Section 2.08.060, Maui County Code, to replace the positiontitleof Budget
Committee Analyst with Senior Committee Analyst,and Budget Committee Secretary
with Senior Committee Secretary.
The Director of Council Services is available to provide additionaldetailson the
reasons forthisrequest. I respectfullyask forthe Councilmembers supportof this
motion.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthe motion,raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 240
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
PALTiN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes",two "excused"; motion carries.Excused are Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez and Pro Tern Kama.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 162 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 3.48.286 AND 3.35.040,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO REAL PROPERTY TAX FORGIVENESS
FOR TAXPAYERS BETWEEN VERY LOW INCOME AND GAP INCOME
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 162 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 163 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
TOTAL OPERATING APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 163 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 163 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING AND
ORDERED TO PRINT LA TER IN THE MEETING. See pages 243
through 246 fordiscussion and action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 241
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 164 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF
THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII SEA GRANT COLLEGE
PROGRAM, REGARDING ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS AND
NATURE BASED SOLUTIONS ATLAS FOR MAUI COUNTY
The recommended actionisthatBillNo. 164 (2022) be referredto the Government Relations
Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
(BILL NO. 164 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING AND
ORDERED TO PRINT LA TER IN THE MEETING. See pages 246
through 248 fordiscussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 165 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND, LAPSED BOND FUND,
TRANSPORTATION BASEYARD;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 165 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 166 f2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 242
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
TRANSPORTATION BASEYARD
The recommended actionisthatBillNo. 166 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 167 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71, CD1, FD2 (2022),RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION)
The recommended actionisthat BillNo. 167 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 168 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5395,
BILL NO. 72 (2022),RELATING TO DETERMINING THAT PART OF
THE PROCEEDS OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE
COUNTY OF MAUI HERETOFORE ISSUED IS IN EXCESS
OF THE AMOUNTS REQUIRED FOR THE PURPOSES FOR WHICH
SUCH BONDS WERE INITIALLY ISSUED, OR MAY OR SHOULD
NOT BE APPLIED TO THOSE PURPOSES, AND DIRECTING
SUCH PROCEEDS TO OTHER PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
OR AUTHORIZED PURPOSES OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 168 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto the referrals?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 243
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 163 (2022)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE
COUNCIL.
OF COMMITTEE
163 (2022), IN
RULES OF THE
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,second by Member Sugimura, to \waivethe Rules of
the Council regarding Bill163.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Members, thisamendment adds funding for
additionalsalaryand operationalcosts forthe parks recentlydonated to the County by
Alexander & Bald\win and is time-sensitive to ensure the Department has sufficientstaff
forthese new propertiesas soon as possible.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes",two "excused": motion carries.Excused are Members Kama and
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 244
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
IMOVE TO PASS BILL 163 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Members Paltin,seconded by Member Sugimura to pass Bill163 on
firstreading.
Any furtherdiscussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Members, the purpose of thisbillisto amend the FiscalYear
2023 Budget to increase the estimated revenues for Carryover/Savings from the
General Fund by $1,118,516 appropriatethe funds to the Department of Parks and
Recreation and increase equivalent personnel by 10 people, or 10 EPs.
The Mayor has provided a certificationof additional revenues for the
Carryover/Savings from the General Fund as stated. These funds are needed to
address the staffingand operationalrequirements of the additionalparks acquired
through Resolution 22-208.
Representatives from the Administrationare availableto answer any questionsthe
Members might have. Irespectfullyask forthe Councilmembers supportofthe motion.
Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. 1justwondered ifwe could justhear what
these positionsare for? Department?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's,we justacquired allthose lands from A&B.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, are they for,I mean are they for staffingof the, 1 don't
understand. 1mean, what are they going to be doing, Iguess iswhat I'masking?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 245
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: To address the staffingand operationalrequirements of the
additionalparks acquired through Resolution 22-208, 10 equivalent personnel. My
guess would be weed whack, oh, there'sMs. Yoshimura.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Yoshimura.
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA: Thank you, Chair. Councilmember King, we
are asking forpark securityofficers,park caretakers,nursery workers, and a building
maintenance/repairer. Ten positionsintotal.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, we have buildingsout there? Ididn'trealize.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yeah, 1think there are some, what do you call,restroom facilities.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, are these positionsgoing to, you know, be rotatable?
Cause, you know, we did this,we did thispurchase in South Maui a few years ago,
and therewere no personnel added to parks,and the parking lotisovergrown. There's
no entry intothe beach park area. So, that’swhy Iwas curious as to whether these
positionscould help inother areas as well?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: So, we are asking forthree positionsin the Admin program; two of
which are securityofficersand one isa clerk.Three inthe Parks Beautificationsection.
And three inthe East Maui Parks section,because primarilythe parks thatwe acquired
are considered East Maui District.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, so no plans to,to address the issues in South Maui
with these positions?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Not with these positions.We can consider thatforFiscal'24.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Remind me. Member King,forbudget, budget time.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, this,that,thatpark has been therefor,sinceAlan Arakawa
days and nothings . ..
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No, I'm serious,remind me. Okay, any more discussionon thisitem? If
not,allthose infavor,raiseyour hand, say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21. 2022
Page 246
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes'
Rawlins-Fernandez.
zero "noes", two "excused"; Members Kama and Vice-Chair
Mr. Clerk.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 164 (2022)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, can I have consideration for Bill164?
CHAIR LEE; Sure. Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. he already called itup.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 164 (2022), IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Sugimura, towaive the Rules
of the Council regarding Bill164.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Members, this intergovernmental
agreement isforthe grantfunds from the County to the Universityof Hawaii Sea Grant
College Program. The sooner thisbillisapproved the sooner the agreement can be
executed.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 247
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raiseyour hand, say
"aye". This ison the waiver.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, seven "ayes",two "excused"; motion carries. Excused are Members
Kama and Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
IMOVE TO PASS BILL 164 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass Bill164 on
firstreading.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Members, the purpose of thisbillis to
authorizethe Mayor to enter intoan intergovernmental agreement with the University
of Hawaii Sea Grant College Program for $500,000 to produce an Environmentally
Sensitive Area and Nature Based Solutions Atlas for the County of Maui.
The funds were included inthe FiscalYear 2023 Budget, Officeof Mayor, ofthe Mayor,
Climate Mitigation/AdaptationProgram. Representatives from the Administrationare
availableto answer any questions the Members might have. Irespectfullyask forthe
Councilmembers support ofthe motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 248
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I support thiswholeheartedly. We all
Owens and her contributions,and the program. So, thank you.
appreciate Tara
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion
and say "aye".
raise your hand
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", zero "noes", two "excused"; motion carries. Excused are
Members Kama and Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,we'd justliketo confirm with the body that there are no
other objectionsto the other referralsas read by the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: No objectionsto the other referrals,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. Are we on N?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with testimony on Bills- Second and
Final Reading. The firstperson we have signed up to testifyon items inthissectionis
Lewis Upfold. To be followed TrinetteFurtado.
CHAIR LEE: Lewis, are you there?
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 249
MR. LEWIS UPFQLD [testifyingon BillNo. 145, FD1 (2022^1:
Yeah, I'm here. Ijustwant to,want to firstthank everyone forthe time. It's,we're in
our 13th hour here in thismeeting, I can tellthat. And I'vebeen with you guys the
whole way through. Iwent into work early,tuned in,took my kids to the doctors and
had iton my car. You know, went to footballpracticeand had the earbud in,just kind
of stuck with you guys the whole way through. You know, and Ijust want to point out
that--
CHAIR LEE; You see how efficient we are? You see how efficient we are?
MR. UPFOLD: Very. Very efficient,yeah. But Iwant to point out,you know, the reason 1
stuck through with thisisbecause thisisan important issue to us. My colleague Phil
came up to the podium and he was in the chambers there from, from early morning
when they opened, allthe way intothe evening. And thankfullyyou guys lethim testify
before itgot too late.
Unfortunately, I was disappointed with the conduct of the Council and certain
Councilmembers, because afterhim staying there allthattime to bear his soul and
about his livelihoodand testifybefore you, he was met with the question thatwas
completely irrelevantto,to the ordinance and the billinsome sortofgot you moment.
And found thatto be a littlebitdisappointinginthe conduct ofthisCouncil.The conduct
that we seen recentlyin that lastbill,also a littlebitdisappointing.And I have to
question why we continue to see thismisconduct withinthisCouncil.
Ido not mean to insult,but we personallyhave witnessed thisthrough our company.
How many inviteshave 1given out to,toallofyou tocome visitus? Thisisan important
issue to us. And through the course of thispast year thatMr. Molina read offinthe
lastmeeting, having allthese deliberations,not a singleone of you have visitedus.
Tasha Kama did visitone of our associated companies, but never have they ever
questioned us.
Now, Ihave to ask isthisthe process in how billsare passed? Isthisthe process in
how laws are passed? That you can pass law withoutdoing thoroughinvestigation?
That when we inviteyou to come and talktothe expertsofthe industry,why isthatyou
do not take our opinions seriously,or you do not take what we have tosay seriously?
Why isitthatyou respond to others on the other side of the issuewithouthesitation,
and visitwith them? Yet, when we continuously ask for a response, we don'tget as
much of a response to our emails, letalone that much needed visitto findtrue
resolution to this issue.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 250
You know, we’re not opposed to restriction.We're not opposed to guidelines and
oversight. But the route that this,thishas taken, itisan outrightban. And itjumped
to thatban afternot being able to conduct an appropriateprocess. Ifthisisthe way
the process is,it'sa flawed process. You know, isthisthe process where you shut
down business without studying the industry,without gathering facts and data about
analyzing and deliberating?Isthisa process to again respond to certainmembers on
one side of the issue, but not the other. This is a broken process and I reallydo not
believethatyou can pass thisbillwithout understanding thisprocess.
IfIcan justconclude by saying reallyquick thatthisisn'ta compromise. Itisn'tbeen,
it'snot fair.Ithasn't been fair.But ifyou can honestly say thatthisbillinwhich you
want to implement in justthree months is best for the community and the industry
without having viewing our operations,sincerelyasking questions, studying the issue,
collectingdata, and referringto recommendations by experts, ifyou can acknowledge
that you honestly did allof these things and thisis the conclusion that you came to
afterdoing allthose things,then by allmeans vote "aye". Otherwise, ifeelthatyou
have not done your due diligenceas electedofficials,people thatIvoted forpersonally.
Many of you Ivoted forpersonallyand it'sbeen disappointingto be treatedwith such
disrespect throughout thiscourse. But thank you forthe time to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions? Ihave a question. We were, wellat leastIwas thinking
of extending the effectivedate, but Isuppose you wouldn't appreciatethat.
MR. UPHOLD: Isthata question?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that'sa question.
MR. UPHOLD: Imean, obviouslyany, thisbillas itis,ishighlyrestrictiveand inmy opinion,
overreaching.Any sortofchanges tothe industry...does need adequate time-lapse
to do that. Philhad mentioned at leastone year, especiallywith the sortof ban that
thisis. It'sa complete restructuringof the entireindustry;itdoes need at leastone
year.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. AllIneeded was-
MR. UPHOLD; But Iam inoppositionof italltogether.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. You’re inoppositionof extending the effectivedate. Alright.Thank you.
MR. UPHOLD: Oh no, I'mnot inoppositionof extending the effectivedate. I'minopposition
of the billalltogether. But ifthe billispassed, yes, an extension of the effectivedate
isabsolutely 100 percent necessary.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 251
CHAIR LEE; Alright,anybody else? Okay. Thank you very much foryour testimony.
MR. UPHOLD: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, I'msorry. Mr. Molina,isyour hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thanks. Thanks, Chair. Lewis, thanks for your
testimony. Just,with the one, what would basicallybe the major reason why you
would, you know, a longer implementation date? Is itmore, kind of get your, Iguess
your revamp your system? Isthatwhat, isthatwhy itwould take a littlelonger? Adjust
to whatever. . .
MR. UPHOLD: It'san allof the above. You know, it'sbeen mentioned before that,that we
have bookings a year in advance. Big bookings, not just singles,but big incentive
groups that,that rely on theirproducts to be as advertised. But operationally,this
changes the entire,you know, structureof the industry.And itinvolves,actually,more
vehicleson the road,the way it'sset up, because we got now more shuttlesgoing back
and forthbetween those marks. Itwill,you know, involve maybe some adjustment of
staffingof sorts,some differenttype of trainingand, you know, some discussions,I
guess, you know, with the communities and how we operate. So, there'sa lotto go
through definitely.Three months obviously isfartoo littletime. A year is,you know, I
guess a year isadequate.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, thanks. Thanks, Lewis. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ifnot,thank you very much foryour testimony.
MR. UPHOLD: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisTrinetteFurtado.
To be followed by Jordan Hocker. TrinetteFurtado, lastcall.Then, we'llmove on to
Jordan Hocker. To be followed by Laurie Barker-Perez. Last callforJordan Hocker.
Then, we'llmove on to the next testifier,Laurie Barker-Perez. To be followed by Dick
Mayer. Laurie Barker-Perez.
MS. LAURIE BARKER-PEREZ ftestifvina on BillNo. 145. FD1 (2022)1:
Okay. Aloha. Hi.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 252
MS. BARKER-PEREZ: Hello. It'sbeen a long,long,long day, so mahalo forlettingme testify.
Iam testifyinginsupport of the billto regulate the bike tours. Ithink itiswhat makes
sense. Ithinkitiswhat isrightforthe people of Maui, as well as forthe bike tourists.
Ithinkwell,well,well over 90 percent of the people who liveUpcountry want the bike
tours actuallycompletely eliminated. So, Ithinkthisisa compromise. Ithinkit'sa step
in the rightdirection.
Just going back to when thisbillwas inthe GREAT Committee and looking up the title,
Ithink that tellsus everything we need to know. The title"BICYCLE-TOUR PUBLIC
SAFETY AND RELATED LITIGATION CONCERNS". The bike tours are not safe.
Sure, most people who are on them don't get injured,but there have been deaths.
There have been very,very serious injuries.And I'msure you’reallvery wellaware of
the lawsuitthatwas settledjustthisyear fora woman who was on a biketour,crashed,
and isnow paralyzed from the waist down, which isof course,justabsolutelyhorrible.
But it'salso a terriblewaste of our taxpayers' money.
That's basicallymy testimony. Icould comment on the testimonyfrom Mr. Feliciano,
and from the man, Ididn'tcatch his name from Haleakala Bike Company. You know,
Mr. Feliciano talked about the bike tours were started 40 years ago. Yeah, they were
started40 years ago, there was one company at thattime, ithinkitonly ran one tour
a day, or maybe a couple. But there were no unguided tours.
And drivingup and down Upcountry now, it'salmost constant biketourists.And you
never know when you go around a curve ifyou'regonna findsomeone crashed on the
side of the road, which I'veseen numerous times. It'svery, very dangerous for the
drivers,as well as forthe bike tourists.So anyway, a very,very long day. That'smy
basic thoughts. And I hope you can pass thisbill.Thank you very much and aloha.
Yes?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Ihave to ask thisquestion.So, are you Albert
Perez' wife.
MS. BARKER-PEREZ: Yes, I am.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Because your lastname isBarker-Perez, the librarian.
MS. BARKER-PEREZ: Yeah. Yeah. And I’ve been. I've been waiting allday for my
opportunityto testify.And wow, you guys must be so tired,because I'mtiredjusta
littlebit.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 253
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you forhanging inwith us.
MS. BARKER-PEREZ; Yeah, mahalo. Yes. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Ifnot,Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha, Laurie Barker-Perez. Yeah, thank you forhanging in.You
know, you mentioned the one company thatstartedallof thislike40 years ago, and I
thinkyou were talkingabout Cruiser Bob. Iremember when that started up. But that
one company, didn'tthatcompany go down Baldwin,cause we didn'thave the highway
back then?
MS. BARKER-PEREZ: Honestly, Ididn'tliveinKula then. I'mvery familiarwith it.Iremember
those days, but Ididn'tlivein Kula. So, of course, Iwould come up here sometimes.
But Ihonestly don't remember, no.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, thatwas my recollection,but. . .
MS. BARKER-PEREZ: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Iknow the population was so much less then and
the number of tourists ... itwas a different world.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, itwasn't a four-lanehighway thatwas going down. Alright
thank you.
MS. BARKER-PEREZ: Yeah, you're welcome. Aloha. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? Ifnot,thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lastperson we have signed up to testifyon section N.
Bills- Second and Final Reading, isDick Mayer.
MR. DICK MAYER Ttestifyinq on Bill No. 145. FD1 (2022)1:
Good evening, again. And my condolences to allof you for having to go through all
this so late at night. And I do want to thank you for allthe legislationyou passed
whether I agreed with itor disagreed with it. I do thank you for your efforts. It's
commendable.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 254
With regard to the bicycleordinance, as you allknow, I'm stronglyinsupport of it.With
regard to the extension that'sbeen asked for,Iwould urge you to consider the liability
thatthe County isassuming by the continued operation of the tours. That's why the
word "safety"was put inthere. And Iwould hate to see whether itbe one month, two
months, three months extra put on there. And so, when you consider should we go
longer, please consider that the County is exposed to considerable liabilityat this
stage. And some of the insurance things that you put intothe provision won't take
effectuntilthatday a year from now, ifyou were to go longer. So, please consider that
aspect.
Yesterday, the National Parks announced thatthey are going to be offeringto these
type of companies the abilityto take,do astronomy tours and hikingtours,etc. So, if
there isany ...inemployment forany ofthese companies, these companies can easily
begin applyingto the National Park, get the abilityto have commercial tours atthe top
of the mountain, or hikes through crater,or whatever where they take groups in,or
combine them, even, with bicycletours. So, it'snot likethisisthe end of something.
This might be the beginning of a new type of activityon the mountain thatwillbe much
safer for the residents and for the bicyclistsgoing through the very windy roads that
thisbilldiscusses. So, please adopt this.
And iwant to particularlythank Councilmember Molina, who's spent so many hours
with,and hisstaffon shepherding thisthingthrough. It'sbeen a long process. And I
go back to about 2005, when I began discussing thisissue 17 years ago. And the
Council authorized the study to be done in 2010. So, it'sa long,long historyto get to
thispoint. And I'm so happy we're here tonightdoing this.And with that I'llsay good
night.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Dick. Thanks forhanging inthere with us. Of course,you realize
thisisa part-timejob, right?
MR. MAYER; Yeah. The restof the time, hopefullyyou get some sleep.
CHAIR LEE; Thanks. Anybody else? Questions? Ifnot,thank you. May we have the next
testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, I don't have anybody else on the list,but Albert Perez
might be here to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Hey, Albert.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 255
MR. ALBERT PEREZ ftestifvinqon BillNo. 145. FD1 (2022)]:
Aloha, Chair. Yes, apparently.I'm recognized by the County Clerk,or Deputy County
Clerk. So, that’sgood. You know, Idon'tquiteagree that necessarily that this,that
thisbike tour business isgoing to be diminishing. You know, ifyou think about itthey
are going to be able to run more tours because the tours are shorter. So, Idon'tthink
that’sa foregone conclusion. Just depends.
But anyway, my testimony is as follows. Definitelysupporting this. I'm testifyingon
my own behalf. I'dliketo thank the Council. Thank you foryour work on thisbill.And
Iwould liketo compliment you folkson allof the effortsthatyou have made to resolve
thislong-standing issue,as well as the outreach to allsides. Frankly,the support for
this billhas been overwhelming. Over 1600 people, mostly local residents, have
signed a petitionthatasked foreven more restrictionsthan thisbillprovides.
The compromised billthathas been reached separating bike tours from residents,who
are justtryingto go about theirdailylives,thiswillseparate the bike tour,thiswillallow
the bike tour industryto continue while increasingsafety and reducing the likelihoodof
continuinginjuryand death. Unfortunately,it'stoo lateforJessica Harris,who's already
a paraplegic.
I urge you not to extend the effectivedate. People are stillgettinginjured,including
during the lastGREAT Committee meeting. And the bike tour industryhas known
about thislegislationfor over a year. So, they have had time to prepare. It'stime to
take action and Iurge you to do so. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions? Ifnot,thank you, Albert.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testifyon
section N. Bills- Second and Final Reading. So, we'lldo lastcallat thistime. Ifthere
are any individualswho would liketo testifyon any of these items, please identify
yourself now. Irepeat, lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to closing publictestimony and accepting writtentestimony on
this item?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21.2022
Page 256
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with Bills- Second and Final Reading.
BILLS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 118 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, PACIFIC ISU\NDS WATER
SCIENCE CENTER, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
(COOPERATIVE WATER-RESOURCE MONITORING PROGRAM)
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Ifthere are no objections,may
we have the Clerk also callup Bills143 and 144?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 143 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, STATE OF HAWAII,
FOR THE VICTIM-WITNESS ASSISTANCE PROGRAM GRANT 23-VW-01
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 144 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, STATE OF HAWAII
FOR A STOP VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN FORMULA GRANT
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 257
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILLS 118
AND FINAL READING.
143, AND 144 (2022) ON SECOND
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass Bills118,
143, and 144 on second and finalreading.
Discussion? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Bill118 authorizes the Mayor to
enter intoa JointFunding Agreement with the U.S. GeologicalSurvey, PacificIslands
Water Science Center, and U.S. Department ofthe Interiorforthe Department ofWater
Supply to continue its cooperative water-resource monitoring program,
agreement period isfrom October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023. And totalcost of
the agreement is$174,584 of which $139,153 would be contributedby the County and
$35,431 willbe contributedby the USGS.
And
Bill143 authorizes the Mayor to enter intoan intergovernmental agreement with the
Department of the AttorneyGeneral, State of Hawaii regardinggrantingof funds from
the Victim-Witness Assistance Program. And the grant agreement isfrom July1,2022,
to June 30, 2023, totaling$64,864, which includes$16,216 inmatching funds.
And finally,Bill144 authorizesthe Mayor to enter intoan intergovernmentalagreement
with the Department of the Attorney General, State of Hawaii, regarding grantingof
funds forthe STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant. The grantagreement is
from July 1, 2022, to June 30, 2023, totaling$71,623, which includes$17,906 in
matching funds. Iask forthe Members fullsupport ofthismotion. Thank you. Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions or comments, discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorof the motion,
please raiseyour hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 258
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: Isee seven "ayes",two "excused";Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez and Pro Tern
Kama. Motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 119, CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 3.44.015, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
CONVEYANCE OF EASEMENTS TO THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 119, CD1 (2022) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,it'sbeen moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Johnson
to pass Bill119 on second and finalreading.
Discussion? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Members, ifyou willrecall.Bill119, CD1
amends the requirement for the Director of the Public Works to review and approve
metes and bounds descriptions for acquisitionor conveyances of realproperty,other
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 259
than easements, with a property descriptionstamped by a surveyor licensed by the
State of Hawaii.
The billprimarilyimpacts buildingpermits and subdivision approvals, but alltypes of
projectsare impacted, includingprivatedevelopments and CIP projects. Irespectfully
ask foryour Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ailthose infavor of the motion, please say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Seven "ayes",two "excused"; motion carries.Excused are Pro Tern
Kama and Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 145. FD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 5.22, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO BICYCLE TOUR BUSINESSES
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 145, FD1 (2022) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 260
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass Bill145 on
second and finalreading.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, it'staken a while to get
to thispoint,but we've certainlydiscussed thisissue at length. And Bill145, FD1, is
the firststep to addressing bicycle-tourrelatedpublicsafety,traffic,illegalparking,and
associated litigationconcerns on Maui Island.The billisa product of concerned voices
from our community, concessions made by bike tour companies, feedback from
various County departments, and thisCouncil'sprioritizationof the safety and well
being of Maui County residentsand visitors.
And as we discussed in Committee, as well as others, there are always other
opportunitiesfor us to improve road safety as well,which includes installingmore
sidewalks, brush clearing,vegetation control,and improving our roadways. And that's,
and as I'vementioned before,thisbillisa startingpoint. But should itpass today, I
believeitwillbringmore awareness and a sense of securityto our community and will
highlightfor future Councils what other areas of the code can be strengthened
regarding thismatter.
And Iwant to thank allthose involved,again, Mr. Feliciano,as well as Mr. Upfold from
the industrywho shared theirmana'o, and as well as Mr. Mayer and Mr. Perez, and
others,who've expressed theirconcerns with the safety aspects of the industry.And i
think this Council, with this version of the bill,itsort of likethat earlierlegislationthat
Member Paltin and Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez had. It'sa compromise, but it's
something. It'sa start.But where we had nothing before,we finallyhave something
now. So, Iwant tothank everybody fortheirmana'o, and I'mconfidentthatthisindustry
can make whatever adjustments they have to make.
And at a laterpoint I'm going to throw out a consideration. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Well, now would be the time forconsidering,consideration.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, okay. Alright.Well, I'llput out the, Ithought about this
hard. And of course, we heard Mr. Feliciano, as well as Mr. Upfold asking for maybe
up to a year, basicallyto extend the proposed implementation date,which iscurrently
February of next year to basicallymake itnow, assuming ifthe billpasses tonight,it
would be October. So, we're looking at October of next year. I'm lookingat halfway
compromise.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 261
SO, I WILL THROW OUT JUNE 1 FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO. I GUESS, AS THE IMPLEMENTATION
DATE, TO AMEND THIS BILL WITH THAT.
And I'm not sure ifit's,maybe I'dliketo get an opinion from OCS ifthat'stoo much of
a substantivechange thatitcould requireitgoing back to Committee, Madam Chair.
Ifthat's not too much trouble?
CHAIR LEE: David.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair Lee. Well we've advised
the body in the past that the standard is ifan amendment is so drastic that it
fundamentally transforms the billintoa new proposal,then itgoes beyond what could
be reasonably expected under the noticeon the meeting agenda. So, Iwouldn't think
thatthisproposal reaches thatstandard,but itwould be forthe body to make thatcall.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that'sa motion. Member Molina, so to extend the effective-
Oh, we have Corp. Counsel on the line.Yes, Corp. Counsel.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: I believe that for Sunshine Law notice
purposes ifyou're going to make such an amendment, you don’thave to go back to
Committee, but Iwould think itwould require a thirdreading, because Ido thinkthat it
would change substantiallywhat the public had notice of for tonight'smeeting, or
today's meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Do I see a hand here?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So, Iwanted to ask Ms. DesJardin, you know,
you said go to a thirdreading, but we could also waive the Rules, right? The Council
Rules?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: I don't believe so, because it'sreally
a Sunshine Law issue as opposed to waiving of your own Rules, because ithas to do
with notifyingthe publicon the agenda as towhat isbeing considered. So, that'swhere
Iwould thinkthatyou might have an issue.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 262
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Well,my understanding,thisstillisa policycall,Deputy Corporation Counsel?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: I'msorry,Idon't understand what you
mean by policycall.
CHAIR LEE: That it,although you'regivingus thisadvice of,thatregarding your interpretation
of the Sunshine Law, thatthe Council could stillproceed?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: You could definitelyproceed. Iwould
highly recommend you set itfora thirdreading, ifthat amendment were to pass.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair,could Iget Mr. Raatz's thoughts and also
Mr. Forrest,ifhe's availableto get theiropinion as well?
CHAIR LEE: You're in luck. We have both of them here in the, in the flesh. David.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair. I'm sorry,Ididn'tcatch
the specificquestion on thisround.
CHAIR LEE: This iswhether itcan, whether this,Corp. Counsel isadvising us to what she
called a thirdreading,so to table thisitem forthe next posting. And so, Mr. Molina
would liketo get your comment, your response to that.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Okay. Thanks. Yeah, Idon’tthinkIwould
offertoo much more than what Ialready said other than to pointout thatone pointof
publictestimony isto influencethe body to consider amendments. And we've been
toldby the OIP thatsubstantiveamendments are appropriate.Again, as long as they
don't meet that standard of being so drasticthat you transform the billinto a new
proposal. And you know, there'ssome subjectiveterminologythere,but it'simportant
to keep thatstandard inmind. But merely making substantivechanges, inour analysis,
isnot enough to prevent you from takingactionbased on the Sunshine Law.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Okay, well, Madam Chair, I’llput itout there. You
know, Iguess we have a differenceof opinions with regardtothe Sunshine Law. And
ifthe Members would like to take a chance on it,so be it. Ifnot, well, at least,you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 263
know, on my end, Iwant to make sure we're being as diplomatic and fairto both sides
on this.So, ifMembers want to go with,you know, implementing on June 1, or another
time, so be it.Or ifnot,we'lljusthave at it.I mean, so, that’swhat I'm puttingout
there, provided ifthere'sa second. Ifthere’sno second, well,itdies.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let'sjustdeal withyour amendment first.Imean, so, you’re making the
motion to change the effectivedate to June 1,2023.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: So, that's the motion, and then seconded by Member Sugimura. Were you
waving to me or are you seconding? Okay. Seconding fordiscussion. So, discussion
now. Before I callon Member Paltin,you have the discussion, you have the floor,
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, Madam Chair. I'llyieldthe floorto the other Members for
theircomments on the proposal.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Ispeak against the motion. You know, as
itwas statedby previousfolks,thishas been going on foryears and years. And Ihave
no desire to extend itanother long time and hear long more testimonyon bicyclesand
bicycletours. Iwould have likedto have a sitevisit,impartialsitevisit.1wouldn'tgo
see the bike folks without the other people, and I wouldn’t go see the other people
without the bike folks.
You know, one thingthathas stood out through testimony isone side callingthe other
side liarsand so on and so forth. I kind of resent the comment made, because integrity
matters. A directquestion was asked to the testifierin the previous Committee
meeting, and withoutknowing, an answer was given. And thatwas never followed-up
on to correctthe statement. So, it’sa matter of integrityto me, you know? Ithinkit's
time tojustcallforthe questionon this.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let other people talk.
Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 264
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Iagree with Member Paltin.Ithink,you know,
thisneeds to pass. And Idon'tunderstand why itwould take a year to,you know, reset
the industry.But I,you know, formyself,I,I'veseen this.I'veactuallyhad a friendthat
startedone ofthese companies years ago. And Ihave been on thatdownhill ride.And
I have seen accidents happen. A young man died on one of the tripsback in those
days, probably at least20 years ago. So, Idon't,I,Idon't,Imean, I,the fear Ihave is
extending the deadline and having something else happen withinthe next,you know,
six or eight months thatwe could have prevented by making thischange.
I,like.Member Paltin,you know, ihaven't met with both,with one side over the other.
You know, we've only.I'vetalked to folkswho have called,who have been on our calls
and testified. And I've heard both sides. But I've been watching thisindustrysince the
beginning, since Cruiser Bob 40 years ago and it has gotten more and more
dangerous.
So, it'snot a matter of,you know, we're not attackingan industry.We're not tryingto
diminish an industry.We're just,we're tryingto protectfolks,and we're also tryingto
protectthem on our County and State property. So, I,you know, Ijusthave a littlebit
of heartburn with extending that deadline, because Ijust,we justdon't know what's
going to happen. You know, every month somebody could have a major accident and
die. This isa four-lanehighway that people are racing down.
But, you know my, my experience is,you know. I've,I'vebeen inthe officesof some
of these bike companies. In fact,our, our company moved intothe officewhere our
fuelpump isrightnow thatused to be run by a bike company. And Iknow what their
operations look like.I'vebeen on the bike ride.I'vetalkedto folksinthe industry.So,
you know, I understand the thrillof going down that highway, but also think it'sa
extremely dangerous type of activity.So, Iwould probably vote againstextending this
deadline. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Anybody else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Just on extending the deadline, I want to say that my
community, which thisbillended up to be about, you know, my community, Upcountry
and thisspecificroad.Crater Road, and the 1600 members who signed the petition,or
the community who signed the petition,you know, about these guided tours. And I
think I've never spoken to Albert Perez more often than this,because of the
experiences he had. Infact,he would callme saying thishappened when Iwas driving
to work, or thishappened when Iwas drivinghome. And the number of incidentsthat
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 265
he can describe, itwas prettyscary, which made me realize,you know, how serious
this is.
And to tellyou the truth,the bike companies, the big compromise on this that
Mr. Molina,as what we ended up with,isa small portionof thisbig island.And ifafter
we pass thisbill,we heard from Makawao and Paia and they were not happy with the
bill.But we, you know, leftthat alone. So, you can stillpick up your things afterMile
Marker 3 and head down to Makawao and you can stillcontinue your business. So,
you know, thissegment from, you know, the entrance of the National Park to Mile
Marker 3 isthe area that is,you know, where you can ride. But I'mtalkinglikethisis
the main motion. Okay. I'mvotingagainstthat. So, okay, go ahead.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, I was wondering where you were going with that. Almost 9:30 and I
guess, you know, we startto babble after.Alright,anybody else who wants to say?
Oh, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. I,Imean, inthe spiritof compromise, I'd
be willingto do it.And Itried,Itriedto listento our testifiersand sometimes Ifeelthat
they'renot helping theircauses. You have to be persuasive, have a good debates
back and forth.And sometimes, we don'tget that.But Istilltryto take it,take that,put
itaside and hear what, you know, what they'rereallyasking. And emotions aside, I
would support Councilmember Molina's amendment. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Alright,anybody else? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Just, I don't know ifin the
bill,maybe staffcould kindof confirm it,ifan amendment likethisdoesn'tpass, isthere
an opportunityforthe industryto ask foran extensionofthe deadline,whether itbe the
Council, or BVA, or what have you? Is there any mechanism in the billas currently
written? Like say, forexample, the month of January comes around, the industryis
findingthatthey'restillhaving a difficulttime withimplementing and marketing plans or
what have you. Isthere something inthe billthatallowsthem to come to Council?
CHAIR LEE; Corp. Counsel? Corp. Counsel?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Maybe Corp. Counsel?
CHAIR LEE: Mimi, are you stillup?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 266
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: I am. And as far as I can tell,the
ordinance takes effectFebruary 1,2023 . .. The appeal section reallyhas to do with
folksthatare aggrieved as to the process withinthe bill.But no, there'sno request for
extensions thatIcan see other than itdoesn't go intoeffecttillFebruary 1.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair,Ijustwanted to respond to that because, Member Molina,
ifyou recall,we had the ban on the single-useplasticwas set to go intoeffectand the
Mayor set itaside for another three months. So, he was the one that extended that
deadline. So, Iguess that'sthe way itcould be done, is ifthe Administration decides
to do it.But you know, likeIsaid,I'mjust,Ijustwanted to letyou know that I’m not
necessarily in favor of it,because I,you know, I just have a lotof fear about this
industry.But Ithinkthat'sthe way ithappened.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: You know. Madam Chair-
CHAIR LEE; Corp. Counsel.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Before Icallon you. Member Molina,Corp. Counsel, does the Mayor have the
authorityto do that?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: You know, Ithink that was because of
COVID ifI'm not mistaken.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. COVID.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DESJARDINS: Itwas a safety issue. But one thing
that could occur isyou could pass an ordinance laterextending the deadline priorto
the February 1 deadline ifyou wanted. That would be a separate ordinance amending
thisone ifyou didn'textend itnow. Be another route.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 267
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Okay, well,that'sinteresting.Maybe thataspect could
go to maybe Member Sugimura's Committee, cause I guess this issue has touched
both. So, I'lljustthrow itout there to Member Sugimura forconsideration,ifthatisher
will,or ofcourse, the new Council come January. So, Idon'tknow. Ican, Idon'tknow
ifIcan count rightnow, but there seems to be some hesitancy on some of the Members
part and I respect that and of course, the community. So, there are, I guess, other
options,ifthe industrywould likethe deadline extended or the implementation date of
the law extended. So, anyway. I'llletMember Sugimura speak.
(Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez returnedto the meeting at 9:30 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair,are you, did you have your hand up? No?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Idid, !did not. But Idid identifyfor
the record thatIdo have two minor childrenand my husband with me inthis,pursuant
to Sunshine Law.
CHAIR LEE: Hi, Makana.
Alright,Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Mr. Molina's amendment iswhat, with allthis discussion?
CHAIR LEE: Well, he was considering making the effectivedate July,Imean, June 1,2023.
And then, now he'sthinkingof requestingthatitgo to your Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Idon'tmind thingscoming to my Committee, cause Iwould
liketo continue thisdiscussion, cause Idon't think it'sover. And June 1 isokay, Iheard
from AlbertPerez June 1 isokay, so.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Albert said it'sfine.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Like Isaid.I'vebeen talkingto him plenty. So, he sent me
thistextsaying June 1 isokay. He did.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alrighteverybody. You know, itisgettingkindof lateand so let'smake
a decision up or down. So, the motion was made by Mr. Molina to establish the
effectivedate as June 1, and itwas actuallyseconded by Member, I mean, yeah.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21, 2022
Page 268
Member Sugimura. So, we're stillindiscussion. And then we can vote on it,and you
can vote yes or no. Any more discussion? And don'tforget,Albertsaid itwas okay.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Ihad gotten a message earlierthat itwasn't okay. But I
guess he changed his mind. So, Iguess I'llgo ahead and support thatJune 1 date.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ijumped in midway through this
discussion, so Ijustwanted to clarifymy understanding of the motion to amend. The
motion to amend is to extend the effective date to a year from the date-
CHAIR LEE: No, no. No, no. No, no. June 1 isnot a year.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, June 1. Okay. So, the motion isto extend the
date to June 1,2023.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But inapproving thatamendment, we cannot amend,
we cannot waive Rule 19.C of the Rules of the Council and take finalaction today,
pursuant to advice from Corporation Counsel. We would need a thirdreadingbecause
of Sunshine Law.
CHAIR LEE: That isher advice, which iscontrary to David Raatz's advice.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so, whose are we taking?
CHAIR LEE: Idon'treallycare. You know, atthispoint,why don'twe justvote on thisdamn
thing rightnow.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: To put, you know, I am a littlespooked about what our
CorporationCounsel said. There isthatrisk.And Ithinkwe need to move forward.
And as we have stated, there are mechanisms where the industrycould come, say if
they want to go to Member Sugimura's Committee, or whomever next year to request
an extension. So, that might be the safer route forallof us. Because, yeah, I'dhate
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 269
to see an opinioncoming down from our friendsat OIP tellingus thatwhat we did,you
know, I'vejusthad itup to here with OIP on a lotof other stuff,as we know.
SO, YOU KNOW WHAT, I'M GOING TO WITHDRAW IT AND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: You're withdrawing your motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,thatsolves the problem. Alright,everybody. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: And Iguess whenever you're ready, so Iguess we're back to
the main motion and I'dliketo speak fora second and finaltime. But I'llyieldthe floor
to my colleagues who want to speak.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair,formy opportunity.Ijustwanted to mahalo
Member Molina fortakingthe bullby the horn, so to speak. Iknow ithasn'tbeen an
easy ride.But afterthis,Iknow it'sgoing to be alldownhillfrom here. So, Ijustwanted
to mahalo him fortakingthison thisride.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay, we're allgettingpunchy now. Anybody else?
Member King.
Yeah, congratulations,CouncilmemberCOUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
Molina. I know thishas been a long-standing issue. And, you know, justas a, as a
citizen.I'vewatched it,the industry grow from, for I guess for 40 years. But I also
wanted to say thateven though there'ssome people who thinkitshould be stricterand
some people inthe industrywho are worried about it,the amount of injuriesand deaths
that we had, ! mean some injuriesget closed down afterone death. You know, that,
the,there,it'sa major thing to have somebody die on thiskind of,on a bike ride.
And so, you know, we triedour best to make a compromise that,to allow the, to
minimize those risks and to allow the industry stillto operate. And Ijust want to
encourage the industryto findwhat opportunitiesthey can inthe new rules,because I
do thinkthere are opportunitiesto grow. There are always,there'salways a lotoffear
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 270
about change, but it'sgoing to be a lotsafer forpeople. And so, so anyway, good job
Member Molina and good job.Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, Ithink Isaid some of itwhen we were talkingabout
Mr. Molina's firstamendment. But this bill,Members, ended up to be about my
community and a very small segment of it.And so, the bike industry,although there
are rules, Ithink more needs to be discussed. Iwilltake itup again.
And Iam concerned about unguided tours,and thisisabout guided tours. It'sonly in,
on Crater Road. And we heard from Paia and Makawao that they, you know, were
concerned about theirexperiences. So, we can look at that.
Ido believethatthe bike industry,although thisisa severe firststep,cause it'sa first
step,thatthere are many years thatthey operated without,you know, many rules.So,
thisis,thisispart of being part of a community.
And thank you from my community, the residentsthatliveon Crater Road. Ieven got
people who visited me at the Upcountry Farmers Market. Just, you know, the
sentiment isfinally.So, those are people who directlyget impacted by the bike tours.
But you know. I'm sorry thatthe bike companies are not happy with us, and came up
with,you know, theiropinion tonight.
But Iwilltellyou thatthe Kula Community Association, Mike Molina,a lotof meetings,
you know, to get to this point today. So, thank you very much. I appreciate the
diligence. And actuallythe,that you did do thison a slower motion, you know, and
speed so that more people could, you know, weigh in on it.So, Iappreciate that. I
support this.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. IthinkIcalledyour husband
Makana. Is his name Makena?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, Makena.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay, sorry about that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's where his ohana isrooted. !wanted to quickly
commend Member Molina again. You know, we've been taking on some reallytough
issues, and this is no different.And mahalo for always tryingto find,you know, as
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 271
much common ground, and compromises, as everyone. . . Iguess. We tryour best,
and we'llcontinue to tryand tryand try,and that'swhat policymaking is about. It's
never, you know, quick on the firsttry,but we holomua. So, that'swhat we're doing
with this billas well. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Alright,anybody else?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Chair,for second and last.And well,thank
for the love fest,you know. But you know, realityis it'severybody had a part inthis,
you know, staff,you know, as well working with the Kula Community Association with
Mr. Mayer, Mr. Perez, and also others from the Kula community. So, itreallywas
everybody.
And, you know, Ijust happened to Chair the Committee thatthismatter was in. So,
we've made, after40 years, at leastfinallywe have something thatwe can work offof
and it'sa start.And so, you know, kudos to everybody. Everybody reallypitched in
and did theirpart. Itwas hard legislation,but we got itthrough. So, creditto this
Council,to everybody.
And also,just want to make a clarificationfor Member Sugimura.
mentioned that this legislationwas made, sounded likeeverybody in Makawao, my
District,unhappy. But ifyou recallearly on, and also,we had testimony insupport of
the industry,at leastfrom the business segment. So Iwant to make sure thatisthrown
in there. So, it'snot likeeverybody, you know, you're almost likeyou'rethrowing me
under the bus a littlebit.1mean, Iknow you didn'tmean to do it,but 1justwant to set
that for the record.
1 know you've
Cause Iremember people likeAja Eyre came out and stated her support,and Ibelieve
we got writtentestimony from Makawao businesses thatsupported the industry,and I
thinkfrom Paia. But yeah, and there were some people thatfeltitdidn'tgo farenough.
But anyway, Ijustwanted to set that for the record, yeah. So, anyway, but thanks,
everybody. And ready forthe vote. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You sure, because the counseling session isalmost over. Allthose in
favor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, , KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 272
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: All"ayes". That's seven "ayes",oh, eight "ayes". Eight "ayes", zero "noes";
motion carries. One "excused".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: One excused.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 148 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS
(HOME AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN (HOME-ARP) PROGRAM)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, or not? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 148 (2022) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to pass
that billon second and finalreading. Ialready put my papers aways.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
October 21,2022
Page 273
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Bill 148 (2022) amends the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget,
Appendix A, Part I,to add a new grant under the Department of Housing and Human
Concerns entitled"HOME American Rescue Plan (HOME-ARP) Program" in the
amount of $1,977,568. I ask for the Councilmembers support of the motion. Thank
you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand, say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes"; Motion carries.One "excused": Member Kama.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: I can't believe it. Alright,everybody has 30 seconds to say goodnight.
Everybody, anyone want to say, anybody gettingmarried over the weekend, nothing?
Alright,everybody have a safe weekend, relax,and take care of yourselves and your
family. This meeting isadjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regularmeeting of October 21, 2022, was adjourned by the Chair at 9:43 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF HAWAII
221021/!ks:jym
Countj^lerk ^ f
GUiT*
Grether,Ryan <ryan@wmcinc.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:49 PM
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; KellyKing;Mike J.Molina;
Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura
County Clerk;Pete;Dean, Joshua;EXTERNAL Glenn
Writtentestimonyre:Resolution22-206 authorizingeminentdomain’
PreliminaryDrainage Assessment at Maalaea - cover letter.pdf;PreliminaryDrainage
Assessment at Maalaea - diagrams and photos (reduced).pdf
From:
Sent: vm OCT 20 AH 8:00
To:
!’● iCE Or ● <Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Some people who receivedthismessage don’toftenget emailfrom ryan@wmcinc.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Honorable Members of the Maui County Council:
I’m writing again to urge you to vote against the passage of Resolution No. 22-206. At the
October 7^ council meeting, I discussed our commitment to doing the right thing for the
community and our process of deciding what could be done on the site. Today, I’dlike to
provide an update on our community outreach effortsand development of stormwater
solutions:
We’ve met with community stakeholders, including those who had favored eminent
domain. We shared productive conversations about open space, fireprevention, long
term stormwater solutions and the potential for a workforce housing community for
local families. I’m deeply grateful to those who’ve engaged in dialogue, even under
the shadow of eminent domain; it’sa great collaborative starting point.
We’re coordinating with a prominent environmental leader to co-host a volunteer
community cleanup in November.
We’ve met with State of Hawaii program managers regarding potential energy storage
projects and developing a climate change resilience hub.
West Maui Construction’s survey team is mapping out our property and portions of
the surrounding State land. A detailed topographic map willbe generated to form the
basis for designing successful stormwater improvements.
We’ve performed a preliminary assessment of existing drainage infrastructure in the
region to understand where improvements are needed most. Documentation is
attached.
We’ve received expert recommendations for interim solutions to reduce erosion and
runoff while we go through the eminent domain process, or preferably, the workforce
housing approval process.
We’ve implemented repairs to the existing wells and piping, making the property’s
water system now fullyoperational, and ready to support agricultural activitiesand
new plantings for erosion control.
We’d also like to work together with you to improve the existing County-owned basin
behind the Ma’alaea condos. This is listedas a “high priorityrecommendation” in Section
1
4.3.4 of the Pohakea Watershed/Ma'alaea Bay Stormwater Management Plan prepared by
Maui Environmental Consulting.
West Maui Construction and Hope Builders are committed to improving this land and its
water system regardless of how the Council votes on eminent domain. WeVe not just
landowners, we’re also community members who care deeply about improving this
beautiful island we call home. Our goal for this property is to improve it,not to own it
forever. We want to pass on responsibility to hundreds of local familieswho willdo a better
job of tending the land. Ifthe County takes itsooner, that just means well have less time
to make improvements, but well stilltry to do good work in the meantime.
Upon the completion of our topographic survey, we’d liketo have community meetings to
explore and collaborate on stormwater solutions, firerisk mitigation, open space concepts,
and creating a climate change resiliencehub. This community engagement willbe the
foundation for creating a workforce housing community for generations to come.
This is a long process, and we need more time. Please don’t say “No” at this point. All
we’re asking for is the opportunity to meet the needs of our community. Let’skeep the
dialogue going, and keep working on solutions.
At the end of the day, I think this whole issue reallycomes down to a simple question. Who
will do the best job of caring for this land? A real estate developer? Government
politicians? Or hundreds of individualhomeowners? I put my trustin localpeople to do
the rightthing. Please help Maui’s hardworking families,and vote against eminent domain.
Thank you,
Ryan Grether
2
West Maui Construction, inc.
35 Lunalilo Street,Suite 400
Wailuku, HI 96793
Phone (808) 757-7001
Fax (808) 442-0907
IaIMC
CONTRACTOR: ABC-30250
Preliminary Drainage Assessment
Stormwater flows across 257-acre property at Maalaea,
TMK (2) 3-6-001:018, and stormwater flows across adjacent properties
which enter Maalaea Bay.
Prepared by:
Ryan Grether, lie.#CT-37476
West Maui Construction, Inc.
Mark Matsuda, P.E.
Hope Builders, Inc.
September 27, 2022
Background:
The 257-acre parcel in Maalaea was recently purchased by West Maui
Construction and Hope Builders. This assessment of existing drainage
conditions is based upon detailed fieldinspections to develop a plan to capture
stormwater flows and prevent sediment transport into Maalaea Bay.
InitialFindings:
There is significantpotential for transport of sediment and other pollutants
into Maalaea Bay by stormwater flows across the 257-acre property and the
State-owned land adjacent to that property.
Attached to this report are fivediagrams that show the approximate locations
of significantstormwater flows in and around the 257-acre parcel. These
diagrams were created using images from Google Earth for simplicity,and
because the new property owners have not yet had the opportunity to complete
a formal survey. There are also numerous photos of existing drainage
infrastructure.
Diagram 1 shows an overview of the property and surrounding area. The 257-
acre parcel is represented by the regions highlighted in blue and orange.
● The blue region represents approximately 80% of the total area of the
property. Stormwater flows, originating from the uphill State-owned
lands, transit the blue region of the property and are captured by various
existing drainage culverts. These flow under the highway and into a
County-owned retention basin.
● The orange region represents approximately 20% of the total area of the
property. Stormwater flows, originating from the uphill State-owned
lands, transit the orange region and mix with other stormwater flows
from State lands carrying sediment into Maalaea Harbor. The orange
region has significantpotential for stormwater pollution improvements;
however, this region alone is not enough to resolve the entire area’s
stormwater issues.
Diagram 2 shows the State land to the south of the 257-acre parcel where
stormwater runoff enters Maalaea Harbor. Runoff, which transits the orange
shaded region of the 257-acre property, flows into existing drainage structures
on State land. It then mixes with other runoff from State lands (independent of
the 257-acre parcel).The combined flows then exit into Maalaea Harbor.
Improvements must be made to this region of State land, in addition to the
southern portion of the 257-acre property, in order to implement a
comprehensive solution to the issue of stormwater pollution.
Diagram 3 shows stormwater flows across land further south of the 257-acre
parcel that is owned by the State. These flows can carry sediment and other
pollutants into Maalaea Bay, just outside of Maalaea Harbor. Currently, there
are no stormwater mitigation structures for these flows.
Diagram 4 shows an existing basin owned by the County. This basin collects
flow from:
● Uphill State-owned land;
● Approximately 80% of the area of the 257-acre parcel;
● A portion of runoff from the highway;
This County-owned basin was a “failure”according to the Stormwater
Management Plan dated 11/16/2018 and prepared by Maui Environmental
Consulting. ''Based on the observed failure,itis assumed the basin’s size and
construction are inadequate to handle the substantial flows itreceives.”
Diagram 5 shows the location of photos taken onsite. These photos document
the existing drainage infrastructure, erosion, and discharge locations.
The photos provide two primary observations:
● The erosion of soilon the 257-acre property represents a significant
problem requiring urgent action.
● There are numerous drain inlets in the Maalaea area that allow
pollutants and runoff from roadways to flow directly into the ocean,
o Only the Maui Ocean Center property has subsurface drains to retain
runoff. This is shown on Record Drawings produced by Warren S.
Unemori Engineering, Inc. on 12/11/1997.
Solutions:
Inaction willallow the problem of stormwater runoff into Maalaea Harbor to
worsen. The owners of the 257-acre parcel, working with State and County
officials,can implement a long-term stormwater solution together.
Currently, West Maui Construction’s survey team is mapping out the existing
topography of the land for the purpose of designing stormwater catchment
structures. Additionally, West Maui Construction secured permission from the
State to enter their adjacent land to create a complete survey of the area and
design a long-term solution. All data collected willbe shared.
Recommendations:
1. We recommend two options to remedy the problem of stormwater runoff in
and around the southern portion of the 257-acre property,
a. Construct retention basins with sufficient capacity to capture runoff
generated during large storms,
b. Capture the stormwater flows and distribute itlaterallyacross the
existingterrainusing a system of berms and swales to form contoured
vegetative barriers. Additionally, native plants can be utilizedwithin
these vegetative barriers to retain the topsoil and allow the stormwater to
feed reforestationprojects and/or permaculture farming.
2. To remedy the problem of stormwater runoff across the northern portion of
the 257-acre property, we offersimilar recommendations,
a. Repair and expand the existing County basin to adequately capture
runoff from large storm events.
b. Ifimprovements are not made to the County’s basin, then additional
basins and/or contoured vegetative barriers would need to be
constructed on the northern portion of the 257-acre parcel to limit the
volume of stormwater flow reaching the County’s basin.
3. To prevent pollutants outside of the 257-acre property from entering the
drainage system and flowing into the ocean, we recommend installing drain
inlet filterswithin existing catch basins along roadways. These filtersare
commercially available and easy to installbut will require maintenance
expenditures on the part of the State, County, and/or private landowners.
Currently, West Maui Construction and Hope Builders are in the process of
developing multiple design proposals for systems of basins and/or contoured
vegetative barriers that would span both the 257-acre parcel and State land.
Final design proposals are pending the completion of the topographic survey.
West Maui Construction and Hope Builders will continue to explore stormwater
solutions that address the onsite erosion and continued conveyance of
sediment towards the ocean. Together, ifwe respond thoughtfully and
collaboratively,we can successfully restore the natural ecological integrityof
the land.
Sincerely,
Ryan Grether
Vice President
West Maui Construction, Inc.
Diagram 1: Dashed linesrepresentstormwaterflowscolor coded by property location.
{\ /
PlAJ/
.written♦ /\ V/
/ ●sfl
●MHMw/ 4
/
//y
//■. -1
/IMaut Oc«'i
AqutrtuI
I
:.V ,
	
I
8 S>wt* (●'llMill
Calypao
Zh
S3
3D
V+
Google Q 100% im^oeryaate6/t6/19-newei Camoa 2,S77m 20'48 17‘N 156‘302O'W
Dia.gra.in 2: stormwater flows into Maalaea Harbor from both State land and the southern tip of the 257-acre property
Dia.gram 3: stormwater flowsintoMaalaea Bay from State land
I‘ /
\
«
aiP
'Spa
«r»*. . / L» ca»
● ''-'■'i.jii-'-'
●'.■/■/
.'' I <
V*.\ '► erf
^19iIfCl
i 1r-j.
sIK3
J'●i.s' 4C*' I r. '\
//.●/ I
■ %?«>*!● J
^ '● ●tc'l'
■'.fv 7i-5. ●'.V.
V:.,s
i 'r\
'■
1^,-.cii )
Vv>i ●’.●●iSC.''. ■ . ! :■r*i
‘>r-s. ^ .>1£■-V i
-● 'V .
%i
► /i^7'i .11/ »T/,‘ If
</111 '’'A-a
'/●yn ●I/ . ■> S'.●“i
[Stormwaterruno[ownedbytheStt
j r.
y
;^^v'':--*T.-
s. '●●●■'■*
■ .-■●% 'V ●●
> .4'^: -Ti-:
■''r^.'/
a V,vr: .
/.t’'f;
*■ -■'■:■?b-i ●●●.-●»●vH
-1^ /...- K.» .
●●■P , r '3
t ● ^
/■:-i:4' ●: 'f.
rta
[Stormwaterrunoffflowsdirectlyintothe
[ocean.Therearenumeroussuch[ephemeralstreamsallalong"thePali."
m «.**«*●*#
. .
I Existingbridges/culverts.No
3 retentionor filtrationstructures.
y,
r'.\
sm'-"Uv'i -■ -'
. X.
: ■ ■.irv
●●1^
V●tl? '.■r > .
' ‘ k
●.;®:>
c ESt'’,'.'..V
..■";.'/■-«■
■' 1
\ -'t.'V’ n ●S .
.-..1 .-.■ ■ .y■■■●,'●t.●y
0 S\ t**,
●■' t
a
Diagram 4: stormwater flowsacrossthe “blue”regionof the 257-acre property are collectedby this County-owned basin
■ ● %
Vvih
■ ■ i
r:.-J
v: ●3●
●j
m«
1^* 3»I n
> % S^
V
i>
>.
I
●*wA
t.^
V ^ .
■ji
r«
iL^
Google O lrn*oeryotle6/U/19-ne«tei
Diagram 5: Locationsofphotos taken in the field
vH,
/i r*
j
'-C-> ss
j'.
WXSlBlMn
Ttnvw^doMJ
● f
●MMatSnw
iMlHaMf , .V-w,
●k
.-fe- ●' A ●.■■'*●; ■
i,.
I*
Ccffnifhe.m
*9 MauGoHSSportsPad(i
CtlyptoW| (●, ./
as
Kan«K>
* ^
3D
I
0 SN \+
Googk O 100\ ImaoetrdMf6/lb/19-iwwer 200 m Camrt* 1.903 m 20‘«80S'N 1S6'30'4a'W 31 m
Photo 3: Culvert outlet near Maalaea HarborPhoto 2: Drain pipe inletat Maalaea HarborPhoto 1: Drain pipe outlet at Maalaea Harbor
■esse#
1^—
:
s
■ - JI*
J.t'’ /
#>●
Photo 6: Grated inletat edge of highway
clogged with dirtand debris
Photo 5: Photo inside drain pipe running
parallelto highway, looking uphill
Photo 4: Interior of drainage structure beneath roadway,
and looking toward Maalaea Harbor
Photo 9: View of watershed area uphill from
culvert in Photos 7 and 8
Photo 8: Culvert inlet on State land south
of 257-acre parcel
Photo 7: Inside drainage culvertcoming
from State land south of 257-acre parcel
'
Photo 11: View of watershed area uphill from culvertin Photo 10Photo 10: Inletheadwall to drainage culvert under highway
*4
tm ■'
.4*
or
* ● *T
%
Photo 12: Culvert on State land south Photo 13: Natural stormwater conveyance into
ocean south of Maalaea Harbor
Photo 14: Drain pipe outlet into Maalaea Harbor carries
stormwater from frontage road above the harborof Maalaea Harbor
.z > -
«
»
' V
" ^
S{
-V %
Photo 15: Drain inlet with label at Maui Ocean Center Photo 16: Drain pipe outlet into Maalaea Harbor Photo 17: Drain inlet with label near USCG Station
J'
%
Photo 19: Inlet headwall to drainage culvert
under highway
Photo 20: Scouring within 257-acre parcel,
uphill from culvert in Photo 19Photo 18: Drain inlet label near Carl’s Jr.
R ■
Photo 21: Scouring within 257-acre parcel, uphill
from culvert in Photo 19 Photo 22: View of watershed area uphill from culvert in Photo 19
i
Photo 24: View of watershed area uphill from culvert in Photo 23Photo 23: Inlet headwall to drainage culvert under highway
Photo 25: County owned retention basin
* ‘4
■ r ■
I
Photo 27: Scouring and sediment deposits at
inlet to County basin
Photo 26: Concrete drainage channel at
outlet of County basin Photo 28: Earthen channel flowing to County basin
/
y■
●V
' .
V
-^r^. ■ >
Photo 30: Drainage channel running parallelto
highway which flows to County basin
Photo 31: View of watershed area uphill from
draunage outlet in Photo 29
Photo 29: Outlet from drain pipe beneath
Highway which flows to County basin
n t: i
it-
I s
>'s
■ ■ r'
t
6.^ T.'w/a M
Photo 33: View of watershed area uphill from drainage outlet in Photo 32Photo 32: Outlet from culvert beneath highway
4 ^
Photo 35: View of watershed area and drainage
outlet in Photo 34
Photo 36: Scrapes on haole koa trees provide
evidence of deer activityPhoto 34: Outlet from drain pipe beneath highway
Count^£lerk
Hayden Pogni <hpogni@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 10:09AM
County Clerk
Wendy email;hayden pogni;jenrusso@mauivacationrentalassociation.org
Oppose TransientBillto LimitAccommodations
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
OO
©-n 73
I CD
c?_You don'toftenget emailfrom hpogni@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant r*> i ‘'
ozo ro
CD
<
O <c.O -n
i i
rn r—\
Aloha hO
My name isHayden Pogni. We own a B2 business propertythat isZoned STR in Lahaina. This isa business and
always willbe a business.This business providesJobs forhard working localpeople such as wedding coordinators,
wedding photographer’s,restaurantemployees, landscapers, house keepers, furniturestore employees, repair
people, plumbers, electrician,handy men, frontstreetmom and pop stores where our guests shop, bakeries,coffee
stores,grocery stores,etc..
!visitedWest Side Glass yesterday and the owner toldme that 90% of her business isfrom Vacation Rental
Properties.Ifyou followthrough withthisyou willput a large number of businesses out of business and add a loss
of income to hard working Maui localpeople who depend on thisincome. Plus you need to consider the tax revenue
loss!Think growth,buildmore affordablehousing,not stripaway rightsof people conducting a Legal Business to
feed no only theirfamiliesbut many many others.
Ialso oppose the way thisbillisbeing marketed to the public.The comments on the county sitethe publicis mostly
supporting the ban on campers and hotelsinLahaina. The comments clearlydo not know thatyou are tryingto shut
down mom and pop familyowned and run currentlegalvacation rentals.
Mahalo,
Hayden Pogni
1
RECE!\/ED
./. im OCT20 PH-5
/^FP'CE of they^OUNTY clerk
09
imesnare witn
October 21,2022
TO: Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmembcr Keani Rawlins-Femandez, Vice- Chair
Members of theMaui County Council
FR: AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)
RE: Bill 159 - A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE
ZONING ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS
Hearing date: Friday, October 21, 2022 at 9:00AM
Aloha Chair Lee Vice Chair Rawlins-Femandez and members of the Maui County Council,
Thank you forallowingARDA-Hawaii to submit testimonyprovidingOPPOSITION to Bill
159 - A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS. Bill 159 seeks to
amend Title19 of theMaui County Code (MCC) to establishtransientaccommodations caps.
ARDA Hawaii strongly opposes Resolution 22-70 as currently drafted. The measure will
repeal the temporary moratorium on new transientaccommodations and insteadmake the
moratorium permanent. The originalmoratorium (Ordinance5316) was justestablishedinJanuary
of this year. This moratorium is already in effectand should be reviewed for itsoverall
effectivenessin tourism management before another moratorium overridesand makes it
permanent. The currenttwo-year moratorium should be utilizedto gather data to determine
whether stoppingthe development of transientaccommodations will decreasethe number of
visitorsto Maui. Further,ARDA Hawaii maintainsitspositionthatthe proposed billwillnot
accomplish theoveralldesiredeffectof limitingarrivalsto the Maui.
From an economic standpoint,ARDA-Hawaii isconcerned thatthiscap willlimitjob growth
in Maui. Reducing jobs growth will reduce tax revenue growth for Maui and also reduce
opportunitiesforMaui residentsto find localgood paying jobs.For example, the average pay for
timesharesalesand marketing positionson Maui was 130K annually(2016 data)and theaverage
pay fortimeshareresortoperationspositionson Maui was 63,000K (2016 data).Timeshare resorts
s contributesignificanttaxesin RPT, GET, TAT and providesubstantialcharitablegivingtothe
community. Specifically,timesharespay the highestrateof RPT at $14.60 per $1,000 of net
taxableassessedvaluation.Finally,a unilateralcap on timeshareresorts,could resultin the
flourishingof illegaltransientrentalswhich evade taxes,do not contributeto job growth,and
negativelyimpact the qualityof lifeinMaui’s residentialneighborhoods.
1
Ultimately,the proposed legislationwillunnecessarilyestablisha permanent moratorium on
transientaccommodations. While ARDA-Hawaii acknowledges that growth of the tourism
industryon Maui should not be infiniteand should be sustainablymanaged, preventingany form
of growth for the tourism industrywillresultin unintended negativeeconomic consequences.
Growth inan industryshouldbe reasonableand properlymanaged ratherthan precludedentirely.
ARDA Hawaii isin favorof working with allcouncilmembers and stakeholdersto cooperate
on legislationthatproperlymanages tourismon Maui. We welcome any opportunitytocollaborate
with all stakeholders on any amendments including those considered in the Planning and
SustainableLand Use Committee. The timeshare industryunderstands the concerns voiced by
residentsand looks forwardto supportingand contributingto Maui County.
Thank you foryour considerationof my comments.
Respectfullysubmitted,
Mitchell A. Imanaka
ARDA Hawaii Chair
2
VRMA RECEiVED
20ZZOCT2O AH 11=20
7^V* ♦ * .b*'"'‘●Wni.l C'lf*'
October 20, 2022
.j.-FlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKDear Maui County Councilmembers,
On behalf of Maui PRMA, the Vacation Rental Trade Council under the Maui Chamber of Commerce,
we ask that Bill 159 return back to committee to allow the Planning Commission to complete
their review.
PRMA, the Professional Rental Management Association, is a coalitionof professionalproperty
management companies representing over 1600 legallyzoned condominium vacation rental
units throughout Maui. Our members are licensed in the State of Hawaii, engaged in the
management of legalvacation rental properties,primarily condominiums, and comply with real
estate licenselaw and code of ethics.Our companies represent 216 years in business,employing
nearly 200 employees and over 300 independent contractorsand vendors.
Our industryishighlyimpacted by Bill159 and yet,we have not yet been calledas a resource
group, invitedto the tableor given the chance to share our concerns and input.
This billshould continue to be vetted in committee and allow the commission to complete their
review. More voices need to be heard as we do not feel this billhas been a collaborative effort. The
planning commission should be allowed to give theirrecommendation and they have not been
allowed to do their work.
It'sour hope thatwe can finda balance and way as a county tocreatethe affordablehousing
needed and manage tourism without the need totakeaway and negativelyimpactour locally
owned and run small businesses.
On behalfof PRMA, we ask thatyou would NOT PASS Bill159 but allow itto return to committee
for further review.
Thank you foryour considerationand we welcome any discussionwith you or a member ofyour
administration and we can be contacted at Mauiprma@gmail.com.
Mahalo,
John Kevan
Angela Leone
Maui ProfessionalRental Management Association(Maui PRMA)
Count^Clerk
RtCEfVED
mi OCT 19 AH l|:20
CherylHendrickson<chermcmaui@aol.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 10:59 AM
County Clerk
Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
vT-KIGE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget email from chermcmaui@aol.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha County Council Members-
Please give fullsupport of the Bill159. The TransientAccommodations Resolution
Ihave livedon Maui for35 years and have witnessed the overwhelming growth of
tourists and tourist accommodations. Overtourism has caused the qualityof Maui’s
sites,wildlife,infrastructureand way of lifeto decline.
Trafficand parking has reached untenable levels.Liabilitiesof having so too many
people strainsour lifesavingresources. The bike companies migration intoour
neighborhoods are an example of business'staking advantage and of safetyissues.
The rubbish and sewer levels on land and sea are not sustainable.As proved by water
qualitiesof Ma'alaea Bay, South and West Maui. We must cap our accommodations to
protect Maui from more degradation.
Existingjobs willnot be lostand to say othen/viseisa poor oxymoron to overwhelm
Maui and it'speople. The constructionindustrywillcontinuetoflourishthrough
renovation and improvements.
Many Mahalos,
Cheryl Hendrickson
Haiku resident
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Karen Comcowich <kcomcowich@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 11:25 PM
County Clerk
Support Bill159
mi OCT 20 AM 7: 59
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha Maui County Council,
Please support Bill159.
We have enough touristaccommodations inMaui County. This billdoes not reduce that number. Itdoes
not impact the existinghotelsand vacation rentals.Ifanything ithelps by maintaining the quality
experience guests expect when they visitMaui. People visitMaui because of the naturalbeauty and
relaxed lifestyle.More hotelsequals lessnaturalbeauty. More hotelsequals more stressed
residents. The rightnumber of touristsisnice forresidents and visitors.Too many touristsmake our
home feellikean amusement park.
Italso does not impact existingjobs. Hotels,timeshares and vacation rentalsalready inexistance will
continue to operate and employ people.
Please strengthen and vote insupport of Bill159.
Thank you foryour time,
Karen Comcowich
Lahaina, HI
Writing on my own behalf
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
1
Ik RECEIVED
mi OCT 20 AH 7-59Maui Hotel& LodgingASSOCIATION
-rFIGE OF THE
OUNTY CLERKOctober 20, 2022
Committee Chair Tamara Paltin
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee
200 South High Street,8*^Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RE: Opposition to Reso 22-70 (BIN 159) Transient Accommodation Caps
Aloha Chair Paltinand members of the Committee,
The Maui Hotel & Lodging Association (MHLA) isthe legislativearm of the visitorindustryfor Maui
County. We representover 180 property and alliedbusinessmembers and more than 22,000 workers.
These employees relyon theirjobs at hotels,restaurants,activitycompanies, and constructionto
provide for theirfamilies,send theirchildrento college,and plan theirfutures here on the islands.We
are opposed to Resolution 22-70 (Bill159) in itscurrent form.
MHLA respectfully asks the PSLU Committee to amend Resolution 22-70 with the language provided to
you by the Hawaii Hotel Alliance.
Resolution22-70 being discussedtoday willnot have the overalldesired effectof limitingarrivalsto
the islands.As long as visitorsarrive,they willfind a place to stay.In introducinga cap, other
accommodation platforms willsurface. Our hotelsand timeshares contribute significanttaxes in RPT,
GET, and TAT and provide substantialcharitablegivingto the community. Other platforms willoperate
illegallywithout paying taxes or engaging with our community. There isan alarming growth in illegally
operating vacation rentals,and now we see even lower-end illegalrentalsin camper vans, yurts,and
tents on the rise.They are growing because we do not have effectivelaws and enforcement in placeto
controlthem, and they are not limitedto where they can be in our community. Our hotel and
timeshare propertiesare alreadybeholden to strictdevelopment and zoning laws.
Additionally,ifthisBillgoes intoeffect,itdevalues the properties. Next year, property assessments
and realproperty tax billswillhave the potentialfor massive appeals due to the decrease in property
values. Where will the RPT revenues come from to make up for thisloss in revenue?
85 N. Church Street,Wailuku HI 96793 | P.808-244-8625 F.808-244-3094 [ info@mauihla.ore |www.mauihla.ore
MB'
sTsnp
Maui Hotel& Lodgingt::D m ASSOCIATION
Everyone can agree there needs to be a better balance for Maui's tourism. Ibelieveitneeds to be a
collaborativeeffortwith the government, the industry,and the community. We shouldn'tgo inwith
harsh legislationand tryand change the industrywithout thinkingabout the economics. Balance
doesn't have to be at odds with economic interests.
Please consider the proposed amendments before you today.
Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony,
Lisa Paulson
Executive Director
Maui Hotel & Lodging Association
85 N. Church Street,Wailuku HI 96793 | P.808-244-8625 F.808-244-3094 | info@inauihla.org| www.mauihla.org
JVL
-H-
Maui Hotel& LodgingASSOCIATION
October 21, 2022
Chair Alice Lee
Maui County Council
200 South HighStreet,8^^Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RE: Support of Proposed Amendments for Bill 159 from the PSLU Committee
Aloha Chair Lee and members of the Council,
The Maui Hotel & Lodging Association(MHLA) isthe legislativearm of the visitorindustryfor Maui
County. We represent over 180 property and alliedbusiness members and more than 22,000 workers.
These employees relyon theirjobs at hotels,restaurants,activitycompanies, and construction to
provide for theirfamilies,send their children to college,and plan theirfutures here on the islands.We
support the proposed amendments to Bill159 drafted by the PSLU Committee.
First,Iwould liketo acknowledge and thank the Council for itstime and hard work at the PSLU meeting
yesterday. We are infullsupport of the proposed amendments to Bill159.
Our hotels and timeshares contribute significanttaxes in RPT, GET, and TAT, provide substantial
charitablegivingto the community, and are already beholden to strictdevelopment and zoning laws.
Everyone can agree there needs to be a better balance for Maui's tourism. Ibelieve itneeds to be a
collaborativeeffortwith the government, the industry,and the community. Balance doesn't have to
be at odds with economic interests.
Please consider the proposed amendments before you today.
Thank you forthe opportunity to provide testimony,
Lisa Paulson
Executive Director
Maui Hotel & Lodging Association
85 N. Church Street,Wailuku HI 96793 | P.808-244-8625 F.808-244-3094 |info(5)mauihla.org|www.mauihla.org
Count^CleH< P!-rr-i\/nn
carolleekamekona <hynmahi@yahoo.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 3:45AM
County Clerk
Councilmtg 10/21/2022
From;
Sent: 20nOCT21 AH8:06
To:
.' FiCE OF THc
OUNTY CLERK
Subject:
Aloha and good Morning Council members,
1am writinginsupport of the followingItems on today'sagenda:
1. Bill154 (2022) relatingto the development of Culturaloverlaydistricts
2. Bill145 FDl (2022) relatingto bicycletour businesses and the amending of Chapter 5.22
In itscurrentwritten form, Iam inopposition to Bill159 (2022)amending the comprehensive zoningordinancerelating
to transient accommodations.
Where the followingisstated inthe Bill...
" Ifany buildingor structureapproved or lawfullyexistingisreconstructed,renovated,or expanded, then the transient
vacation rental use islimitedto the originalbuildingenvelope."
There should be a stipulationadded to thisstatement to disallowany reconstruction,remodeling or expansion of any
transient vacation rental,bed and breakfast, time share or hotelwhich has been proven to have disinterredany
previouslyidentifiediwikupuna. IfANY type of alterationsto the currentbuildingstructurerequiresany diggingwhere
iwikupuna have been previouslydisturbedor disinterred....NOexemptions whatsoever should be allowedor any type of
permit (specialor otherwise)be granted.
A question to ponder....what isan Erosion Hazard Line and isthatanother way of sayingShorelineSetback? Should they
differ,Ido not agree thatthe ErosionHazard Lineshould be used indeterminingany SMA/shoreiine setbackrulesor
acquiring an SMA permit.
Mahalo foryour time inreading my testimony.Have a beautifullyblessedMaui day.
KE AKUAPU!
CarolLee Kamekona ^
Sent from my iPhone
1
Bill159 (2022)
Testimony in Opposition
RECEIVED
PAIAINN
93 Hana Hwy
Paia, HI 96779
Z022OCT I9 PH 25
OFFICE OF THE
The Paia Inn buildinghas been a historicalmainstay inthetownofPaiaforhebriyflW^^fsPih^
2001, we purchased the buildingwhich was builtback in 1927 as a traditionalJapanese Inn,
and at the County’s advice, began a restorationand preservation projectso thatthe building
could continue to be utilizedas itwas originallyintended while preserving itshistoriccharm. In
2008, we were able to re-open what was once known as the Paia Lodge, as the Paia Inn and it
has since been consistentlyrecognized as one of Maui’stop hospitalityaccommodations on the
island.
Throughout itsoperation,the Paia Inn has provided tremendous value to the greater community
as a whole. Guests frequentthe many localbusinesses throughout Paia Town, spending their
money in Paia’s shops and restaurantshelping to support the localeconomy. Additionally,we
employ many Maui County residentswho also end up contributingto our localeconomy and the
Paia Inn activelymakes charitablecontributionsto schools and nonprofitsislandwide. The Paia
Inn providestremendous value to not only Paia Town, but Maui County as a whole.
Not too long ago, the County recognized thisvalue. Back in2012, the Maui Island Plan was
adopted inorder to provide directionforfuturegrowth, the economy, and socialand
environmental decisions on the islandthrough 2030. One ofthe policiesthe Maui IslandPlan
callsforin managing the futureexpansion of the visitorindustryisspecificallyallowing for the
development of small, sensitively-designed inns. In2014, just8 years ago, the Maui County
Council,while looking at how to carry out the policygoals laidout inthe Maui IslandPlan,
unanimously voted 8-0 to enact Ordinance 4153. Among other things.Ordinance 4153
amended Maui County Code § 19.15.030 to allowforthe operation of up to 12 TVR rooms as a
special use inthe BCT district.The Paia Inn only has 9 rooms.
After the Council enacted Ordinance 4153, we applied to convert 4 officespaces intoTVR
rooms. The plan did not involveany new constructionor development, yet,itwas initially
denied. Aftera long contentious appeal, however, we were able to receive a renewable County
Special Use Permit (CUP) to operate the Paia Inn as a 9 room TVR operationfor10 years.
Retired Judge McConnell, who served as the Hearing Officer,specificallyconcluded that our
familyrun operationwould not have any significantnegative impacts on the community. In fact,
Judge McConnell’s decision specificallynoted thatthere were numerous lettersof support from
adjacent neighbors. Paia community leaders,and fellowbusiness owners.
At the March 17, 2022 meeting before thisvery Committee, there was some discussion
suggesting thatthe billas itiscurrentlydraftedwould not affectthe Paia Inn,and Ms. McLean
specificallystated thatwe “should be able to renew.” To Corp Counsel’s credit,Mr. Hopper
chimed in and explained, however, thatthiswas not true. He specificallystatedthatunder the
current language of the bill,we would not be able to renew our Permit and itwould ultimately
expire. Then, at the August 9, 2022 Maui Planning Commission meeting, the Planning
Bill159 (2022)
Testimony in Opposition
Department testifiedsuggesting thatthisbillisnot intended to affectany existingTVR
operations and isonly intended to stop any futureoperations from springing up. Clearly,
however, thisis not true. While yes, the Paia Inn willbe able to continue to operate as a
nonconforming use, thiswould only be forthe remainder of the lifeof our CUP and then we
would be precluded from seeking a renewal of the permitjust as Mr. Hopper pointed out back in
March. Our CUP term isup for renewal in 2028.
Further,Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez has “acknowledged includingthe provisionthat
could kill[thePaia Inn]afterhearing concerns and reading testimony from some of [the]
neighbors, including[Ms.]Aarona.” In fairness,however, itmust also be mentioned thatwhen
Judge McConnel issued his Decision essentiallyorderingthe County to grant our CUP, he
specificallypointed out thatMs. Aarona’s testimony was "irrelevantand should be disregarded
as he found that itwas “notsupported by the evidence” and affectedby her “personal issues
with Mr. Baskin.”
To the best of our knowledge, the Paia Inn isthe only entitywho has been granted a CUP to
operate TVR rooms inthe BCT thatwillbe directlyimpacted by Section 4 of the proposed bill
which willremove TVR as a special use in the BCT district.We did findanother entitywho
received a CUP to operate TVR rooms inthe BCT districton Molokai, however, to our
understanding the new buildingthey were seeking to buildhas yet to be constructed. We,
however, are up and running,employing localresidentsand providing a boost to the economy of
Paia Town, allthe while not having any negative impact on the surrounding properties,owners,
or the County.
This Billisextremely unfairand unjustas itpertainsto the Paia Inn. We, and our staff,should
not have to sufferthe consequence of being forced out of business once our permit expires. We
are a familyrun business operating a small sensitivelydesigned inn providing nothing but a
benefitto the community. Infiveyears, itwillbe a hundred years since the constructionof the
Paia Inn Building. Itisa historicstaple located rightinthe heart of Paia and should be
celebrated.
We stronglyurge you to oppose the billoutright,however, ifyou are not inclinedto do so, we
would propose an amendment thatwould either:(1)deletethe portionof the billthatwould
remove TVR as a specialuse inthe BCT district;or (2) includea provisionthatwould
specificallyallow currentpermit holders to continue to operate indefinitelyso long as they are in
compliance with the conditionsof theirpermit. We also urge you to consider carving out an
exception that would allow current property owners, who submit an applicationfor a CUP to
operate TVR rooms as a special use in the BCT districtwithin 180 days from the effectivedate
of the bill,to continue operating indefinitelyas a nonconforming use. Thank you foryour time
and consideration on thisextremely important measure.
Mahalo.
Michael Baskin
Paia inn
County Clerk n- n r~ I \!
AlbertAinuu <alhoku314@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:50 AM
County Clerk
Opposing Bill159
From:
Sent: mi OCT20 AH 8=56
To:
FI-ICE OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
Subject:
(You don'toften get email from alhoku314(S)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
My name isAlbertAinuu and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Albert Ainuu
Sent from my iPhone
1
CoLUTt^Clerk
OCT19 AH 9:28
'^FFJCEof the-OUNTY CLERK
MARK ALBERS <omwao@icloud.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:42 AM
County Clerk
Support Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from omwao@icloud.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Dear Council members.
As permanent residentsof west Maui for 12 years, we have Great concern forthe over tourism problem affectingMaui
in very negative ways.
The carryingcapacityof dailytouristsforour populationis55,688 people.
For the last7 years excluding2020, that number averages 62,721 tourists.
Whatever isinthe power of our leadersto reduce thisonslaughtof over tourismshould be implemented forthe sake of
our environmental health,qualityof lifefor our citizens,and forthe satisfactionof the touriststhatdo visitMaui.
Enough isenough! Please act PONO for our people, our Aina and our Wai.
Sincerely,Suzanne and Mark Albers
Sent from my iPad
1
County Clerk
Friendsof Terez Amato <admin@TerezAmato.org>
Friday,October 21, 2022 10:03 AM
County Clerk
Izeah Garcia;gabrieiforprogress@gmail.com;Rachel Kaya; Amy Perruso;
jeanne@jeannekapela.com; mahinapoepoe13@gmail.com; Gabe Johnson; AliceL
Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tasha A. Kama; KellyKing;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;
YukileiSugimura;Mike J.Molina;Mayors.Office@co.maui.hi.us
Istronglysupportcounty resolutionNO. 22-241 #PatientsBeforeProfits
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Testimony forcounty resolution
"URGING THE COUNTY OF MAUI'S SUPPORT FOR KAISER PERMANENTE
TO RESOLVE MENTAL HEALTH CLINICIAN DISPUTE"
Honorable council members:
Aloha, my name isTerez Amato, Iam a residentof South Maui, Kula Kai.
Istronglysupport Councilmember Gabe Johnson’s timely,excellentand importantresolutionurgingKaiser
Permanente to negotiateto resolve the cliniciandispute.
A good faithnegotiationisrequiredforthe good of our community.
Currently,Kaiser only employs 57 mental healthcareworkers for264,000 Kaiser members statewide.We
are told8 for66,000 people in Maui county. This gross shortage of providersiscausing patientsand
members to wait months forappointments even incases where care iscriticallyneeded. This is
unacceptable, does not adhere to normal standards of care and appears to be blatantlyirresponsiblefrom
a “care”provider.
This isdoing irreparableharm to our community and some who have sought emergency help yet have
been turned away onlyto losetheirlives.There isno justificationforthisgross mistreatmentof patients.
Even withoutthe ongoing strike,care islimited,insufficientand has to be rationedamongst those who have
already entered the care system. New patientsare toldto wait months foraccess to care. Anecdotes have
been relayed about patientdeaths on hospitalgrounds afternot receivingcare.
Ihave spoken with concerned healthcare professionalsinhigh stressjobs thatrequiremental healthcare
from Kaiser. Can’t Kaiser support even health care workers? Itappears not.
IfKaiser can not even support other healthcare professionalssomething isvery wrong.
Ifpatientcare isinsufficientforexistingmental health patientssomething iswrong.
IfNUHW health care workers are not adequately supported something iswrong.
IfKaiser can not negotiatein good faithafterdozens of meetings, something iswrong.
How much unnecessary pain and even death must occur before thisisfixed?
Health care workers are a pillarof our community. They are our friends,our family.Iurge you to
stand by them in every way.
Put people above profits.Put#PatientsBeforeProfits.
Iurge unanimous passing of said resolutionand urge Kaiserto act insupportofour community and health
care workers.
Lives are at stake.
Terez Amato HD11
1
Jim,
' ' ilA
4¥
?
I?'
ii y: V?> V 4 ● ^
«
' i
● I .» <
■ i» H- *. '-. ■<
'' . .‘t,: . -N ' ●» ^ ■●t
>
A
'!'VHI
■f -.r‘ ●w.i-
/». ● i ‘ I
● t*
. \
24t..' »',
I*
9kmw t.
‘IIft,ft
\
i{*were
14
NOT
CORPORATE
WEALTH
●>«m« «'●
i
2
Count^^leHc
Rt^CFiVED
OCT20 AH 7:59
BarbaraBarry<begoniabarry@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 6:29 AM
County Clerk
Barbara Barry
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
OFF ICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
Aloha Chair Lee and Council Members,
Iwon't be able to testifyinperson so Ihope you'llcount thisemailas a huge supportforthisimportantBill.
Overtourism hurts our environment, our infrastructureand our indigenous culture. Itaffectsthe qualityof lifewe tryto
enjoy without our roads being clogged and our qualityof life.I’m not againsttourism but itneeds to be checked to
protect our precious resources,'Ainaand the qualityof lifeforthe taxpayersand visitorsalike.
It'snot about money allthe time. We need to be prepared to care forour residentsand allvisitorsincase of an
emergency. How equipped are we reallyto do this?
More development hurtseveryone. Limitingtourism has been done inseveralplaces.Itwillnot be the end of our
visitorindustry.
Please accept Bill159 and pass itinthe Council meeting on Friday.
Mahalo,
Ms. Barbara Barry
Ha'iku
1
Count^C|erk rTir©
20??OCT20 AH -T59
RTiT ● \
From:
Sent:
Suellen <suellen@maui.net>
Thursday, October 20,2022 6:46 AM
County Clerk
Support Bill159
To:
Subject:
:')FnCe OF THE
■,OUNTY CLERK, ■>
[You don'toften get email from suellen@maui.net. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Am so gratefulthe councilisconsideringsuch an important issue-we absolutelyneed to limittourist's
accommodations unless we want to become Honolulu like developers would have us do - pleasevote infavorof thisbill
We need folksemployed inconstructionto consider alternativeways to use theirskills- solar,wind projectsThank you
Suellen Barton
Sent from my iPad
1
County Clerk
KtCtiVED
ZOZZOCT 20 AH 9= 09
From:
Sent:
TaylorB <taylorbee28@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 9:02AM
County ClerkTo:
Oi-nCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftengetemailfrom taylorbee28@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isTaylor and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith the
amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawahi HotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Taylor, Bee
1
County Clerk pr;.r,;^i:w'en
JustinBee- Silva<jbsilva8744@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:40AM
County Clerk
Testimonialopposition
From:
Sent: im OCT 20 AH 8:56
To:
crnCE OF THE
■BOUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfromjbsilva8744@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isJustin,and Iwrite to you in strong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith the
amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Justin Bee-Silva
1
received
nrt 9P, 7= 58
office of the
;OUNTY GLER
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
LaurieBeitler<lbnmaui@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:53 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Over tourism
■,/1 N,
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom lbnmaui@yahoo.com. Learnwhv thisisimportant
Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:
From: LaurieBeitler<lbnmaui@yahoo.com>
Date: October 19, 2022 at 8:49:35 PM HST
To: County.clerk@maui.us
Subject: Over tourism
Isupport the billto control tourism.
Maui islosingit'scharm ,itfeelsout of control.
We need to protectand nourish thislivingbeing,our island,itisbeingstrangledby too much, too much
traffic,too much uncaring people.
Please do something intelligentand caringand justdo something,
Before it istoo late
Thank you ,from, Laurie Beitler
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^lerk Pgr»rn /«
BetteBelanger<belangerblue@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:48 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent: M OCT20 A« & 56
To:
'->r‘rlCEOr THE
-OUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom belangerblue@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iam insupport of any measures that cap the number of vacation rentalson Maui. Ifanything the numbers should be
reduced. Propertiesthatare being used by touristsshould be made availableto residents.Ialsosupport a moratorium
on buildingany more hotels.There are too many as itisnow.
Bette Belanger
Kihei,HI
1
Count^CleH< n.ro::iVLD
ECALLC <ecalic@hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 3:47 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent: mi OCT 19 PH 4: 02
To:
Subject: Ff jCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
● .V
[You don'toften get email from ecallc@hawaii.rr.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Iam a Maui residentand 1support Bill159.
Mahalo,
William Bennett
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk
LoriAnderson-Benson <vancouverhomefind(5)gmail.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 11:19AM
County Clerk
TVR's and permittedtransientaccommodations Oct over21 meeting
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from vancouverhomefind@gmaiLcom. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Hello,
We own two condos at Wailea Ekahi and have foryears.These have always been (Ekahi)permittedto be
condo/hotel statusand rentals.When purchased they were both activeSTR'sand were purchased as such.We were
toldthey were zoned forhotel/condo rentalsand would not change as they have been such since1976 when first
built.People have paid a premium pricefor condos that are legalrentalsand should they be taken away, itwould be
a largeclassaction lawsuiton behalfof owners and theirproperty rights.
We both use this as a short term rental unit as well as forour own personaluse.We take great prideishaving
beautifulaccommodations forour guests so thatthey get a lovelypieceof ALOHA and enjoyallthatMaui has to
offer.Most of our guests returnyear afteryear due to our hospitality,the updated,beautifulunitsand allthe
amenities that Ekahi and our units have to offer.
We intend on retiringand making Maui our future home as we loveitso much. Many of us owners would not be
able to affordour places ifthey could not be rented.
Itwould be a travestyas wellas a financialburden/hardship to keep unitswithout shortterm rentscoming inas the
property taxes,the HOA fees,insurance and upkeep come outto around$250 perday which isalmost$100,000per
year not includingthe utilities.Many of us owners would be forcedto sellwhat we have saved allofour livesto
have.
Our Short term rentalsprovide much needed good payingjobsforlocals.We employe localcleaners,property
managers, carpet cleaners,fulltime gardeners, security,on sitestaff,we purchase localgoods and services,
maintenance personnel,HVAC contractors,appliancerepaircontractors,plumbers,etc.We pay forutilities,garbage,
water, sewer, electricitywhich inturn employees more. The rentersspend money inMaui forfood,services,
entertainment,keeping many people employed and provideTAT and GET taxesto helplocalprojects,roads,schools,
municipalities.
Legalshort term rentalsprovide a serviceto vacationersthatcannotaffordthe $1000+ per room per nightrental
cost of localhotels.Our rentalsat Ekahi are reasonably pricedand providefamilieswith memories of Maui thatwill
last a lifetime.
We urge you to thinkthrough thisvery carefullybefore changingthe currentSTR usage.Thiswould be devastating
on so many levelsto many many localHawaiians and businesses.
Sincerely,
Lori and Ken Benson
3300 Wailea Alanui Dr
Kihei,Hi
Maui 5-0
Hawaii 5-0
1
Count^^Clerk tr
Bobbie Best <bestb002@hawaii.rr.com>From:
Sent: Wednesday,October19,20221:44 OCT |9 R1 1*56
County Clerk
Our Maui community supportsa cap,and we want to prioritizethe qualityoflifefor
ourresidentsfirst. ^ THc
COU^4TY CLERK
To:
Subject:
I'velivedon Maui forfiftyyears -when 1used to visitmainland & saidIliveon Maui people asked "what'sthat?I’d
hoped we’d be too smart to become another Waikiki,but	
Most Maui residentsfeelwe've too many visitors,yetthe hoteldevelopment industrywants tokeep
building,usingmassiveamounts ofwaterthathotelsuse inabundance. Everynew home means more
water usage.When we have a water shortageitisthe localpeoplewho areexpectedtorationwaterso
the hotelshave more availability.
Over tourism brought us trafficcongestion,touristsgettingthereservationsshuttingout locals,even
more peoplemoving herewho don’tnecessarilycome fortheculture.Our nationalparkatHaleakala
recognizescarryingcapacityand we should too,exceptthatwe’repartoftheU.S.We must becreative
to achieve a solution that we all can live with.
Your voteisvotingeitherformore water usage by more development,more carson theroads,more
congestion,oragainstuncontrolleddevelopment.
Mahalo forallowingthisinput
Bobbie Best
280 Hauoli
Wailuku
808-359-1554
1
Count^£leH<
From:
Sent:
Steve sacampbell.com <steve@sacampbell.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 4:01 PM
County Clerk
PleaseDO NOT cap vacationrentals
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from steve@sacampbell.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Dear Maul County Council Members,
As a 24 year Wailea Maui property owner Iwish to express my oppositionto effortsto a curb or inany way, limitshort
term vacation rentalson the part of condominium owners or theiragents. The reasonsthatI,and many property
owners objectto such effortsare as follows:
1).Limitingor inanyway capping condo vacationrentalsinareaswhere condosarevaluedinexcessof$1.5M willdo
nothing to solvethe affordablehousing crisis.Why? The carrycost{taxes,fees,overhead,debt coverage)ofthese
properties,most often in Makena and Wailea area,are farinexcess of what would representa monthly fairmarket
rental. In fact,in these ocean front zones, median propertyvaluesare approaching$3.5M. Faced with rentallimitsof
any kind,property values would decline,mortgage lenders would likelyreduce loanto value lendingcriteria,and county
property tax and rentaltax revenues would declinesignificantly.The onlybeneficiariesof such a policywould be the
largehotels.
2).Far from addressingthe affordablehousing crisis,the proposed measure would createa new crisisintheform of
residentialloan defaults,a likely20-35% declineinocean frontzone condo values,and largescalelayoffsof localpeople
employed to maintain,clean,repair,and manage these shortterm rentalcondos. Similarly,the smallbusinessesand
trades that provide servicesto condo owners (carpetcleaners,window washers,repairtechs,and plumbers/electricians
willsuffer,as willthe numerous restaurants and shops who willsee a declineinbusinessas fewer guestswillbe ableto
find accommodation.
3).Maui's affordablehousing crisisisa complex problem. Workable solutionsmust notcreatemassiveunintended
consequences such as thisproposal willcause.
Thank you foryour considerationof these objections,and Iurgeyou tovote againsttheseefforts.
Respectfully,
Stephen Campbell
3300 Wailea Alanui
Wailea Kihei Maui
1
receivedCount^Clei^
Char Casserley<mauicass@aol.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 6:55AM
County Clerk
Testimony regardingbill159
im OCT 21 AM &06From:
Sent:
To:
●OFFICE OF THE
..:OUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom mauicass@aol.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
For considerationby the Maui County Council,
Iam opposed to passingof bill159. There isa moratorium fornew vacationrentalsinplace.Thisbilldoes nottakeinto
consideration the unintended ramifications. Current legalpermittedvacationrentalstargetedto be have theirpermits
revoked or denied have not been informed. The reportsby the planningcommission on the effectof these changes
should be considered before passinga law thatwillhave unintendedconsequences.Thisbilldoes not need to be passed
at this time.
Please consider acquiringailthe information before making a decisionthatimpactssmalllegitimatepermitholding
local businesses.
Thank you foryour consideration.
Charlene Casserley
Small business owner
Sent from the allnew AOL apo for iOS
1
RfcCFiV/FnCounty Clerk
KalaniCathcart<tekc111@yahoo.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:49 AM
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
im OCT 20 AH 8=56
To:
'JrrIQE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom tekcl11@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members.
My name isKalaniand 1write to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith the
amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Kalani Cathcart
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
1
oxpodia group
October 21,2022
Dear Chair Lee and Members of Maui County Council,
On behalf of Expedia Group, a family of brands that includes Expedia.com,
Hotels.com, and short-term rental leader Vrbo, Iam writingto share testimony on Bill
159,a billamending the comprehensive zoning ordinance relatingto transient
accommodation caps.
We know that Maui County isengaged ina deep and criticalconversation about the
impacts and future of itstourism sector. Expedia Group firmlysupports effortsto
responsiblymanage tourism and has worked with municipalitiesaround the world to
craft,enact, and support regulations and legislationto stabilizethe tourism ecosystem.
While we may support balanced accommodations policy,there are a number of
concerns and questions about Bill159,a sweeping policythat must be considered
carefullywith significantpublic input.
Given the number of changes that were discussed at yesterday’sPlanning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee meeting, we respectfullyurge Council to provide
additional time to review updated legislationand weigh inon the amended text.For
example, depending on the finallanguage, changes to Section 20 could radicallyalter
the legislationand jeopardize residents’vested rightsto continue to use propertiesas
transient vacation rentals.
Additional time would allow the community and Council to evaluate the long-term
effectsof proposed zoning changes and to better understand any legalor financial
consequences.
We are committed to being a partner and are eager to engage withany member of
Council on thislegislationand other traveland tourism topics.Thank you forthe
opportunityto share testimony on Bill159 and forconsideringour comments.
Thank you,
Mackenzie Chase
Government AffairsManager, Hawaii
1111 Expedia Group Way West |Seattle,WA, 98119 [ USA |T +1 206 481 72001 F +1 206 481 7240
expediagroup.com
RECEIVEDCount^Clerk
nilOCT20 A« & 55From:
Sent:
kupaa46@yahoo.com
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:35 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
To:
OF THE
●:;OUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kupaa46@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isDavid Chew and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
David Chew
1
Count^£Ierk
From:
Sent:
Deborah Cohn <dcohn2022@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:35AM
County Clerk
In Favor of the Visitor Accommodation Moratorium
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from dcohn2022(S)gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Aloha Members of Maui County Council
Please,help us save thisonce idyllicislandby approving Bill159, the VisitorAccommodation Moratorium.
I have been a resident and homeowner in Kihei for the last20 years. Ihave seen so many neighbors and friendsleave
Maui because they can'tfindaffordablehousing.
The current infrastructureisin complete disarray.To drivea couple of milesdown the road shouldn'ttake 20 minutes or
more.
Residents and localsalikecan no longer find parkingat theirlocalbeaches as they are taken up by the tourists.Itisalso
impossible to enjoy a nightout at a localrestaurantbecause reservationsformost placesget booked out months before.
Iam not againsttourism but Maui shouldn'tbe justforthe tourists.Maui county needs to startrespectingthe folksthat
callthisbeautifulplace home. This billwillbe a step inthe rightdirection.
Mahalo,
Deb Cohn
808-280-1441
tT*O
OTt XICD
mCO11
oto
o
<
o <o T1
rnn
oVjJ
o
1
Count^Clerk RilOLiVCD
From:
Sent:
Mmm Ccc <mwkc117@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:28AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
nu OCT 20 AH 8: 55
To:
Subject: ●''■-FFICE CF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom mwkcll7@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
IMatthew Coleman writeto you instrongoppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith the
amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Matthew-Wyatt Coleman
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEIVED
mi OCT 20 PH 3: HI
October 20, 2022
-cRCE OF THE
^■OUNTY CLERKMaui County Council
Officeof theCounty Clerk,
200 South High Street,Ste.708,
Wailuku, Hawai'i, 96793
RE: Denver Coon in Strong Opposition to Bill159
Dear Maui County Council (the“Council”):
1 am writinginstrongoppositionto Bill159 (the“Bill”)and itsamendment of 19.32.040,
SubsectionI,of the Maui County Ordinances. We area localfamilythathas owned a unitinPuamana
forover fortyyears.The 4th generationisnow growing up and abletotakepartinthiswonderful
community. The abilityto renttheunitas a vacationrentalfrom time totime iscriticalto keepingthe
propertyinthefamily.Withoutthisincome,we would likelybe forcedtoselltheproperty,asthe
propertytaxesand feesaresimplytoo much withouttheadditionalincome.
Section19.32.040was recommended by theMaui County PlanningCommittee in2012 and Maui
County Council unanimously approved itin2013. In2016,section19.32.040was amended toinclude
anotherPUD calledAlealoa,nearNapili,which has a similarlow-densityconditionasPuamana.Both of
thesesitesare desirablerentalpropertiesand have propertytaxratesthatreflecttheadded value.
Removing thislanguagewillresultinfamilieslikeourssellingtheirpropertytosomeonewho canafford
not to rentitout (i.e.,anotherwinterretreatfora non-resident).Thiswillalsoresultinthelossof income
tothepropertymanagers,handymen,cleaners,and many otherlocalbusinessesthatrelyon these
propertiesto make a livinghereon theisland.
Accordingly,we humbly requestthattheCouncileitherreturnBill159tothecommitteefor
furtherrevieworremove theproposedchangestoSection19.32.0401forplanneddevelopments.This
languagewas carefullycreatedand vettedin2013 and shouldnotbe removed,especiallywithouta
thoroughreviewof itseffectsand a greaterdiscussionwiththeaffectedpropertyowners.
Sincerely,
Denver S. Coon
Denver.coon@sailtrilogy.com
(808) 283-2169
October 21,2022
Maui County Council
Officeof theCounty Clerk,
200 South High Street,Ste.708,
Wailuku, Hawai'i,96793
RE: James E. Coon in Strong Oppositionto Bill159
Dear Maui County Council (the“Council”):
I am writinginstrongoppositiontoBill159 (the“Bill”)and itsamendment of 19.32.040,
SubsectionI,of the Maui County Ordinances.Our familyhasowned a unitinPuamana foroverforty
years.Itisa specialplacewitha greatcommunity made up ofbothresidentsand visitors.The abilityto
rent the unit as a vacation rental from time to time iscriticaltokeepingthepropertyinthefamily.
Without thisincome,wc would likelybe forcedtoselltheproperty,asthepropertytaxesand feesare
simplytoo much withouttheadditionalincome.
Section19.32.040(I)was recommended by theMaui County PlanningCommitteein2012 and
theMaui County Councilunanimouslyapproveditin2013.Thissectionrecognizesthelong-standing
use,datingback tothe 1960’s,of Puamana forvacationrentals.The Puamana community isnot
expanding,and itsuse isnotchanging.Accordingly,removingtheprotectionsofsection19.32.040,will
not furthertheCouncil’sgoalsof preventingnew TVRs. Instead,itwillleadtohardshipand difficulties
forpropertyownerstodo necessaryrenovationsand repairs,anditincreasesthelikelihoodthatfamilies
likeourswillneed toselltheirproperty.This willalsolikelyresultinthelossofincome totheproperty
managers,handymen,cleaners,and many otherlocalbusinessesthatrelyon thesepropertiestomake a
livinghereon theisland.
Accordingly,we humbly requestthattheCouncileitherreturnBill159tothecommitteefor
furtherreviewor remove theproposedchangestoSection19.32.040Iforplanneddevelopments.This
languagewas carefullycreatedand vettedin2013 and shouldnotbe removed,especiallywithouta
thoroughreviewofitseffectsand a greaterdiscussionwiththeaffectedpropertyowners.
Sincerely,
James E. Coon
Captcoon@gmail.com
(808) 870-9115
Count^Clei^ ncoDv'g&
M OCT19 AH||:1(9
From:
Sent:
Haikujoe <haikujoe@hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 11:26AM
County Clerk
Overtourism isa problem
To:
Subject:
''■>FFICEof the
'OUNTY CLEHK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom haikujoe(5)hawaii.rr.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Isupport a cap on visitoraccommodations.
Tourism must be managed.
Pleasestop funding the H.T.A.
Too many people on thisislandand the infrastructureisinadequate to handle itall.
Who are we doing thisallfor,itmust stop...
Mahalo
Joe Dandrea
28 Laupapa place
Haiku HI. 96708
1
Activities& Attractions Association of Hawaii, Inc.
October 21, 2022
Re: Bill159 For an Ordinance amending the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance
Related to Transient Accommodation CAPS
(Comments Mostly - Support & Oppose - Go Figure!)
Aloha Chair Alice Lee and Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez & Committee Members,
Thank you forthe opportunity to testify.My name isToni Marie Davis.It'sbeen my honor to collectivelymarket & lobby
both formembers and consumer protectionregardingthe State'sin-destinationexperiencesforthe past24 years.Ihave
not testifiedon thisBillas the basicpremise issolid- we can ALL agree our besttacticinaddressingover-tourismisto
manage the # of accommodations; itiswithin our powers. 99.9% of visitorsdo not flyhere withouta placeto stay.
One Key word Inyour JOB = BALANCE. The Council'spurpose isto protect& supportour community (people,places&
assets)thru government management. The vast majorityof our people& government aresupporteddirectlyor,with
the most, a singledegree of separationby the visitorindustry.Thereisno "us"vs."them".Thereisjust"us".We canALL
agree we lovethisplaceand want to help protectand supportit!Politicalgames and power playshave no placeinthis
process.
The Maui Hotel Association has provided a revised Bill.Thisproposed ordinancedoesn'tconsiderclimatechange
impacts and the Imminent requirement of "managed retreat".Pleaseincludethesechangeswitha revisedordinance.
The camper/van/jeep accommodations and sprawl intoour residentialareasneed strictand quickCAPS, notthe
resorts.ALL Hotel zoned development go thru a laborious publicprocess.
Passing a Billisstructuredwith checks and balances to facilitatea broad review,overseeallimpacted,and eliminate
corruption/power mongering. Isittruethe Councilremoved thisBillfrom the PlanningCommission?The Planning
Commission didn'tcomplete theirreview and hear the Bill?
Thank you forthisopportunity to testify.
Toni Marie Davis
Executive Director
A3H
Count^CleiJt RLiCar.iteP
IkaikaDecker <decker.ikaika@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:34AM
County Clerk
Opposition of Bill159
From:
Sent: im OCT 20 AM & 55
To:
Subject: CF THE
COUNTY CLERK
> ^● r I w C
You don'toftenget emailfrom decker.ikaika@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members.
My name isIkaikaDecker and Iwrite to you instrong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the HawaH Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration.
Ikaika Decker
1
Count^Clerk w
ColleenCurran <ccurran27@sbcglobal.net>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 10:32AM
County Clerk
Transient Accomodation Cap
From:
Sent: 20ZZOCT 19 AH 10:il3
To:
Subject: OFRCE GF TH
COUNTY CLERK
c
I You don'toften get emailfrom ccurran27@sbcglobal.net.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Council Members,
Our community, myself included,supports a transientaccommodation cap and wants to prioritizethe qualityof lifeforour
residentsfirst.Pleasehear our pleato protectour beautifulislandfrom over-tourismand over-development.We're almost
out of time...
With Aloha,
Colleen DeLima
1
Count^Clerk PPr:Ph/r:n
Marci C. Cortisse <marci@aliiresorts.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 3:39 PM
County Clerk
BillyDirksen
Land Use Letter- Opposing Bill159
From:
Sent: mi OCT !9 PH q:02
To:
C-rICE OF THE
COUNTY CLEPsK
Cc:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from marci@aliiresorts.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Bland Use .pdf
Dear PSLU and County Council Members,
Please see the attached letterinoppositionto Bill159.
Sincerely,
BillyDirksen
General Manager, Owner
Marci Cortisse
Directorof Operations, Owner
Marci C. Cortisse R(S)
Directorof Operations, Owner
Ali'iResorts, Maui. Hawaii
p:866-284-2544 x114 |e:marci@aliiresorts.com|
w:aliiresorts.com
Please consider your environmental responsibility.Before printingthis e-mail message,
ask yourself whether you reallyneed a hard copy.
This email may containconfidentialand privilegedmaterialforthe soleuse of the intendedrecipient(s).Any
review, use, distributionor disclosureby others isstrictlyprohibited.Ifyou are not the intended recipient{or
authorizedto receiveforthe recipient),pleasecontactthe sender by replyemail and deleteallcopiesof this
message.
1
Jlc^orts,Ull LLC7
ISIslanc. eruiceLires le
www.AiiiResorts.com 866-284-2544
October 19, 2022
Aloha PLSU Committee Members and County Council,
We are writingtoday to ask that Bill159 be fullyreviewed by the Planning Commission Committee.
Ali'iResorts,LLC isa locallyowned and operated rentalmanagement company employing {fulltime)over
45 Maui residentsand contractingapproximately 30 localvendors.
Upon a fullreview, allcondominium complexes in question need to be looked at independentlyversus
ailcomplexes, as a group being labeledas suitableforcommunity housing. (Forexample, are allWailea
propertiessuitableforcommunity housing or most likelynot?)Some complexes are currentlyinhighest
and best use while others are not.We ask you to identifyeach property accordinglyand separate
housing-appropriate propertiesout moving forward forfuture legislation.For example, what willbe
affordableforthe community and which propertiesdo not fitthisset and are betterleftin
currenthighest-bestuse to benefitthe community.
This billrepresents very significantchanges, and itisour requestthatthe committee to be givenample
time to review such impactfullegislation.We ask thatyou do you do not pass thisbillwithout a
thorough review and appropriate modifications.
Mahalo foryour consideration,
BillyJ.Dirksen
General Manager/Owner
Marcelle C. Cortisse
Directorof Operations/Owner
Count^Clei^ RFri'ivRa,,,,
SusanDouglas<sd3@hawaii.rr.com>7077OPT 19 PM 9: 9S
Wednesday, October 19,2022 1:22
County Clerk
Isupport Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Orr'lCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from sd3@hawaii.rr.com.Learn whv thisisimportant
Aloha, I’velivedhere 39 years and have seen the stresslevelsof allthe residentsrisedue
to increased strains on our environment and resources by over-tourism. Decades ago I
heard about an islandcapping theirtourism #’s by limitingthe # of rentalcars
allowed. We can do the same or similar.
Please vote to support Bill159.
Warmest Mahalo and Aloha!
Susan Douglas
84A IliwaiLoop
(that’sspelled ILIWAI)
Kihei, Maui, HI 96753
808 879 1112 (You can call24/7, ifyou get my machine leave a long message. NO texts
please.)
sd3@hawaii.rr.com
1
Count^Oerk BtsCDVrQ
ZOZ?OCT19 PH 0:02LindseyDrayer<lindseydrayer@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 3:23 PM
County Clerk
Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: ■->rrlCE OF THi"
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom lindseydrayer(S)hotmaii.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Isupport Bill159. We need to controltourism and have a cap on touristaccommodations.
Thank you,
LindseyDrayer
(808) 385-5061
1
Count^Clerk RFCPIv/Fn
im OCT 19 PH 2^ 25From:
Sent:
mary drayer <mdrayerhome@msn.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 2:23 PM
County Clerk
mary drayer
Maui County CouncilBill159 - Billforan ordinance...relating'td^tf^MefiiLERK
accommodation.
To:
-rFICE OF THECc:
Subject:
Aloha,
Firstof all,mahalo for providing the opportunity to submit testimony via
email, and other avenues. Itisvery much appreciated.
Iam submitting my STRONG SUPPORT for Bill159. Many in my
generation has pretty much given up the hope of ever seeing any changes
to the way things have gone these past 50 years.So, with gratitudeto the
current Council,Isay "Mahalo Nui Loa" on behalf of myself and many
others- some stillwith us, and some who have passed.
Mary Drayer
557 Imi Dr
Wailuku, Hi 96793
808-244-5646
Sent from Mail for Windows
1
Count^CleH< ncoiiiviiD
im OCT 19 AH l|:20
Michael J Duberstein<mjduberstein@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 10:58AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CL5RK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom mjduberstein@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
A decade ago, The Economic Development prioritiesof The Maui islandPlan calledforactionto assure the percentage
of touristsdidn'triseabove 33% of the residentpopulation.
Ihighlycommend thisCouncilfortakingpositivestepstowards achievingthispolicy.
Bill159 isan important move,
i urge you to approve it.
Please do so.
As an economist with trainingand experience inthisspecificarea,Isee Bill159 as an initialanswer to the vital
diversificationof our economy.
We alisaw how dependence upon a singlesectorthat ishighlyimpacted by purelyexogenous forces.
Bill159 willNOT cause the lossof jobs;indeed, itwiliiead to the creationand framework formany new ones.
Maiama pono,maiama aina,Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Aina ika Pono.
Michael J Duberstein
34 lliwaiLoop
Kihei 96753
808-891-0597
1
received
mi OCT 19 PH M 13
To: countv.clerk@mauicounty.us
Testimony forReso 22-241 (insupportof)
"URGING THE COUNTY OF MAUI'S SUPPORT FOR KAISER PERMANENTE TO
RESOLVE MENTAL HEALTH CLINICIAN DISPUTE OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKOctober 19, 2022
Aloha Esteemed Maui County Council Members:
Ithankyou forbringingthisissueup as a resolution,and Iam very saddened thattheCounty
Council needs to getinvolvedbecause of Kaiser’srefusalto act. I am shocked thatKaiser settled
a contract with their other workers for benefits and wage increases,but refuseto offerthe same
respectto theirmental healthworkers. This shows a terribledisregardand value forthe fieldof
mental health.
Another branch of Kaiser has taken over the contract forMaui Memorial Hospital,and they have
destroyedthecarethereby theirlackof concern fortakingcareof the community by takingcare
of health care workers. Most of the full-time doctors atthe Emergency Room have left,leaving
the doctorsthereon short-termcontracts,not livinghere atall.Isthiswhat Kaiseristryingtodo
with theirmental healthworkers? They have been on strikeover two months now, with no
resolution.
The residents of Maui and the entire state of Hawai’i deservequalityhealthcare.Kaiser
patients,likeme, pay our premiums and deservetohave healthcareavailable.In contrast,Kaiser
isjustmaking more money by providinglessservicesas long as they letthisstrikecontinue.
Mental healthissueshave always been an importantpartof healthcare—every bitas important
as careforthe body. The pandemic has increasedour collectiveanxietyand many have losta
greatdeal,includingfriendsand family,whether by death,poor health,or alienation.Kaiserdoes
seem to understandor care,and as a loyalKaisermember, thismakes me sad.Please do what
you can to urge Kaisertotreattheirmental healthworkers with the same respectas theirother
valuable workers.
Very Sincerelyand with Appreciation,
Xai VufuMte(pleaseconsiderthismy digitalsignature)
Kai Duponte (retiredSocialWorker)
RECEIVED
^cMng
October 19, 2022
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPSRE: Bill 159 (in
supportof) CFFICE OF THE
i:OUNTY CLERK
Aloha Maui County Council Members:
I am writingthisletterinsupportof amending thezoning relatingtotransientaccommodation on
Maui. This cap isa crucialsteptoward remediatingthecurrentunregulatedover-tourismwe are
seeinghere.Prohibitingtheuse of camper vans forvacationrentalsisan extremelyimportant
partof thisBill.Touristswho rentcamper vans areusing up our very limitedresourcesand are
not contributingtothe community atall.
The Maui IslandPlan suggestslimitingthenumber ofvisitorstoapproximately1/3thenumber
of residentsinordertopreserveour environment,infrastructure,and qualityof lifeforresidents—
allof which would improve thevisitorexperienceas well.
The year 2019 was alreadya year of uncontrolledgrowth,fueledby thetourism industry.
Promises were made by leadersduringtheearlypartof thepandemic to improve on thetourism
experience forboth visitorsand residents.Residentswere promised thatthe goalwould be to
decreasethe number of touristswhile protectingtheislands.Since October of 2020, those
promiseshave been completelyforgottenby our leaders,who proudlyannounce thatthegoalof
reaching2019 numbers has been met and now exceeded.
The currentvolume of touristswe were seeingpre-pandemic and now, in2021, duringthe
pandemic,isa threattothehealth,safetyand qualityof lifeof the residentsof Maui, our
environment and wildlife.
Our islandresourcesare very limited.Our inadequatesewage treatment,water,and landfillsare
not meant for this level of use. We are in a severe water shortage,yetonlyresidentsareaffected,
not tourists.While my family’syard driedup and dieddue to not wateringit,the hotelsare
literallysuckingup wateras ifthereisno restriction.While sewage isdischargedintoour
oceans,touristsareovercrowding our beaches and cruellyabusing our wildlife.Our fishing
industryisendangered by the abuse theocean environment isexperiencing.
On Maui, touristsdo notslayinthetouristareas,but driveallovertheisland,causinghuge
trafficcongestion.Touristsdon’t even thinktwice about usingup resourcesmeant forresidents.
I have seen horrificpicturesof the road to Hana being blocked by touristswho choose to park on
the road,blockingtraffic,because of lackof parking.
Residentsareliterallybeing toldthatwe do not count and thatthetourismindustryisall-
powerful. Our mayor has not showed any supportof controllingtourism,includingvetoingthe
lastproposed moratorium forsouthand west Maui and vetoingtheaffordablehousing bill.He
goes out of hisway topleasethebig money brought inby thetourismindustryand mainland
investors. He has made itclear that residents are second class citizens to tourists. It is the
responsibilityof government officialsto ensurethatthereisadequateaffordablehousingfor
thosewho areessentialtomaking our community work (healthcareprofessionals,teachers,
police,socialworkers,restaurantworkers,grocery/retailworkers and yes,workers intourism),
not to incentivizenonresidents’profitingofftourism.
Residentshere sacrificea greatdeal financiallyto livehere and deserve to be able to enjoy the
beaches,hikesand parks. Instead,thereisno room forresidentson any of these.The majority
of residentshere do not depend atallon thetouristindustry—yet allof us aremade to sacrifice
for it.For me, itisabout more than a financialsacrifice,as thisisnot only my birthplacebut
alsothatof my ancestors.Hardworking residentsaretryingnot to chased out by greedy leaders
who putshort-termprofitfirst.
Our economy needs to be diversified.Our childrenneed to be taughtskillsthatwillhelpthem to
succeed in society,ratherthanjustto servetourists.We need a moratorium on futurevisitor
accommodations while solutionscan be implemented,includingleadershipthatsupportsresident
livesover thetourism industry.
I appreciatethe members of theMaui County Council greatly.With few exceptions,you arethe
leaderswho put residentsand the ‘ainafirst.
Mahalo piha,
Kai Duponte
Kai Duponte, MSW
RECEIVED
»» OCTgo Ml 7»50Count^^leHk
Elijah <rambuchan@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:53 PM
County Clerk
Cap on visitoraccommodations
From:
Sent: FICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I
To:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from rambuchan@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
IJust want to say that Icould not possiblysupport a measure to cap accommodations more than Ido rightnow! Itislong
overdue.
There's a millionreasons to cap the hotelsat where they are now and letthem proceed no further,most of which you
likelyhave received many fold.One thing that should be said,thatshould convinceeven the cynicswho placethe profit
margin over the prosperityof the people, isthat thisisa partialfixforan under-discussedsupply-and-demand issue
Maui ishaving with tourists.
Untilmore recently,and as would intuitivelymake sense,as the number of touristsperyear grew, the amount of money
being spent on islandincreased (the question of how much stayson islandand what the trade offisworth isa separate
conversation).However as of at leasta few years before the pandemic, Maui began seeinga plateauof the amount of
money coming ineven though the number of visitorswas increasing.Thisisbecause each visitorisnow spending less
money when they visit.Part of thisisthat the expansion of the airportmade directflightsfrom more locationscheaper,
bringingin more people with lower budgets and lessmoney to giveto localbusinesses.Capping the hotelsat least
begins to slow the runaway train.Finiteaccommodations means hotelpriceswilllikelyrise,meaning thatthe people
who can affordthe hotelsare more likelyto drop money locally,as opposed to onlyshopping at Costco.IloveCostco
don't hear me wrong, it'sa good employer and itpays welland everybody who liveshere desperatelyneeds those
deals.But money spent there doesn't stay here asidefrom the paychecks foremployees.
Iwould hope we can findother creativeways to reduce supplysomewhat even ifthe airporthatesit.ifthislogicisn't
very intuitiveremember that diamonds are actuallyrathercommon, it'sthatallthe diamonds are owned by one
company (De Beers) and they only give out a littleat a time so pricesareastronomical.It'svery importantto obviously
not do anything to furtherpriceout localsby targetingresourceslocalsneed, but Itrustthiscouncil(my favorite
council!)in itsjudgment. Iwish you could justput plentytaxon everythingunlessyou show Hawai'iIDbut Idon'tknow
ifyouguyscando thatornotI®
And allof thisisbefore we talkabout the thingsthat hurtus immediatelyinways thateveryone knows. Dailylife
becoming more and more tourist-first,erosion of naturalspaces from foottraffic,and alsojustplainold regulartraffic
traffic.Long way from two stoplightsinthe 70'syeah?
Anyways plenty people tellingyou allthat stuffand more so Ino need, Ijustadded what Ithought might not be said
enough.
Staystrongyouguys,you proofvotingworks!^
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Rentals Maui <aloha@rentalsmaui.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 4:44 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
mi OCT 20 AH 7' 58To:
Subject: jrFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLE-RK
You don'toftenget emailfrom aloha@rentalsmaui.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
I appreciate the council’seffortbut I strongly oppose this bill.While certain efforts to
manage over tourism should be looked into, this billcould greatly impact our economy
which is heavily dependent on tourism; especiallyas our economy is likelyheading for a
pretty significantrecession. Right now, I am able to provide a good livingfor my family
by servicing vacation rentals.The authors of this billare trying to solve an extremely
complicated issue, by casting a wide net which could end up creating even worse issues
allwithout guaranteeing any of the actual goals willbe met. After reading through this
billthe only thing that looks to be guaranteed isnegative economic impacts on local
service providers, the workforce, and significanttax revenues. Crushing property values
in touristzones won’t keep mainland buyers from scooping up the inventory in those
areas. They willjust buy the condos at a lower price and stay in them a few times a
year. As a result,they won't need housekeepers, handyman, carpet cleaners, window
cleaners, localproperty managers, etc. Again, I think more weight needs to be
placed on the economic impacts of this decision. Maui has always been a hard place to
make a living,please don't make itany harder for us ifyou cannot guarantee the end-
goal. Sometimes it’sbetter to wait on the right decision, then to make things worse. -
Kawika Englert
1
County Clerk ED
OCT 20From:
Sent:
anne fender <anne.fender@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 6:04 PM
County Clerk
Bill159
AM 7:58
OF TMP:
OUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom anne.fender@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Maui County Council:
My husband and Iare home owners in Puamana and stronglyoppose thisbill.We are asking that the billbe returned to
the committee to allowthe PlanningCommission to complete theirreview. We requestthatthe PlanningCommittee
recommend the removal of the proposed changes to section19.32.040 Iforplanned developments to the Maui County
Council. This sectionof the county code appliesonly to unitsin Puamana, Kaanapali Plantationand Alaeloa that were
builtand used forTransientVacation rentalpriorto April20,1989. This part of the county code was establishedin 2013
to clarifythe long standing legalTVR uses inthese specificprojectsand helps the planning department when approving
buildingpermits and SMA exemptions forremodels and renovationsof these older units.Itwas created specificallyto
prevent there ever being any question about the rightfor unitsinthese communities to be used forshortterm
rentals. Itdoes NOT allow new visitor accommodations to be builtor converted from residentialto TVR use; they have
been used forthispurpose sincetheirdevelopment inthe latesixties/seventies.The proposed deletionof thispartof
the existingcode turnsthe legalTVR use intoan “existingnon conforming” use and makes any renovationsor remodels
difficultto get permit approvals.The PlanningCommission should be allowed to do theirwork and providetheir
recommendation.
Mahalo foryour consideration.
Anne and Christopher Fender
87-1 Pualei Drive
Lahaina, HI 96761
303.921.6636
1
Count^£lerk r^rC“!v'?Li
Haley Grace Ferguson <haleygracef@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 7:31AM
County Clerk
Testimony inSupport of Cap on VisitorAccommodations
From:
Sent: M OCT20 AM 7:59To:
Subject:
-'FICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toften get email from haleygracef@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Hi there Council Members,
iam a concerned resident of East Maui --we already have too many visitors,yet the hoteldevelopment industrywants
to keep buildingmore and more without end! Overtourism isa seriousproblem affectingour qualityof life,and our
community islooking for solutions.We can't control what the airlinesdo, so the best way to remedy overtourism at the
County levelisto limitwhere people can stay when they come here.This isan historicopportunity to make a meaningful
impact on the islandour keikiinherit.Please cap visitoraccommodations now!
Thank you,
Haley
1
Count^Cletjc RFr.Fivr-n
im OCT 20 AM & 55smfilipo<smfilipo@aol.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:27AM
County Clerk
From;
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom smfilipo@aol.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
To: County.clerk@mauicounty.us
Council members.
My name isSam and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith the
amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Sam Filipo
1
RECEIVED
Count^CletJ< mi OCT DO AH ?■
Steve Forman <stevenmforman(5)yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 7:52 PM
County Clerk
Re; Bill159
From:
Sent: OFFICE OF TH!:
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom stevenmforman@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
^lease do whatever can be done about to cap tourism on Maui.
Thanks
Steven Forman
1
Count^Clerk
Ml OCT19 W 9=28From:
Sent:
Michael Gach <mrgach@att.net>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:23 AM
County Clerk
Overtourism!
To:
jFFICE of the
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom mrgach@att.net.Learnwhy thisisimportant
\/lauioften has too many visitors.Over-tourism isa bad problem affectingthe qualityof
lifeon Maui. The best way to remedy over-tourismisto limitwhere people can stay when
they come here.
Mahalo foryour consideration
Michael Reed Gach
2198 Auina Place
Kihei, HI 96753
1
Count^Cjerk
^9??OCT20 P«
' II LJ
dmg@telus.net
Thursday,October 20,2022 4:24 PM
County Clerk
dmg@telus.net
October 21, 2022 Maui Council Meeting: Bill159
From:
Sent: 38To:
Cc:
Office gSubject: u
I You don't often get email from dmg@telus.net. Learnwhv thisisimportant
Maui Council Meeting October 21, 2022 - Bill159:
Council Members,
We have been ov\/ners in Puamana since 2011 and members of our familyhave owned and/or rented inthis
development sincethe late1960s.
We are writingto you today concerning Bill159, which proposes to amend chapters 19.11,19.12,19.14,
19.15,19.18,19.20,19.22,19.32 and 19.52 of the Maui County Code (MCC) and negativelyimpact short-term
rentalsinplanned developments such as Puamana. We are particularlyconcerned with the proposed
amendments to MCC section19.32.0401 as itdeals with planned developments, of which Puamana isone of
three on Maui.
We respectfullyurge Councilto rejectthe proposed amendments to MCC section 19.32.0401.
The reasoningbehind our positionissummarized below.
1. Aftersignificantdue diligenceand deliberation,MCC section 19.32.040 /was recommended by the
PlanningCommission and approved by a unanimous vote by Maui County Council in 2013. Itsexpress
purpose was to specificallycodify and permanently recognize long-standinghistoricrightsenjoyed by
the owners of Puamana {aplanned development) to engage in short-term rentals.Vacation rentalsat
Puamana have been occurringat Puamana for over 50 years sinceitwas builtinthe late1960s.
Additionalbackground information regardingthe historyisavailable
at: www.mauinews.eom/news/local-news/2013/01/panel-recommends-bi ll-allowing-puamana-tvrs/)
The proposed amendment to MCC section 19.32.040! w\\\be extraordinarilyprejudicialto the property
rightswhich owners of Puamana have enjoyed uninterruptedfor more than halfa century. The
"expresslypermissible"use wording currentlyinplacereflectsthe background to thisissueand
provides currentand prospectiveowners with an appropriate levelof comfort regarding theirhistoric
and ongoing rightsto engage in short-term rentals.Since 2013, many owners have reliedon this
legislationwhen purchasing unitsat Puamana. By changing the use from "expresslypermissible"to
1
"non-confirming" the abilityto rent Puamana unitsshort-term could be lostin a number of scenarios
includingdestructionby fireor flood with no rightto rebuild,owners ceasing rentalstemporarily,or
undertaking renovations over a certaindollaramount or alterationsto the buildingenvelope.
Puamana isa community with itsown roads,security,services,and recreationalamenities such as
swimming pools,sportscourtsetc.As a result,Puamana's guests tend to spend more time on the
property and their impact on the localinfrastructureisrelativelylow compared to visitorsstayingat
other propertiesaround the Island.
2.
Puamana owners have contributed substantiallyto Maui County's tax base over the past 54 years due
to theirproperty tax classificationas short-term rental.That tax revenue may be substantially
diminished under the current proposed legislation.
3.
The short-term rentalsat Puamana help support many localindependent businesses,some of which
work solelyin Puamana, such as cleaners,landscapers,appliance repair,maintenance, buildersand
their sub-trades to name a few. Ifshort-term rentals were prohibited in Puamana, thiswould have a
disastrous affect on the livelihood of those business owners and theiremployees.
4.
There isno opportunity for furtherdensificationat Puamana so there islimitedprospect of Puamana
contributingto any increase intourism on Maui going forward. Furthermore, MCC 19.32.0401 cannot
be used to create any additionalvisitoraccommodations anywhere elseon Maui inthe futurebecause
itisspecificto planned unitdevelopments builtand operating as vacationrentalspriorto April1,1981.
So MCC 19.32.040 Iessentiallyalready serves as a cap on TVRs in Puamana.
5,
In lightof the foregoing,we respectfullyrequest that the members of Maui County Councilrejectthisor any
other proposed legislationaimed at removing or diminishingthe rightsof Puamana owners to continue to use
theirpropertiesforshort-term rentalsas they have throughout the entirelifespanof thisdevelopment.
Thank you for your consideration.
Donna and Peter Gibson
43-1 Puamana
2
Count^Clerk
Taryn Kama <taryn@gogetitgal.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 11:33AM
County Clerk
Keep TVRs as permitted
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom taryn@gogetitgal.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Hello,
We writekindlyask to keep TVRs as permitted and/or special uses in a number of zoning districts.
Vacation rentals are a viable and sustainable source of tax income forthe county as well as income forour
livelihood.We own and operate permittedvacation rentals,employ Maui residentsand pay significant
amounts of tax to both the county and state.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Taryn Givenchy and Stefano Maffini
Taryn Kama Givenchy and Stefano Maffini
808-205-2033
20 Hale PiliWay, Haiku HI 96708
1
Count^Clerk RCOlIVCD
im OCT20 AM 8:54
Clayton Glass<claytonglasshawaii@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 8:18 AM
County Clerk
Opposition of bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: ●— t t
Ori'-ICE OF m--
CLERK
[You don'toften get email from claytonglasshawaii@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
My name isclaytonglassand Iwrite to you instrong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Clayton Glass
1
Countj^leH<
BrettGobar <uluusurf@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 7:46 AM
County Clerk
SUPPORT BILL 159....CAP ON TRANSIENT HOUSING, HOTELS
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom uluusurf@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Respected Representatives/MauiCounty Council,
Thankyou foracknowledging that you representmy best interests,by votinginSUPPORT OF BILL159 and future
measures to reduce growth on Maui, particularlyconstructionof additionalHOTELS and otherforms of TRANSIENT
HOUSING.
PUBLIC SERVICES ARE NOT SUFFICIENT; water isinshort supply,sewer wastewater injectionwellssystems must be
eliminatedto stop water pollution,roadways are approaching massivecongestionthathas alreadyincreasedinflationin
costs of goods and servicesbecause businesses must pay employees to sitincongested traffic.
QUALITY OF LIFE FOR RESIDENTS IS DECLINING RAPIDLY I
TOURISM JOBS are low paying, low qualityjobs .Many workers need two jobs to pay theirlivingexpenses.
HOTEL CONSTRUCTION JOBS are temporary only...not sustainable;Many constructionworkerscome from mainlandor
other countries! Construction isnot creatingnew, long term jobs forMaui's existingresidents.
PLEASE take more steps to reduce tourism and encourage smalland mid-sizefarmerstofeedMaui residents(not Mahi
Pono limes forexport;you are exporting our WATER when you exportour food crops!)
Thanks forbeing my voice I
73c^
cBrett Gobar
127 Aleilki Place
808 633 6916
mC~)
20 OH POn o
OO
mm
71 X
m
O\-n
1
Count^Cl(^
Goyafr Goyafr <goyafr@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 4:18 PM
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins;Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; KellyKing;Mike J.Molina;
Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; County Clerk
Support of STRHs
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom goyafr@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Council members.
Short Term Rental Homes help fund our government and community. They alsoreduce trafficas theiroccupancy rate
rarelygoes above 70%, alsothe number of guestsand vehiclesislimited,no partiesor largegatheringsare allowed,and
quiet times have to be respected.These homes are well maintained, providingjobs to theircommunity while improving
neighboring home values.
Short-Term Rental Homes also benefit the earth As most homes remain unoccupied while localfamiliesvisitfamily
abroad, theirkidsincollege,or duringtheirholidays.This utilizesour resourceswhile offsettingour resident'stravel
costs and expenses.
Supporting Short-Term Rental Homes makes sense forour government, our communities, and localresidents.Lastbut
not least,provides options for our visitors,who help fund our localeconomy. ^
C> o
OV: 70Thank you foryour time, m<r>
OmFrancisco Goya -< . > i
OO T3
mm xs
:xi:r afO
v/i
Moratorium Bill at Planning and Sustainable Land Use Thursday,
Then Council on Friday
The Transient Visitor Accommodations Cap Bill,or the Moratorium billwillbe
discussed on Thursday at the Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee
Thursday at 10:30 am. This is Resolution 22-70. You can see the details
here: https://www.mauicountv.qov/DocumentCenter/View/134690/0809 22 Aqenda-
Item-B2 Bill5-for-Ord-Amend-Title-19 Transient-Accommodation-Cao s Memo-
Report
This measure was next scheduled for public hearing and review by the Maui Planning
Commission. However, itlooks likethe Council willbe exercising their rightto
preemptively not wait for the Planning Commission to finishdiscussion and report.
The Planning Commission has exceeded their 120 days for review and the Council
can now vote to proceed and hear the 1st reading on Friday.
1
We do not support this measure. We firmly believe in managed tourism and
regenerative tourism. However this measure does not have enough information
when itcomes to economic repercussions. We do not support changing property
uses described in the measure, and we feel the measure could accomplish itsgoal
without changing the use out from under property owners. We would liketo see
amendments to the language in the billto allow the existing properties continue
their use legally.
Note: This billdoes not impact bed and breakfast or short term rental permit
holders, and does not affect their abilityto renew their permits.
We have a current moratorium in place through January 7, 2024. We should be
exploring what our economic diversification plan is during this time, before making
this existing moratorium a permanent change.
The intent of this billis to cap transient vacation accommodation rental units at
existing levels.However there are several places in the department of planning
report recommended changes that indicate current TVR use in certain zones willbe
disallowed moving forward, and existing properties doing this use would be now
considered non-conforming.
At the very least the county should be contacting these properties that would be
affected.
(https ://mauicountv. leqistar.com/View.ashx?M = F&.ID=10639879& GUID=4DD9FFAE-
E750-49D8-B739-B844E9EDCAE2J
2
Details of the Proposed Bill
AccordingtoPlanningand SustainableLand Use Committee ReportNo.22-41,datedApril
22, 2022, the purposeof the proposedbillis to establishtransientaccommodationcaps as
recommended by the Budget,Finance,and Economic Development Committee’sTemporary
InvestigativeGroup (TIG)on Tourism Management and EconomicDevelopment.The proposed
billkeepsthetransientaccommodationcaps ineach zoningdistrictatthecurrentnumber,thus
allowingforno new transientaccommodationunitsas outrightpermittedusesinmost zoning
districts.
In additionto amending thezoning districts,the billalsoproposestostopcamping and
rentalrecreationalvehiclesparkedon the sideof roads,at beaches,and in countyparksby
prohibitingvehiclesfrom temporarilyparkingin allzoningdistrictsifused as short-term
accommodations unlesstheyareallowedby zoning and theproperpermitsarcobtained.
The tablebelow isa summtuy oftheproposedchanges.
^	
Up tofivetransientvacationrental
bedrooms on a lot,witha specialuse permit
Propo.sed	 	 	
None allowed;existingwould be
considerednonconforming subjectto
MCCSection l9.500.il0.Cand
could not be renewed
Chanter
19,11 -SBR
service business
residential
di.sirict
Add new criteria:‘The number of
rooms or units allowed for transient
vacationrentaluse may not increase
beyond thoseallowedforsuchuseas
of January 7,2022" and
“The planningdirectorand director
of financemust maintaina publicly
available listof alltransientvacation
rental units allowed under this
section."
Permittedinbuildingsand structuresthat
meet allof thefollowingcriteria;
I.The buildingor structurereceiveda
buildingpermit,specialmanagement area
use permit,or planneddevelopment
approvalthatwas lawfullyissuedby and
was valid,or isotherwiseconfirmed to have
been lawfullyexisting,on April20, 1989.
2. Transient vacation rental use was
conductedinany lawfullyexistingdwelling
19.12-
apartment
districts
3
lUilVTil IIIUIIWUi
Add restrictions:
“A. The number of rooms or units
allowed for transient vacation rental
use may not increasebeyond those
allowed forsuch use as of January 7,
2022.
B. Ifany buildingor structure
approved or lawfullyexistingIs
reconstructed,renovated,or
expanded,thenthetransientvacation
rentaluse islimitedtotheoriginal
buildingenvelope.The planning
director and director of finance must
maintaina publiclyavailablelistof
all transient vacation rental units
allowed under this code.**
Hoteluse ispermitted.19.14-hotel
districts
None allowed;existingwould be
considerednonconforming subjectto
MCC Section 19.500.1 lO.C and
could not be renewed 	
Transientvacationrentalsup to 12
bedrooms isallowedwitha specialuse
permit
19.15-B-CT
country town
business district
Transient vacation rentals not
exceeding twenty bedroom.sare
allowed,no others.Other existing
would be considerednonconforming
subjecttoMCC Section
19.500.110,C;those with specialuse
permitscouldnotbe renewed
Transientvacationrentalsnot exceeding
twentybedrooms;excepton Molokai,
where a specialuse permit.shallbe required.
With a specialusepermit,twenty-oneto
fiftybedrooms;excepton Molokai,where
the maximum number of bedrooms and use
shallbe determinedby theplanning
commission
19.18-B2
community
business district
None allowed;existingwould be
considerednonconforming subjectto
MCC Section 19.500.1 lO.C; those
with specialuse permitscouldnotbe
renewed
Not exceedingtwenty bedrooms; excepton
Molokai,where a specialuse permitshallbe
required.
With a specialusepermit,twenty-oneto
fiftybedrooms;excepton Molokai,where
19.20-B 3
central business
district
None allowed;existingwould be
considered nonconforming subjectto
MCC Section 19.500.1 lO.C
Transientvacationrentalsshallbe permitted
inplanneddevelopments,exceptfor
developmentsthathavebeenpublicly
funded, if:
l.Theplanneddevelopmentreceiveda
planneddevelopmentsiteplanapprovalthat
was lawfullyissuedby and validon April
20. 1989,and thelandiszoned A-l or A-2
apartmentdistrict;or
2.Theplanneddevelopmentmeetsallofthe
following;
a.The planneddevelopmentreceivedfinal
approvalasprovidedinthischapter,andat
leastone unitintheplanneddevelopment
was operatingasa vacationrentalon or
beforeApril20, 1981.
b.The planneddevelopmentislocatedon
parcelswithatleastsome residentialdi.stricl
19.32 - planned
development
zoning,
c.The planneddevelopmentconsistsof
only:
i.Duplexesor multi-familydwelling
units;or
ii.A combination of single-family
dwellingunitsand duplexesormulti-family
dwelling units.
4
ly.b.'i.uju”
None allowed;existingwould be
considerednonconforming subject(o
MCC Section 19.500.1 lO.C
19.52 - historic
districts 1 and 2
(Lahaina)
Hotel use isa permitteduse.
This resolution has raised a red flag with the county real property tax division.
Administrator Marcy Martin indicated in a letterto the Planning Department on
June 6 that there are concerns with the legislationthat pertains to the financial
repercussions of this measure.
Martin states "If a property with TVR or timeshare entitlements loses their
entitlements, assessed values and classificationcould be impacted. For
example, classificationwould change from hotel and resort or short term
rental to a lower tax rate classification. This bill could reduce real property tax
revenue. The impact cannot be measured without a market analysis of
impacted properties."
This year the county approved over $1.07 billiondollars for their FY2022
budget. For the firsttime in Maui's history we are going over 1 billiondollars.
This willbe more than a $200 Million increase, or 27% over lastfiscalyear.
The county funds most of those dollars in real property tax revenue. In all,the
county willraise $430 Million in property tax revenue this fiscalyear.
The short term classification will raise $160 Million in RPT tax, 12% more than
lastyear. This was an increase of $17 Millionin tax dollars,the highest
increase in allthe tax classifications.This year short term rentals represent
37% of the real property tax revenue, and 15% of the county of Maui's entire
operating budget.
Much of the increases in revenue in property taxes overall came from the
increase in values of properties. Total assessments rose $4 Billionoverallin
Maui County in fiscalyear 2022-2023. Increases in assessed values were 5%
overall in the short term classification. Short term rentals will contribute $12.1
Million in revenue to the Affordable Housing Fund, the largest contribution of
allthe classifications,and the largest contribution to date. Over the last5
years the short term rental classificationhas generated $31.5 milliondollars
for the affordable housing fund.
Gutting funding categories for the county does not make good fiduciarysense
given the current budget. Changing the property rights of owners without
notice to those property owners for comment is problematic and should not be
the way our county makes changes.
5
Count^CleiJ< t liauLi I my
From:
Sent:
MaryGroode <dechenmaui@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:43 AM
County Clerk
Bill159
mi OCT 20 AM 8: 56
To:
Subject: OrFiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom dechenmaui(5)gmaii.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha,
Imoved To Maui inthe 1970's. Itwas a sleepytropicalIsland,with an open airairportwith birdsflyingin and out. You
didn'thave to pay to park back then. Fastforward to today and we are overwhelmed by tourism. There has to be some
way to slow the ever increasingtouristpresence without hurtingthe economic blessingof people visitingour home.
Please support Bill159. Our residentsdeserve to preservean enjoyable qualityof life.Without thistype of billwe could
be killingthe goose that laysthe golden egg with over development and ever more tourists,trafficand crime.
Sincerely,and with aloha,
Mary (Dechen) Groode
P.O.Box 1551
Kihei, HI 96753
(808) 283-7889
Sent from my iPad
1
Countj^^lerk
Joan and Tonnas Heartfield<joan-tomas@talkinghearts.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 5:30 PM
County Clerk
vote yes on Bill159,"A BILLFOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE
ZONING ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS."
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfromjoan-tomas@talkinghearts.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
We support Bill159 to restrictnew hotel building.
We came to Maui in 1970. Since then the rate of hotel development has gone through the roof.Overtourismisa serious
problem affectingour qualityof life.By restrictingnew hotelsbeingbuilt,we limitplaceswhere touristscan stay,and
thus at leastdon't create another nightmare likeOahu.
We beg you"Please vote yes on Bill159.
Mahalo,
Tomas and Joan Heartfield,Ph.D.
232 Door of Faith Rd
Haiku, Hi 96708
O-n
C“n XIC3
O moH om
O rpOo "n
m73-X
o
cr>
1
Count^Clei^ p P n r:;\,●ir£\
mi OCT 19 PH M 56Connie Hunt <connieh555@aol.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 1:26PM
County Clerk
Transientaccommodation cap
From:
Sent:
To:
-'FCiGE OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom connieh555@aol.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Dear Council members.
Iam writingto express support forthe transientaccommodation Cap on behalfof myself and my neighbors.We believe
priorityshould givento the qualityof lifeof our residentsfirst.Pleaseprotectour sacred islandfrom over tourism and over
development. We respectfullyrequestthatyou support affordablehousingforthe community ratherthan additional
transient accommodations.
Mahalo,
Connie Hunt
1
OFFICE OF HAWAIIAN AFFAIRS
Testimony of SylviaM. Hussey, Ed.D.
CEO I Ka Pouhana
Maui County Council
Bill154 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 18, 19 AND 20, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO
ESTABLISH CULTURAL OVERLAY DISTRICTS
October 10, 2022 Council Chamber9:00 am
The Administration of the Officeof Hawaiian Affairs(OHA) offersthe following
COMMENTS on Bill154 (2022),which would establisha framework for culturaloverlay districts
with the intentto preserve and protect Native Hawaiian traditions,practices,culture,cultural
resources,and the integrityof the 'ainato which these facets(and more) of Native Hawaiian
identityhave become affixed.
OHA wishes to emphasize itssupport for the thrust of the measure to proactively
protect the broad scope of intereststhat interconnect and intersectwith constitutionally
protected Native Hawaiian rights.Such a measure has the potentialto prove itselfas an
equitable solutionin addressing long-standingsystemic issuesthat have undermined Native
Hawaiian existence in these islands.
Inthe hope of realizingthe far-reachingbenefitof thismeasure's purpose, OHA
expresses concerns that the absence of a culturaloverlaydistrictdesignationmay suggest that
that districthas no culturalsignificance,or that the Native Hawaiian culturalpracticestherein
are not significantenough to warrant protections.OHA stronglybelievesthat allthe lands,seas,
and atmospheric spaces of the Hawaiian Islands,whether remaining pristineor restingbeneath
modern urban expanse, are of ongoing culturalsignificance,especiallyto the Native Hawaiian
people.
OHA also expresses concerns with this measure's quantificationof significance,
moreover, OHA isdeeply concerned that thisquantificationisbased on the determination of
the county's principalarchaeologist,who isessentiallygranted the soleauthority- over the
Native Hawaiian community-in determining the levelof culturalimportance. Quantifyingthe
importance of a culturallysignificantpracticeor place,potentiallyover another,would be
destructivewhere the totalityof Native Hawaiian cultureshave come to definethe extentof
Native Hawaiian identity.
Finally,the 'olelono'eau (NativeHawaiian proverb},mai kaula'iwale ika iwio na
kupuna (never dry out,inthe sun,the bones of your ancestors),figurativelyand literally
expresses a traditionalruleinculturalsensitivityassociated with countless Native Hawaiian
traditionaland customary culturalpractices.The ruleholds that one shouldn't discuss,too
freely,certainmatters of significance.Inaccordance with thisrule,many Native Hawaiian
culturalpractitionersare reluctantto reveal detailedInformation about theirculturalpractices,
includingthe locationofwahi pana/wahi kapu (storiedand sacred sites).Any framework that
requiresNative Hawaiian culturalpractitionersto revealmore than they are comfortable,
would serve to erode the integrityof those practicesand theirrespectiveplaces.
OHA appreciatesthe opportunityto providescomments on thismeasure.
Count^CletJc
From:
Sent:
Maalaea VillageAssociation<maalaeavillageassociation@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 13,2022 7:42AM
County Clerk;AliceL Lee
KellyKing;B.Lynn Britton;Tapani Vuori
Fwd: TestimonyforOct 21 Councilmeeting insupportof Resolution22-206
MVA CounciltestimonyforOct 21 2022 meeting,Reso 22-206.pdf;FY22_DLNR
DOFAW_Pohakea Watershed Lands_reduced (2).pdf
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha,
My humble apologies. Iattached an incorrectdocument to my originalemail. Please delete the prioremail
and accept thisone initsplace.
Attached pleasefindtestimony on behalfof Maalaea VillageAssociation,insupport of Resolution 22-206. Also attached
is the document referred to in MVA's letter.
Mahalo,
Lyndon Ibele,MVA President
With Warmest Aloha!
Ma'alaea VillageAssociation(MVA)
P.O. Box 2122
Wailuku, Hi 96793
OO
O -1-1
c-Ti
■im
73CD
rnc~>
o
m-<MaalaeavillaeeAssociation@gmail.com Oo
r~
mm0 a.www.maalaeavillaqeassociation.org hO
1
A S S t) c: I A 1 I O N
Date: October 12, 2022
Maui County Council
Resolution 22-206 Eminent Domain Pohakea Watershed Lands
To:
RE:
Aloha Chairperson Alice Lee and Maui County Council Members,
Mahalo for your support of Resolution 22-206 authorizing proceedings in eminent domain
for the acquisition of Ma'alaea Mauka/Pohakea Watershed lands which passed on first
reading on October 7^^.
Questions have been raised over whether this 257 acre parcel is"watershed" land. The DLNR
DOFAW application for Legacy Lands funding explains how the 257 acres is part of the larger,
5,268 acre "Pohakea Watershed lands mauka of Maalaea Bay" (Section D(l), page 5 of the
grant application).The LLC agreed that these lands should be protected, and granted DLNR
the additional $1 million needed for the purchase.
Our goal continues to be to encourage the buyers of this property to willinglysellthe land to
Trust for Public Land and transfer it to DLNR Division of Forestry and Wildlifeto own and
manage the property to create the "Forest Reserve" with surrounding state conservation
lands. This is ultimately the highest and best use for the property, and willassist with the
priorityof restoring Ma'alaea Bay to address sedimentation and wildfireissues. Other reasons
for preserving this land are numerous - preserving the open space and scenic resources and
addressing trafficissues at this crossroads between Central and West Maui.
Those opposed have made their best effort to convince this Council of their desire to create
"100 workforce housing units" on the property, although only 21 ag lots are allowed with
the current agriculturalland designation. Council members know the facts. Please
encourage the property owner to proceed with the sale, earn good faithwith the
community, and make this long held dream of preserving these lands a reality.
This initiativewill provide Maui County vast resources in restoring Maalaea Bay, preserving
the valuable open space and scenic resources, expand the historicLahaina PaliTrailand create
parks and trailsfor the benefit of Maui's people for years to come.
It is criticalthat the entire 257 acre parcel be acquired, and that itbe done promptly within
FY23 since the funding has been approved and isavailablein the current budget year.
The public benefits and reasons for acquiring this property have been well-documented.
Mahalo for your continued support.
Sincerely,
Lyndon Ibele
President, Ma'alaea Village Association
Ma’alaea Village Association
P. O. Box 2122, Wailuku, HI 96793
maalaeavillageassociation(@gmail.com
L<x.uvo^
ApplicationTitle
i Legacy Land
Conservation Program0^
Certification of Fiscal Year 2022 Land Conservation
Fund Grant Application (Land Acquisition Grant)Form 1
Pleasesubmita completedForm 1 intwoformats—paper(withoriginal,wetsignatures,preferablyinblueink),and
online(scanned/digitalcopyofpaperoriginal,in‘.pdfformat,viatheWizehiveapplicationportal).
ATTENTION; The LegacyLandConservationProgram(LLCP)may cancelItsrequestforFiscalYear2022Land
ConservationFund GrantApplications,andtheLLCP may rejecta submittedFiscalYear2022application,inwhole
orinpart,withoutliability,when theLLCP determinesthatsuchcancellationorrejectionisinthebestinterestofthe
State.A finalgrantawardfromtheLandConservationFundrequiresapprovalfromtheBoardofLandandNatural
Resources and from the Governor. Encumbrance and disbursementoffundingforan approvedgrantawardis
subjecttotheavailabilityoffundsandtobudgerestrictionsandproceduresimplementedundertheGovernor's
ExecutiveBienniumBudget Instructions. f' rsj
rsj
:x>r-'
tr*
CERTIFICATION: Ev
Iherebycertifythatthestatementsand informationcontainedinthisFiscalYear2022LandC^nservati^Fund^Application,includingallformsand attachments,aretrueandaccuratetothebestofmykno^^ge.
nt
i-n
c>- 3=>
rn>● 4^r ●
o
a
Applicant
●w*
Print Name Title
Date(signafterprinting)Signal
Partner (ifapplicable)
Print Name
^'ro\ccJr
Title
-L ● (\> Z2-
DofeSignature*(signafterprinting)
● Must be authorized to sign on behalf of Applicant or Partnerentity.
1
si)£AN<eaCASE
CHAJWIUOV
B0MU9 Of LATO AND KATJIUU. RiXMACf 5
(.OMMUSfOKOS'WAmUMK.'urEUAIiAaEMU^
DAVID V. IGE
COVEASOR OP HAW AH
ROBERT K. MASDDA
FasTOEurrr
M.KALEO MANUEL
DenTTY arscToii -vAm
AQUATICItESOUACtS
B0ATP40 AND DOAN nnCA'nOK
BUREAU or CONVEYAKCLS
rOMMSSSlOK CV^'VATU USOIACE MANaOLMENT
COMEKVaTION AND COASTAL LANDS
LCNSEAVATKN AND USOUTgCU Q-TDBCUIENT
ENOIATBUKO
FCBESTAT AND WILDUTE
mrrosjc puservatun
KAHOOUWE ISLAND MSnvi cCMM:U»}A'
LAND
STaTI PARAS
STATE OF HAWAH
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES
DIVISION OF FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE
1151 PUNCHBOWL STREET. ROOM 325
HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813
February 4, 2022
MEMORANDUM
Division Administrators, Heads of Offices, DOFAW StaffTO:
David G. Smith, DOFAW AdministratorFROM:
Acting Administrator,Divisionof Forestryand WildlifeSUBJECT:
I willbe on vacationfrom February 10-18,2022. In my absenceForestryand WildlifeManager,
Marigold Zoll,willbe Acting Administrator(50% FTE).
Your usualcourtesyand cooperationtoMrs. Zollwillbe greatlyappreciated.
Cc: Chairperson
ApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact:scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
DLNR/DOFA W with TPL
SECTION A. APPLICATION INFORMATION
1. ApplicationType (Land Acquisition)(selectallthatapply)
Fee Title
2. ApplicationTitle:Pohakea Watershed Lands
3. Island>District>ahupua'a>'ili,or otherplacename, as appropriate
3.a. Island:
District:
Ahupua'a, 'ili,or otherplacename: Ukumehame/Pohakea
Maui
Wailuku3.b.
3.C.
4. StateSenate District6 SenatorRosalyn Baker
5. StateHouse District10 RepresentativeAngus McKelvey
Total number of parcels
Totalacreageconserved
6. 1
257.87.
$8.3MTotal estimated cost of transaction
Totalrequestfrom Land ConservationFund (y informulabelow)
Totalmatching funds(x informulabelow)
ProportionofmatchingfundstoLand Conservationfund (x:y)
8.a.
$1M8.b.
$7,300,1348.C.
7.3:18.d.
APPLICANT INFORMATIONSECTION B.
State agency
DLNR/DOFAW
1151 Punchbowl Street,Room 324
Honolulu, HI 96813
Applicant Type:
Applicant Name:
ApplicantPostalAddress (U.S.PostalService)
9.
lO.a.
lO.b.
ApplicantPointof Contact(POC = ContactPerson)ScottFretz
ApplicationPOC TelephoneNumber (preferred)
ApplicantPOC email address
lO.c.
808-984-8107lO.d.
scott.fretz@hawai i.govlO.e.
https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dofaw/ApplicantwebsiteURL (organizational)lO.f.
URL forwebsitespecifictothisapplication N/AlO.g.
Applicantstatus(selectallthatapply)
● Accreditedby theLand TrustAccreditationCommission
See: https://wvvw.landtrustaccreditation.org
● Adopted therevised2017 Land TrustStandardsand Practices
See: https://www.landtrustalliance.org/topics/land-trust-standards-and-practices
● Member of Terrafirma
See: https://terrafirma.org
lO.h.
1
DLNR/DOFAW with TPLApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
emailaddressforApplicantPointofContact:scott,fretz@hawaii.gov
Did applicantsubmitAttachmentA13, OperatingBudget?NlO.i.
The applicantistheDivisionof Forestryand Wildlife,a stateagencywithintheDepartmentof
Land and Natural Resources. The Division's biennium budget forFY 22-23 was approved
as Act 88, SLH 2021, foroperatingand capitalimprovement program (CIP)projectsand is
comprisedoftheprogram appropriationsforLNRs 172,402,407,804,and portionsofLNR 101
where fundingisavailableforlandacquisitionsand authorizedexpendituresfrom theSpecial
Land Development Fund. The budget isavailablefor
review at https://www.capitol.hawaii.gov/slh/Years/SLH2021/SLH2Q21 Act88.pdf
lO.j. How many grantsdid theapplicantreceive,todate,from the Legacy Land Conservation
Program (LLCP)?
DOFAW completed eightgrantawards,includingthe threelargestpropertiesconserved
statewidethrough the grantprogram, allon O'ahu (Waimea Native Forest/Pupukea Mauka,
Honouliuli,and Helemano). Of theseeightcompleted awards, fourwere top-rankedinthe
respectiveapplicationcycle,one was ranked second,and threewere ranked between thirdand
sixth.
lO.k. Of theLLCP grantsthatthe applicantreceived,todate,how many were discontinued?
DOFAW discontinuedthreeawarded grantsreceivedto date:Upper Kukaiau, Lower Kukaiau
Conservation Easement, Kainalu Ranch Conservation Easement 2.
Of theLLCP grantsthattheapplicantreceived,todate,how many remain activelO.l.
(completionpending)? For each activegrant,how may months have elapsedsincethe contract
start date?
One DOFAW grantaward ispending completion (FY19 forKane'ohe Lo'ito Pali).31 months
have elapsed.
10.m. Of theLLCP grantsthattheapplicantcompleted,to date,what was the maximum,
minimum, and averagetime(inmonths) tocompletea grant?
DOFAW acquisitionsdo not typicallyput propertyunder contractuntilvery closetoclosing-
one or two months beforeclosing.DOFAW countstime to closingstartingfrom the startof the
fiscalyear thatfollowsthe fiscalyear of the award (afterallfundsforStateacquisitionswere
transferred from Land Conservation Fund to DLNR Trust Fund). So far,Kaneohe (FY19 award)
July 2019 to now is31 months.
lO.n. Istheapplicantabletohosta fieldvisitby up tofourmembers of theLegacy Land
Conservation Commission? Y
2
ApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact:scott.fret2@hawaii.gov
DLNR7DOFAW with TPL
Ifso,then identifyatleastthreepossibledates,between February 15 and March 2,2022,
for this field visit:
Date 1
Date 2
Date 3
lO.o.
February 23, 2022 (leastpreferred)
February 24, 2022
March 2,2022 (most preferred)
11. PARTNER INFORMATION
Partner Name:
PartnerPostalAddress (U.S.PostalService)
The Trust for Public Land
1164 Bishop Street,Suite1512
Honolulu, 96813
Leah Lani Rothbaum
808-392-9596
leah.rothbaum@tpl.org
ll.a.
ll.b.
PartnerPoint of Contact (POC)
PartnerPOC Telephone Number (preferred)
Partner POC email address
ll.c.
ll.d.
ll.e.
EASEMENT INFORMATION (Subsection 173A-4. HawaiT Revised Statutes!
Willtheapplicantrequestan exemptionfrom theeasementrequirement?Y
12.
12.a.
PROPERTY INFORMATION
RELATED: Property InformationForm (Form 2,required)
Online County Property Record(s)(A6,required)
(“Owner and ParcelInformation”)
Preliminary TitleReport(s)
(All, optional,STRONGLY RECOMMENDED!)
Appraisals (A 12,optional)
SECTION C.
Land AcquisitionPriorities(Section173A-2.6.Hawai"iRevisedStatutes)
Selectallthatapply[8choices],and explainthroughouttheapplication.
The proposedacquisitionincludes:lA, IB, 1C,2,3,4,5
0 1) Lands havingexceptionalvaluedue tothepresenceof:
(A) Unique aestheticresources;
(B) Unique and valuableculturalorarchaeologicalresources; or
(C) Habitatsforthreatenedorendangeredspeciesofflora,fauna,oraquaticresources;
0 2) Lands thatareinimminent dangerofdevelopment;
0 3) Lands thatareinimminent dangerof beingmodified,changed,orusedina
manner to diminish itsvalue;
0 4) Lands providingcriticalhabitatsforthreatenedor endangeredspeciesthatarein
imminentdangerofbeingharmed ornegativelyimpacted;
0 5) Lands containingculturalorarchaeologicalsitesorresourcesthatareindangerof
theftor destruction;(LahainaPaliTrail)
13.
Land AcquisitionCriteria
Section 13-140-39. Hawaii AdministrativeRules, see pages 18-19
Selectallthatapply|tenchoices],and explainthroughouttheapplication.
The characteristicsoftheproposedacquisitioninclude:3,4,5,6,9,10,11,13,14
14.
3
DLNR/DOFAW with TPLApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
emailaddressforApplicantPointofContact:scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
^Linkage ofprotectedacreageofsimilarresources
0Opportunities forappropriatepublicaccessand enjoyment
EfPresence of environmental hazards
^Feasibilityof a projectwithin the two-year acquisitiontimeframe
0Urgency of need to acquire
[^Statusand adequacy of management planning
^Community support for acquisition
Completeness of acquisitionfunding
[^Connection to regionalplanning and protectionefforts
[^Capacity for long-term management
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)
Narrative descriptionof location,ecosystems,landuse,and human activityon the
propertyand inthesurroundingarea.
15.
The Pohakea Watershed Lands arelocatedalong Honoapi'ilaniHighway, themain accessroad
from central Maui to Lahaina and West Maui. The land spans two ahupua’a — Ukumehame and
Wailuku — locatedatthebase of Mauna Kahalawai. The propertyislocatedacrossthehighway
and mauka of the Maui Ocean Center,Ma‘alaea Shops,and Ma*alaea Harbor. Partof the
Ma‘alaea ConservationCorridor,thepropertyconnectswith nearby landmarks such as Kealia
NationalWildlifeRefuge, theNationalMarine Whale Sanctuary,Maui Ocean Center,Pacific
Whale Foundation headquarters,and a petroglyphsiteon adjacentstateland.
Average annual rainfallatthe siteis 10-20 inches. Fresh northeasttradewinds prevail,
frequentlyreachingspeedsgreaterthan25 milesper hour. The soilson theparcelarepartof the
alluvialplainsof Ka Ma‘alaea. Priorto human colonizationand subsequentdisturbance,the
subjectlandswere withinthelowland tropicalgrasslandand shrubland zone. Those biomes are
among the most impacted by human activitiesand intactexamples arenow extremelyrareinthe
Main Hawaiian Islands.The propertyisno exception,and was used forsugar cultivationand
pastureinthelastcentury.
The Lahaina Pali Trail,which traverses between the districtsof Wailuku and Lahaina,passes
through theproperty.The Lahaina PaliTrailisknown from historicmaps atleastdatingas far
back as 1885 and isthoughttohave been a partofthe ancientalaloa.A 1992 survey of the trail
found itto be relativelyintactfrom itswesterntenninusatHonoapiTlani Highway near Papalaua
to thewestern boundary of thisproperty.Although thehistoricmaps show thetrailcontinuing
through thenorthernportionsof thispropertyand on toward Wailuku, the surveyswere not able
to locateevidenceof it,presumably because ithad been destroyedby thegradingof theland for
agriculture.In 1994, the Board of Land and Natural Resources set aside the Lahaina Pali Trailas
a Na Ala Hele Trailunder theDivisionof Forestryand Wildlife.For convenience,the trailwas
routedthrough an existingroad along theboundary of the propertyto itseasternterminus at
HonoapiTlani Highway. Today, the Lahaina PaliTrailisone of themost populartrailson Maui
frequentedby residentsand visitorsfor itsdramatic landscapesand sweeping vistas.
The propertyincludeseasements forwater linesacrossadjacentparcels3-6-004:008 and 3-6-
004:003 owned by ADD, LLC and Waikapu Properties,respectively.The owner of the Pohakea
4
ApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact: scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
Watershed Lands subjecttothisapplicationalsoowns threewells,a 750,000 gallonwater tank,
and a 2,500 squarefootmetal storagebuildingthatwillbe includedinthe acquisition.The
inclusionofwater infrastructureand therighttouse the water willbe of greatbenefitto
DLNR/DOFAW forrestorationand wildfiremanagement efforts.
DLNR/DOFAW with TPL
16. Identifyand discussthe typesof assessments,surveys,permits,and documented analyses
conducted regardingtheproperly.
In 2005, a number of studiesof the land were completed to supporta proposed“Ma‘alaea
Mauka” development beforethe landwas soldto a new owner in2008. The formerowner also
competed a FinalEnvironmental Impact Statement(FEIS) (2010)tosupporttheproposed
“Ghana Kai” development;as wellas a FinalEnvironmentalAssessment (EA) (2015)tosupport
a subsequentiterationof the proposed development.The 2010 FEIS includedan agricultural
assessment.Flora and Fauna assessment;Archaeological inventorysurvey.HydrologicalStudy
and Preliminarywatertestingreports;preliminaryengineeringreport-drainage,roads,water
systemand a studyfora new onsitewastewaterplant.Therewere alsoPhaseI,PhaseIIand
Phase IIIEnvironmental SiteAssessment reports.Some of thereportsoriginatedfrom the
original2005 development proposal.Some were completedatthetimeofthe2009 DraftEIS and
updated forthe2014-2015 Draftand FinalEA.
RESOURCE PRESERVATION PURPOSESSECTION D.
Subsection 173A-5(gL HawaiT Revised Statutes
Selectallthatapply,thenprovidemore informationabouteachselectioninthespaces
provided.
17.
(1) Watershed protection.
Describewatershed structure,function,and mechanics (forexample,elevation/rainfallgradients,
substrate,vegetativecover,waterbodytypesand conditions,rechargedynamics,
disturbances/impainnents,solutions).
The propertyislocatedinthePohakea watershedwhich includesabout5,268acresofland
mauka (upslope)ofMa‘alaeaBay. The Pohakea watershedhasseveralgulches/streamsthatall
dischargeintoMa‘alaeaBay and theharbor.The watershedbeginsatthesummitofHanaula
within the West Maui Mountains at 4,616 feet above sea leveland flows south and east.The
slopeisrelativelysteepattheupperportionsoftheWest Maui Mountainswiththegrade
levelingoffconsiderablyattheproperty.Pohakea Gulch isthemajorfeaturewithinthe
watershed.Itisa deeplyincisedgulchwithwaterflowingdue eastwhere itentersculvert
systemsbeforereachingHonoapi'ilaniHighway. The majorstreamsassociatedwiththePohakea
Watershed alongwithsmallerunnamed gulcheshave ephemeralflowregimes,typicallyflowing
onlyduringstonnevents.Rock Land isthedominantsoiltypewithinthePohakeaWatershed.
Thissoiltypeisconsideredwelldrainedwithveryhighrunoffpotential.The parentmaterialfor
Rock Land isbasaltwithsiltyclaimloam found between zerotofourinchesofthesurface,silty
claylocatedbetween fourtoeightinchesdeep,and bedrockfromeightto20 inchesofthe
surface.Depth tothewatertableistypicallygreaterthan80 inches.
5
DLNR/DOFAW with TPLApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
emailaddressforApplicantPointofContact:scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
The Pohakea StormwaterManagement Plan (2018)indicatedtheareahasfailedornon-
flinctioninginfrastructure,and improperor outdatedlandmanagement strategies.Unimproved
roads and powerlinecorridorsactas stormwaterconveyance mechanismsduringraineventsand
channel stormwaterand sediment intothegulches.Extensivehead cuttingwithinthestream
channelshave ledtothe lossof many tonsof sedimentmaterialduringstormevents,possibly
due theculvertsbeingundersized.The landscapeisdegradedwithareasdevoidofvegetationand
isdominated by invasivegrassesand weeds. Runoff from thePohakea WatershedLands have
highconcentrationsofammonia, organicnitrogen,phosphorus,and orthophosphates.The coastal
areasoffMa‘alaea do not meet theHawaii Statewater qualitystandardsand Ma‘alaea Bay is
consideredan impairedbody of water.Hillslopestabilization,head cutstabilization,restoration,
and vegetativebarrierswillhelp capturesedimentand promote the infiltrationof stormwater
sheetflow intotheground.
(2) Coastal areas, beaches, and ocean access.
Describe significantfeaturesand characteristicsthecoastal/marineenvironment,and thetype
and extent of access to shoreline,beaches, and ocean.
Stormwater from the Pohakea Watershed Lands directlyflows intoand negativelyimpacts
Ma‘alaea Bay. Land use and management thatprotectsvegetationand topsoilresourcesupslope
on the Pohakea Watershed Lands will reduce erosion and resultincleanerrunoffwater entering
The busy and popular Ma‘alaea Harbor area.Less sediment enteringMa'alaea Bay willimprove
water qualityforocean-based recreationand willalsobe healthierforcoralreefecosystems.
(3) Habitat protection.
Describetheplantand animal habitatsand populationslocatedwithinthepropertyand on
adjacentlands,including:
● Habitattype,location,elevation,extent,condition,and Federal/Statelegaldesignation
(such as criticalhabitat,wildliferefuge,etc.).
● Species,location,range,size,diversity,and Federal/Statelegal/biologicalstatus(suchas
threatened,endangered,invasive,noxious)of plantand animal populations.
Priorto human disturbance,theproposed landswere characterizedby lowland grasslandand
shrub ecosystems. The naturalresourcesof theproposed landsarenow highlydisturbedand
degradedfrom centuriesof agriculturaluse. Though disturbancehas been extensive,thelands
maintainrestorationpotentialthatwould benefittheHawaiian hoary bat,nene,and nativeplant
speciesthatareexpectedtobe components of habitatrestoration.Importantly,thesubjectparcel
and adjacentlandsarethreatenedby highlydamaging cyclesof fast-movingfiresthatremove
vegetation,followedby heavy rainsthatdestabilizesoilsand resultin massive erosionevents
thatfoulthenear shoreand coralreefhabitatsdownslope. Itiscriticalthatthose threatsare
addressed on both the subjectand adjacentlandsinorderforhabitatmanagement effortstobe
successful.Following purchase,thepartnerswillbegin implementationof applicableexisting
plansand development of a new forestreservemanagement forthe contiguousmanagement of
the subjectparceland the adjacentstatelands.
Effectiveplanningforconservationof naturalresourcesisessentialfor successfuleffortsto
conservenaturalresourcesand preventand suppresswildland fires.There are a number of
6
ApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact: scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
excellentlandmanagement plansavailablethataddressresourceconservationand fireneeds for
landsthatareadjacenttoand nearthesubjectparcel,forwhich management prescriptionsare
readilyapplicabletothesubjectparcel.Each iscurrentlybeing implemented by agency,
community, and landowner partners.A briefdescriptionof each follows.
DLNR/DOFAW with TPL
Mauna Kahalawai Watershed Management Plan. A comprehensivemanagement plan toprotect
and preservenativeecosystems and freshwater supplyforthe 50,000-acrewatershed landsthat
comprise Mauna Kahalawai. Includesdetailedguidance forthe controlof feralungulatesand
invasivespecies,monitoringthreatsand perfonnance toward management objectives,and
educationand outreachtoengage communities innaturalresourcesprotection.
Western Maui Community WildfireProtectionPlan. A comprehensiveplanforthepreventionof
wildfireson landsinwest Maui. The planincludesassessmentofthreats,risks,and hazards,and
providesan actionplanforimplementationof shortand longtemimeasurestopreventand
suppresswildfires.Thisplanisrequiredforeligibilityforfederallyfundedgrantprogramsfor
fireprevention.
South Maui Community WildfireProtectionPlan. Comprehensive planforthepreventionof
wildfireson landsinsouthMaui, includingthesubjectparcel.The planincludesassessmentof
threats,risks,and hazards,and providesan actionplanforimplementationofshortand longterm
measurestopreventand suppresswildfires.Thisplanisrequiredforeligibilityforfederally
funded grantprograms forfireprevention.
Pohakea Watershed Stormwater Management Plan. Documentation ofthesources,locations,
and causesof erosionand sedimenttransportcausedby surfacewaterflowcontributingtowater
qualitydegradationindownstream nearshoreand marinehabitats.The planprovidessourceby
source recommendations for actions needed to reduce erosionand impactstomarine habitats.
In additiontothemeasures currentlyplannedand underway pursuanttotheaboveplans,
DOFAW and partnersareplanningand implementinga numberofmanagementactionson the
subjectparceltopreventand suppresswildfires,controland mitigateerosion,restoreand reforest
habitat,provideforcompatiblepublicuse,and fostercommunityengagement.A brief
descriptionofthosemanagement conceptsisprovidedbelow.
Firebreaks. Effectivefirebreaksarean importantlineofdefenseforthepreventionand
suppressionofwildlandfires.DOFAW maintainsapproximately18 milesoffirebreaksinwest
Maui, includingseveralmilesof breakson themauka landsofthePohakeaWatershed.In2020,
Maui Nui Marine ResourcesCouncilexpanded thatwork tothesubjectparcel,creatingan
additional3.5milesof firebreaksalongboth sidesofthelengthoftheparceladjacenttothe
highway makai and tothestatelandsmauka. DOFAW iscurrentlyplanningtoexpandthose
firebreicsbyaddingthreeconnectingcrossbreakstotheparcel,includinga numberofgreen
breaks,fora totalof 4.5 miles of breakson theparcel.
Water. Purchaseof thesubjectparcelby thecountyisexpectedtoincludepurchaseofthree
wells,a 750,000-gallontankand easementforthedeliveryofwateracrossadjacentlands.The
inclusionof thosewater resourceswith thepurchaseprovidessignificantbenefitsforthe
7
DLNR/DOFAW with TPLApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
emailaddressforApplicantPointofContact:scott.frctz@hawaii.gov
management ofthesubjectlands,includingfiresuppression,habitatrestorationandmanagement
thatwillenabletheconstructionof green breaks,reforestation,and establishmentofvegetation
forthe controlof erosionthatdamages coralreefand nearshoremarine environments.
Habitatmanagement. The dryand windy conditionsoftheMa‘alaeaarea,coupledby thevery
flashyfuelspresenton thesubjectparceland adjacentlands,arehighlyconducivetotherapid
spreadofwildfires.The purchaseofthesubjectparcel,alongwiththewatereasementsthatare
expectedtobe a partof thesale,willfacilitatecollaborativemanagement opportunitiesto
improve habitatand reducefirehazardsthroughrevegetationwith lessfireprone speciesand by
establishinggreenfirebreaksthatarenot likelytoburn intheeventofa fireon adjacentlands.
The Pohakea Watershed Lands willcontinueto provide occasionsforcommunity and volunteer-
based reforestationwork thatwillenhance opportunitiesforcompatibleuses,includinghiking
and outdoor recreation.
Ignitionsources.Power linesand associatedstructuresaresuspectedtobe a sourceof ignition
on lands adjacentto the subjectparcel.DOFAW isworking with Hawaiian Electricand partners
to review potentialsourcepointsand plan and implement measures to reduce ignitionfrom those
sources.Preliminaryassessmentof sourcesincludesa seriesof powerlinesand polesrunning
mauka from thesubjectparcel.Following the assessment,DOFAW expecst Hawaiian Electric
to implement and maintain firebreaks ateach suspectedsourceto reducetheriskof ignitionat
thosepoints.
Erosion control.Erosionof soilson the subjectparcelscontributesto thedepositof large
volumes of sedimentsintothe ocean atMa‘alaea Bay duringperiodsof heavy rain,threatening
coralreefecosystems and the economic, recreational,and subsistenceactivitiesthatdepend on
thoseresources.Frequentfiresexacerbatetheproblem by burning vegetation,renderingthe soils
bare and exposed to loss.Management activitiestorestorevegetationand reduce fireswillassist
in the controland mitigationof erosion.In addition,DOFAW planstodesignand implement
physicalimprovements to captureand redirectsedimentationto prevent itfrom reaching the
ocean. Those improvements willrequiresignificantinvestmentinplanning,design,and capital
improvement, and while thosefunds arenot currentlyavailableto supportthoseefforts,DOFAW
and community partnersare activelyseekingto securethose funds through state,federal,and
privategrantopportunities.
Community engagement. A number of community organizationsare keenly interestedin
management of thebiologicaland culturalresourcesof thesubjectparcel.Some arealready
involvedinmanagement of the subjectparceland otherMauna Kahalawai lands,and others are
poisedtoactivelyparticipate.The Ma‘alaea VillageAssociationhas been a leaderin these
efforts,as have the Maui Nui Marine Resources Council, Maui Cultural Lands, and others.
DOFAW looksforwardtoexpanding community partnershipsto fosterresponsiblestewardship
and realizethe community’s visionforthe landsatMa‘alaea and Pohakea Watershed.
(4) Cultural and historicalsites.
Identifyand describethepresence,location,condition,legalprotections,and
stewardship/management of culturaland historicstructures,sites,and use areason theproperty
(such as heiau,lo‘i,burials,dunes, remnant stonewalls).
8
ApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact:scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
DLNR/DOFAW with TPL
The parcelincludesthehistoricLahaina PaliTrail,which isthoughttobe a partof the ancient
alaloathatencircledtheisland.While theadjacentlands are richin culturalsitesthatinclude
heiau,petroglyphs,and dwellingsites,itappearsthatthehistoricuse oftheparcelforagriculture
resultedinextensivedamage toculturaland historicsitesthatmay have been present.
Restoration of the historic route of the Lahaina Pali Trail is feasible. Work to locate and restore
otherelementsisexpectedtobe challengingand willrequirefocused planningand consultation
with expertsand community members to develop furtherplans.
(5) Recreational and public hunting areas.
Distinguishbetween recreationalareasand publichuntingareas,and identifyand describe:
● Existing/ongoingand proposed/post-acquisitiontypesand levelsof publicrecreational
activityand publichuntingon the property.
● Extentand adequacy of publicaccesstothepropertyforpublicrecreationand forpublic
hunting,includingconnections,ifany,with the StateNa Ala Hele HawaiM Trailand
Access System.
● Whether ornotthepropertyiswithin,adjacent,or nearbytoa publichunting
area/huntingunit.
The propertyincludestheNa Ala Hele LahainaPaliTrail,one ofthemost popularpublicaccess
trailson the island.The trailiscurrentlyopen year-roundand providesaccesstorecreational
opportunitiesforhiking,outdoorrecreation,and accesstotheWest Maui ForestReserve.The
proposed parcelisplannedforincorporationintothestateforestreservesystem.Stateforest
reservesarepublictrustlandsheldand managed by theDivisionforthebenefitofthepublic,and
subjecttoapplicableadministrativerules,includingchapter13-104,HawaiiAdministrative
Rules. Conditionsand regulationsforpublicaccesstoforestreservesarespecifiedintherules
and includeprovisionforclosuresand establishmentofvisitinghoursforpurposesthatmay
includeprotectionofnaturalresources,publicsafety,and compatibleuses.The Division
appreciatesthediligenteffortsofthecommunity and constituentstoprotectand securethe
purchaseoftheparcel.Ifthepurchaseissuccessful,theDivisioniscommittedtoan extensive
publicprocessforthedevelopment of a forestreservemanagement planforthelandsthatserves
the best interests of those affected communities. We expectcompatibleusesidentifiedinthe
management plantoincludeopportunitiesforoutdoorrecreationintheformofhiking,public
access,habitatrestoration,firebreaks,greenbreaks,and developmentofsoilstabilizationand
erosion control measures.
(6) Parks.
Ifthepropertyiswithinor adjacenttoa publicpark,pleasedescribethespatialarrangementand
functionalrelationshipwith park land.
N/A
(7) Natural areas.
Identifyand describethenaturalresourceson theproperty(suchasgeologicfeatures,habitat
type/condition,and residentbiota)and theirrelationshipwithsurroundingand adjacentpublic
and privateprotectedareas,ifany (suchaspublicpark;StateForestReserve,NaturalArea
9
DLNR/DOFAW with TPLApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
emailaddressforApplicantPointofContact:scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
Reserve,WildernessPreserve,WildlifeRefuge, WildlifeSanctuary;private
preservation/conservationarea).
The propertyisgentlyslopinggrasslandsbounded by KealoloaRidge on thewest and with
Pohakea Gulch traversingthenorthsection.The landwas once a dry nativeshrublandbutwas
clearedforagriculturaluse inthelate1800’sand was cultivatedinsugarcan forover 100 years,
so itishighlydisturbed.Hardy wiliwilltrees,a signaturespeciesof Hawaii’sdrylandforests,
are scatteredalong the gulchesand flourish.The dominant grassyspeciesprovidean abundant
food supply toresidentbiotainthe form of grassseed and herbaceousvegetation.Moderate
birdlifediversityexistsinthe normally dry areaand endemic nene have been observed on the
property.Numerous insectsareabundant throughout.
The Pohakea Watershed Lands areadjacenttothe West Maui Forest Reserve and DOFAW
intends to set aside those lands for inclusion to the forestreserve.Designationas a forestreserve
under Chapter 13-104,Hawaii AdministrativeRules,provideslegalprotectionsforthenatural
resource values on the land.
(8) Agricultural production.
Describethetypesand extentof pastand presentagriculturalactivitieson thepropertyand
adjacentproperties.
The parcelproposed foracquisitionand adjacentpropertieshave deep alluvialtopsoil.The
Pohakea Watershed Lands and surroundingKamaalaea plainswere used as a sugarplantationby
C. Brewer and also leasedplotsfor small agriculturalventures,growing a varietyof food crops
and pasturelandsforcattleand horses.The owner of thePohakea Watershed Lands subjectto
thisapplicationalsoowns threewells,a 750,000 gallonwater tank,and a 2,500 squarefootmetal
storagebuildingthatwillbe includedintheacquisition.The inclusionof water infrastructureand
therighttouse thewaterwillbe of greatbenefitto DLNR/DOFAW for restorationand wildfire
management efforts.Currently,horsesgrazeon theproperty.The landowner has a month-to-
month leasewith a rancherthatrequires60 days’noticeto vacate.North of Pohakea gulch,657
acresof privatelyowned Ag landsareina perpetualconservation easement dedicated to
agriculturaluse.
(9) Open spaces and scenic resources.
Describetheopen spacevaluesoftheproperty,including:
● visibilityfrom surroundingand distantareas
Ma‘alaea Villageisthehistoriccrossroadsbetween south,west and centralMaui with historical
recordsdatingback to 800 AD. The Proposed Pohakea parcel((2)3-6-001-018- alsoreferredto
as “Ma‘alaea Mauka”) is257.7 acresof coastalplainslocatedjustabove Ma‘alaea small boat
harborin South Maui. The gentlyslopingaccessiblelandissurroundedby steeplyslopedState
Conservation land (3,414 acres)to the South and West. To thenorthitisbounded by Pohakea
Gulch, an intermittentstream that flows from Kealaloloa Ridge (3,000ftamsl) totheKealia
Pond NationalWildlifeRefuge.North of Pohakea gulchare 657 acresof privatelyowned Ag
landsina perpetualConservationeasement dedicatedto Ag use.The Pohakea parcel’swestern
boundarybordersHonoapiTlaniHwy (Rte.30)theonlyviableroad to Lahaina with its
10
ApplicantName (Agency or Nonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact: scott.ffetz@,hawaii.gov
populationof over 20,000 residents,and home to Ka’anapali,Maui’s major destinationresort
hotelcomplex. Along Honoapi‘ilaniHwy tothenorth,Waikapu Country Town isthefuture
expansionof historicWaikapu, with 1400 homes, affordablehousing and commercial center
planned between Ma‘alaea Villageand the County seatat Wailuku.
DLNR/DOFAW with TPL
Ma‘alaea Villageishome toa smallresidentialareaabove Ma‘alaea Harbor and 563
condominiums - both residential and vacation rentals. Maui Ocean Center is the second most
populartouristdestination,nexttoonlyHaleakala.The majorityofwhale watch,snorkelingand
tour boats are based at Ma‘alaea Harbor, home to PacificWhale Foundation.
● view plane to surroundingand distantareas
From the Pohakea/Ma‘alaea Mauka lands atthe edge of theisthmusof the“ValleyIsle,”
panoramicviews of South Maui from KiheitoMakena, Haleakala,theWest Maui Mountains,
and Wailuku Town contrast with views of the islands of Kaho'olawe and Molokini. Views from
thepublicHonoapi‘ilaniHighway acrossthePohakea parceltoMauna Kahalawaihavebeen
notedasa “significant”view planeinstateand County planningdocuments.
● unusual/exceptionalvalueforviewingand appreciatingscenicvistas
Itisrarethatsuch open spaceexistsafterdecadesofdevelopmentacrossMaui Islandwhichsaw
Maui’s populationgrow from 40,000in1973 toover 160,000in2021.Thankstodecadesof
Ma‘alaeadiligenceand community action,combinedwithsupportersisland-widefromSierra
Club Maui Group toMaui Tomorrow and theKiheiCommunity Association,effortshavebeen
relentlesstopreservethesevaluableopen spacesand scenicvistas.The historicLahainaPali
Trailintersectsthepropertyinseverallocations,andprovideshikersa crosscountryexperience
from Pohakea WatershedLand’sgentlyslopingterraintoroughmountaintrails.
ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDSSECTION E.
Selectallthatapplyand describeinthespacebelow
● Designatedbrownfield(known industrialuse)
● Release of Toxic Substancesor Hazardous Materials/UnexplodedOrdinance (UXO)
● Illegaldumping
● Prone to flooding
● Natural basin
● Prone to rock fall,mudslide, other mass wasting
● Potentiallyhazardousterrain(uneven,rocky,overgrown)
● OTHER SUSPECTED OR POTENTIAL HAZARDS: Wildfires
18.
Describeknown, suspected,and potentialenvironmentalhazards.
The Pohakea Watershed Lands experiencecyclesof wildfirefollowedby erosionand flooding.
Pohakea Gulch is a natural basin that funnels runoff from the West Maui Mountains acrossthe
coastalplainstosensitivewetlandareasand Ma‘alaeaBay.
19.
11
DLNR/DOFAW with TPLApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
emailaddressforApplicantPointofContact:scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
FUNDING REQUEST AND TIMELINE
RELATED: Transaction Costs Worksheet (Form 3,required)
Matching Funds Worksheet (Form 4,required)
SECTION F.
Estimated FairMarket Value for land acquisition(purchasepriceforfeetitleinterests)
$8.25M (with water)
20.a.
Estimated FairMarket Value forlandacquisition(purchasepricefor
conservation/agriculturaleasement interests)
$5,460,000
20.b.
TotalEstimatedCost (purchasepriceplusdue diligenceand administrativecosts)
$8,300,134
20.C.
The estimatedFairMarket Value fortheproperty(feetitleand conservation/agricultural
easement) isbased upon: Selectallthatapply,and describebelow.
21.a.
● Seller’sAppraisal Report
● Buyer’s Appraisal Report
● Independent Appraisal Report
● County ValuationforReal ProperlyTax Assessment
● Other
21.b. Identifythe reportsand methods used as a basisforestimated Fair Market Value.
Appraisalreportdraftconductedby theBeneventeGroup inearly2022. Finalappraisalreport
expectedtobe completedby theend of February2022.
22. Providean estimatedtimelineforcompletingtheacquisition,includingthe currentstatus,
startdate,and end dateofpendingand securedmatchingfunds.
Pleasenotethatwe expectFY2022funding tobecome availableno earlierthan November 2022
foran approved FiscalYear 2022 grant. The initialtime ofperformance for a FiscalYear 2022
grantagreement (and theinitialusefullifefor thegrantfunding)isa two-yearperiod thatwould
likelybegin not earlierthan November 2022 and not laterthan June 15, 2023.
The landowner signed a letterof intentin October of 2021 indicatingtheirdesiretosellthe
Pohakea Watershed Lands to The Trust for Public Land with theunderstandingthatTPL will
transferthelandtoDLNR DOF AW. The appraisalreportestablishingtheFairMarket Value of
thepropertyisunderway withthefinalreportanticipatedin mid-February 2022, afterwhich TPL
willnegotiatea purchaseagreement with thelandowner.Due diligence,includinga detailedtitle
review and contractingfora Phase I environmentalassessment,willoccurbetween earlyspring
and latefallof2022.Remaining fundsfrom Maui County are expectedto be releasedmid-year
and willcover thevastmajorityof acquisitioncosts.Funding from thisgrant,ifawarded, is
12
ApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact: scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
projectedto complete theamount needed foracquisition.We expectto be ableto closeon this
propertywithinthe firsthalfof 2023 pending BLNR approval to receivetransferof the property.
DLNR/DOFAW with TPL
SECTION G. IMPORTANCE AND THREATS
Completed SectionG attachedon next page23.
13
Importance and ThreatsSection G
Describe the overallsignificanceand importance of the property to be acquired:
This projectisimportant for publicsafety. Under publicownership, the property willbe managed to
decrease risksfrom wildfire,erosion and flooding and willensure long term health of the watersheds,
wetlands, and coastalmarine areas.Ifthe property Issold to another privateowner, there isno way to
ensure future stewardship and management activitieswillalignwith the community vision.State
acquisitionand co-stewardship with community groups willguarantee that the scenicopen space
property near major population centers and touristattractionswillforever remain a source of
inspirationand treasured community resource foropen space, recreation,and agriculture.
Protecting the coastal plainfrom development has been a community priorityfor decades. There isa
willingsellerlandowner, broad support for acquisition,and Interagency plans for ongoing stewardship.
The Pohakea Watershed Lands are located in a highlyvisiblescenic area at the base of the West Maui
Mountains. The property isa keystone property for watershed protection,provides important natural
habitatand iscriticalfor managing wild fires- a chronicthreatinthisarea of Maui - and for mitigating
erosion,soilrunoff,and pollutionof Ma'aiaea Bay and itsnearshore coralreefs.Purchase of the
property includesthree wells,a 750,000-gallontank and easements for the deliveryof water across
adjacent lands.The water resources willprovide significantbenefitsfor land management that willhelp
prevent erosion that damages marine environments.
Acquisitionwillmaximize publicbenefitsby enabling largescaleprotectionof important naturaland
cultural resources and minimize risk from environmental hazards and naturaldisasters.The property is
ina chronicallywildfireprone area and there Isan urgent need to acquireand manage itfor public
safety.Recent fireshave caused closureof the only road availableforemergency vehiclesneeding to
get to urgent care servicesfrom Lahalna.
DLNR DOFAW already has firebreakson thisproperty,and would incorporate the property in an area
wide wildfiremanagement strategy.Controlof wildfireswould also substantiallycontributeto reducing
erosion and runoff into streams, Pohakea Gulch, and Ma'aiaea Bay,which smothers and damages
nearshore corals.The property willbe part of a mauka to makai "ConservationCorridor"linking
protecting State owned upland watershed lands and Pohakea Gulch to the Kealia National Wildlife
Refuge wetland ponds, coralreefs,and offshore waters. The greaterarea of Ma'aiaea Bay isdedicated
as a NationalHumpback Whale Marine Sanctuary.The property provides exceptionalviews of the West
Maui Mountains to thousands of dallycommuters and thisacquisitionwillprotectregionallyimportant
open space.The historicLahaina PaliTrailruns through the land and there islimitedpublicaccess.Public
accesswillcontinue and acquisitionof the propertywillallowforthe longterm possibilityforenhanced
outdoor recreationand enjoyment, such as improved trailheadparkingiffuturecommunity based
management planningindicatesthere iscommunity need/desirefor such improvements.
The Divisionof Forestryand Wildlife(DOFAW) iscurrentlyengaged In a broad collaborativeeffortwith
agency, NGO, and landowner partnersto plan and implement land management solutionsto break the
fireand erosioncycles,restorehabitats,and stoperosionthatfoulsmarine and nearshoreecosystems in
south and west Maui. Those plans includeset aside of the mauka statelands to forestreserve and
incorporationIntothe Mauna Kahalawai Watershed Partnership,enabling DOFAW and partners to
directadditionaloperational resources to effectivemanagement. Acquisitionof the subject parcel by
conservation partners with management capacityIsa key component of thiseffortbecause, 1) a
number of the most damaging sources of erosion are located on the parceland must be addressed on
that land and, 2) the parcel liesbetween the highway and the mauka state lands and therefore holds the
potential,through maintenance of habitat and firebreaks,of preventing the movement of fires,both
from the highway mauka and from the mauka lands across the highway to the community. Acquisition
of the subject parcelwillenable DOFAW to place itintothe forestreserve system, providingconnectivity
of landsand continuityof conservationaction.Without those efforts,the parcelwilllikelycontinue to be
threatened by wildfireand erosion and the cyclewillpersist.Vegetation willbecome overgrown and fuel
wildfires.Furthermore, ifthe current landowners subdividesthe property for a housing development or
sellsthe property to another privatedeveloper,the landwillcontinueto losefertiletop soilviaerosion,
flooding,and stormwater runoff.Muddy runoffwilldamage the marine ecosystem, inhibituse of
nearshore waters for recreational,subsistence,and culturaluse,and threaten ocean- and recreation-
based businesses.Recovering lossesfrom wildfires,erosion,and reefdamage comes at significant
expense to taxpayersand some lossesare irrevocable.Thispropertyisimportantas itisa key pieceof
area-wide effortsto manage mauka lands ina responsibleway thatprotectsmakai water quality.
Stateownership willprotectthese unique and threatened naturaland culturalresourcesby
safeguardingculturaland historicarchaeologicalsitesand providegreen infrastructureto reduce
negativeimpactscaused by erosionand stormwater runoff.The propertyIsinthevicinityoflandswith
richculturaland archaeological sitesand itisimportant to preservewhat remainson an area prizedfor
itsiconicscenicviews and unique aestheticresources.
Identifyand assessconditionsthatthreatenthe significanceand Importanceofthe property.Address,
where applicable,erosion,sedimentation,pollutedrunoff,flooding,invasivespecies,conflicting
activities:
The subjectparceland the 3,400acresofunencumbered statelandsmauka oftheparcelareproneto
hazardous cyclesof wildfiresfollowed by massive erosionevents.The firesthreatenpublicsafetyand
propertiesinthe nearby commercial and residentialareasand the subsequentsoillossthreatensa
significantwatershed and smother nearshorecoralreefecosystemsthatsupportrecreational,
commercial, and subsistence activities,resultinginsignificantdamage to those ecosystems
The stateand privatelandsinthe Pohakea Watershed of Ma'alaeapose importantchallengesfor
resourcemanagers.The dry and windy conditionsofthearea,coupledwithan abundanceofvegetation
present on the subjectparcelare highlyconducive tothe rapidspreadofwildfires.The propertyisa
major drainageway forwatersfunnelingdown from the West Maui MountainstoPohakeaGulch.The
property currentlyhas inadequate stormwater management and thereisan urgentneed to manage
vegetationto reduce fuelsforwildlandfiresand to slow erosionand siltladenrunofffrom entering
Ma'alaea Bay,which Iscurrentlylistedas an impairedwater body.
As a percentoftotallandarea,Hawaii'swildfiresburnasmuch ormore landeachyearthananyother
state.Wildfiresaffectmental health, degrade airqualityand harm coralreefs,threatenfreshwater
suppliesand detertourists.Catastrophicwildfirestakea largeeconomictollon communitiesthrough
propertylosses,decreased tourism,and even changes Inthelong-termstructureofthelocaleconomy.
SignificantbrushfiresinMa'alaea have occurred recentlyon averageeverytwo-yearsand spread
towards West Maui binging a significantexpense to taxpayersand greatrisktofirefighters.Climate
predictionsand changing weather patternsin Hawaii suggestthatinvasivegrassesand shrubswillsee
stronggrowth and createa self-replenishingfuelthatoutpaces nativevegetation.Highertemperatures
and drierconditionscontributed to the July2019 wildfirethat burned 9,000 acres and the October 2019
wildfirethat burned over 4,500 in Ma'alaea and Pohakea. Thousands of residentsand touristsevacuated
towns on the west coast,two major roads were closed while firedepartment crews builtup a berm to
prevent the firefrom encroaching onto the highway, and numerous flightswere diverteddue to smoke.
Preventing development on thisscenic property has been a longstanding community priorityand there
continues to be realthreat that the property could become another dense agriculturalsubdivision.The
landowner has been approached many times with offersto purchase the property and there are no
guarantees that a future owner would retainthe scenicopen space that isbeloved by the community.
Priorsubdivisionproposals have been a few votes shy of gettingfullapproval and future attempts to
develop the property may be granted by current or future decisionmakers. Publicacquisitionisurgently
needed to ensure that a privatebuyer without any stewardship obligationsdoes not furthercontribute
to environmental hazards exacerbated by lackof management.
ApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact: scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
DLNR/DOFAW with TPL
SECTION H. STEWARDSHIP AND MANAGEMENT
Completed SectionH attachedon next page24.
14
Stewardship and ManagementSection H
1. Describe the proposed future uses of the property to be acquired,including:
● Goals (short-termand longterm)
Short Term Goals
Protect property from development
Increase public access to open space
● Vegetation management
● Install/maintaingreen firebreaks
● Reduce siltyrunoffto Ma'alaea Bay
Lone Term Goals
● Reduce wildfire threat
● Increase public safety
● Soilstabilizationand capture to reduce
erosion
● Protect and enhance natural habitat
● Protect a significantwatershed
Improve water qualityin Ma'alaea
harbor forfishingand recreation
Enhance publicrecreationactivities(ex.
Lahaina PaliTrail)
Maintain iconicviews of unique
aesthetic resources
DOFAW, Maui FireDepartment (MFD), Maui Nul Marine Resource Council (MNMRC), the Pohakea
Watershed Initiativecurrentlysteward the property (e.g.,existingfirebreaks)and each has capacityfor
future long-term management partnerships.Short term goals include DOFAW and MFD working with
volunteers to installgreen firebreaks with lessfireprone species.As part of a broader collaborative
effortwith conservationpartners,DLNR/DOFAW isscopingset aside of the adjacent State owned
unencumbered lands to the Forest Reserve system.
Set aside of thisproperty and adjacent State owned lands for inclusionin the West Maui Forest Reserve
willplace them under Chapter 13-104, HAR, which provides legalprotectionsfortheirnaturaland
culturalresourcevalues.DLNR/DOFAW willmanage the property holisticallyto protect,restore,monitor
natural resources, and provide recreationalopportunities,aesthetic benefits,watershed restoration,
habitatmanagement, and other community benefits.
The State plansto continue working with allthe partners- HECO/MECO, Hut o Na Wai 'Eha,Ma'alaea
VillageAssociation,Maui FireDepartment, Maui CulturalLands, Maui Nui Marine Resources Council,
Mauna Kahalawai Watershed Partnership,and others-to prevent wildfire,reduce erosion and runoff,
and improve nearshore water qualityat Ma'alaea Bay. Management actions include construction and
maintenance of firebreaks, habitat restoration,construction of erosion control measures to include soil
stabilizationand capture, and establishment of a seriesof green breaks to reduce firespread.
● Resource management plan
There are a number of land management plans availablethat address resource conservation, erosion,
and fireneeds for the subject parceland adjacent lands. Each iscurrentlybeing implemented by
agency, community, and landowner partners. Those plans include:
1) The Pohakea Watershed Stormwater Management Plan,which provides documentation of the
sources, locations,and causes of erosion and sediment transport caused by surface water flow
contributingto water qualitydegradation indownstream near shore and marine habitats.The
plan provides source by source recommendations for actions needed to reduce erosion and
impacts to marine habitats.
2) The Mauna Kahalawai Watershed Management Plan,a comprehensive management plan to
protect and preserve nativeecosystems and fresh water supply forthe 50,000-acre watershed
landsthat comprise Mauna Kahalawai Watershed Partnership.The plan Includesdetailed
guidance forthe controlof feralungulates (wildhooved animals) and invasivespecies,
monitoring threatsand performance toward management objectives,and education and
outreach to engage communities in naturalresourcesprotection.
Community WildfirePlans:The Western Maui Community WildfireProtectionPlanand the
South Maui Community WildfireProtectionPlan callfor numerous management actionsto
prevent and suppress wildfires,controland mitigateerosion,restoreand reforesthabitat,
provideforcompatible publicuse,and fostercommunity engagement. DOFAW isworking with
Hawaiian ElectricCompany to plan and implement measures to reduce ignitionfrom power lines
suspectedto be a source of ignitionon landsadjacentto the subjectproperty.
3)
● Funding sources (forstart-upand for operations and maintenance)
Thisacquisitionisa unique funding opportunityforthe state,county,and community partnersto
acquireand protectthe landinan innovativepartnership.In2019,MNMRC, StateDLNR, and
community partnerssecured a $400,000 federalgrantto implement wildfirereductionactivitiesinthe
entire Pohakea Watershed area.
The Maui County Officeof ClimateChange, Resiliency& Sustainabilityawarded a $40,000granttoThe
Trust for PublicLand, working in close partnershipwith the Ma'alaea VillageAssociationand DOFAW,
forOpen Space preservationinFY22 to puttowards due diligencecoststoacquireand protectthe
property.Maui County budgeted up to $5.5M ofopen spacefundsfortheacquisitionofthe property
and thismoney isexpected to provide the majorityof acquisitioncosts.
DOFAW and community partnersare activelyseekingto securefundsthroughstate,federal,and private
grantopportunitiesforhabitatmanagement, reducingIgnitionsources,erosioncontrol,and climate
resiliency.Ifthe property isdesignated as forestreserve,DOFAW willhavebudgetedsupportfor
resourcemanagement, includingdevelopment and implementation offirepre-suppressionand
suppressionplans.Inaddition,DOFAW willseek capitalimprovementbudgetallotmentsforthe
planning,design,and constructionofstructuralremediesforthestabilizationofsoiland controland
capture of erosion.
Other possiblefundingsourcesincludethe NationalOceanicand AtmosphericAdministration'sCoastal
and EstuarineLand Conservation Program (CELP)and the FederalEmergency Management Association's
BuildingResilientInfrastructureand Communities (BRIC)program.CELPisintendedtofurtherthegoals
of the CoastalZone Management Act and alignswith LLCP program objectivesincludingpreserving
historic,cultural,and archaeologicalfeatures,protectingaestheticcoastalfeaturesand scenicvistas,
and providingrecreationalopportunitieswith publicaccess.BRICfundingmay be used by statesto
undertake hazard mitigationprojectsto reduce riskstheyfacefrom disastersand naturalhazardslike
wildfires,flooding,erosion,and poor water quality.
● Permit requirements
IfState acquisitionissuccessful,any major activitiesor improvements on the landwould need to be
approved by the State Board of Land and Natural Resources, as wellas comply with localcounty
permittingrequirements. Additionalcompliance with HRS Chapter343 (environmental/cultural
assessments), State HistoricPreservationLaws (HRS Chapter 6E),and other laws may alsobe required.
● Management entity(identity,expertise,experience)
A number of community organizations are interested in co-management with the State of the biological
and culturalresources of the property. Some entitiesare already involved in management of the
property and nearby lands,and others are poised to activelyparticipate.DLNR/DOFAW willbe the
primary management entityand has considerable expertiseand experience with land stewardship and
management.
DOFAW maintains approximately 18 miles of firebreaks inWest Maui, includingseveralmiles of breaks
on the mauka lands of the Pohakea Watershed. In 2020, DOFAW and the Maui Nui Marine Resources
Council partnered to expand firebreakwork to the subject parcel,creating an additional3.5 miles of fire
breaks along the length of the parceladjacent to the highway makai and to the state lands mauka.
DOFAW plans to expand those firebreaksby adding three connecting cross breaks to the parcel,
includinga number of green breaks,for a totalof 4.5 miles of breaks on the parcel.
● Integrationof existingculturalresources with the overallpreservation/protectionand use of the
property
The farnorth of the property isa traditionalmoku boundary with historicsignificanceand the area is
stillan ahupua'a boundary between Ukumehame and Wailuku lengthwise.The property isadjacentto
the largestcollectionof petroglyphs on Maui and the historicLahalna PaliTrailor "King'sTrail"traverses
the property,a culturalremnant from the 1500's and the path of King Pi'ilani.Stateownership would
improve publicaccess and enable better management forthe ancientLahaina PaliTrailhead(State
Historicsitenumber 0-50-09-2946).
ApplicantName (Agency or Nonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact:scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
DLNR/DOFAW with TPL
SECTION I. CULTURAL AND HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE
Completed Section I attachedon next page25.
15
Cultural and HistoricSignificanceSection I:
Describe the culturalsignificanceand historicuses of the land to be acquired, including:
● Place names, with translationsand possibleinterpretations
● Known pre-contact history and land uses
● Information about neighboring areas, land divisions,and management units,in
relationshipto the land to be acquired
Ma'alaea, being a possiblecontractionof the word Maka 'alaea(ocherous earth beginning)isan
ahupua'a (landdivisionfrom the mountain to the sea)Inthe Wailuku District.Ma'alaea isrichincultural
and naturalresources that play a significantrolein inthe health and lifeof the land and itspeoples.The
Ma'alaea Mauka property consistsof 257 acres of dry land conditionsthat isnestled between the slopes
of Mauna Kahalawai to the west and Honoapi'ilaniHighway to the east.
A number of perennial streams flow through the lands of Ma'alaea from both directionsof East and
West Maui. One of the most famous of these streams isWaikapu stream, which ispart of the largerNa
Wai 'Eha or "The Four Waters," which consistof Waikapu, Wailuku, Waiehu, and Waihe'e. The makai
portionsof Ma'alaea consistsof two coastalfeatures,KealiaPond and the famous Ma'alaea Bay.
Kealia Pond isan aquatic habitat for various native marine lifesuch as 'aholehole, 'ama'ama, and the
endangered 'opae 'ula.Itisalso the home for several endangered nativewater birdssuch as ae'o,'alae
'ula,and 'auku'u.Currently,KealiaPond isconsidered a NationalWildlifeRefuge.
Ma'alaea Bay isalsoa culturaland modern day resource.Recreationally,Ma'alaea Bay providesintense
surfingconditionsforthe most skilledsurfersdue to the reefbreak as well as the mauka wind patterns.
The extensivereefsystem along the bay acted as a vitalsubsistencefisheryforfishermen as well as a
sanctuaryfor many nativespeciesoffish.The reefalsoacted as an 'ilinaor burialground where many
Native Hawaiians would bury the bones of theirancestors inthe reef.Ma'alaea Bay also has a rich
historyfor itsuse as a prime transitarea fortravelduringboth pre-contactand post-contactperiod.
Afterthe passingof ChiefKekaulike,a canoe landed in Ma'alaea Bay that contained the chiefs remains.
Priorto 1945, Ma'alaea Bay was used by the U.S.marine divisionas a practicearea and by the mid-
1950s, constructionof the Ma'alaea harbor began.
Protectingthe Ma'alaea Mauka property would help preservea varietyof culturalcomplexes and
archaeologicalfeatures such as pohaku (stones;Site1286, Site1440),seventeen habitationcomplexes
(Site1287),petroglyphs(Site1169),includingthe entrance portion of Lahaina PaliTrail,which traverses
across the State-protectedconservations lands.Lahaina PaliTrail(StateHistoricsitenumber 0-50-09-
2946) ishome to approximately 18 archaeologicalsitesthat are locatedinthe surrounding area.These
landsare vitalforprotectionas runofffrom heavy rainsfrom these landscan potentiallyaffectother
culturalresources makai of thisproperty.
ApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact: scott.fretz@hawaii.gov
SECTION J.
Subsection 173A-4. Hawai‘i Revised Statutes and Section 13-140-28. Hawai‘i Administrative
Rules (seepages 13-14)
DLNR/DOFAW with TPL
ASSURANCES FOR LONG-TERM PROTECTION
26. Identifyand explainhow theproposed acquisitionwould assure the long-term protection
of the land and itsresourcevalues in a way thatisappropriatefortheirintendeduse,and
would ensure that land is nor used in a manner that isinconsistentwith thepurposes for
which itwas acquired.For example, summarize theobjectives,terms,and conditionsof a
proposed conservationeasement,agriculturaleasement,deed restrictions,and covenants.
The threatsposed by thehighlydamaging cyclesof fireand erosiontothesubjectparcelare
sharedby thelandsthelandsmauka of the subjectparcel,which includethePohakea Watershed
(TMKs (2)3-6-001:014and 4-8-001:001).By theirconnectivity,soils,topography,and flashy
fuels,the fateof each istiedto the other. The acquisitionproposedhere seekstoaddressthose
issues,as partof a broadercollaborativeeffortwith conservationpartners,throughthesetaside
and incorporationoftheunencumbered mauka landsand thesubjectparceltotheforestreserve
system. SetasideofthoselandsforinclusionintheWest Maui ForestReservewillplacethem
under Chapter13-104,Hawaii AdministrativeRules,which provideslegalprotectionsforthe
land’snaturalresourcevalues.ForestReserve designationwillalsoenhance stewardshipand
management opportunitiesby placingthem underthemanagement ofDOF AW withbudgeted
supportforresourcemanagement, includingdevelopmentand implementationoffire
presuppressionand suppressionplans.Inaddition,we plantoincludethelandsintheMauna
Kahalawai Watershed Partnership,which willprovideadditionalmanagement supportfor
watershed and firemanagement.
For an applicationthatincludesacquisitionoffeetitle:Indicatetheintendedholder(s)of
a conservation/agriculturaleasement overtheproperty,orprovidea rationalefor
exemptingtheacquisitionfrom easementrequirements.
An exemption fora conservation/agriculturaleasementwillbe soughtbecauseDLNR/DOFAW
willbe thepropertyowner and willmanage thePohakea WatershedLandsasa forestreserve.
Identifyand explainoutstandinglandownerdebtthatissecuredby thetitleoftheproperty
to be conserved,or thatcould be satisfied(wholly or inpart)by a saleoftheproperty.
27.
28.
N/A
Describetheapplicant’seffortstointeractwith thelocalcommunityabouttheproposed
acquisition,includinga summary ofconcernsraisedand thestatusofcommunitysupport
for,and oppositionto,theapplicant’sproposedownershipand management ofthe
property.
The applicantforthisprojectwas originallytheMa‘alaeaVillageAssociation(MVA), a 501C3
nonprofitcorporation,formedin2017 afterthedissolutionoftheMa‘alaeaCommunity
Association(MCA). MCA servedMa‘alaearesidentsand businessesfrom 1988,championing
variouscausesincludingharborexpansion,effortstorestoreMa‘alaeaBay andwithfullmember
29.
16
DLNR/DOFAW with TPLApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact:scott.ffetz@hawaii.gov
support,opposingthedevelopmentof 1100 homes on this257 acreparcel.MVA continuedin
thispursuitjoining effortswith othercommunity groupsSierraClub Maui, Maui Tomorrow,
and Kihei Community Association.MVA leda petitiondrivetopurchasethepropertywith
county open spacefunds,achievinghundredsof signaturesfrom acrosstheisland,which was
presentedtotheMaui County Counciland Mayor’s office.
Concerns focused on thecriticallocationof theparcelattheonly entranceto West Maui,
frequentroad closuresdue totrafficaccidentsand wildfire,urban sprawl,and thepropensityfor
wildfiresabove and through the property.Heightened concerns over sedimentationflowing
through thepropertyto theocean from themountain above proved significantwith the
publicationof MNMRC’s Pohakea Stormwater Management Plan.
MVA sought the supportof Hawaiian IslandsLand Trust(HILT) to facilitatethe purchase.HILT
subsequentlydetermined itdid not have theresourcesto work on theprojectand requested
supportfrom theTrustforPublicLand. With the supportof South Maui Councilmember Kelly
King, funding was allocatedinthe FY 21 budget to initiatethepurchaseprocess;an additional
$5.5millionwas allocatedinFY 22 forthepurchase.This fundingwas supportedby public
testimonyfrom many community organizationsand localbusinessesand a petitionsignedby
over 100 local residents.
MNMRC’s partnershipwith DOFAW to addresswildfireand erosionissuesledtoexploringthe
possibilitythatDOFAW would be willingtoholdtitleto manage thepropertyinperpetuity.
DOFAW has significantexperienceworking withthecommunity to manage the subjectparcel
and surroundingareas.DOFAW’s interestincombiningthe parcelwith the entireWest Maui
watershed and puttingitintoForestryReserve has receivedoverwhelming supportfrom the
community.
SECTION K.
(Subsection173A-5(iLHawaiT RevisedStatutes,seeparagraphs(6)and (7))
CONSULTATION WITH STATE AGENCIES
IndicatetheStateagenciesfrom which theapplicantreceiveda responsetotherequestfor
agency consultation(selectallthatapply):
● Department of Land and Natural Resources
● Department of Agriculture
● AgribusinessDevelopment Corporation
30.
31. Explainhow theproposedacquisitioncouldmaximizepublicbenefits,including
(1)where publicaccessmay be practicableornotpracticableand why, and
ACCESSIBILITY
● Bettermanagement optionsforancientLahaina PaliTrailhead
(StateHistoricsitenumber 0-50-09-2946.)
Builtby Maui Chief Pi'ilani,CA 1500 AD, thisfamous Statetrailispartof theNa Ala Hele
system.The trailoriginateson Statelandon the Lahaina side of the West Maui Mountains and
ends on thesubjectparcelon the Wailuku sideof theisland.Thistrailisalreadywidelyused by
17
ApplicantName (Agency orNonprofit):
email addressforApplicantPointof Contact:scott.ffetz@,hawaii,gov
visitorsand residentsaswellas culturalpractitioners.Securingthe Pohakea Watershed Lands
would alsoprovidean areaforcreationof additionalrecreationaltrails/bikepaths and
interpretive/educationalexhibitsas a traditional“Moku” boundary (between Lahaina and
Wailuku Moku) passesthrough the land.Publicaccessibilityto the land isexcellent,due to its
frontingHonoapi'ilaniHwy 30, a major Maui highway and theonly gateway to West Maui.
DLNR/DOFAW with TPL
For decades,the Ma‘alaea community has dedicateditsenergy toward preservingthisparcelof
land.With frequentroad closuresdue totrafficaccidentsand wildfireon Honoapi'ilaniHwy and
people being strandedintheircarsforhours ata time,thisparcelwas seenas an opportunityto
expand theLahaina PaliTrailparkingto increaseaccessforthetrailheadaswellasa much
needed opportunityforvehiclestogetofftheroadwhen necessaryto rest.
CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT WITH ADJOINING STATE CONSERVATION LAND
Acquisitionwould allowcommon management ofthePohakea WatershedLands forwildfire
hazardsand storm watererosionimpactsalongwiththe3,400acresofStateConservationlands
thatadjoinitupslope and to the south.
Pohakea Watershed Lands have been proposed fordevelopment forover15 yearsand the
landowner has soughtapprovalfora 21 lotagriculturalsubdivision.Futurehousinglotowners
would nothave a reliablepotablewatersourceand would needtocreateindividualwastewater
systemswhich couldimpactgroundwaterqualityenteringnearbyMa‘alaeaBay.A conservation
purchaseand management isa betterfitforthissensitivelocation.
(2)considerationand incorporationofresponsesfrom consultingStateagencies.
The StateAgribusinessDevelopment Corporationhad no objectiontotheproposedproject.
Responsesfrom otherconsultingStateagencieswere notreceived.
FORMS AND ATTACHMENTSSECTION L.
Iftheapplicationdoesnotincludea requiredform orattachment,pleaseexplainwhy the
applicationdoes notincludeit.
The applicationdoesnotincludeAttachmentA13, OperatingBudget.The applicantisthe
Divisionof Forestryand Wildlife,a stateagency withintheDepartmentofLand andNatural
Resources. The Division'sbiennium budget forFY 22-23 was approvedasAct 88,SLH 2021,
foroperatingand capitalimprovement program (CIP)projectsand iscomprisedoftheprogram
appropriationsforLNRs 172,402,407,804,and portionsofLNR 101wherefundingisavailable
forlandacquisitionsand authorizedexpendituresfrom theSpecialLand DevelopmentFund.
The budget isavailableforreview at:
https://www.capitol.hawaii.gov/slh/Years/SLH2021/SLH2Q21Act88.pdf.
32.
18
ApplicationTitle
Legacy LandConservation ProgramH.iwai'1Department of Land and Natural Resources
Form 2 FiscalYear 2022 Property Information Worksheet
DLNR/DOFAW (Maui) & The Trust forPublicLandApplicant:
ApplicationTitle:
Location: Maui Wailuku Ukumehame/Pohakea
Ahupua'aIsland District
1Number of Parcels:
$8,250,000 257.8Fair Market Value/Acres (TOTALS)
$.TotalAsking Price(iflistedforsaleJanuary 2018 or later)
Amount Requested from Land Conservation Fund
Appraisal Report(s)includedinapplicationPreliminaryTitle
Report(s)includedinapplication
Other background documents included inapplication
(such as analyses,assessments, applications,permits,plans,reports,statements,surveys)	
TITLE REPORT IS STRONGLY RECOMMENDED: REQUIRED AT CLOSING
$1,000,000.00
/ ^ Selectallthatapply
/J J
Parcel 1 Parcel 2 Parcel 3 Parcel 4 Parcel 5
Tax Map Key
Number’ (2)3-6-001:01g
Acres^ 257.8
Fair Market Value
8,250,000
Interests to be
Acquired" EF
Place Name^ Ukumehame/Pohakea
Public Access^
Enter one code only MPU
□ CLUD
H ALUD
□ lAL
□rlud
□ ULUD
□ CLUD
□ alud
□ lAL
□rlud
□ ULUD
□ CLUD
□ alud
□ ial
□rlud
□ ULUD
□ CLUD
□ alud
□ ial
□rlud
□ ULUD
□ CLUD
□ alud
□ ial
□rlud
□ ULUD
State Land Use
District^
Selectallthatapply
□ p □ p □ PConservation District
Subzone®
Selectallthatapply
□ p □ p
□ l□ l □ L □ L □ L
□ r □ r □ r □ r □ r
□ g □ g □ G □ G □ G
□ s □ s □ s □ s □ s
□ □ □Critical Habitat® □
2
ApplicationTitle
Legacy LandConservation ProgramHawai'i Department of Land and Natural Resources
Form 2 FiscalYear 2022 Property Information Worksheet
Historic Places^®
Enternumbers for each
parcel
I INationalRegister
InstateRegister
Environ. Hazard^''
KEnterone code only
FEMA Flood Zone^^
FEMA FIRM PaneP^
Lava-Flow Hazard
Zone (HawaiiCounty
Only)
Lava Inundation
Hazard Zone (East
Maui Only)
Seismic Hazard
Zone’5
13
14
DTi?□ tez□tez □ tez□ tezTsunami Evacuation
Zone^®
□ SLR-XAn SLR-XA□ SLR-XA□ SLR-XA□ SLR-XASea Level Rise
Exposure Area
County Zoning
17
see notes
LU0^8
19
Category
20
Coding
SMA21
County Planning see notes
22
LU Designation
Source^^
□ bu
□ RW
□ fe
□ wi
□ UT
□ tc
no
□ bu
n RW
□ fe
□ wi
□ UT
□ tc
□ bu
□ RW
□ fe
□ WI
□ UT
□ tc
□ o
□ bu
□ RW
□ fe
□ wi
□ UT
□ tc
□ bu
□ RW
® FE
□ wi
Hut
□ tc
□ o
Structures^'*
Selectallthatapply
□ o□ o
3
ApplicationTitle
Legacy LandConservation ProgramHawai'i Department of Land and Natural Resources
Form 2 FiscalYear 2022 Property Information Worksheet
□ CE/AgE
□ dr
□ cov
□ CE/AgE
□ dr
□ cov
□ AcE
□ UE
□ le
□ li
□ rqe/rp
□ CE/AgE
□ dr
□ cov
□ ace
□ UE
□ le
□ li
□ roe/rp
□ CE/AgE
□ dr
□ cov
□ ace
□ UE
□ le
□ li
□ ROE/RP
□ CE/AgE
□ dr
□ cov
□ AcE
□ UE
□ le
□ li
□ ROE/RP
Encumbrances^^
Selectoilthatapply
Hace
Due
Ble
□ ROE/RP
□ ui
□ CPR
□ cle
□ CLO
□ ui
□ cPR
□ CLE
□ CLO
□ Ui
□ CPR
□ cle
□ CLO
□ ui
□ CPR
□ CLE
□ CLO
Title^®
Selectallthatapply □ cPR
Bcle
□ CLO
I IGovernment
[ ICrown
[B]Private
I IGovernment
I ICrown
□ Private
I IGovernment
I iCrown
I IPrivate
□ Government
I 1Crown
□ Private
I IGovernment
I ICrown
□ Private
Source of Title^^
Selectallthatapply
[ ILand Court
B Regular
□ Dual	
I ILand Court
I IRegular
□ Dual	
□ LandCourt
□ Regular
I IDual	
I ILand Court
I IRegular
□ Dual	
□ Land Court
□ Regular
Title Recordation
System 28
Dual
4
ApplicationTitle
Legacy LandConservation ProgramHawai’i Department of land and Natural Resources
Form 2 FiscalYear2022PropertyInformationWorksheet
Notes (on any of the items above)
18-23. State Land Use designation forthe the Pohakea Watershed Lands propertyis
Agriculture.The propertyispredominantlyzoned Agriculturewithsmallportionsatits
south end zoned Open OZ, ResidentialR-3 and Road/StreetReserve.The parcelis
designated ProjectDistrict(PD-12) inthe West Maui Community Plan.
FE = Fencing, UT24. Structures:
Wire fence along north/west
UtilityPoles along north/westpropertylines
25. Encumbrances: AcE = Access Easement, UE = UtilityEasement,
LE = Lease. LI = License
Access Agreement toTMK 3-6-01:14infavorof StateofHawaii(LahainaPali
Trailhead)
Waterline Easements forUtilitypurposes isinfavorof Maui ElectricCompany,
Month-to-month grazing lease
LicenseAgreement ofMonitoringStationinfavorofMaui ElectricCompany, LTD
5
APPLICATION TITLE: Pohakea Watershed Lands
Transaction Costs
Worksheet
Fiscal Year 2022
Legacy LandForm 3 Conservation ProgramHtiwai'i Department of Land and Natural Resources
Estimated Transaction Costs (whole dollars)
% of costs to be paid by: (whole numbers)
Landowner Applicant LLCP and Other (specify)Item Estimated Cost
Maui County grant to TPL
($4,817)$9,634 50%Appraisal report* 50%
$5,000Review appraisal* 100% TPL
Land survey*
(cadastral)
Title insurance* $14,000 100% Maui County grant to TPL
Titlereport* $1,500 100%
Environmental
inspection*
Environmental Site
Assessment
(Phase 1)*
$10,000 100% Maui County grant to TPL
Escrow fees
(excluding taxes) $10,000 50% 50% Maui County grant to TPL●k*
The State and County are in
discussions regarding whether
deed restrictionsmay be
acceptable in lieuof a CE
since the land will be State-
owned.
Baseline
documentation:
conservation/
agricultural
easement
N/A
**
Attorney fees
(review/draft
acquisition-related
documents)
State Attorney General will
review real estate transaction
documents.
N/A
Subtotal $50,134 LO = $10,817;Appl.$39,317
Estimated Fair
Market Value of
Acquired Property
$8,250,000
TOTAL $8,300,134
* eligiblecosts forgrant funds and matching funds
eligiblecosts formatching funds, only
APPLICANT; Maui DOFAW/DLNR with support from TPL
APPLICATION TITLE: Pohakea Watershed Lands
i .
:yL-nc'Form 4 Matching Funds Worksheet
Fiscal Year 2022 si? ConservationProgram
Estimated Matching Funds Worksheet (whole dollars)
Status
(Secured or
Pending?)
%of
TETC*Amount ($)Item/Type* Source, or Basis of Valuation
Quote from appraiser
(Benevente Group)
0.12%Appraisal report/C $9,634 Secured
Review appraisal/C Estimate based on past
experience$5,000 0.06% Pending
Land survey/
(cadastral)
Title insurance/C Estimate based on past
experience$14,000 0.23% Secured
Titlereport/C Estimate based on past
experience$1,500 0.02% Secured
Environmental
inspection/
Environmental Site
Assessment/C
Estimate based on past
experience Secured$10,000 0.12%
Escrow fees/C Estimate based on past
experience
Secured$10,000 0.12%
Baseline
documentation/ N/A
Attorney fees/ N/A
FMV - deed restriction-LLCP$Land Value Donation
Pending$1,790,000 21.57%
Conservation Easement
(Deed Restriction)**/C
Deed restrictions under discussion
$5,460,000 65.78% Secured
Matching Tunas tor county ana nonprom
applicantsmust be at least25% of TETC
TOTAL ESTIMATED
MATCHING FUNDS $7,300,134 87.95%
NOTES: The State and County are discussing
whether deed restrictionsmay be acceptable in
lieuof a CE. The adopted Maui County FY22
budget allocatedup to $5.5M forthe Pohakea
Watershed Lands/Ma'alaeaa Mauka acquisition
(Ordinance 5217).Of thisamount, the County
awarded TPL $40,000 (Grant No. G5563) for due
diligence costs.
TOTAL REQUESTED
FROM LAND
CONSERVATION
FUND
$1,000,000 12.05%
TOTAL ESTIMATED
TRANSACTION
COSTS*** (TETC)
‘Enter 1C for cash, /IK for in-kind
Requires department-approved appraisaloffairmarket value beforeclosing
TETC" isthe same as "TOTAL" at bottom of Form 3 ($6,050,134)
$8,300,134 100.00%
**
Legacy LandConservation ProgramHiiw.li ID^RHfuiiyni of Land and N.itui.il
FY2022 Agency Consultation and Request for Advice:
Information from Land AcquisitionGrant ApplicantForm 5
Ma'alaea VillageAssociation
Applicant:
ApplicationTitle:
Point of Contact:
Postal Address:
Pohakea Watershed Lands
Lucienne de Naie
PO Box 610, Haiku, HI 96708
laluzmaui@gmail.comEmail Address:
808 214-0147
Phone:
N/A
Fax:
Maui Wailuku Ukumehame/Pohakec
Location of Property:
Ahupua'aDistrictIsland
1
Number of Parcels:
257
Total Acreage Conserved:
Tax Map Key Numbers: (2) 3-6-001-018
AcquisitionType (selectallthat apply): ■J Fee Title
J ConservationEasement
J AgriculturalEasement
_ Unimproved Real Property
Proposed Recipient(s)of Conservation/AgriculturalEasement, ifany (foracquisitionof
HILT
fee title):
I ●
A LegacyLandConservation Programi Departiiu;nt of Land and N.uuraf Resouo
FY2022 Agency Consultation and Request for Advice:
Information from Land AcquisitionGrant Applicant
Attach high-resolutionmaps and photos ofthe property;see separate Form 5 instructionson
website for details.
ExistingUse of Land and Resources for Proposed Land AcquisitionGrant:
Form 5
1
PlannedExistingUse/
Encumbrances'*
Future
Encumbrances'*
TMK State
Land Use
District^
County
Land Use
Ordinance^
Change of
Use, ifan/
proposed AG sub
divison
preliminarysubdivisio
n ifzoning change ap
proved ifland not pres
erved
Old Lahaina Pali trai
Ieasement/ grazing/
State Hwy easeme
nt (drainage)/utility
Ag, Conservat
ion & R3 zoni
ng SpSMA
ALUD
(2) 3-6-001-018
$6,000,000
Estimated totalcost of the acquisition:
$1,000,000
Amount requestedfrom the Land ConservationFund:
’Use format(x)x-x-xxx:xxx
^ Conservation= CLUD (includeSubzone designationin parentheses)
Agricultural= ALUD
Rural = RLUD Urban = ULUD
^IndicateCountyzoningdesignation,and SMA ifapplicable(SpMA = SpecialManagement Area,ShMA =Shoreline Management Area)
Include encumbrances such as conservation easement, agriculturaleasement, deed restrictbn,covenant,
LLCP grantagreement or similargrant/contract,pastureleases/licenses,telcomlicenses,roadway/utility
easements
^Aspirational,not"caused"bygrantaward
7
Legacy LandConservation ProgramHjw.1i IOep.irtment of .ind Natufal Resout
FY2022 Agency Consultationand Request for Advice:
Information from Land AcquisitionGrant ApplicantForm 5
Describe the locationof the acquisition,the characteristicsof the land,and the key
resources to be protected (seesubsection 173-5(gl Hawaii RevisedStatutes):
Locaiion and Characiensiics:
Proposed Pohakea preservationparcel((2)3-6-001-018, is257.7 acres of coastalplainslocatedjustab
ove Maui’s Ma'alaea small boat harbor in South Maui. ItisratedALISH “Prime" ag land with deep, well d
rained soils.
Pohakea parcelissurrounded by steeplysloped StateConservation land (3,414 acres)to the South and
West. To the northitisbounded by Pohakea Gulch, an intermittentstream thatflowsfrom KealaloloaRi
dge (3,000 ftamsi) to the KealiaPond nationalWildlifeRefuge.
North of Pohakea gulch are 657 acres of privatelyowned Ag lands thatare partof a perpetualConserve
tion easement dedicated to
Ag use. There isalso a 79 acre privatelyowned rock quarry along Pohakea gulch.The western boundar
y of the 257 acres ends at HonoapiilaniHwy (Rte.31) the main road to Lahaina, one of maui’s major res
oil:locations.
Describe the publicbenefitsof the acquisition,includingbut not limitedto where public
access may be practicableor not practicableand why:
MUDiic benems:
● 257 acre Pohakea Watershed parcel,ifunder publicownership would be partof a “Conservation Corrid
or” in the Ma’alaea, Maui area. This “corridor"would include:Ma’alaea harbor and surrounding reefsand
the the habitatitprovidesforendangered and threatened marine species;nearby KealiaNationalWildlif
e Refuge (Pohakea Gulch passes through the 257 acres and drainsintoKealiawetlands pond;)Various
criticalhabitatareas forrareplantsand animals inthe stateConservationlandsupslope and adjoiningth
e 250 acre;a nene sanctuaryon the ridgeofthe upslopestate lands near Kaheawa Wind farm and the e
xtensivearchaeologicalcomplex immediately adjoiningthe 257 acres.
● Opportunitytojointlymanage high conservationvalue lands adjoiningstateconservationlands.State la
nds have exceptionalhistoricvalue:Ma'alaea Petroglyphsite(Statesite50-50-09-1169); Ma’alaea Com
plex (statesites50-50-09-001/ 50-50-09-1287). Very littlearchaeologicaltestinghas been done on the 2
57 acres, but itislikelythathistoricalremains are present,given the major drainage ways thatintersectt
Describe the context and plan for long-term management of the acquired property:
● In;^ju18,localconservationgroup, Maui Nui Marine Resource Council,commissioned a Pohakea Water
shed Management Plan covering around 5,000 acres of Pokakea watershed land.The plan identifiedthi
s 257 acre coastalplainas a key partof managing down slope stormwater runnoffand restoringthe Agri
culturaland Conservation potentialofthe land.
● In2019, the same group (withsupport lettersfrom variouscommunity partners)secured a $400,000 fe
deralGrant to implement wildfirereductionactivitiesinthe entirePohakea Watershed area,inpartnershi
p with the main landowner, State of Hawaii. The Pohakea Watershed projectmanager sees the 257 -
ere parcelas a key piece inthatimplementation strategy.There isdeep concern thatthe land isunder th
reatof development intoat least20 separate “Agriculturallots,”because the additionof multipleowners
willadd negotiationtime and complexityto any management plans.Publicownership would expeditethe
process.
● Maui Nui has also begun work on an implementationplan forstormwater management inthe entirePoh1 I LU^ lAI 1A/-X-
8
Legacy Land
Conservation ProgramH Dep^i tnient of l^nri jocJ N-if ●liRi*4aurr»*v
FiscalYear 2022 Agency Consultationfor Land
Acquisition:Department of Land and Natural
Resources
Form 5a
To: Suzanne D. Case, Chairperson
Stateof Hawai'iDepartment of Land and NaturalResources
c/o:DOFAW / Legacy Land
viaemail to legacyland@hawail.gov
Please return completed form to Applicant.
Ma’alaea VillageAssociation
Applicant:
ApplicationTitle:
Point of Contact:
Postal Address:
POHAKEA WATERSHED LANDS
Lucienne de Naie
PO Box 610 Haiku. HI 96708
laluzmaui@gmail.comEmail Address:
808 214-0147
Phone:
Fax:
2/18/2020
(No LaterThan February 18, 2020)Date Submitted.
Requestfor ConsultationregardingLand ConservationFund GrantApplicationfor
Land Acquisition(Section173A-5,Hawaii RevisedStatutes)
q
V
Pohakea Watershed Lands, Ma’alaea Maui
I
●'●VliL
inm I#
Ma^alaeaHarborand Bay,Stateowned●i m:
.>*
►●y- ●
rr^ .\ L.-- ,v:f,^w>. - .
\
^●V
ProposedPohakealands, t'●●■●k'--.
250 acres K
K '4■JX.'
●>.
i.»*
,)'''
OJ
■.>f
4 - ^
Pohakea Watershed: Pix 1
View of Pohakea Lands from State Conservation iands, 3,400 acres
1, ●V
,*1
tr
,< '
f
'^^1 >% '■t
t *
● J-.
^-4; s ?
Tuesday, February 18, 20
state Conservation lands, 3,400 acres «
\Honoapl’ilaniHwy (Rte30)
Tuesday, February 18, 20
257 acre Pohakea Watershed Lands at Ma’alaea Maui would be part of a “conservation corridor” in South Maui
including the Ma’alaea reef system, National Humpback Whale Marine Sanctuary Waters, Kealia Pond National
WildlifeRefuge, the conservation lands, criticalhabitats,native forests and Nene sanctuary on Kealaloloa Ridge
(Windfarm site)and the Ma’alaea archaeological complex and Lahaina Pali Trailthat adjoin the 257 acres
state Conservation lands, 3,400 acres
ProposedPohakea lands,250 acres
. ^
sit ^
Tuesday, February 18, 20
View of 257 acre Pohakea lands from the State conservation lands
upslope, with Kealia Pond National Wildliferefuge in distance
Kealia Pond NWR
state Conservation lands, 3,400 acres,
downslope view to Pohakea landsPohakea Watershed: Pix 4
Tuesday, February 18. 20
ACM Consultants,Inc. Maalaea PlantationMarket Study
Pohakea Watershed
general Location
’ NapiliHonok'owai
' HaikU:.Pauwela
^ '■
> ●
*;.Makawao
Wailua
Pufcalani
( MaulOlowafu
<
*L ●
O Hana Forest Neserve
O .
Hafeakali National Park
t
tailea'Maken?*"●a
>L »
kea Watershed: Map 1
:Jl
Page 2
Tuesday, February 18, 20
Current Tax Map- 257 acre Pohakea parcel
TMK(2) 3-6-001-018
lightbrown areas are SLUG Conservation land; light
green is SLUG Ag land. Red is SLUG Urban zone
Light tan overlay is County SMA zone 0
Pohakea land is along Honoapi’ilani Hwy (30),only
route to Lahaina near the junction with North Kihei Rd.
to Kihei (31) and Kuihelani Hwy (380) to Kahului
u
Pohakea Watershed:TMK
(2)3-6-001-018
Kedlt4 Pond
Maalea Bay
Pohakea Watershed: Map 2
● V -
Tuesday, February 18, 20
1973: StateHistoricDivisionarchaeologicalmap of
Ma’alaea, Maui.
Shows Sitecomplexes recorded InMa’alaea,
adjacent to Pohakea lands (outlinedinyellow)
Site1169: Ma’alaea Petroglyphs
Site 1287: Ma’alaeacomplex:seventeenhabitation
features
Site 1441: 3 C-shapes nearMcGregor Pt.
Site 2946: the Lahaina Pali Trail & 18 associated
archaeological sites (red arrow)
Trailhead begins on Pohakea parcel
Site 1286: Grinding stone
Site 1440: Piko stone
both of these were originallypartof the Ma’alaea
complex, but were saved when siteswere bulldozed in
1952.
Moku Boundary: (whitearrow)
Tuesday, February 18, 20
i ^I
V, ■ I \
C'l●J
t
< >
● * \
t
Reg Map 1194- 1908TerritorialMap ofMa’alaeashows257-acrePohakeaWatershedsite.RatedPrimeAg
landby ALISH, withdeep soils.WailukuSugar Co, cultivatedhereforover100 years.Map shows numerous
gulchesdrainingthemountain slopesintothe Ma’alaeashore.These once fedculturallyimportantKapollspring..\ ●
\ f
\i
»
i ■" I r
♦ M
I1
f i
■ :V' .. r
■ 'A'● ^
X \
I ●
f
t
i. :i .r
'' <.■
j ●
s* 1
o '-V
.●●● > A
VI-h c» \r ●>7
>● -A- ; r, >
■*.s' 7
/ ●'●'Y ♦/
/»
f ^ t
ST/> '
I ' £■ '
?VS'fi
I , _ \S
r/ s
Sf9
X
. 'r-i■j -■●V \
'●v-V
i'■-’■J/, A. I
V/«●: '
●s
Pohakea Watershed: Map 4
■.V
.■ >
U Z
0»€ r n
Tuesday, February 18, 20
DAVID Y. IGE
Governor JAMES J. NAKATANi
Executive Director
JOSH GREEN
Lt. Governor
STATE OF HAWAII
AGRIBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
235 S. Beretania Street. Room 205
Honolulu, HI 96813
Phone: (808)586-0186 Fax: (808)586-0189
March 1, 2020
Ms. Lucienne de Naie
Post Office Box 610
Haiku, Hawaii 96708
Subject: Form 5c, FiscalYear 2022 Agency Consultationfor Land Acquisition
Dear Ms. de Naie:
Thank you forthe opportunityto reviewyour LegacyLand Conservation Program
application.Pleasefindenclosed the followingapplication:
1. Pohakea Watersheds Lands
We have reviewed and indicatedour response on the form as requested.
Sincerely,
James J. Nakatani
Executive Director
Enclosure
Legacy Land
ConservationProgram AGRiBUstNrss'ilFvSi^nRPHawai'tDepartmentofLandandNaturalftesources CORP
Year2022AgencyConsui%M^rLa^J^'®®Fiscal
Acquisition:AgribusinessDevelopment CorporationForm 5c
James Nakatani, Executive Director
Stateof Hawaii Agribusiness Development Corporation
State Office Tower, Room 205
235 South Beretania Street
Honolulu, HI 96813
To:
Please return completed form to applicant.
Ma’alaea Village Association
Pohakea Watershed Lands
Applicant:
ApplicationTitle:
Point of Contact:
Postal Address:
Lucienne de Naie
PO Box 610 Haiku, HI 96708
laluzmaui@gmail.comEmail Address:
808 214-0147Phone:
N/AFax:
.2/18/2020 No laterthan February 18,2020)Date Submitted-
Requestfor ConsultationregardingLand ConservationFund GrantApplicationfor
Land Acquisition(Section173A-5,Hawaii RevisedStatutes)
Legacy LandConservation ProgramHawal'j Department of Land and Natural Resources
FiscalYear2022 Agency Consultationfor Land
Acquisition:AgribusinessDevelopment CorporationForm 5c
In order to help the Legacy Land Conservation Commission and the Board of Land and Natural
Resources to process and prioritizeapplicationsforfunding,the Legacy Land ConservationProgram
(LLCP)requeststhata consultingagencycomplete thisform (PartI,and PartIIifapplicable)and return
it—with comments, ifany, on agency letterhead—to the Applicantat the address listedabove, no
laterthan March 30, 2020. Thank youl
The LLCP expects that a consultingagency willbase itsresponses on the Informationpresented in
the attached Form 5 (Informationfrom Land AcquisitionGrant Applicant,includingmaps and
photos).Pleasecontactthe Applicantdirectlywithquestionsregardingthe proposed land acquisition
(Form 5),and contactthe LLCP at 586-0921, or legacyland@hawaii.gov.with questions regarding
agency consultationand the grant process:^	
IftheApplicantdoes not receivean agency response beforeMarch 31,2020 then the applicationwill
indicatethatthe agency "Did Not Respond." Please note thata lackof agency response does
not affectthe prioritizationof an application.
Requestfor ConsultationregardingLand ConservationFund GrantApplication
(Section173A-5,HawaH RevisedStatutes)
Subsection 173A-5(I),Hawaii Revised Statutes(HRS),requiresthatan applicationfora landacquisition
grant from the Land Conservation Fund include“(7)Resultsof the applicant'sconsultationwith the
staffof the department [of land and naturalresources],the department of agriculture,and the
agnbUSiness development corporationregardingthe maximization of public benefits of the
project,where practicable"(emphasis added). The attached Information Form (Form 5)
describesthe proposed landacquisitiongrantforwhich we request agency consultation.
The Legacy Land ConservationProgram (LLCP)suggeststhat a consultingagency consider the
maximization of public benefits withinthe contextof:
The criteriathatthe LegacyLand ConservationCommission (LLCC)may considerinforming
itsrecommendations foracquisitions(Section13-140-39.Hawaii Administrative Rules, see
page 18),particularly:
Linkageof protectedacreage of similarresources;
Opportunitiesforappropriatepublicaccessand enjoyment;
Presence of environmental hazards;
Urgency of need to acquire;
Statusand adequacy ofmanagement planning;
Community support foracquisition;
(a)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(9)
(10)
(11)
1A
A
a
Conservation Program>■>IAMI iDepdrimerit of i 'Od and Nncurai Resource.
FiscalYear 2022 Agency Consultationfor Land
Acquisition:AgribusinessDevelopment CorporationForm Sc
Connection to regionalplanningand protectionefforts;and
Capacityfor long-term management.
(13)
(14)
The lands to which the LLCC shallgive priorityinitsrecommendations foracquisition
[Seaion 173A-2.6. HR51:
Lands havingexceptionalvalue due to the presence of:
Unique aestheticresources;
Unique and valuableculturalor archaeologicalresources;or
Habitatsforthreatened or endangered speciesof flora,fauna,or aquatic
resources;
Lands thatare in imminent danger of development;
Lands that are in imminent danger of being modified,changed, or used ina manner
to diminish itsvalue;
Lands providingcriticalhabitatsforthreatenedor endangered speciesthatare in
imminent danger of beingharmed or negativelyimpacted;
Lands containingculturalor archaeologicalsitesor resourcesthatare indanger of
theft or destruction; and
Lands thatare unique and productiveagriculturallands.
(b)
(1)
(A)
(B)
(C)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
The appropriatelegalmechanisms to ensure the long-termprotectionofthelandand to
preservethe interestsof the State(seeSection173A-4.HRS). Inparticular,would the
consultingagency be willingto accept/holda conservationeasement,agriculturaleasement,
deed restriction,or covenant that runs with the land, or would an exemption from the
easement requirement be more appropriate?
(c)
FOR AGENCY USE ONLY
^ We do notobjecttotheproposedproject
We do not wish to comment on the proposed project
Comments attached
Date:Signed:
Name:
Title:
17
MVI, LLC
2225 Corner Road
Burkeville, VA 23922
February 10, 2022
David Penn. Administrator
Legacy Land Conservation Program
Divisionof Forestry and Wildlife
1151 Punchbowl Street, Room 325
Honolulu. HI 96813
RE; Pohakea Watershed Lands identifiedas TMK: (3) 6-001-018, Wailuku, Island of Maui
Dear Mr. Penn,
MVI. LLC has listedthe subject property for sale. The Pohakea Watershed Lands totals
approximately 257.8 acres. MVI, LLC iswillingto sellthe property to The Trust for Public Land
forsubsequent transferto DLNR/DOFAW, in partnership with the County of Maui and State of
Hawaii, ifwe can reach an agreement as to priceand closing date.
MVI, LLC's preference at Pohakea isto work with The Trust for Public Land, the County of Maui,
the State of Hawaii/DLNR DOFAW.and the various conservation funding programs to preserve
this property.
MVI, LLC tabled moving forward with a 21 lotagriculturalsubdivision we had planned for the
subject property and we recognize the significantpublicbenefitsthat may arise from public
ownership of the Pohakea Watershed Lands property.However, MVI, LLC is sellingallof its
Hawaii land holdings and needs to complete thispurchase in a very timely manner, ftis
imperative that you find purchase funding thisyear,or we will need to seek alternative
purchasers from the public domain.
Sincerely,
Dodglas R. Spehrer
Its Member
m
A S ^ U I i A I il N
P O. Box2122Wailuku.HI 96793
January 28. 2022
Mr. David Penn
L^acyLandsGrantProgramManagerDivisionofForestryand Wildlife.DLNR
1151 Punchbowl Street.Room 323
Honolulu. HI 96813
RE:LegacyLandsConservationProgram
Aloha Mr. Penn,
MaalaeaVilla^Association(MVA)ispleasedtohearthatMaalaea willbe on the Legacy Lands calendar
next month. With the supportand activeinvolvementofTrustforPublicLands helpingtofacilitatethe
process,we have made greatheadway withtheCountyand the landowner since we firstsubmitted
applicationtoyouroffice.LegacyLandsfundingcouldmake the differenceforthe overallpurchase.
Thisletterwillnotifyyou thatMVA willtransferour roleinthe applicationto the Stale DLNR Divisionof
Forestryand Wildlife(DOFAW) effectiveimmediately.This isbest,as they willholdtitletothe Maalaea
landafterpurchase withCounty Open space funds.
Point of Contact forDOFAW willbe So)tt Fretz,Maui Branch Manager, DLNR DOFAW.
Signing forMVA along with myself, isour pointof contact,Ms. Lucienne de Naie, who submitted the initial
applicationon behalf of MVA.
our
Lynn Br
Immediate Past President,Ma'alaea VillageAssociation
L^enne de Naie
MVA PointofContactforMVA Legacy Lands application
ScottFretz,Maui Branch Manager, DLNR DOFAW
Lyndon Ibele,MVA President2022
Lea Hong, HawaiiDirector,TrustforPublicLands
Leah LaniRothbaum, HawaiiSpecialProjectsManager,TrustforPublicLands
Cc:
L_.
l^ehuBay&Wetlands
i
Kahuiui
^orthWaiebu9-'^^ Bay\
\&
o y'fe
%#^/n ●c
t
£iVa/eftuStreo**'MAUI
>V330
Kt/lulu^
Harbor
. ■>
vWAILUKU
>?
yv
Keopuolani
ferk1' KAHULUl Kanahs
fbnd
» ♦
●fe..- O
●s. A-
V 40●q:
Jio
-V/.
% l'ao^€State Monument
j *
:.
ey●4 i/i
V●?on». ; r'n
Nalcsfaoa■^roam T,
i r
Na Wai Eha
● ^
■ '
IO
I
^aikapu Strearn I
4r380
SS
WAIKAPU C3
o
$
Watershed
Partnership >
2S< <
Gu\t"PulehuB.
<
o
o
X
Wiks Gufch
West Maui
Forest
Reserve f^h'a'atmCukh
‘'■sGofc
fo
I
^o/iaksa
(5D□ Ma'alaeaMauka
The Trust for Public Land
Completed land protectionproject
□ Currentlandprotectionproject
HI US Fish and WildlifeService
State
Gulc''^anekiSt Kolaba5
/ u»
Kealia Pond
NWR
I County
a WatershedPartnershiparea
Humpback Whale National
Marine Sanctuary
Kaalia
fend
! ED Gi/fch
,*T■
S' Coral cover
10%-<50%
>50%
:'\Ma‘alaeiHarbori:-X9'
m KIHEI
^1-
.-r.'■ ● ■ N
'i,
Mile; h’
tCS
Ma'alaea Mauka THE
TRUSTISLAND OF MAUI, HAWAI'I FOR
PUBLIC
LANDOctobar26,2021. Copyright ©The TrustforPublicLand.TheTrust (orPublicLand and The TrustforPublicLand logoare federallyregisteredmarks of The TrustforPublicLand.
Informationon thismap isprovidedforpurposes ofdiscussionand visualizationonly.www.tpl.org
Pu'uHeleO
'Cindsr Pit
rK
●’t
y
.●
310
oOOOoo
ooo
OooOOO%
Oc
Walluku
Lahaina
t,
V ●t
*y €A.
/
f/1' /
□ Ma'alaeaMauka
Watershed Partnershiparea
(see inset)
® Well location
““ Waterline
Hi Utility/waterlineeasement
Humpback Whale National
Marine Sanctuary
Moku boundary
● ● ● Lahaina Pali Trail
State
Maui County
V,
■ Ma-'alaea
.-.Bay,
/
‘ I
w
i^jlgBrMa’a/aea-/■'Harbor/.
30
m
Ma'alaea Mauka ~HE
●RUS*
FOR
PUILIC
LAND
ISLAND OF MAUI, HAWAI'I
November 1.2021. Copyright ©The TrustforPublicLand.The TrustforPublicLand and The TrustforPublicLand logoarefederallyregisteredmarksofThe TrustforPublicLand.
Informaton on thismap isprovided forpurposes ofdiscussionand visualizationonly,www.tpl.org
Pohakea Watershed Lands Photos
Photo 1
.X..e
Photo taken from the existingLahaina PaliTrailheadparking area lookingtowards south east property boundary along
Honoapi'ilaniHighway. The property slopesgentlyfrom the West Maui Mountains towards the KealiaPond National
WildlifeRefuge and Ma'alaea Bay.The upland watershed lands are prone to erosion,strong winds and frequent wildfire.
The land lacksadequate stormwater management and silt-ladenrunoff from the mountains sheet flows across it
destroyinghabitatand depositingsiltintoMa'alaea Bay where itsmothers sensitivecoralecosystems.
Photo 2:
Public access to the historic Lahaina Pali Trail isdirectlyoffthe Honoapi'ilaniHighway over the subjectproperty. Given
itscentrallocationand proximity to the most populous areas of Maui, the trailishighlyutilizedand residentstreasure
the easy accessto outdoor recreationand scenicopen space.Thisisa known wildfirearea and unmanaged dried
vegetation and frequent windy conditionscontributeto rapidlyspreading firesthat threaten nearby residencesand
businesses.
The land acquisitionincludesa separate water component which willbenefitthe Pohakea Watershed Land: three
agriculturalwells,a 750,000-gallonstorage tank,and easements forthe deliveryof water across adjacent lands.The
water resources willprovide significantbenefitsforland management and help prevent erosion from damaging marine
environments.
Photo 3:
It-
Aerialview looking south towards the base of the slopes of the iconicWest Maui Mountain and the ocean. Pohakea
Gulch traversesthe property near itsnorthern boundary. The ripariancorridoralong the gulch and nearby areas provide
important habitatfor bats,sphinx moths, and nene. DLNR DOFAW intendsto protectand enhance naturalhabitatand
manage forwatershed restorationby working with volunteersto replantthe ripariancorridorwith lessfireprone
species.The propertyishighlyvisiblefrom Honoapi'ilaniHighway and the threat of residentialdevelopment would mar
the unique aestheticresources of sweeping mauka to makai views as well as destroy habitat,exacerbate erosion,and
potentiallyexpose a greater number of people to firehazards.
THE
TRUST
FOR
PUBLIC
LAND
NATIONAL MISSION STATEMENT:
The Trust forPublicLand conserves land forpeople toenjoyasparks,gardens,and other
naturalplaces,ensuringlivablecommunitiesforgenerationsto come.
HAWAII MISSION STATEMENT:
Protectingshorelines,heritage,and working landsforthefutureofHawaii'speople.
TPL works with localcommunities and agency partnersinHawai‘itoconserve:(1)
shoreline/coastallands,(2)nativeheritagelandsthatperpetuateHawaiM’s culture,and (3)
working landsthathelpHawai‘ireplaceimports,and leadittoself-sufficiencyinfood,
water,energy,and othergoods,i
1This missionstatementwas developed with thehelpofa localHawaiianIslandsAdvisoryCouncilin
2010, includingTimothy E. Johns(Chair),Dr.Noa Emmett Aluli,Kimo Campbell,AnthonyR.Guerrero,
Jr.,Kahik_kal_Hoe, LouiseK.Y. Ing,John Morgan, Edmund C. Olson(BigIsland),WilliamW. Paty,Jr.,
MichaelS.Spalding(Maui),StacySproat-Beck(Kauai),GreggH. Takara(Kauai),WilliamM. Tam, and
Carol Wilcox.
Internal Rovenue Service
Department of the Treasury
P. 0. Bux 2608
Cincinnati, OH 4S201Date: May 27, 2004
Person to Contact:
Tracy Garrigus #31-07307
Customer Service Repre$enlalive
Toll Free Telephone Number:
».ni.to 6:^ p.ni.EST
677-820-5500
Faic Nunnbsr:
513-263-3756
Federal Identification Number:
23-7222333
Group Exemption Number;
2659
The Trust For Public Land
116 Nev.-Montgomery St.
San Francisco. CA 94105-3607
Dear Sir or Madam:
This isinresponse ot your r^quoslof May 27, 2004 regardinga copy ofyour organization'sgroup exemption
letter.
InFebruary1976 wa issueda determinaUonletterthatrecognizedyourorganizationas exemptfromfederal
income tax.Our records indicatethatyour organizationiscurrentlyexempt undersection501(c){3)oflhe
IfitemalRevenue Code.
Based on the informationsupplied,we recognized the subordinatesnamed on thelistyour organization
submittedas exempt from federalincome taxunder section501(c)(3)ottheCode. Addaionelly: have
classifiedthe subordinates your organizationoperates, supervises,orcontrols,and whictiarecoveredby
wniliennotificationto us.as organizationsthatarc not privatefoundationsbecause they are organizationsof
thetypedescribedinsections509(a)(1)and 17D{b){1)(A)(vi)oftheCode.
Donors may deduct contributionsotyourorganization'ssubordinatesas providedinsection170 oftheCede.
Bequests, legacies,devises, transfersor giftsto thesubordinatesorforthoiruse are deduclibieforfederal
estate and giftLax purposes ifthey meet the applicableprovisionsofsections2055.2106.ard 2522 ofthe
Cods.
Your orgonizaticnand itssubordinatesare requiredtofileForm 990.Retym ofOrganizaiionExaftijitfrom
income Tax. oriiyifthe gross receiptseach y^^i*^f^normallymore than$25,000.Ifa returnisrequired,itmust
be filedby the 15lh day ofthef«ffhmonth aftertheend oftheorganization'sannualaccouri?.ngperiod.The law
imposesa penaltyof$20 a day,Up toa maximum of$10,000,when a returnisfiledlate,unlessthereis
reasonable causofor the delay.
Your organizationand itssubordinatesare not ie<qu<redtofilefederalincome laxreturnsunlesssubjecttoth^>
tax on unrelated business income underseclion S11 of the Code. Ifsubjecttotheslax,the organizationrnu$*
filean income lax rqtornon Fomi 990-T. Exempt OrganiTfitionBusiness fncome lex Retnm. Inthisettter,we
are notdeterminingwhether any ofyour organizationor itssubordinates*presento^proousedactivitiesare
uitrelafodtrade or business as definod in section 513 ot ItieCode.
-2-
ThG Trust For PuWic Land
23-7222333
UnlessspetiHc^llyexcepted,yourorganisationand itssubordinatesareliablefortaxesundertheFederal
Insurance ConlribuiicinsAct [socialsecuritytaxes}on remunorationof31O0 ornvorapaidtoeach ofits
employeesdumg a calendaryear.Yourorganizationand itssubordinatesarenotliableforthetaximposed
urderthe FederalUnemployment Tax Act (FUTA),
Each yearatleast90daysbeforetheendofyourorganization'sannualacoounUrigperiod,plftasosendthe
followingifamstotheInternalRewnuo ServiceCenterattheaddressshown below:
1. A statementdescribingany changes duringtheyearinthepurposes,charactnr.ormethod
ofoperationofyourorganization'ssubotxlinales;
A liststiowingttienames, mailingaddresses(includingPostalZipCodes),actualaddressesif
differenl,and employer iderilif^cationnumbers ofsubordinateslhat:
Changed names oraddresses;
Were deleted from tho roster: or
Were added to the rosier.
For subordinatesto bo added, atbacb:
A staterrvenlthatthe informationon which your organization'spresentgroup
exemptionlettertsbasedappliestothenew subordinates;
A statementthateach iiasgivenyourorganizationwrittenauthorizationto
add its name to the rosier;
A listof those to which the Service previotjalyissued exemptionfilingsor
determination ettters;
A statomentthatnone ofthesubordinatesisa privatefoundationasdefinedin
section509(a)oftheCode ifthegroup exemption lettercoversorganizations
described in section 501(c)(3):
The Streetaddress of subordinates where the mailir^gaddressisa P.0,Box;and
2.
a.
b.
c.
3.
a.
b
c.
d.
c.
-0-
The Trust For Public Land
23-T222333
The intormalionrequiredby Revenue Procedure75-50.1976-2C.B.587 for
each subordinate thatisa school claiming ewmption under section
501(c)(3).Alsoincludeany otherinformationnecessarytoestablishdialthe
schooliscomplyingwiththe r^uiremertsof Revenue Rtiifng71-447,
1971-2 C.B. 230. This illhe same informationrequiredby Schedule A.
Form 1023.ApplicationforRecognitionofExemptionUnder Section
5L)1(tK3)ofthe internalRevenue Code.
Ifapplicable,a statementthatyourorganization'sgroupexemplior^rosterd^dnotchangesince
the previous report.
The above informationshould he sent to the followingaddress;
Internal Revenue Service Center
Attn: EntityControlUnit
Ogder.,UT 84409
Section 6104 of the InternalRevenue Code requiresyou tomake yourorganization'sannualreturnavailable
forpublicinspectionwithoutchargeforthreeyearsaftertheduedateofthereturn,The lawalsorequires
orgar\i2ationsthatreceivedracognitionofexemptionon July15,1987,orlater,tomake availableforpublic
inspectiona copy oftheexeiTiptionapplication,any supportingdocumenlsandtheexemptionlettertoany
individualwho requestssuch documents inperson orinwriting.Organizationsthatreceivedrecognitionof
exemptionbeforeJuly15.1987^and had a copy oftheirexemptionapplicationonduly15.1987.arealso
requiredotmake availableforpublicinspectiona copyofItieexemptionappliccition,anysupportingdocuinoiitsand theexemption letterotany individualWho requestssuchdocumentsinpersonorinv;riting.Foradditional
intonnationon disetosurerequirements,pleaserefertoInternalRevenueBulletin1999-17.
Ifyouhaveanyquesjons.pleasecallusattheteleplionenumhorshchvnm theheadingofttiisletter.
Sincerely,
f.
4.
●jJ
Janna'K. SUifca, Director.TEfGE
GustemerAcoount Services
2/7/22, 9:50 AM qPublic.net- Maui County, HI - Report:360010180000
.OONTYOF
I
Parcel Information
Parcel Number
Location Address
360010180000
HONOAPIILANIHWY
WAILUKU HI 96793
Neighborhood Code 3655-5
Legal Information
Land Area
Parcel Note
F/D; TOG/ACCES5& UTIL ES A, A-1 & T-1 AND WATER ES W-1
257.784 Acres
View Map
Owner Information
Mailing Address
MVI LLC
ATTN: DOUG SPENCER
2225 CORNER RD
BURKEVILLEVA 23922
Owner Names
MVI LLC Fee Owner
WAILUKU AGRIBUSINESS CO INC Fee Owner
® Show All Owners and Addresses
Assessment Information
S) Show HistoricalAssessments
Total
Exemption
Value
Total
Net Taxable
Value
$4,300
Total
Assessed
Value
$4,300
Agricultural
Land
Value
Market
Land
Value
$6,297,200
Building
Value
Assessed
Land
$4,300
Year Tax Class
$0$0$4,3002021 AGRICULTURAL
How to calculate real property taxes
AgriculturalAssessment Information
Assessed Value
$3,210
$1,100
Acres Description
PASTURD20YR
WASTELAND
246.905
10.879
Thisparcelhaslandinagriculturalusageand thereforeagriculturalusageassessmentshavebeenmade.
Historical Tax Information
Amount
Due
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Payments
and Credits
($350.00)
($400.00)
($400.00)
($400.00)
($400.00)
($300.00)
($250.00)
Other
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Penalty
$0.00
$0.00
($20.00)
$0.00
$0,00
$0.00
$0.00
Interest
$0.00
$0.00
($4.40)
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Year
® 2021
ffl 2020
ffl 2019
ffl 2018
© 2017
© 2016
0 2015
Tax
$350.00
$400.00
$400.00
$400.00
$400.00
$300.00
$250.00
Clicka year to see tax payment informationforthe year.
Sales Information
Valid Sale
or Other Reason
Instrument
Price Number
$0 08-163636
$10,480,000 08-163635
$0 06-161640
$6,692,228 06-161641
$6,600,000 04-165726
$0 02-10678
$0 9800101152
$0 0000000000
$0 9500161279
$0 0000000000
$0 0000000000
Instrument
Type
Easements
Fee conveyance
Fee conveyance
Fee conveyance
Fee conveyance
Fee conveyance
Land Court# Land Court CertRecord Date
10/23/2008
10/23/2008
9/1/2006
9/1/2006
8/12/2004
1/22/2002
7/13/1998
Document Type
Grant of easement
Warranty deed
Correction deed
Warranty deed
Warranty deed
Warranty deed
Sale Date
10/21/2008
10/21/2008
8/8/2006
7/31/2006
8/10/2004
1/16/2002
7/V1998
2/5/1998
11/1/1995
3/30/1993
5/27/1992
Valid Sale
12/13/1995
1/2https://qpublic,schneidercorp.com/Application.aspx?ApplD=1029&LayerlD=21689&PageTypelD=4&Page!D-9251&Q-1842384291&KeyValue=36001...
qPublic.net- Maui County, HI - Report:3600101800002/7/22, 9:50 AM
Recent Sales In Area
Sale date range:
From:
02/07/2019
To:
02/07/2022
Sales by Neighborhood
1500
Feet V
Sales by Distance
Generate Owner Listby Radius
Distance:
100
Q ShowAHOwners
I I ShowParcelIDonLabel
Skip Labels
Fee V
Use Address From:
Property
Selectexport fileformat:
Owner 0
Address labels(5160) V
Internationalmailinglabelsthatexceed 5 linesare not supported on the Address labels
(5160).For internationaladdresses,pleaseuse the xtsx,csv or tab download formats.
Download
Nodataavailableforthefollowlngmodule$:CurrentTaxBllllnfCH'mation ,Appeal Information.Home Exemption Information.Improvement Information, Commercial
Improvement Information,Accessory Information.Permit Information,Sketches.
ihe Maui County Tax Assessor's Office makes every effortto produce the nioftaccurateinformationpossibie.No warrannes, expressed or
implied, are provided for the data herein, itsuse or interpretation.
User Privacy Policy
GDPR Privacy Notice
Developed by
Schvieider" OeOSPJkTIAL
Last Data Upload: 2/5/2022,3:26:38 PM Version INF0102/04,'2211
https://qpublic.schneidercorp.com/Application.aspx?ApplD=1029&LayerlD=21689&PageTypelD=4&PagelD=9251&Q=1842384291&KeyValue=36001 ... 2/2
PRELIMINARY REPORT
{No Liability Hereunder)
This report (and any revisions thereto) is issued solely for the convenience
of the titleholder, the titleholder' s agent, counsel, purchaser or mortgagee,
or the person ordering it for the purpose of facilitating the issuance of
a policy of title insurance by Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC and no liability
will arise under this report.
SCHEDULE A
Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC (the "Company") hereby reports that, subject
to those matters set forth in Schedule "B" hereof, the title to the estate
or interest to the land described in Schedule "C" hereof is vested in:
MVI, LLC,
a Hawaii limited liability company,
as Fee Owner
This report is dated as of January 24, 2019 at 8:00 a.m.
Inquiries concerning this report
should be directed to
REIKO CRABTREE.
Email rcrabtree@tghawaii.com.
Fax (808) 521-0287.
Telephone (808) 539-7704.
Refer to Order No. 201903918.
Inquiries concerning Escrow
should be directed to
Tamara Y. Cabanilla-Aricayos.
WAILEA OFFICE
Email tcabanilla@tghawaii.com.
Fax (808) 891-1174.
Telephone (808) 875-6686.
Escrow No. 19123375
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST., HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (808) 533-6261
Page 1201903918
SCHEDULE B
EXCEPTIONS
Real Property Taxes, if any, that may be due and owing.1.
The premises described in Schedule C is covered by Tax Key (2)
3-6-001-018 .
Attention is invited to the discrepancy between the area
contained in the legal description described herein and the
area as set forth in the respective county real property tax
records.
-Note:-
Mineral and water rights of any nature.2.
Roadway, as shown on Land Patent Grant Number 9794.3.
NOTICE OF IMPOSITION OF CONDITIONS BY THE LAND USE COMMISSION dated
December 9, 1992, recorded as Document No. 92-200449.
4 .
The terms and provisions contained in the following:5.
INSTRUMENT : DECLARATION OF CONDITIONS
January 25, 1993
Document No. 93-014788
DATED
RECORDED
6. GRANT
MAUI ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED, a Hawaii corporationTO
November 1, 1995
Document No. 95-161279
DATED
RECORDED
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST., HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (808) 533-6261
Page 2201903918
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
a right and easement for utility purposes, over, across,
through and under Easement B, said easement being more
particularly described therein, as shown on the map
attached thereto
GEIANTING
Said Grant was amended by instrument dated July 1, 1998, recorded as
Document No. 98-101152, said Easement B, being more particularly
described therein
The terms and provisions contained in the following:7 .
INSTRUMENT : AGREEMENT FOR ALLOCATION OF FUTURE SUBDIVISION POTENTIAL
January 3, 2002
Document No. 2003-059347
WAILUKU AGRIBUSINESS COMPANY, INC. ("Subdivider") and
COUNTY OF MAUI, through its Department of Public Works
and Waste Management, a political subdivision of the
State of Hawaii ("County")
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
The terms and provisions contained in the following:
INSTRUMENT : LIMITED WAREIANTY DEED
August 10, 2004
Document No. 2004-165726
DATED
RECORDED
The terms and provisions contained in the following:9.
DECLARATION OF COVENANTS, CONDITIONS, EASEMENTS,
RESERVATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
INSTRUMENT :
effective as of August 10, 2004
Document No. 2004-165727
DATED
RECORDED
The foregoing includes, but is not limited to, matters relating to
water reservation, farming reservation, easements
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST-, HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (808) 533-6261
Page 3201903918
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
ASSIGNMENT OF IN GROSS RESERVATIONS effective October 1, 2005, recorded
as Document No. 2005-229077, by and between WAILUKU AGRIBUSINESS CO.,
INC., a Hawaii corporation, "Assignor", and WAILUKU WATER COMPANY,
LLC, a Hawaii limited liability company, doing business as Wailuku
Water Company, "Assignee".
The terms and provisions contained in the following:10.
GRANT OF EASEMENT FOR WATERLINE AND WELL PURPOSESINSTRUMENT :
as of October 21, 2008
Document No. 2008-163634
ALLEN TING, III and DONNA P. TING, husband and wife.
Grantor", and M/UVLAEA PROPERTIES, LLC, a Hawaii limited
liability company,
granting the right, in the nature of a non-exclusive
easement over, under, through and across Easement "W-1",
for waterline and well purposes, more particularly
described therein and shown on the map attached thereto
(affecting Tax Key (2) 3-6-004-008)
DATED
RECORDED
PARTIES
Tl
Grantee
RE
ABOVE GRANT OF EASEMENT ASSIGNED
MVI, LLC, a Hawaii limited liability companyTO
October 21, 2008
Document No. 2008-163636
DATED
RECORDED
11. Claims arising out of customary and traditional rights and practices,
including without limitation those exercised for subsistence, cultural,
religious, access or gathering purposes, as provided for in the Hawaii
Constitution or the Hawaii Revised Statutes.
12. Discrepancies, conflicts in boundary lines, shortage in area,
encroachments or any other matters which a correct survey or
archaeological study would disclose.
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST.,HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813. PH: (608)533.6261
201903918 Page 4
SCHEDULE B CONTINUED
Any unrecorded leases and matters arising from or affecting the same.13.
Before issuance of an ALTA policy, a properly executed TG
Form D.l should be submitted at closing (i) if there are no
unrecorded leases affecting the subject land and the insured
requires that said exception be omitted from the policy or
(ii) if the insured requires the policy to be issued with
reference to specific unrecorded leases.
-Note:-
Any lien (or claim of lien) for services, labor or material arising
from an improvement or work related to the land described in Schedule
C herein.
14 .
Before issuance of an ALTA policy, verification is required
that there is no renovation or construction in progress at
the present time, nor has there been any renovation or
construction during the past year, nor has any material been
delivered to the site for purposes of renovation or
construction in the past year.
-Note:-
END OF SCHEDULE B
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST„ HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (808) 533-6261
Page 5201903918
SCHEDULE C
All of that certain parcel of land {being all of the land(s) described in
and covered by Land Patent Grant S-13975 to Wailuku Sugar Company; Land
Patent Grant Number 11067 to Wailuku Sugar Company; Land Patent Grant Number
10962 to Wailuku Sugar Company; Land Patent Grant Number 10745 to Wailuku
Sugar Company; Land Patent Grant Number 10497 to Wailuku Sugar Company;
Land Patent Grant Number 10294 to Wailuku Sugar Company; and Land Patent
Grant Number 9794 to Wailuku Sugar Company; and portion of Land Patent Grant
Number 3152 to H. Cornwell) situate, lying and being on the westerly side
of Honoapiilani Highway {N.R.H. 13-C and F. A. P. 13-G) atUkumehame, Waikapu,
District of Wailuku, Island and County of Maui, State of Hawaii, and thus
bounded and described:
Beginning at a point at the northeasterly corner of this parcel of land,
the coordinates of said point of beginning referred to Government Survey
Triangulation Station "LUKE" being 23,709.07 feet south and 3,760.16 feet
west and running by azimuths measured clockwise from true South:
Thence along the westerly side of Honoapiilani Highway (F.A.P. 13-G)
on a curve to the right, with the point
of curvature azimuth from the radial point
being: 275° 52’ 12.4", and the point of
tangency azimuth from the radial point
being:278° 14' 56", having a radius of
34,342.50 feet, the chord azimuth and
distance being:
1.
7° 03' 34.2"1,425.71 feet to a point;
2. 14' 56" 1,823.79 feet along same to a point;
3. Thence along same on a curve to the rights, having a radius of 34,342.50
feet, the chord azimuth and distance
being:
9° 22' 41" 1,353.53 feet to a point;
10° 30' 26 504.254 . feet along same to a point;
14°5. 07' 22 743.00 feet along the westerly side of Honoapiilani
Highway (F.A.P. 13-G and N. R. H . 13-C) to
a point;
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235QUEEN ST.,HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (800) 533-6261
201903918 Page 6
SCHEDULE C CONTINUED
6. 105® 46' 29 feet along the westerly side of Honoapiilani
Highway (N.R.H. 13-C) to a point;
10.00
Thence along same on a curve to the right, with the point of curvature
azimuth from the radial point being: 285®
46' 29" and the point of tangency azimuth
from the radial point: 296° 19' 59
having a radius of 5,647.97 feet, the chord
azimuth and distance being:
7.
It
/
21® 03 1,036.32 feet to a point;I
14 VI
296° 16' 56 feet to a point;18.00VI
Thence along same on a curve to the right, with the point of curvature
azimuth from the radial point being: 296°
19' 59" and the point of tangency azimuth
from the radial point being: 297® 44' 17",
the chord azimuth and distance being:
9.
27® 02' 08 feet to a point;138.94TV
10. 117® 47' 19 feet along same to a point;18.00TV
11. Thence along same on a curve to the right, with the point of curvature
azimuth from the radial point being: 297®
44 ' 17" and the point of tangency azimuth
from the radial point being: 299® 21' 03",
having a radius of 5, 647.97 feet, the chord
azimuth and distance being:
28® 32' 40 feet to a point;158.98II
12. 298® feet along same to a point;18 18.001
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235QUEENST., HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: {808) 533-6261
Page 7201903918
SCHEDULE C CONTINUED
Thence along same on a curve to the right, with the point of curvature
azimuth from the radial point being; 299°
21* 02" and the point of tangency azimuth
from the radial point being: 301° 05' 41",
havingaradiusofS,665.97 feet, the chord
azimuth and distance being:
13.
30° 13 21.5 172.47 feet to a point;ri
14. 31° 05 603.65 feet along same to a point;1
41 Tl
15. 121° 05 I
41 Tt
15.00 feet along same to a point;
16. 31° 05 75.00 feet along same to a point;1
41 fV
17. 301° feet along same to a point;05 1
41 IT
15.00
31° 286.00 feet along same to a point;18. 05' 41 IT
19. Thence along same on a curve to the left, with the point of curvature
azimuth from the radial point being: 131°
05' 41" and the point of tangency azimuth
from the radial point being: 118°20'52.6",
having a radius of 11,539.55 feet, the
chord azimuth and distance being:
29° 43 16.8 553.16 feet to a point;I n
20. 153° 40' 17 209.46 feet along portion of Government Land of
Ukumehame to a point;
Tl
21. 169° 376.44 feet along same to a point;48 f
47 H
22. 165° feet along same to a point;07 I
47 IT
112.44
23. 167° 31 394.87 feet along same to a point;I
47 If
24. 105° 51 103.85I
47 If
feet along same to a point;
25. 184° 08 400.00 feet along same to a point;?
47 n
26. 176° 24 1,520.00 feet along same to a point;f
47 n
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST., HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (808) 533.6261
201903918 Page 8
SCHEDULE C CONTINUED
177°27. along same to a point;16' 47 tl
246.00 feet
28. 216° along same to a point;16 I
47 tr
413.00 feet
185° along same to a point;29. 254.00 feet14 r
47 Tl
177° 22 feet along same to a point;30. 506.00I
47 n
31. 217° point;437.00 feet along same to16 f
47 IV
a
32. 210° point;along same to470.00 feet02 V
47 TV
a
190° feet along same to a point;1,179.7033. 15 ?
17 IT
197° 01 along same to a point;467.15 feet34 . I
47 fl
35. 235° 55 point;along same to349.70 feetI
47 ft
a
220° point;along same to280.20 feet36. 15 V
47 IT
a
208° point;along same to216.10 feet33’ 47 If
37 . a
193° point;along same to570.10 feet09' 47 VI
38 . a
203° point;along164.90 feet same to39. 49 V
47 ft
a
187° point;along301.10 feet16' 47 IV
same to40. a
feet along Grant 3152 to Henry Cornwell and
along the remainder of Grant 3152 to Henry
Cornwell, being also along Lot 6 of the
Waikapu Hema Large Lot Subdivision to the
point of beginning and containing an area
of 256.903 acres, more or less.
258° 57 864.1441. 1
41 IT
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST., HONOLULU. HAWAII 96813, PH-(808) 533-6261
Page 9201903918
SCHEDULE C CONTINUED
BEING THE PREMISES ACQUIRED BY LIMITED WARRANTY DEED
UhALAEA PROPERTIES, LLC, a Hawaii limited liability
company
GRANTOR
MVI, LLC, a Hawaii limited liability companyGRANTEE
October 21, 2008
Document No. 2008-163635
DATED
RECORDED
Together with non-exclusive easements for access and utility purposes, over,
under, across and through Easement A and Easement A-1, as granted by, and
more particularly described in instrument dated February 10, 2010, recorded
as Document No. 2010-020512; and subject to the terms and provisions contained
therein; provided however, that in the event said Easements or any portion
or portions thereof, is dedicated to the County of Maui, the State of Hawaii,
or any other governmental agency for public roadway purposes, then all easement
rights in such dedicated Easement Areas, or any portion or portions thereof
so dedicated, shall automatically terminate.
The above easements are not contiguous with said above described
Lot.
-Note:-
Together also with a non-exclusive easement for water pipeline purposes,
over, under, across and through Easement W-1, as granted by and more
particularly described in instrument dated February 10, 2010, recorded as
Document No. 2010-020513; and subject to the terms and provisions contained
therein; provided however, that in the event the Easement Area or any portion
or portions thereof, is dedicated to the County of Maui, the State of Hawaii,
or any other governmental agency for public roadway purposes, then all easement
rights in such dedicated Easement Areas, or any portion or portions thereof
so dedicated, shall automatically terminate.
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST,,HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (600)533.6261
201903918 Page 10
SCHEDULE C CONTINUED
Together also with a non-exclusive easement for access and utility service
purposes, over, under, across and through Easement T-1, as granted by, and
more particularly described in instrument dated February 10, 2010, recorded
as Document No. 2010-020514; and subject to the terms and provisions contained
therein; provided however, that in the event said Easements or any portion
or portions thereof, is dedicated to the County of Maui, the State of Hawaii,
or any other governmental agency for public roadway purposes, then all easement
rights in such dedicated Easement Areas, or any portion or portions thereof
so dedicated, shall automatically terminate.
The above easement is not contiguous with said above described
Lot.
-Note:-
END OF SCHEDULE C
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST., HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (806)533-6261
Page 11201903918
GENERAL NOTES
There is hereby omitted from any covenants, conditions and reservations
contained herein any covenant or restriction based on race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, familial status, marital status,
disability, handicap, national origin, ancestry, or source of income,
as set forth in applicable state or federal laws, except to the extent
that said covenant or restriction is permitted by applicable law. Lawful
restrictions under state or federal law on the age of occupants in
senior housing or housing for older persons shall not be construed
as restrictions based on familial status.
1.
BUYER(S) LIEN INFORMATION
Title Guaranty of Hawaii, LLC finds no liens docketed against JOHN
VAREL, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS TRUSTEE, the proposed purchaser{s).
I.
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST., HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (608) 533-6261
201903918 Page 12
GUIDELINES FOR THE ISSUANCE OF INSURANCE
A. Taxes shown in Schedule B are as of the date such information is available from
the taxing authority. Evidence of payment of all taxes and assessments subsequent
to such date must be provided prior to recordation.
B. Evidence of authority regarding the execution of all documents pertaining to
the transaction is required prior to recordation. This includes corporate
resolutions, copies of partnership agreements, powers of attorney and trust
instruments.
C. If an entity (corporation, partnership, limited liability company, etc.) is
not registered in Hawaii, evidence of its formation and existence under the
laws where such entity is formed must be presented prior to recordation.
the following is required:If the transaction involves a construction loan,D.
(1) a letter confirming that there is no construction prior to recordation;
or
(2) if there is such construction, appropriate indemnity agreements, financial
statements and other relevant information from the owner, developer, general
contractor and major sub-contractors must be submitted to the Company for
approval at least one week prior to the anticipated date of recordation.
Forms are available upon request from the Company.
E. Chapter 669, Hawaii Revised Statutes, sets forth acceptable tolerances for
discrepancies in structures or improvements relative to private property
boundaries for various classes of real property. If your survey map shows a
position discrepancy that falls within the tolerances of Chapter 669, call your
title officer as affirmative coverage may be available to insured lenders.
F. The right is reserved to make additional exceptions and/or requirements upon
examination of all documents submitted in connection with this transaction.
G. If a policy of title insurance is issued, it will exclude from coverage all
matters set forth in Schedule B of this report and in the printed Exclusions
from Coverage contained in an ALTA policy or in the Hawaii Standard Owner’s
Different forms may have different exclusions and should
Copies of the policy forms are available upon request from the
Company or on our website at www.tghawaii.com.
Policy, as applicable.
be reviewed.
H. Please be aware that due to the conflict between federal and state laws concerning
the cultivation, distribution, manufacture or sale of marijuana, the Company
is not able to close or insure any transaction involving Land that is associated
with these activities.
© Title Guaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST.. HONOLULU. HAWAII 96013. PH: (808) 533.6261
Page 13201903918
DATE PRINTED: 1/29/2019
STATEMENT OF ASSESSED VALUES AND REAL PROPERTY TAXES DUE
TAX MAP KEY
DIVISION ZONE SECTION PLAT PARCEL HPR NO.
001 018 00003 6(2)
257.784 ACAREA ASSESSED:CLASS: AGRICULTURAL
ASSESSED VALUES FOR CURRENT YEAR TAXES: 2018
The records of this division show the assessed values and taxes on
the property designated by Tax Key shown above are as follows:
$ 0BUILDING
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
LAND
EXEMPTION
NET VALUE
TOTAL NET VALUE $
$ 0
$ 0
$ 4,300 HIGHEST & BEST USE
$ 0
$ 4,300
4,300
Installment (1 - due 8/20; 2 due 2/20) 8/20/2018Tax Info As Of
Tax Installment Tax
Year
Penalty
Amount
Interest
Amount
Other
Amount
Total
AmountAmount
2018
2018
2017
2017
2 200.00
200.00
200.00
200.00
200.00
200.00
200.00
200.00
PAID
PAID
PAID
PAID
1
2
1
The real property tax information provided is based on information furnished by the respective
counties, is deemed reliable but not guaranteed, and no warranties are given express or
implied. Billing and tax collection details may have changed. Please refer to the appropriate
county real property tax offices for any further information or updates for the subject property.
© TitleGuaranty of Hawaii, Inc.235 QUEEN ST.,HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813, PH: (808)533-6261
201903918 Page 14
POHAKEA WATERSHED LANDS
A15: Table of Contents for Optional Attachments
a) Archaeological Map
Survey - 2005
Ma'alaea VillageAgriculturalSubdivisionPlan - 2018
Wells Information(Pohakea 1,2, 3)
Access and UtilityEasements
Waterline Easement
Lettersof Support -
a. Councilmember KellyKing
b. Ma'alaea VillageAssociation
c. Maui Nui Marine Resources Council
d. Maui Ocean Center
e. Maui Tomorrow
f. Sierra Club Maui Group
The Trust for Public Land - Working with TPL
a. Legacy Land Transparency Letter
b. Aloha ‘AinaExperience and Expertise
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
h)
POHAKEA WATERSHED LANDS
A16: Other Documentation Attached
1973: StateHistoricDivisionarchaeologicalmap of
Ma’alaea, Maui.
Shows Sitecomplexes recorded in Ma’alaea,
adjacent to Pohakea lands (outlinedinyellow)
Site1169: Ma’alaea Petroglyphs
Site 1287: Ma'alaeacomplex:seventeenhabitation
features
Site 1441: 3 C-shapesnearMcGregor Pt.
Site 2946: the Lahaina Pali Trail & 18 associated
archaeologicalsites(redarrow)
Trailhead begins on Pohakea parcel
Site 1286: Grinding stone
Site 1440: Piko stone
both of these were originallypartof the Ma’alaea
complex, but were saved when siteswere bulldozed in
1952.
Wloku Boundary; (whitearrow)
Tuesday, February 18, 20
i
il i
BILL OF SALE
This Bill of Sale is made and effective as of
Ccf '25 - 2008, by and between MAALAEA PROPERTIES,
LLC, a Hawaii limited liability company, whose address is P. O.
Box 1870, Manteca, California 95326 ("Maalaea"), and MVl, LLC, a
Hawaii limited liability company, whose address is P. O. Box 97,
Kihei. Hawaii 96753 ("MVI”).
This Bill of Sale is made concurrently with and as an
incident to the conveyance by Maalaea to MVI of an interest in
certain lands in Waibee, Maui^ Hawaii, as more specifically
described in certain closing documents between the parties of
even date or near even date herewith.
For valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby
acknowledged, Maalaea hereby sells, assigns, transfers and sets
over to MVI all of Maalaea's right, title and interest in and to
ail of the items of tangible and intangible personal property
which are described in Exhibit "A” attached hereto and made a
part hereof.
MVI acknowledges and agrees that said items of personalty
are being conveyed by Maalaea to MVI in "as is" condition, with
no express or implied warranties or representations with respect
to the condition or value of such items of personalty for the
fitness of same Cor any particular use.
Maalaea hereby covenants with MVI that Maalaea has good
right to sell and assign such items of personal property to MVI
acs set forth above and that said items have not been assigned or
conveyed by Maalaea to any other party and are free and clear of
all liens and encumbrances,
agreement assigned hereby, Maalaea also covenants with MVI that
to the best of Maalaea's knowledge after due inquiry:
With respect to each permit and
Maalaea has done no act in derogation of this
assignment;
(a)
All consents of third parties required for this
assignment have been obtained; and all necessary
actions have been taken to effect this assignment;
(b)
Maalaea is not in default in its performance of any
covenant or condition to be performed by Maalaea and
Maalaea is not aware of any defaults or any facts
(c)
1/ lO/n '8
which may reasonably ripen into a default, up to the
date of this assignment under the terms of any such
permit or agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Maalaea and MVI have executed this Bill
of Sale effective as of the day and year first above written.
A mom) AS TO FORM:
MA\'CINI, WFJXHl^ GFJOER UP
MAALAEA PROPERTIES, LLC
Si-J ANDERSON'
/Vr Pan/ R Maucm
lARRY
Its Manager
By,
WILLIAM S. FTLIOS
Its Manager
Maalaea
MVI, LLr
By,
Its
By
Its
MV I
2V 7 2 2r ●> /: mr,/1 ^/ i'V 0 B
I ,
))
which may reasonably ripen into a default, up to the
date of this assignment under the terms of any such
permit or agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Maalaea and MVI have executed this Bill
of Sale effective as of the day and year first above written.
APPROVED AS TO FORA^:
MANCm WELCH &GFJGER LLP
I-IAAtAEA PROPERTIES, LUC
By Paul R. MoJicmi 3y.
LARRY W. ANDERSON
Its Manager
By/
WILL'IAM S. PILK>S
Its Manager
"Maalaea”
MVI, LLC
By (C' r
Its
By
Its
MVI"
225f7a2C-3/jTt/10/n/C#
EXHIBIT "A II
Three Improved Wells, with castings and existing fixtures;
Pohakea Wells 2 & 3 {Well Nos. 4930-02 i 03), located on
TMK (2) 3-6-004:003, and Pohakea Well 1 located on TMK (2)
3-6-004;008.
1 .
Pemiits/Appurtenaiices/Documentation2.
Application for Well Construct ion/Pump Installation
Permits for Well fields Nos. 1, 2 and 3.
a.
Pump installation permits concerning Well Fields Nos.
1, 2 and 3.
b.
All records and documentation concerning ’Well Fields
Nos.1,2 and 3.
c.
All persona] property owned by Maalaea Properties LLC
appurtenant to the wells constructed at Well Fields
Nos. 1, 2 and 3, and ail documentation concerning the
same.
d.
END OF EXHIBIT "A II
3;;9 f? ,>(●● i / 3 -n*.-/1 ●:●/IT/ tl«

^0
o
R-695oc STATE OF HAWAII
BUREAU OF CONVEYANCES
RECORDED
FE8 12, 2010 02:00 PM
Doc No(s) 2010-020514
/s/ NICKI ANN THOMPSON
REGISTRAR
20 1/1 Z9
Yly REGULAR SYSTEMLAND COURT
Return By Mail Pick-Up To:
CARLSMITH BALL LLP
One Main Plaza, Suite 40t>
2200 Main Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
Attention:Blaine J.Kobayashi
Telephone: (808) 242-4535
TITLE OF DOCUMENT:
ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENT
PARTIES TO DOCUMENT:
WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC
1132 Norman Drive
Manteca, California95336
GRANTOR:
GRANTEE: MVl.LLC
P. O. Box 97
Kihei,Maui, Hawaii 96753
Easement T«1 	 	
TAX MAP KEY(S); (2)3-^004:003 and
(2)3-6-001:018 (Thisdocument consistsof 16 pages.)
48l8<9<l9-7]25.3
ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENT
0^ dayof
and between WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC, a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, whose
, 20 ID .byTHIS INDENTURE made this
address is 1132 Norman Drive, Manteca, California95336, hereinaftercalled“GRANTOR”, and
MVl, LLC, a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, whose addressisP.O. Box 97,Kihei,Maui,
Hawaii 96753, hereinaftercalled“GRANTEE”,
WITNESSETH;
^^TiEREAS, theGRANTOR istheowner ofLot 6 oftheWaikapu IleraaLarge
Lot Subdivision,situate,lyingand beingatWaikapu, DistrictofWailuku,Islandand County of
Maui, Stateof Hawaii, area 657.19 acres,more or less,and bearingTax Key designation /
(2)3-6-004:003,hereinaftercalled“GRANTOR’S PARCEL;” and
WHEREAS, theGRANTEE istheowner ofthatcertainparcelof land(beingall
of the land(s)describedin and covered by Land PatentGrant S-13975 to Wailuku Sugar
Company; Land PatentGrant 11067 toWailuku SugarCompany; Land PatentGram 10962 to
Wailuku Sugar Company; Land PatentGiant 10745 to Wailuku SugarCompany; Land Patent
Grant 10497 to Wailuku Sugar Company; Land PatentGrant 10294toWailuku SugarCompany
and Grant9794 toWailuku SugarCompany; and portion(s)oftheland(s)describedinand
covered by Land PatentGrant Number 3152 to H. Cornwell),situate,lyingand beingat
Ukumehame, Waikapu, Districtof Wailuku,Islandand County ofMaui, Stateof Hawaii,area
256.903 acres,more or less,and bearingTax Key designation(2)3-6-001:018,hereinaftercalled
GRANTEE’S PARCEL;” and
2.4818-9619-7125.3
i
WHEREAS, the GRANTEE erquiresan easement over,under,acrossand through
a portionof theGRANTOR’S PARCEL foraccessand utilitypurposes;and
WHEREAS, theGRANTOR has agreedto grantsaideasementtotheGRANTEE,
subjecttoand inaccordancewith theterms,covenants,conditions,andprovisionshereinafterset
forth;NOW, THEREFORE,
FURTHER WIINESSEIH IHAIi
The partieshereto,forand inconsiderationof thepremises,and themutual
promises,covenants,andagreementshereinaftersetforth,do herebyagreeasfollows:
GrantofNon-ExclusivePert^tuaJEasement: The GRANTOR, asthe1.
owner of theGRANTOR’S PARCEL, in considerationof thesum ofTEN AND NO/lOO
DOLLARS ($10.00)and othergood and valuableconsiderationpaidtotheGRANTOR by the
GRANTEE, thereceiptwhereofisherebyacknowledged,doesherebygrantandconveyuntothe
GRANTEE, itssuccessorsand assigns,astheowner oftheGRANTEE’S PARCEL, a
non-exclusiveperpetualeasementforaccessand utilitypiiiposes,over,under,acrossand
througha portionofiheGRANTOR’S PARCEL, designatedasEasement“T-l”,hereinafter
called“Easement Area”, which Easement Area ismore particularlydescribedinExhibit“A” and
asshown on themap designatedasExhibit“B”,bothattachedheretoandby referencemade a
parthereof.
Use of Easement Area: The GRANTEE shalluse the Easement Area for
(i.e.ingressand egress)and forutilityservicepurposes,includingbutnotlimitedtothe
installation,construction,reinstallation,reconstruction,operation,replacement,removal,
maintenanceand repairofa roadway (hereinaftercalled“Roadway”)andwaterlines,sewerlines,
drainagelines,electricaland telephonelines,cabletelevisionlines,oranyotherutilityservice
2.
access
3.48]8'96I9-7I2S.1
lines,includingmeters,valves,pullboxes,conduits,sv.itches,guy lines,and otherappurtenant
appliances,equipment,and facilities(hereinaftercollectivelyreferredtoas“UtilityLines”).
within the Easement Area.
Ifany permits,approvals,consents,or authorizationsto constructor installthe
Roadway or UtilityLinesarerequired,thepartiesshallcooperateand sign any and allsuch
permits,approvals,consents,or authorizations.Insuch event,GRANTEE shallpay forallcosts
and expenses incurredinconnectionwith theprocessingof such permits,approvals,consents,or
authorizations.
3. Maintenance and Repair:The GRANTEE shallbe responsibleforthe
costsand expensesforcleaning,maintaining,and repairingthe Easement Area and all
improvements placedthereonby GRANTEE, includingtheRoadway and UtilityLines,and to
keep thesame ina dean, safe,and orderlyappearanceand conditionat alltimes.
The GRANTEE shalluse due careand diligencetoconstruct,re-constnict,install,
re-install,maintain,operate,repair,replaceand/orremove theRoadway and/orUtilityLines
withintheEasementArea,and tokeepthesame ina proper and safeconditionand manner atall
times.Upon completionof any work therein,theEasement Area shallbe restoredto the same
conditionitwas inpriorto such work to theextentthatsuch restorationisreasonablypossible.
4. Waste and Unlawful.Improper or OffensiveUse of theEasement Area:
The GRANTEE shallnot commit or cause to be committed any waste inor upon the Easement
Area or maintainany publicor privatenuisanceorany otheractionwhich may interferewith or
disturbthequietenjoyment of theEasement Area or any surroundingproperty,includingthe
GRANTOR’S PARCEL, nor shalltheGRANTEE permittheEasement Area to be used forany
improper,offensiveor unlawfulpurpose.
4.48I8-96I9-7I25.3
Minimal Ixiterferepce: The GRANTEE shall use the Easement Area solely5.
forthepurposesprovidedherein,and willexerciseGRANTEE’S irghtshereunderinsuch
manner as to occasionas littleinterferenceas reasonablynecessarywith theuse and enjoyment
of the rest of the GRANTOR’S PARCEL.
Reserved Use bv GRANTOR: The GRANTOR exceptsand reservesthe6.
rightto usethe Easement Area foraccessand utilitypurposes,includingtherighttoconstruct,
install,erect,allow,orpermitany improvementsthereon,includingtheRoadway andUtility
Lines,and includingtheirghttogranteasementsovertheEasementAreaoranyportionor
portionsthereof,toothers;provided,however,thatsuchuseby theGRANTOR orothersshall
not unreasonablyinterferewiththeGRANTEE’S easementrightsherein.
Compliance With Laws: The GRANTEE shall,atalltimesobserve,
perform,and comply with therequirementsof alllaws,statutes,ordinances,rulesand regulations
applicableto the Easement Area and any improvements therein,now orhereafterenactedby any
7.
governmentalauthoritywith applicablejurisdiction.
Acceptance:The GRANTEE acceptstheEasementArea in“AS IS,
WHERE IS” condition,and understands and agrees thatthe GRANTOR has made no
8.
representationorwarrantywithrespecttotheconditionoftheEasementAreaorthesuitabilityor
fitnessof theEasement Area forany particularuseor purpose.
Liens: The GRANTEE shallnot commit or permit any actor neglect9.
whereby the GRANTOR’S PARCEL, or any portionthereof,shallbecome subjectto any
attachment,judgment, lien,chargeor encumbrance whatsoeverresultingfrom theactsor
omission of GRANTEE, and shallindemnify and hold GRANTOR harmlessagainstallloss,
cost,and expenses,includingreasonableattorneys’feesand costs,whetherornotsuitisfiled.
5.4*18-9619-7125.3
with erspectthereto.GRANTEE shallpromptlydischargeor causeto be dischargedor
dismissed,everysuch attachment,judgment,lien,charge,encumbrance,or any noticeor
applicationthereof,which may be filedagainsttheGRANTOR’S PARCEL orany portion
thereof.
Dedication to Countv of Maui or State of Hawaii: In the event the10.
Easement Area,orany portionorportionsthereof,isdedicatedtotheCounty ofMaui,theState
of Hawaii, or any othergovernmental agency forpublicroadway purposes,then alleasement
rightsinsuch dedicatedEasement Area,or any portionor portionsthereofso dedicated,shall
automaticallyterminate.Ifsuchrightsarenotautomaticallyterminatedforany reason.
GRANTEE shallexecute and record any documentation to effectivelycancel such easement
rights.The GRANTOR and theGRANTEE agreetocooperateinthe dedicationprocess,
includingthe signingof any deed,joinder,authorizations,consents,approvals,or permits.
Easements To Countv or Urilitv Companies: In the event easements are11.
requestedand/orrequiredby theCounty of Maui, Stateof Hawaii,a publicutilitycompany such
as Maui ElectricCompany, Ltd.or Hawaiian Telcom, Inc.,or othersimilargovernmental agency
or utilitycompany, theparliesheretoshallfullycooperateto grantand convey such easements,
provided,however, thatsuch easementsand/ortheuse thereofshallnotobstructor interferewith
theGRANTEE’S plansand use of theEasement Area foraccessand utilitypurposestoservice
the GRANTEE’S PARCEL.
12. Condemnation: IftheEasement Area,or any portionthereof,shallbe
condemned ortakenby any governmentalauthorityorpublicservicecompany foruse by the
generalpublic,theGRANTEE shallsurrendertheEasement Area or theportionso condemned.
and this easement shall terminate as to the Easement Area or the portionso condemned. Any
6.48I8-96I9-7I2S.3
compensation and/ordamages payableby reasonof such condemnationshallbe payabletothe
GRANTOR, exceptthatthe GRANTEE shallhave the irghttoclaimand recoverfrom the
condemning authority,but not from theGRANTOR, any suchcompensationwhichispayable
forthe GRANTEE’S UtilityLinesand Roadway.
Indemnity: The GRANTEE shalldefend,indemnify and hold the13.
GRANTOR harmlessfrom and againstany and allclaimsand demands forany and alllossesor
damages, includingpropertydamage, personalinjury,and wrongfuldeath,fines,penalties,
injuries,causesof actions,suits,and expenses,of whatsoeverkindand nature,incontractorin
tort,arisingout of or in connection with the GRANTEE’S use of the Easement Area.
Insurance:The GRANTEE shallsecure,pay for,and maintainatall14.
times,atGRANTEE’S solecostand expense,a policyof generalliabilityinsurance,orthe
equivalentthereof,with a responsibleinsurancecompany authorizedtodo businessintheState
of Hawaii,naming theGRANTOR asadditionaliirsuredwidirespecttotheEasementAreaand
any improvementsthereon,and includinga provisionrequiringthirtydays’priorwrittennotice
toGRANTOR of pending cancellationor change intheterms,insuchliabilitylimitsasprtjdent
insurancepracticesintheCounty ofMaui may requireforlikeorsimilarproperties.Upon
requestof theGRANTOR, theGRANTEE shallpromptlyprovidetheGRANTOR a current
Certificateoflnsurance or other evidence of such insurance coverage.
Dispute Resolution:
Nepntiaiinn:The partiesagreethatitisintheirbestintereststo
resolveand settleany claims,disputes,or disagreementsina cooperativeand expeditious
manner. Accordingly,thepartiesagreetonegotiateingood faithtowardtheresolutionofany
15,
a.
7.4fll8-9C19-7125.3
claim,dispute,disagreement,orothermatterinquestionarisingoutofthisEasementorthe
breach thereof
Mediation:Ifthepartiescannotresolveany claim,dispute,b.
disagreement,or otherissues,such disputeshallbe referredtoMediationServicesofMaui, Inc.,
or other similarorganization,or any individualor organizationselectedby thepartieshereto,for
non-bindingmediation.Eitherpartymay referthedisputetomediation.The partiesshallmeet
with the mediatoras soon as reasonablypossible,and no formaldiscoveryshalloccurin
connection with the mediation. The partiesmay offersuch evidenceas theydesire,or as may be
requestedby the mediator. All oraland writtencommunications toand horn themediatorand
the partieswith respecttothemediationshallbe confl(U:ntialand inadmissibleforany purposein
any subsequentarbitrationor litigation.The partiesagreeto executea confidentialityagreement
priorto commencing the mediation.
Arbitration:Ifthedisputeisnot resolvedby mediation,itmay bec.
decided by bindingarbitration.Otherwise,the partiesmaintaintheirrights,claimsand actions
under applicablelaw. Should thepartiesagreeto bindingarbitration,thepartiesmay agreeupon
an impartialand disinterestedarbitrator.
In the event thepartiesare unable to agree upon a single,impartialand
disinterestedarbitrator,thenthedisputeshallbe determinedby threearbitrators.Each partyshall
appointone arbitrator,and shallgive the otherwrittennoticeof such appointment. Ifeitherparly
foilstoso appointan arbitratorwithinten(10)daysafterwrittenreceiptof noticefrom theother
party,thepartymaking theappointmentmay applytoany Judge of the Second CircuitCourt for
appointment of a second arbitrator.TTietwo arbitratorsshallselecta thirdarbitrator.Ifthey fail
todo so withinten(10)days afterappointmentof thesecond arbitrator,eitherpartymay applyto
8.4818-96I9>7125.3
any Judge of theSecond CircuitCourt for^pointmcnt ofa thirdarbitrator.A decisionofthe
n:iajorityof thearbitratorsshallbe final,conclusive,and bindingupon theparties,unlessthe
same shallbe vacated,modified,or corrected,as provided inSection658,Hawaii Revised
Statutes,as thesame may be amended from time totime.
16. Default:
The partiesheretoshallnotwillfullycommit any breachordefaultofthis
Easement,orthespiritorintenthereof,and shallabideandcomplywiththetermshereofingood
faith.
In the event of a breach or default,the matter shallbe resolvedand/ordecided
upon ashereinabovesetforth;provided,however,thatthenon-defaultingpartyshallbeentitled
to an award of allcostsaixlexpenses incurredfrom Chedefaultingparty,includingreasonable
attorney’sfeesand costs.
Non-Waiver: No failureby eitherpartyto insiston thestrictperformance
ofany termhereofortoexerciseany rightorremedy consequentupon aneventoffailureshall
constitutea waiverofany such breachofany ofsuchterra.Effortstomitigatethedamages
caused by defaultor breachof thetermsand covenantsofthisEasementshallnotbe construedto
be a waiverofany irghttorecoverdamages orclaims.
Runs With The Land: This Easement shall be recorded in the Bureau of
Conveyances of theStateof Hawaii. Upon suchrecording,theeasementirghtsgrantedherein
and thecovenantsand agreementsof thepartiesheretoshallconstituteobligationswhich shall
17.
18.
run with the GRANTEE’S PARCEL and the GRANTOR’S PARCEL, and be the responsibility
of allfuture owners of the GRANTEE’S PARCEL and the GRANTOR’S PARCEL.
9.48IB-96I9-7I2S.3
Hawaii Law: This Easement ismade under,and shallbe governed by the19.
laws of the State of Hawaii.
Successors:The rightsand obligationshereundershallinurctothebenefit20.
of and be bindingon thepartieshereto,and theirrespectiveheirs,personalrepresentatives,
successorsand assigns.The use of any gender shallincludeallgenders,and the use of any
numbers shallbe construedas thesingularor theplural,as thecasemay require.Allterms.
covenants,and conditionsto be observed and performed by eitherpartyshallbe jointand several
ifenteredintoby more than one.
InvalidProvisions:Ifany provisionof thisEasement isadjudged or21.
otherwisedetermined to be unenforceableor invalid,allotherterms,conditionsand covenants
contained herein shall nevertheless remain in fullforce and effect.
22. Entire Agreement: This Easement constitutes the entire agreement
between thepartieswith respectto theirirghts,duties,and obligationshereunder,and allmatters
relatedthereto,and supersedesallpriornegotiations,representations,correspondence,
understandingsand agreementsbetween theparties.The partiesreservethe irghtto discussany
otheritemsas theymay arisefrom timetotime,butany amendment to thisEasement shallbe
ineffectiveunlessinwritingand signedby thepartieshereto.
Counterparts:The partiesheretoagreethatthisinstrumentmay be
executed in counterparts,each of which shallbe deemed an original,and saidcounterpartsshall
togetherconstituteone and thesame agreement,bindingallof thepartieshereto,notwithstanding
allof thepartiesarcnotsignatorytotheoriginalor the same counterparts.For allpurposes,
including,withoutlimitation,recordation,filingand deliveryof thisinstrument,duplicate
23.
10.4818-9619-7I2S.3
unexecutedand unacknowledged pages of thecounterpartsmay bediscardedand theremaining
pages assembledasone document.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the partiesheretohave caused thisAgreement to be
executed on theday and year firstabove written.
GRANTOR:
WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC
By.
DERSONLARRY
ItsManager
GRANTEE:
MVI, LLC
11.48l8-9619-7l2f.3
)STATE OF HAWAII
) S3.
)COUNTY OF MAUI
On this day of	
appearedLARRY W. ANDERSON^ tome personallykift
satisfactoryevidence,who, being by me duly sworn oraffirmed,didsaythathe isManager of
WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC, a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, and thatsuch person
executedtheforegoinginstrumentas thefreeactand deed ofsuchperson,and ifapplicablein
thecapacityshown, having been duly authorizedtoexecutesuch instrumentinsuch capacity.
1*1*
No-ra.58?.--i4	 	
,20 ,beforeme personally
wn/provedtome on thebasisof
Nj
Notary Public,Stateof Hawaii
%(N'otaryStamp of (f
My commission expires:
NOTARY CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
Document idcmincationorDescription: ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENT
Document Date:
No. of Pages:
Jurisdiction(inwhich notarialactisperformed):
*l '*● J
Second Cireuit
PrintedIfame ofNotary
M.» occ
■<-.(fjUuZiuci (0 %
uidof Notary Certiacaiion Date
12.48I8-96J9-7I25J
STATE OF HAWAII )
) ss.
COUNTY OF MAUI )
10 ,beforeme personally.20day ofOn this
appearedJESSE SPENCER, tome personallyknown/provedtome on thebasisofsatisfactory
evidence,who, beingby me duly sworn or affirmed,didsaythathe istheMember ofM\T, LLC,
a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, and thatsuch personexecutedtheforegoinginstrumentas
thefreeactand deed ofsuch person,and if^plicableintheedacityshown,havingbeenduly
authorizedtoexecutesuch instrumentinsuch capacity.
Name:
Notary Public,Stateof Hawaii
*OTA/f>;●nt
\ HibuP j
My commission expires:
NOTARY CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENTDocument Identificationor Description:
n 10 ^oioDocument Date:
No. of Pages:
Jurisdiction(inwhich notariaiactisperformed):
(Noli
/ -A
I j
/#?CircuitSecond
M
Primed Name of Notary
Signatureof Notary
m\o Toio
Certification Date
13.48I8-9619-7125.3
LAND DESCRIPTION
Easement T*1
For Access and UtilityPurposes
An easem^ foraccessand utilitypurposesinfavorof MVI, LLC, affectingLot 6 of theWailu^
Hema Large Lot Subdivision(SubdivisionFileNo. 3.1421)D.W.S. SD No. 8S-S7,beinga portion
of Land Patent Cjrant 3152 to H. ComwcU.
Situate at
Waikapu, Waituku,Maui» Hawaii
Tax Map Key: (2)3-5-02:Portionof 03
Begiimingatthesouthwest^y comer ofdiiseasoneixt»being the southeasterlycomer of Easement
W-1 and a pointon thecommon propertyboundarylineof Lot 6 and of 2 of the Waikapu Hema
Large Lot Subdivision(SubdivisionFileNo. 3.1421)[Tax Map Key: (2) 3-6-04:03 and 08] the
coordinatesof saidpointof beginningarebased on record informationand referto Government
Surv^ TriangulalionStation“LUKE” being 22,174.52feetsouthand 6,086.75efetwest,running
by azimuthsmeasured clockwisefrom truesouth;thence,
187® 30’ 00”1. 543.39 feetalongtheeasterlypropertyboundary lineof Lot 2 of
theWaikapu Hema Large Lot Subdivision(Subdivision
FileNo. 3.1421)[Tax Key: (2)3-6-04:03]ota
southwesterlycomer of Easement A-1 (Roadway and
UtilityEasement);
2. 303® 30’ 00’ feetalongthesoutherlyand soudiwesterlyright-of-way
lineofEasementA-1 affectingLot 6 oftheWaikapu
Hema Lar^ Lot Subdivision(SubdivisionFileNo.
3.1421)foraccessend utilitypurposestoa point;thence,
feetalongthesame,toa point;thence.
Followingalongthesame,alongthearcofa curveconcavetotheleft,havinga radiusof
100.00feet,thechordazimuthand distancebeing
296® 45* 00” 83.73 feetto a point;thence.
22.90
3. 321® 30’ 00” 73.10
4.
5. 272® 00’ 00” feetalongthesoutherlyand soudiwesterlyirght-of-wayof
EasenxmtA-1,affectingLot 6 oftheWaikapu Hema
Lar^ LotSubdivision(SubdivisionFileNo. 3.1421)for
accessand utilitypurposesto a point;dience.
Followingalongthesame, alongthearcof a curveconcave ot theirght,havinga radiusof
120.00feet,thechord azimuthand distancebeing
292® 10’00” 82.74 efettoa point;thence.
103.86
6.
7. 312® 20’ 00' 6.81 feetalongthesoutherlyand southwestorlyir^-of-way
HoeofEasementA-1,affectingLot6 oftheWaikapu
Hema Large Lot Subdivision(SubdivisionFileNo.
3.1421)foraccessand utilitypurposestoa point;thence
EXHIBIT "A
Continued...
Land Description
Easement T>1
Tax Map Key:(2)3-5-02:Portionof03
48“ 00’ 00”8. 157.J6 feetover,across,andthroughLot6oftheWaikapuHe
LargeLotSubdivision(SubdivisionFileNo.3.1421)to
point;thence,
feetover,across,andthroughthesame,toapoint;thence,
feetover,across,andthroughthesame,toapoint;thence,
feetover,across,andthroughthesame,toapoint;thence,
feetover,across,andthroughthesame,toapoint;thence,
feciover,across,andthroughthesame,toapoint;thence,
feetover,across,andthroughthesame,toapoint;thence,
feetover,across,andthroughthesame,toapoint;thence,
feetover,amoss,andthroughthesame,toapoint;thence,
feetover,across,andthroughthesame,toapoint;thence,
feelover,across,andthroughthesame,otapointof
beginningandcontaininganareaof1.948acres.
ma
a
9. 138“ 00’00 H
40.00
10. 48“ 00*00 fS
15.00
H. 138“ 00’00 40.00
12. 48“ 00* 00” 129.13
13. 138® 00’00** 48.00
14. 48“ 00’ OO” 15.00
15. 138“ 00’00 ,»»
48.00
16. 48“ 00’ 00” 31.76
17. 34“ 24’ (XT 175.47
18. 69* 37’ 00” 40.50
Thisworicwasdonebyme
uiKlermy directsupervision.
AKAMAI LAND SURVEYING, INC.
or
^/pftOPC8StONM.\4'LAND
WltVEYOII T
I
LicensedProfessionalLandSurveyorStateofHawaiiCertificateNo. 6960
Expires:April30,2010
209221(11/4/09-.IM)
★
N».tMP
2.

R-693 STATE OF HAWAII
BUREAU OF CONVEYANCES
RECORDED
FEB 12, 2010 02:00 PM
Doc No(s) 2010-020512
/s/ NICKI ANN THOMPSON
REGISTRAR
REGULAR SYSTEMLAND COURT
ReturnByMail[ |Pick-Up| ITo:
CARLSMITH BALL LLP
One Main Plaza,Suite400
2200 Main Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
Attention:Blaine J.Kobayashi
Telephone: (808) 242-4535
TITLE OF DOCUMENT:
ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENT
PARTIES TO DOCUMENT:
GRANTOR: waikapu properties, llc
1132 Norman Drive
Manteca, Califomm 95336
GRANTEE: MVI, LLC
P. O. Box 97
Kihei, Maui, Hawaii 96753
Easements “A” and “A-1”
TAX MAP KEY(S): (2)3-6-004:003and
(2)3-6-001:018 (Thisdocument consistsof 19 pages.)
4842-l427-(M«9,3
ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENT
QtiftaayofTHIS INDENTURE made this .20. .by
and between WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC, a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, whose
address is 1132 Norman Drive, Manteca, California95336, hereinaftercalled“GRANTOR”, and
MVl, LLC, a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, whose addressisP. O. Box 97, Kihei,Maui,
Hawaii 96753, hereinaftercalled“GRANTEE”,
WIT]sJES.SElJi:
WHEREAS, theGRANTOR istheowner ofLot 6 of theWaikapu Hema Large
Lot Subdivision,situate,lyingand beingatWaikapu, Districtof Wailufcu,Islandand County of
Maui, Stateof Hawaii, area 657.19 acres,more or less,and bearingTax Key designation
(2)3-6-004:003,hereinaftercalled“GRANTOR’S PARCEL;” and
whereas, theGRANTEE istheowner ofthatcertainparcelof land(beingall
of the land(s)describedin and covered by Land PatentGrant S-13975 to Wailuku Sugar
Company; Land PatentGrant 11067 to Wailuku Sugar Company; Land Patent Grant 10962 to
Wailuku Sugar Company; Land PatentGrant 10745 to Wailuku Sugar Company; Land Patent
Grant 10497 to Wailuku Sugar Company; Land PatentGrant 10294 to Wailuku Sugar Company
and Grant9794 toWailuku SugarCompany; and portion(s)of the land(s)describedinand /
coveredby Land PatentGrantNumber 3152 toH. Cornwell),situate,lyingand beingat
Ukumehame, Waikapu, EHstrictof Wailuku, Islandand County of Maui, Stateof Hawaii, area
256.903 acres,more or less,and bearingTax Key designation(2) 3-6-001:018, hereinaftercalled
‘XjRANTEE’S PARCEL;” and
2.4842-1427-0469.3
WHEREAS, the GRANTEE requiresan easement over,under, acrossand through
portionsof the GRANTOR’S PARCEL foraccessand utilitypurposes;and
WHEREAS, theGRANTOR has agreedto grantsame totheGRANTEE, subject
to and in accordanee with the terms, covenants, conditions,and provisionshereinaftersetforth;
NOW, THEREFORE,
WIXElSSETii ZKAIi
The partieshereto,forand inconsiderationofthepremises,andthemutual
promises,covenants,and agreementshereinaftersetforth,do herebyagreeasfollows:
Grant of Non-Exclusive Perpetual Easements: The GRANTOR, as the1.
owner of the GRANTOR’S PARCEL, in considerationof the sum of TEN AND NO/lOO
DOLLARS ($10.00)and othergood and valuableconsiderationpaidtotheGRANTOR by the
GRANTEE, thereceiptwhereof isherebyacknowledged,doesherebygrantand conv^ untothe
GRANTEE, itssuccessorsand assigns,as the owner of theGRANTEE’S PARCEL, non
exclusiveperpetualeasementsforaccessand utilitypurposes,over,under,acrossandthrough
portionsof theGRANTOR’S PARCEL, designatedas Easement “A” and Easement“A-1”,
hereinafter called “Easement Areas”, which Easement Areas are more particularlydescribedin
Exhibits“A” and “B”, respectively,attachedheretoand by referencemade a parthereof.
Use of Easement Areas: The GRANTEE shalluse the Easement Areas for2.
access(i.e.ingressand egress)and forutilityservicepurposes,includingbutnotlimitedtothe
installation,construction,reinstallation,reconstruction,operation,replacement,removal,
maintenanceand repairof a roadway (hereinaftercalled“Roadway”) and waterlines,sewertines,
drainagelines,electricaland telephonelines,cabletelevisionlines,oranyothCTutilityservice
3.4B42-1427-M69.3
lines,includingmeters,valves,pullboxes,conduits,switches,guy lines,and otherappurtenant
appliances,equipment,and facilities(hereinaftercollectivelyreferredtoas “UtilityLines”),
within the Easement Areas.
Ifany permits,approvals,consents,or authorizationstoconstructor installthe
Roadway or UtilityLinesarerequired,thepartiesshallcooperateand signany and allsuch
permits,approvals,consents,or authorizations.In such event,GRANTEE shallpay forallcosts
and expenses incurredin connectionwith the processingof such permits,approvals,consents,or
authorizations.
Maintenance and Repair:The GRANTEE shallbe responsibleforthe3.
costsand expenses forcleaning,maintaining,and repairingthe Easement Areas and all
im|MX)vementsplacedthereonby GRANTEE, includingthe Roadway and UtilityLines,and to
keep the same ina clean,safe,and orderlyappearanceand condition at alltimes.
The GRANTEE shallusedue careand diligencetoconstruct,re-construct,install,
re-install,maintain,operate,repair,replaceand/orremove theRoadway and/orUtilityLines
withintheEasement Areas,and to keep the same ina proper and safe conditionand manner atall
times.Upon completionof any work therein,theEasement Areas shallbe restoredto the same
conditionitwas in priorto such work to the extentthatsuch restcwationisreasonablypossible.
4. Waste and Unlawful, Improper or Offensive Use of the Easement Areas:
The GRANTEE shallnot commit or cause to be committed any waste inor upon the Easement
Areas ormaintainany publicor privatenuisanceorany otheractionwhich may interferewith or
disturbthequietenjoyment of the Easement Areas or any surroundingproperty,includingthe
GRANTOR’S PARCEL, nor shalltheGRANTEE permittheEasement Areas to be used forany
improper,offensiveorunlawfulpurpose.
4.4842-1427-0469.3
Minimal Interference! The GRANTEE shall use the Easement Areas5.
solelyforthepurposesprovidedherein,and willexerciseGRANTEE’S irghtshereunderinsuch
manner as to occasion as littleinterferenceas reasonablynecessarywith theuse and enjoyment
of the rest of the GRANTOR’S PARCEL.
Reserved Use bv GRANTOR: The GRANTOR exceptsand reservesthe6.
righttouse theEasement Areas foraccessand utilitypurposes,includingdierighttoconstruct.
install,erect,allow,or permit any improvements thereon,includingtheRoadway and Utility
Lines,and includingthe irghtto granteasements over theEasementAreasorany portionor
portionsthereoftoothers;provided,however,thatsuchuseby theGRANTOR orothersshall
not unreasonablyinterferewith theGRANTEE’S easement rightsherein.
Compliance With Laws: The GRANTEE shall,atalltimesobserve,
perform,and comply with the requirementsof alllaws,statutes,ordinances,rulesand regulations
applicableto the Easement Areas and any improvements therein,now orhereafterenactedby
7.
any governmentalauthoritywithapplicablejurisdiction.
Acceptance:The GRANTEE acceptstheEasement Areas in“AS IS,8.
WHERE IS” condition,and understands and agrees ftiatthe GRANTOR has made no
representationor warrantywith respectto theconditionof theEasement Areas or thesuitability
or fitnessof the Easement Areas forany particularuse or purpose.
Liens: The GRANTEE shallnot commit or permitany actor neglect9.
whereby theGRANTOR’S PARCEL, or any portionthereof,shallbecome subjectto any
attachment,judgment, lien,chargeor encumbrance whateoeverresultingfrom theactsor
omission of GRANTEE, and shallindemnify and hold GRANTOR harmlessagainstallloss.
cost,and expenses,includingreasonableattorneys’feesand costs,whetherornotsuitisfiled.
5.4842-1427-0469.3
wittirespectthereto.GRANTEE shallpromptlydischargeorcausetobedischargedor
dismissed,everysuchattachment,judgment,Hen,charge,encumbrance,oranynoticeor
applicationthereof,whichmay befiledagainsttheGRANTOR’SPARCELoranyportion
thereof.
Dedication to Countv of Maui or Stateof Hawaii: In theeventthe10.
EasementAreas,or any portionorportionsthereof,isdedicatedtotheCountyofMaui,theState
of Hawaii,orany othergovernmentalagencyforpublicroadwaypurposes,thenalleasement
rightsinsuchdedicatedEasementAreas,oranyportionorportionsthereofsodedicated,shall
automaticallyterminate.Ifsuchrightsarenotautomaticallyterminatedforanyreason,
GRANTEE shallexecute and record any documentation toeffectivelycancelsucheasement
rights.The GRANTOR andtheGRANTEE agreetocooperateinthededicationprocess,
includingthesigningofanydeed,joinder,authorizations,consents,approvals,orpermits.
PaRpm^nts To Countv orUtilityCompanies: In theeventeasementsare
requestedand/orrequiredby theCountyofMaui,StateofHawaii,apublicutilitycompanysuch
Maui ElectricCompany, Ltd,orHawaiianTelcom,Inc.,orothersimilargovernmentalagency
utilitycompany,thepartiesheretoshallfullycooperatetograntandconveysucheasements,
provided,however,thatsucheasementsand/ortheusethereofshallnotobstructorinterferewith
theGRANTEE’S plansand use oftheEasement Areas foraccessandutilitypurposestoservice
11.
as
or
the GRANTEE’S PARCEL.
Condemnation: IftheEasement Areas,or any portionthereof,shallbe
condemned or takenby any governmentalautiiorityorpublicservicecompanyforuseby the
generalpublic,theGRANTEE shallsurrendertheEasementAreasortheportionsocondemned,
and thiseasement shall terminate as to the Easement Areas ortheportionso condemned. Any
12.
6.4842-1427-046W
compensationand/ordamages payableby reasonof suchcondemnationshallbepayabletothe
GRANTOR, exceptthattheGRANTEE shallhavetherighttoclaimandrecoverfromthe
condemning authority,but notfrom theGRANTOR, any suchcompensationwhichispayable
fortheGRANTEE’S UtilityLinesand Roadway.
Indemnity: The GRANTEE shalldefend,indemnify and hold the13.
GRANTOR harmlessfrom and againstany and allclaimsanddemandsfiaranyandalllossesor
damages,includingpropertydamage,personalinjury,andwrongfuldeath,fines,penalties,
injuries,causesofactions,suits,and expenses,ofwhatsoeverkindandnature,incontractorin
tort,arisingoutoforinconnectionwiththeGRANTEE’S useoftheEasementAreas.
Insurance:The GRANTEE shallsecure,pay for,and maintainatall
times,atGRANTEE’S solecostand expense,a policyofgeneralliabilityinsurance,orthe
equivalentthereof;witha responsibleinsurancecompany authorizedtodobusinessintheState
ofHawaii,namingtheGRANTOR asadditionalinsuredwHh respecttotheEasementAreasand
any improvementsthereon,andincludinga provisionrequiringthirtydays’priorwrittennotice
toGRANTOR ofpendingcancellationorchangeintheterms,insuchliabilitylimitsasprudent
insurancepracticesintheCountyofMaui may requireforlikeorsimilarproperties.Upon
requestoftheGRANTOR, theGRANTEE shallpromptlyprovidetheGRANTOR acurrent
Certificateof Insuranceor otherevidence of such insurancecoverage.
14.
15. DisputeResolution:
Negotiation:The partiesagreethatitisintheirbestintereststo
resolveandsettleanyclaims,disputes,ordisagreementsinacooperativeandexpeditious
Accordingly,thepartiesagreetonegotiateingoodfaithtowardtheresolutionofany
a.
manner.
7.4842-1427-04«9J
claim,dispute,disagreement,orothermatterinquestionarisingoutofthisEasementorthe
breach thereof.
Mediation:Ifthepartiescannotresolveany claim,dispute,
disagreement,orotherissues,suchdisputeshallbe referredtoMediationServicesofMaui,Inc.,
or othersimilarorganization,or any individualor organizationselectedbythepartieshereto,for
-bindingmediation.Eitherpartymay referthedisputetomediation.Thepartiesshallmeet
with themediator as soon as reasonablypossible,and no formaldiscoveryshalloccurin
connectionwith themediation.The partiesmay offersuchevidenceastheydesire,orasmay be
requestedby themediator.Alloraland writtencommunicationstoandfromthemediatorand
thepartieswithrespecttothemediationshallbe confidentialandinadmissibleforanypurposein
any subsequentarbitrationorlitigation.The partiesagreetoexecutea confidentialityagreement
priortocommencing themediation.
b.
non
Arbitration:Ifthedisputeisnot resolvedby mediation,itmay be
decidedby bindingarbitration.Otherwise,thepartiesmaintaintheirrights,claimsand actions
underapplicablelaw. Shouldthepartiesagreeotbindingarbitration,thepartiesmay agreeupon
c.
an impartialand disinterestedarbitrator.
In the eventthe partiesare unable to agree upon a single,impartialand
disinterestedarbitrator,then the disputeshallbe determinedby threearbitrators.Each partyshall
appointone arbitrator,and shallgivetheotherwrittennoticeofsuchappointment.Ifeitherparty
fellstoso appointan arbitratorwithinten(10)days afterwrittenreceiptofnoticefrom theother
party,thepartymaking the.appointmentmay applytoany JudgeoftheSecondCircuitCourtfor
anointment of a second arbitrator.The two arbitratorsshallselecta thirdarbitrator.Iftheyefll
todo so withinetn(10)days afterappointmentof thesecondarbitrator,eitherpartymay applyto
8.4842-1427-0469.3
any Judgeof theSecond CircuitCourtforappointmentof a thirdarbitrator.A decisionofthe
majorityofthearbitratorsshallbe final,conclusive,andbindingupontheparties,unlessthe
same shallbe vacated,modified,or corrected,as providedinSection658,HawaiiRevised
Statutes,as the same may be amended from time totime.
16. Default:
The partiesheretoshallnot willfullycommit any breachordefaultofthis
Easement,orthespiritor intenthereof,and shallabideandcomplywiththetermshereofingood
frith.
In the event of a breach or default,the matter shallbe resolvedand/ordecided
upon as hereinabovesetforth;provided,however, thatthenon-defaultingpartyshallbe entitled
toan award of allcostsand expensesincurredfrom thedefrultingparty,includingreasonable
attorney’sfeesand costs.
Non-Waiver: No efilureby eitherpartyto insiston thestrictperformance17.
of any term hereofortoexerciseany irghtor remedy consequentupon aneventoffrilureshall
constitutea waiverofany such Ixeachofany ofsuch term.Effortstomitigatethedamages
caused by defaultor breach of the terms and covenants ofthisEasementshallnotbe construedto
be a waiverof any irghttorecoverdamages or claims.
Runs With The Land: This Easement shall be recorded in the Bureau of18.
Conveyances of theStateof Hawaii. Upon such recording,theeasementirghtsgrantedherein
and thecovenantsand agreementsof thepartiesheretoshallconstituteobligationswhich shall
run with the GRANTEE’S PARCEL and the GRANTOR’S PARCEL, and be the responsibility
of allfuture owners of the GRANTEE’S PARCEL and the GRANTOR’S PARCEL.
9.4842-1427-046»,3
Hawaii Law: This Easement ismade under,and shallbe governedby the19.
laws of the State of Hawaii.
Successors:The rightsand obligationshereundershallinuretothebenefit
of and be bindingon thepartieshereto,and theirrespectiveheirs,personalrepresentatives,
successorsand assigns.The use ofany gendershallincludeallgenders,andtheuseofany
numbers shallbe construedas thesingularor theplural,asthecasemay require.Allterms,
covenants,and conditionstobe observedand perfoimedbyeitherpartyshallbejointandseveral
ifenteredintoby more than one.
20.
InvalidProvisions:Ifany provisionofthisEasementisadjudgedor
otherwise determined to be unenforceable or invalid,allotherterms,conditionsand covenants
21.
contained herein shallnevCTthelessremain in ftiUforce and effect.
EntireA^eement: ThisEasement constitutestheentireagreement
between thepartieswithrespectottheirrights,duties,andobligationshereunder,andallmatters
relatedthereto,and supersedesallpriornegotiations,representations,correspondence,
understandingsand agreementsbetween theparties.The partiesreservetheirghttodiscussany
otheritemsas theymay arisefrom time ottime,butanyamendmenttothisEasementshallbe
ineffectiveluilessin writingand signedby thepartieshereto.
Coimteroarts:The partiesheretoagreethatthisinstrumentmay be
executedincounterparts,each ofwhich shallbe deemed an original,andsaidcounterpartsshall
togetherconstituteone and thesame agreement,bindingallofthepartieshereto,notwithstanding
allofthepartiesarenotsignatorytotheoriginalorthesame counterparts.Forallpurposes,
including,withoutlimitation,recordation,filingand deliveryofthisinstrument,duplicate
22.
23.
10.4842-1427-0469.3
unexecuted and unacknowledged pages of the counterpartsmay be discardedand theremaining
pages assembled as one document.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the partiesheretohave caused thisAgreement to be
executed on the day and year firstabove written.
GRANTOR:
WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC
By.
LARRY
ItsManager
DERSON
GRANTEE:
MVI,LLC
JE^SESPENCER
By
Its Member
11.4842-l427-04€9.3
)STATE OF HAWAII
) ss.
)COUNTY OF MAUI
On this day of 	 	
appearedLARRY W. ANDERSON, tome personallyl^own/provedtome onthebasisof
satis&ctoiyevidence,who, beingby me dulysworn oraffirmed,didsaythatheisManagerof
WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC, a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, and thatsuchperson
executedtheforegoinginstrumentasthefreeactand deedofsuchperson,andifapplicablein
thecapacityshown,havingbeendulyaxithorizedtoexecutesuchinstrumentinsuchcapacity.
^ 20 to ,beforeme personally
JL
y M- TAiil+afctM'U]
^.Wo.79^^/^
★ Notary Public,StateofHawaii
My commission expires:
\
(Notaiy Stiunpor Si
NOTARY CERTinCATIQN STATEMENT
ACCESS AND UTILFTY EASEMENT 	DocumeDt Idenliflcadonor Description;
UU<LjJ10lDocument Date;
No. of Pages:
Jurisdiction(inwhich notarialactisperformed): Second Circuit
(N i»m:i
AO
Cl
PrintedName of Notary
1*1 O: se:
ofNotary
>MtoCertification Date
12.4M2-1427-0469J
)STATE OF HAWAII
) ss.
)COUNTY OF MAUI
,0ftday of
appearedJESSESPENCER, tome personallyknown/provedtomeonthebasisofsatisfactoryevidence,who, beingby me dulyswornoraffirmed,didsaythatheistheMcmb^ ofMVI,LLC,
_ Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, and thatsuchpersonexecutedtheforegoingmstrumentas
thefreeactand deedofsuchperson,and ifapplicableinthecapacityshown,havingbeenduly
authorizedto executesuch instrumentin such capacity.
,2oj0,beforemepersonallyOn this
a
Name: (^.>1j)ll^
NotaryPublic,StateofHawaii
f My commission expires:(N#
NOTARY CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENTDocument Identi^catioiior Description:
09- 10 ^OlODocument Date:
No. of Pa^s:
Jurisdiction(m whichnotarialactisperformed): 4SSSecond Circuit
PrintedName of Notary
o^/io/;mioCertificationDateStgnatuM ofNotary
13.4S42-M27-0469J
EXHIBIT “A”
A Roadway andUtilityEasement“A” overandacrossa portionofLot6of
WaikapuHema LargeLotSubdivision,subjecttovehicularaccessrestrictionsfromHonoapiilani
Highway(FederalAid ProjectNumber 13-G)andbeingmoreparticularlydescribedasfollows:
Beginningata pointatthesoutheasterlycomerofthiseasement,theazimuthand
distancefix>mthesoutheasterlycomer of Lot 6 ofWaikapuHema LargeLotSubdivisionbeing
185® 25' 18.33" 536.67 feet,thecoordinatesof saidpointofbeginningreferredtoGovernment
SurveyTriangulationStation“LUKE”, being23,174.43feetSouthand3,709.27feetWestand
niimingby azimuthsmeasuredclockwisefi’omTrueSouth:
Thence over and acrossa portionof Grant 3152 to H. Cornwell,beingalsooverandacross
a portionof Lot 6 ofWaikapu Hema LargeLot
Subdivisionon a curve to the lefthaving a radiusof
30.00feet,thechordazimuthand distancebeing:
139® 55' 56.37" 42.46 feet;
Thence over and across same on a curve to the irghthavinga radiusof 529.72feet,the
chord azimuth and distancebeing:
107° 34' 13.04" 232.55 efet;
1.
2.
49.06 feet over and across same;3. 120° 15’
Thence over and across same on a curve to the lefthavinga radiusof600.00 feetthe
chord azimuth and distancebeing:
101° 31’ 385.40 feet;
4.
116.06 feet over and acro^ same;82° 47'5.
Thence over and across same on a curve to itielefthaving a radiusof 585.00 feet,the
chord azimuth and distancebeing:
60° 22' 35" 445.98 feet;
6.
Thence over and across same on a curve to the lefthavinga radiusof 30.00feet,thechord
azimuth and distancebeing:
352° 58* 10" 42.43 feet;
7.
lOO.CX) feetoverand acrossa portionofGrant 3152 toH.
Cornwell,beingalsoalongLot 1 ofWaikapu Hema
Large Lot Subdivision;
8. 127* 58’ 10’
4S42>l42T-0469.3
Thence over and acrossa portionof Grant 3152 to H. Cornwell,beingalsooverand
acrossa portionof Lot 6 of Waikapu Hema Large Lot
Subdivisionon a curve to the lefthaving a radiusof
30.00 feet,the chord azimuth and distancebeing:
262° 58’ 10” 42.43 feet.
9.
Thence over and acrosssame on a curve to therighthavinga ardiusof625.00 feet,the
chord azimuth and distancebeing:
240° 22’ 35” 476.48 feet;
10.
116.06 feetover and across same;47'11. 262°
Thence over and across same on a curve to the righthavinga radiusof 640.00feet,the
chord azimuth and distancebeing:
281° 31' 411.09 feet;
12.
49.06 feetover and across same;13. 300° 15’
Thence over and across same on a curve to the lefthavinga radiusof 489.72feet,the
chord azimuth and distancebeing:
387° 34' 13.04” 214.99 feet;
14.
Thence over and across same on a curve to the lefthavinga radiusof30.00 feet,thechord
azimuth and distancebeing:
229° 50’ 55.80” 42.46 feet;
15.
Thence along thewesterlysideof HonoapiilaniHighway (FederalAid ProjectNumber
13-G) on a curvetotherighthavinga radiusof
34,342.50 feet,the chord azimuth and distancebeing:
4° 53' 26.09” 100.09feetto thepointof beginning
and containingan Area of 1.239acre,more or less.
16.
END OF EXHIBIT “A
2.4842-J427-M69.3
EXmBIT “B”
ALL OF THAT CERTAIN 40 feetwide Easement “A-1”,forroadway and utility
purposes,affectingLot6 oftheWaikapuHema LargeLotSubdivision,aportionofGrant2152
toH. Cornwell,situateatWaikapu,Wailuku,IslandandCountyofMaui,StateofHawaiiand
more particularlydescribedasfollows:
BEGINNING ata pointatthesoutheastcomer ofthiseasementandalongthe
northsideofan existing40 feetwide EaswnentA forroadwayandutilitypurposesaffectingLot
6 ofWaikapu Hema LargeLot Subdivision,thecoordinatesofsaidpointofbeginningbeing
South 22,933.22 efet
West 4,405.73feet
referredto Government Survey TriangulationStation“LUKE” and runningby azimuths
measured clockwise from true South (meridianof said“LUKE”); thence,
72.18 feetalongtheremainderofLot 6 of Waikapu Hema
LargeLotSubdivision,beingalsothenorthsideof
existingEasement A toa point;thence,
20.26 feetalongtheremainderofLot 6 ofWaikapu Hema
Large Lot Subdivisiontoa point;thence,
Along thesame on a curvetotheleftwitha radiusof157.96feetanda centralangleof
29^ 48',the chord azimuth and distancebeing
47'82**1.
00'158°2.
3.
81.23 feetto a point;thence,
66.19 feetalongthesame toa point;thence,
213.74 feetalongthesame toa point;thence.
Along thesame on a curvetotheleftwitha radiusof200.00feetanda centralangleof
25° 20',the chord azimuth and distancebeing
143° 06’
128° 12'4.
118° 585.
6.
87.71 feetto a point;thence,106' 18’
79.38 feetalongthesame to a point;thence,
Along thesame on a curvetotheirghtwitha radiusof190.00feetand a centralangleof
37° 58',the chord azimuth and distancebeing
93° 38'7.
8.
123.61 feetto a point;thence,
53.64 feetalongthesame to a point;thence.
112° 37'
131° 36'9.
4842-1427-0469.3
Along thesame on a curvetotheleftwitha radiusof300.00feetanda centralangleof
38” 28’,thechord azimuth and distancebeing
10.
197.65 feetto a point;thence,
87.37 feetalong the same to a point;thence.
Along thesame on a curvetotheirghtwitha radiusof200.00feetanda centralangleof
40® 52',the chord azimuth and distancebeing
112® 22'
11. 93® 08*
12.
139.65 feettoa point;thence,
123.08 feetalong the same to a point;thence.
Along thesame on a curvetotheirghtwitha radiusof160.00feetanda centralangleof58° 14',thechord azimuth and distancebeing
113® 34’
134® 00’13.
14.
155.71 feettoa point;thence,
283.29 feetalongthesame to a point;thence,
Along thesame on a curvetodieleftwitha radiusof80.00feetanda centralangleof59®
54',thechord azimuth and distancebeing
163® 07'
14’192®15.
16.
79.88 feetto a point;thence,
148.31 feetalongthesame to a point;thence,
Along thesame on a curvetotheleftwitha radiusof120.00feetandacentralangleof40° 20',thechord azimuth and distancebeing
162® IT
132® 20’17.
18.
82.74 feetot a point;thence,
103.86 feetalong the same to a point;thence,
Alongthesame on a curvetotheirghtwitha radiusof100.00feetandacentralangleof49° 30’,thechord azimuth and distancebeing
112® 10'
92® 00’19.
20.
83.73 feetot a poin^ thence,
73.10 feetalongthesame to a point;thence,
22.89 feetalongthesame to a point;thence,
44.50 feetalongLot 2 of Waikapu Hema Large Lot
Subdivision to a point;
116® 45
21. 141® 30’
22. 123® 30’
30'23. 187®
2.4842-H27-0469.3
48.74 feetalongtheremainderof Lot 6 of Waikapu Hema
Large Lot Subdivisiontoa point;thence.
303® 30’24.
79.43 feetalong thesame toa point;thence,
Along thesame on a curveto theleftwith a ardiusof60.00feetand a centralangleof49®
30',the chord azimuth and distancebeing
25. 321® 30’
26.
50.24 feetot a point;thence,296® 45
272® 00' 103.86 feetalong the same ot a point;thence.
Along the same on a curve to the irghtwith a ardiusof 160.00 feetand a centralangleof
40® 20’,the chord azimuth and distancebeing
27.
28.
292® 10’ 110.32 feetto a point;thence,
29. 312® 20' 148.31 feetalong thesame ot a point;thence,
Along thesame on a curve to the irghtwith a radiusof 120.00 feetand a centralangleof
59® 54',the chord azimuth and distancebeing
30.
342® 119.82 feetot a point;thence,17’
283.29 feetalong thesame ota point;thence.
Along the same on a curve to the leftwith a radiusof 120.00 feetand a centralangle of
58® 14',the chord azimuth and distancebeing
14’31. 12®
32.
343® 07' 116.78 efetota point;thence,
123.08 efetalong thesame to a point;thence.
Along the same on a curve to the leftwith a radiusof 160.00 efetand a centralangle of
40® 52’,thechord azimuth and distancebeing
33. 314® 00'
34.
293® 34' 111.72 feetot a point;thence,
87.37 feetalongthesame ota point;thence.
Along thesame on a curvetotheirghtwith a radiusof 340.00 feetand a centralangleof
38® 28',thechordazimuthand distancebeing
35. 273® 08’
36.
292® 22' 224.00 feetto a point;thence,
53.64 feetalongthesame ota point;thence,37. 311® 36'
3.4S42-1427-04693
38. Along the same on a curve to the leftwith a radiusof 150.00feetand a centralangleof
37° 58',thechordazimuthand distancebeing
292° 37 97,59 feetto a point;thence,
79.38 feetalongthesame to a point;thence,
Along thesame on a curvetotheirghtwitha radiusof 240.00 feetand a centralangle of
25° 20',thechord azimuth and distancebeing
39. 273° 38'
40.
286° 18' 105.25 feettoa point;thence,
216.97 feetalong the same to a point;thence.41. 298° 58'
42. 308° 12' 69.42 feetalongthesame to a point;thence,
Along thesame on a curvetotheirghtwith a radiusof 197.96 feetand a centralangle of
29° 48',thechord azimuth and distancebeing
43.
323° 06' 101.80 feetto a point;thence,
Along the same on a curve to the leftwith a radiusof 40.00 feetand a centralangle of 75°
13',the chord azimuth and distancebeing
44.
300° 23' 30' 48.82 feettoa pointof beginningand containingan area of
2.171 acres,more or less.
END OF EXHIBIT “B”
4.4842-1427-0469.3
i
opu
R-694 STATE OF HAWAII
BUREAU OF CONVEYANCES
RECORDED
mi FEB 12, 2010 02:00 PM
Doc No(S) 2010^20513
/si NICKI ANN THOMPSON
REGISTRAR
20 1/1 Z9
BIEGULAR SYSTEMLAND COURT
ReturnBy Mail Pick-Up To:
CARLSMITH BALL LLP
One Main Plaza, Suite 400
2200 Main Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
Attention:Blaine J.Kobayashi
Telephone:(808)242-4535
TITLE OF DOCUMENT:
WATERLINE EASEMENT
PARTIES TO DOCUMENT:
WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC
1132 Norman Drive
Manteca, California 95336
GRANTOR:
MVI, LLC
P. O. Box 97
Kihei, Maui, Hawaii 96753
GRANTEE:
Easement W-1
TAX MAP KEY(S): (2)3-6-004:003and
(2)3-6-001:018 (Thisdocument consistsof_LL pages.)
4840-9I20-I797.2
WATERLINE EASEMENT
and between WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC, a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, whose
THIS INDENTURE made this day of .»by
address is 1132 Norman Drive, Manteca, California95336, hereinaftercalled“GRANTOR”, and
MVI, LLC, a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, whose addressisP.O. Box 97,Kihei,Maui,
Hawaii 96753, hereinaftercalled“GRANTEE”,
WIIHESSEIH:
WHEREAS, the GRANTOR istheowner of Lot 6 of theWaikapu Hema Large
Lot Subdivision,situate,lyingand beingatWaikapu, DistrictofWailuku,Islandand Countyof
Maui, Stateof Hawaii,area657.19 acres,more or less,and bearingTax Key designation
(2)3-6-004:003,hereinaftercalled“GRANTOR’S PARCEL;” and
WHEREAS, the GRANTEE istheowner of thatcertainparcelof land(beingall
oftheland(s)describedinand coveredby Land PatentGrantS-13975toWailukuSugar
Company; Land PatentGrant 11067 toWailuku SugarCompany; LandPatentGrant10962to
Wailuku SugarCompany; Land PatentGrant 10745toWailuku SugarCompany; Land Patent
Grant 10497 toWailuku Sugar Company; Land PatentGrant 10294toWailukuSugarCompany
and Grant9794 toWailuku Sugar Company; and portion(s)oftheland(s)describedinand
coveredby Land PatentGrantNumber 3152 toH. Cornwell),situate,lyingand beingat
Ukumehame, Waikapu, Districtof Wailuku,Islandand CountyofMaui,StateofHawaii,area
256.903acres,more or less,and bearingTax Key designation(2)3-6-001:018,hereinaftercalled
“GRANTEE’S PARCEL;” and
/
2.4840-9120-1797,2
WHEREAS, theGRANT1EE requiresan easementover,under,acrossand through
portionsoftheGRANTOR’S PARCEL forwaterlinepurposes;and
WHEREAS, the GRANTOR has agreedto grantsame totheGRANTEE, subject
to and in accordance with the terms, covenants,conditions,and provisionshereinaftersetforth;
NOW, THEREFORE,
furiher wiinesseih IHaii
The partieshereto,forand inconsiderationof thepremises,and themutual
promises,covenants,and agr^ments hereinaftersetforth,dp herebyagreeas follows:
Grant of Non-Exclusive Perpetual Easement: The GRANTOR, as the1.
owner of the GRANTOR’S PARCEL, in considerationof the sum of TEN AND NO/100
DOLLARS ($10.00)and othergood and valuableconsiderationpaid totheGRANTOR by the
GRANTEE, thereceiptwhereof isherebyacknowledged, does hereby grantand convey unto the
GRANTEE, itssuccessorsand assigns,as the owner of the GRANTEE’S PARCEL, a non¬
exclusiveperpetualeasement over,under,acrossand through a portionof the GRANTOR’S
PARCEL, designatedas Easement “W-1”, hereinaftercalled“Easement Area”,which Easement
Area ismore particularlydescribedin Exhibit“A” and as shown on the map designatedExhibit
B”, both attachedheretoand by referencemade a parthereof.
TOGETHER with the rightof ingresstoand egressfrom the Easement Area for
allpurposesinconnectionwith therightshereby granted.
Use of Easement Area: The GRANTEE shall use the Easement Area for a2.
waterpipelinesystem,includingpipelines,water meters,valves,equipment and appurtenances
as may be necessaryforsaidwaterpipelinesystem,hereinaftercollectivelyreferredto as “Water
3.4840-9120-1797.2
System,”includingbut not limitedtotheinstallation,construction,reinstallation,reconstruction.
operation,replacement,removal,maintenance and repairof the Water System withinthe
Easement Area.
Ifany permits,approvals,consents,or authorizationstoconstructor installthe
Water System arerequired,the partiesshallcooperateand signany and allsuch permits.
approvals,consents,or authorizations.In such event,GRANTEE shallpay forallcostsand
expensesincurredinconnectionwiththeprocessingofsuchpermits,approvals,consents,or
authorizations.
Maintenanceand Repair:The GRANTEE shallbe responsiblefor
maintainingand repairingtheWater System,and tokeeptheEasementAreaina clean,safe,and
orderlyappearanceand conditionatalltimes.
The GRANTEE shalluse due careand diligenceto construct,re-construct,install,
re-install,maintain,operate,repair,replaceand/orremove theWater Systemwithinthe
Easement Area,and tokeep thesame ina properand safeconditionand manner atalltimes.
Upon completionofany work therein,theEasement Area shallbe restoredtothesame condition
itwas inpriortosuchwork totheextentthatsuchrestorationisreasonablypossible.
In the event the GRANTEE shalldisturb the Easement Area,theground surface
thereof,or any improvementsorvegetationthereonortherein,theGRANTEE shallrestoresaid
Easement Area,theground surfaceand/orimprovements,and/orvegetationtotheiroriginal
conditionjustpriortothedisturbance,totheextentthatsuchrestorationisreasonablypossible.
GRANTEE’S rightshereunderarelimitedtotheWater SystemtoservetheGRANTEE’S
PARCEL. GRANTEE shallnot use or constructany improvements intheEasementArea which
3.
4.4840-9120-1797.2
would unreasonablyimpede theuseofsuchareaby GRANTOR oranyotherpartywho now has
or hereafterlawfullyacquirestherighttoutilizethesame Easement Area.
Waste and Unlawful.ImproperorOffensiveUse oftheEasement Area;4,
The GRANTEE shallnot commit or cause to be committed any waste in or upon the Easement
Area or maintainany publicor privatenuisanceor any otheractionwhich may interferewithor
disturbthequietenjoymentofany surroundingproperty,includingtheGRANTOR’S PARCEL,
nor shalltheGRANTEE permittheEasement Area tobe used forany improper,offensiveor
unlawful purpose.
Minimal Interference:Hie GILWTEE shailuse the Easement Area solely5.
forthe purposesprovidedherein,and willexerciseGRANTEE’S rightshereunderinsuch
manner as to occasion as littleinterferenceas reasonably necessarywith theuse and enjoyment
of the test of the GRANTOR’S PARCEL.
Reserved Use bv GRANTOR: The GRANTOR exceptsand reservesthe6.
righttousetheEasementArea forutilitypurposes,includingtherighttoconstruct,install,erect,
allow,orpermitany improvements thereon,and includingtheirghtto granteasementsoverthe
Easement Area orany portionor portionsthereof,toothers;provided,however,thatsuchuseby
the GRANTOR or othersshallnot unreasonably interferewith the GRANTEE’S easement irghts
herein.
Compliance With Laws: The GRANTEE shall,at alltimes observe.7.
perform,and comply with therequirementsof alllaws,statutes,ordinances,rulesand regulations
applicableto theEasement Area and any improvements therein,now orhereafterenactedby any
governmentalauthoritywith applicablejurisdiction.
5.4840-9120-1797,2
Acceptance: The GRANTEE acceptstheEasement Area in“AS IS,8.
WHERE IS” condition,and understands and agrees thatthe GRANTOR has made no
representationor warrantywith respecttothe conditionof the Easement Area or the suitabilityor
fitnessof theEasement Area forany particularuse or purpose.
Liens: The GRANTEE shallnot commit or permitany actor neglect9.
whereby the GRANTOR’S PARCEL, or any portionthereof,shallbecome subjectto any
attachmentJudgment, lien,charge or encumbrance whatsoeverresultingfrom theactsor
omission of GRANTEE, and shallindemnifyand hold GRANTOR harmless againstallloss.
cost,and expenses,includingreasonableattorneys’feesand costs,whetherornotsuitisfiled,
with respectthereto.GRANTEE shallpromptlydischargeor causetobe dischargedor
dismissed,every such attachment,judgment, lien,charge,encumbrance,or any noticeor
applicationthereof,which may be filedagainsttheGRANTOR’S PARCEL orany portion
thereof.
Dedication to Countv of Maui or State of Hawaii: In the event the10.
Easement Area,or any portionorportionsthereof,isdedicatedtotheCounty ofMaui,theState
of Hawaii,or any othergovernmental agency forpublicroadway purposes,thenalleasement
rightsinsuch dedicatedEasement Area,or any portionorportionsthereofso dedicated,shall
automaticallyterminate.Ifsuch rightsarenot automaticallyterminatedforany reason,
GRANTEE shallexecute and record any documentation toeffectivelycancelsuch easement
rights.The GRANTOR and the GRANTEE agree to cooperateinthededicationprocess,
includingthesigningof any deed,joinder,authorizations,consents,approvals,orpermits.
Easements To Countv or UtilityCompanies: In the event easements are
requestedand/orrequiredby theCounty ofMaui, StateofHawaii,a publicutilitycompany such
11.
6.4840-9120.1797.2
as Maui ElectricCompany, Ltd.orHawaiian Telcom, Inc.,orothersimilargovernmentalagency
or utilitycompany, thepartiesheretoshallfullycooperatetograntand convey such easements,
provided,however,thatsucheasementsand/ortheusethereofshallnotobstructorinterferewith
theGRANTEE’S plansand use of theEasement Area forthepurposessetforthherein.
Condemnation: Ifthe Easement Area, or any portionthereof,shallbe12.
condemned ortakenby any governmentalauthorityorpublicservicecompany foruseby the
generalpublic,theGRANTEE shallsurrendertheEasementArea ortheportionsocondemned.
and this easement shall terminate as to the Easement Area or the portion so condemned. Any
compensationand/ordamages payableby reasonofsuchcondemnationshallbe payabletothe
GRANTOR, exceptthattheGRANTEE shallhave therightto claimand recoverfrom the
condemning authority,but not from theGRANTOR, any such compensation which ispayable
forthe GRANTEE’S Water System.
Indemnity: The GRANTEE shalldefend,indemnify and hold the13.
GRANTOR harmless from and againstany and allclaimsand demands forany and alllossesor
damages, includingpropertydamage, personalinjury,and wrongfuldeath,fines,penalties,
injuries,causesof actions,suits,and expenses,of whatsoeverkind and nature,incontractor in
tort,arisingout ofor inconnectionwiththeGRANTEE’S use of theEasement Area.
Insurance:The GRANTEE shallsecure,pay for,and maintainat all14.
times,atGRANTEE’S solecostand expense,a policyof generalliabilityinsurance,orthe
equivalentthereof,with a responsibleinsurancecompany authorizedtodo businessintheState
of Hawaii, naming the GRANTOR as additionalinsuredwith respecttothe Easement Area and
any improvements thereon,and includinga provisionrequiringthirtydays’priorwrittennotice
toGRANTOR ofpending cancellationorchange intheterms,insuch liabilitylimitsasprudent
7.4840-9120*1797.2
insurancepracticesintheCounty of Maui may requireforlikeor similarproperties.Upon
requestoftheGRANTOR, theGRANTEE shallpromptlyprovide the GRANTOR a current
Certificateof Insurance or other evidence of such insurancecoverage.
15. Termination: Ifthe GRANTEE shallat any time remove the Water
System or any partthereoffrom the Easement Area or any portionthereofand shallfora period
of two (2)yearsthereafterfailtorestoreor reinstallsame, thenand insuch event,the
GRANTEE’S rightstotheEasement Area or theportionswiththeremoved Water System shall
terminateif,upon requestof theGRANTOR, theGRANTEE submitsan Affidavitstatingthe
reason forcessationof use,ifapplicable,and the GRANTEE’S intendedabandonment thereof,or
in the alternative,the GRANTOR shallnotifythe GRANTEE by certifiedmailthatthe
GRANTOR intendsto fileor record,withinthirty(30)days,a statementof abandonment or
cessation of use in order to effectuate the cancellation and termination of thisEasement, or any
suchabandonedorunusedportionsthereof.
Upon any terminationorabandonmentoftherightsand easementshereby
granted,theGRANTEE shallpromptlysurrenderand yieldup theEasementArea,oranyportion
or portionsthereofand remove theWater System from saidEasementArea,oranyapplicable
portionor portionsthereof,atGRANTEE’S expense. GRANTEE shallfurtherdocumentsuch
release,cancellationor termination of thisEasement, or a partialterminationof theapplicable
portionor portionsof the Easement Area.
Dispute Resolution:
Negotiation:The partiesagreethatitisintheirbestintereststo
resolveand settleany claims,disputes,ordisagreementsina cooperativeand expeditious
Accordingly,thepartiesagreetonegotiateingood faithtowardtheresolutionofany
16.
a.
manner.
8.4840-9120-1797 2
claim,dispute,disagreement,orothermatterinquestionarisingoutofthisEasementorthe
breach thereof.
Mediation: Ifthepartiescannot resolveany claim,dispute.b.
disagreement,orotherissues,such disputeshallbe referredtoMediationServicesofMaui,Inc.,
othersimilarorganization,orany individualororganizationselectedby thepartieshereto,for
non-bindingmediation.Eitherpartymay referthedisputetomediation.The partiesshallmeet
with themediatoras soon as reasonablypossible,and no formaldiscoveryshalloccurin
connectionwith the mediation. The partiesmay offersuch evidenceastheydesire,or asmay be
requestedby themediator.Alloraland writtencommunicationstoand fromthemediatorand
thepartieswithrespecttothemediationshallbe confidentialand inadmissibleforany purposein
any subsequentarbitrationorlitigation.The partiesagreetoexecutea confidentialityagreement
or
priortocommencing themediation.
Arbitration:Ifthedisputeisnot resolvedby mediation,itmay bec.
decidedby bindingarbitration.Otherwise,thepartiesmaintaintheirrights,claimsand actions
under applicablelaw. Should thepartiesagreetobindingarbitration,thepartiesmay agreeupon
an impartialand disinterestedarbitrator.
Inthe eventthe partiesare unabletoagreeupon a single,impartialand
disinterestedarbitrator,then the disputeshallbe determinedby threearbitrators.Each partyshall
appointone arbitrator,and shallgive theotherwrittennoticeof such appointment. Ifeitherparty
failstoso appointan arbitratorwithinten(10)days afterwrittenreceiptof noticefrom theother
party,thepartymaking the appointment may applytoany Judge of theSecond CircuitCourt for
appointment of a second arbitrator.The two arbitratorsshallselecta thirdarbitrator.Ifthey fail
to do so withinten(10) days afterappointment of the second arbitrator,eitherpartymay apply to
9.4840-9I20-I797.2
any Judge oftheSecond CircuitCourt forappointmentof a thirdarbitrator.A decisionof the
majorityofthearbitratorsshallbe final,conclusive,and bindingupon theparties,unlessthe
same shallbe vacated,modified,or corrected,as provided in Section 658, Hawaii Revised
Statutes,as thesame may be amended from time to time.
17. Default:
The partiesheretoshallnotwillfullycommit any breachordefaultofthis
Easement,orthespiritorintenthereof,and shallabideandcomplywiththetermshereofingood
faith.
In the event of a breach or default,the matter shallbe resolvedand/ordecided
upon ashereinabovesetforth;provided,however,thatthenon-defaultingpartyshallbeentitled
toan awardofallcostsand expensesincurredfrom thedefaultingparty,includingreasonable
attorney’sfeesand costs.
Non-Waiver: No failureby eitherpartytoinsiston thestrictperformance
ofany termhereofortoexerciseany irghtorremedy consequentuponaneventoffailureshall
constitutea waiverofany such breachofany ofsuchterm.Effortstomitigatethedamages
causedby defaultor breachof thetermsand covenantsofthisEasementshallnotbeconstruedto
be a waiverofany irghttorecoverdamages orclaims.
Runs With The Land: This Easement shallbe recorded in theBureau of
ConveyancesoftheStateofHawaii.Upon suchrecording,theeasementrightsgrantedherein
and thecovenantsand agreementsofthepartiesheretoshallconstituteobligationswhichshall
with theGRANTEE’S PARCEL and the GRANTOR’S PARCEL, and be theresponsibility
18.
19.
run
of allfiitureowners of the GRANTEE’S PARCEL and the GRANTOR’S PARCEL.
10.4*40-9120-1797.2
Hawaii Law: This Easement ismade under,and shallbe governedby the20.
laws of the Stateof Hawaii.
Successors:The irghtsandobligationshereundershallinuretothebenefit
ofand be bindingon thepartieshereto,and theirrespectiveheirs,personalrepresentatives,
successorsandassigns.The useofanygendershallincludeallgenders,andtheuseofany
numbers shallbe construedasthesingularortheplural,asthecasemay require.Allterms,
covenants,andconditionstobe observedandperformedbyeitherpartyshallbejointandseveral
21.
ifenteredintoby more thanone.
InvalidProvisions:Ifany provisionofthisEasementisadjudgedor
otherwisedeterminedtobe unenforceableorinvalid,allotherterms,conditionsandcovenants
containedhereinshallneverthelessremain infullforceand effect.
EntireAgreement: This Easement constitutesthe entireagreement
betweenthepartieswithrespecttotheirirghts,duties,andobligationshereunder,andallmatters
relatedthereto,and supersedesallpriornegotiations,representations,correspondence,
understandingsand agreementsbetweentheparties.Thepartiesreservetheirghttodiscussany
otheritemsastheymay arisefromtimetotime,butanyamendmenttothisEasementshallbe
ineffectiveunlessinwritingand signedby thepartieshereto.
Counterparts:The partiesheretoagreethatthisinstrumentmay be
executedincounterparts,eachofwhich shallbe deemed anoriginal,andsaidcounterpartsshall
togetherconstituteoneandthesameagreement,bindingallofthepartieshereto,notwithstanding
allofthepartiesarenotsignatorytotheoriginalorthesamecounterparts.Forallpurposes,
including,withoutlimitation,recordation,filinganddeliveryofthisinstrument,duplicate
22.
23.
24.
11.4840-9I20-) 797.2
unexecutedand unacknowledged pages of thecounterpartsmay bediscardedandtheremaining
pagesassembledasone document.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, thepartiesheretohave causedthisAgreementtobe
executedon theday and yearfirstabove written.
GRANTOR:
WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC
By.
NDERSONLARRY
ItsManager
GRANTEE:
MVI, LLC
By OSaM
SSESPENCER
]« Member
12.4840-9120-1797.2
)STATE OF HAWAII
) ss.
)COUNTY OF MAUI
^20 to .beforeme personally
appearedLARRY W. ANDERSON, tome personallyUriown/provedtome onthebasisof
satisfactoryevidence,who, beingby me dulyswornoraffirmed,didsaythatheisManagerof
WAIKAPU PROPERTIES, LLC, a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany,and thatsuchperson
executedtheforegoinginstrumentasthefreeactand deedofsuchperson,andifapplicablein
thecapacityshown,havingbeendulyauthorizedtoexecutesuchinstrumentinsuchcapacity.
On this9^^ dayof
Ni
Notary Public,Stateof Hawaii
My commission expires:
;
t
o
#
NOTARY CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
WATERLINE EASEMENTDocument Identificationor Description;
Document Date:
No. of Pages;
Jurisdiction(inwhich notarialactisperformed);
(Nau.,^gs£oS^%n
CircuitSecond
♦ ● 94 t
PrintedName ofNotary \
%\0
Certification DateofNotaryig at
13.4840-9120-I797.2
STATE OF HAWAII )
) ss.
COUNTY OF MAUI )
201^ ,beforemepersonallyday of
appearedJESSE SPENCER, tome personallyknown/provedtome on thebasisofsatisfactory
evidence,who, beingby me dulysworn oraffirmed,didsaythathe istheMember ofMVI, LLC,
a Hawaii limitedliabilitycompany, and thatsuch personexecutedtheforegoinginstrumentas
thefreeactand deed of such person,and ifapplicableinthecapacityshown, havingbeen duly
authorizedtoexecute such instrumentin such capacity.
On this
Name:
(NotarySSni/or \
Notary Public,Stateof Hawaii
My commission expires: 1^10^1l^lO
NOTARY CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
WATERLINE EASEMENTDocument Identificationor Description:
0^1 wl g-oioDocument Date:
No. of Pages:
Jurisdiction(inwhich notarialactisperformed):
n
j I
CircuitSecond
#
JvtSiiyw/
i..VPrintedName ofNotary
0w;^jmEUr{\L^ 0% 10MIO
Certification DateSignatureof Notary
14.4840-9120-1797.2
LAND DESCRIPTION
Easement W-1
(12 Feet Wide)
An easement forwaterlinepurposesin favorof MVI, LLC, affectingLot6 oftheWaikapu Hema
LargeLotSubdivision(SubdivisionFileNo. 3.1421)DWS SD No.88-87,beingaportionofLandPatent Grant 3152 to H. Cornwell.
Situate at
Waikapu, Wailuku,Maui,Hawaii
TaxMap Key:(2)3-6^:Portionof03
Beginningat the southwestcomer of thiseasement,beinga pointon thesoutherlyproperty
boundarylineof Lot6 oftheWaikapu Hema LargeLot Subdivision(SubdivisionFileNo.3.1421),
andonthenortherlypropertybound^ lineofLandPatentGiant9744 (oWailukuSugarCompmiy
[TMK: (2)3-6-01:18)a directtiefrom thesouthwesterlycomer alongthesoutherlyproperty
boundarylineof Lot 6 oftheWaikapu Hema LargeLotSubdivisionbeing258®57*41”for158.86
feet,thecoordinatesof saidpointof be^nhing areba^ on recordinformationand referredto
Government Survey TriangulationStation“LUKE” being23,843.80feetsouthand 4,452.55efet
westandrunningby azimuthsmeasuredclockwisefrom truesouth;thence,
feetover,across,and throughLot 6 of theWaikapu Hema
Large Lot Subdivision(SubdivisionFileNo. 3.1421)to a
point;thence,
feetalongthesame,toa point;thence,
feetalongthesame, to a point;thence,
feetalongthesame toa pointon thesoutherlyright-of-
way lineofEasement “A” oftheWaikapu Hema Large
Lot Subdivision(SubdivisionFileNo. 3.1421);thence,
feetalongthesoutherlyright-of-waylineof Easement
A” oftheWaikapu Hema Large Lot Subdivision
(SubdivisionFileNo. 3.1421)toa point;thence,
101.15168® 57* 41 r»
1.
252.81191® 10* 00 i>»
2.
236.523. 174® 19*00
284.024. 182® 10*00
12.165. 262® 47*00 n
44
feetover,across,and throughLot 6 of theWaikapu Hema
Large LotSubdivision(SubdivisionFileNo. 3.1421)to a
point;thence,
285.186. 2® 10* 00
feetalongthesame, toa point;thence,237.47354® 19* 00 »
7.
feetalongthesame, to a point;thence,252.2311® 10* 00 »
8.
EXHIBIT "A II
Continued...
Land Description
Easement W-1
TMK: (2)3-6-04:Portionof 03
9. 348* 57’41 feetalongthesame,toa pointon thesoutherlyproperty
boundarylineof Lot6 oftheWaikapu Hema LargeLot
Subdivision(SubdivisionFileNo. 3.1421);thence,
feetalongthesoutherlypropertyboundarylineofLot 6 of
theWaikapu Hema LargeLotSubdivision(Subdivision
FiteNo. 3.1421)tothepointofbeginningandcontaining
an areaof 10,487squarefeetor0.241acre.
98.80
to. 78*57’4r 12.00
This work was done by me or
undermy directsupervision.
AKAMAI LAND SURVEYING, INC.
WprofbssiokalW
*/ UNOSURVEYOIt 1^
Sherman Dudley DePonte
LicensedProfessionalLand Surveyor
State of Hawaii CertificateNo. 6960
Expires:April30,2010
209221-JM (01/21/10)
★
S,^.6960j
2.
iaaKs|OT/Ts/Towygl JO i 6Me nvMVH ‘invjf ‘OYMVXvn
xoa v d
o/n *f)/iLi3AHas cmyi im^mvso JO ‘JOd ‘’fo-9-o(z):n'n‘i
,001 * .1 :a^S
1ISIHX3,8t-JJiS3tM-T83608’‘OH QOf a
BT:iO-9-e(8):-TK'loiQB HHdY oe -Siva aourmtsis
096$ *(W Sivouunao OTMVH JO SIVIS
JOASAJOS ojyi Tvjojsssioifd aasiaon
aiHOdsa A37<ma mmssHS
'HoisiAdsdos iosma jm iuann
JO SR AS SROa SYM SJQM Sm
0969 *«N
UOA3A2inS
\ \ \\
\
SSilDV 26l\iQ9=V3HV
S0'PQ-9-e(2)r^Wl
'^s%^
V
\
\(SJDY tfZ'OJO 'JJ'bSABP'Ol)
\sgsodjnd smjsiYM joj
(sm .ei <=> \T~M
\
\(SS8DY eesrrj
BssodJ/id jjrmn <m xymoyoj joj
(sms .Of) .K. IRSRSSYS
Director of Council Services
Traci N. T. Fujita,Esq.
Council Chair
Alice L. Lee
Vice-Chair
Keani N.W. Rawlins-Pernandez
Deputy Director of Council Services
David M. Raatz, Jr.,Esq.
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore
Tasha Kama COUNTY COUNCIL
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 S. HIGH STREET
Councilmembers
Gabe Johnson
Kelly Takaya King
Michael J. Molina
Tamara Paltin
Shane M. Sinenci
Yuki Lei K. Sugimura
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793
www.MauiCountv.us
February 10, 2022
Leah Lani Rothbaum
Sustainable Hawai‘i Project Manager
The Trust for Public Land
1164 Bishop Street, Suite 1512
Honolulu, HI 96813
Dear Ms. Rothbaum:
SUBJECT: Letter of Support for the Acquisition and Protection
of Ma'aiaea Mauka and Pohakea Watershed (Tax Map
Key (3) 6-001-018) in Ma'aiaea Ahupua'a, Wailuku
Moku, Maui Mokupuni
I am writing to express my support for the proposed acquisition and
protection of Ma'aiaea Mauka and Pohakea Watershed.
As the councilmember for the South Maui residency area which includes
Ma'aiaea, I have seen the consequences of the lack of management of this parcel.
In recent years, wildfires have scorched the mountainside, fueled by dry
vegetation allowed to grow rampantly. Rain events have washed tons of soilinto
Ma'aiaea Harbor and nearby beaches, causing an “impaired” designation for the
bay by the Environmental Protection Agency and State Department of Health in
accordance with the Clean Water Act.
Historic fishing grounds and cultural sites are threatened by ecological
unsustainability and natural hazards. Long-time residents tellstoriesabout this
once healthy and diverse reef ecosystem and express dismay at its decline into
a badly degraded habitat.
The public acquisition and protection of these lands will ensure that
cultural and historic resources are preserved, alleviate runoff problems into the
bay, provide much needed resources for natural hazards mitigation, and enable
the opportunity to expand access to open spaces and the Lahaina PaliTrail.
February 10, 2022
Page 2
Essentially, the acquisition and future management of this property by the
Department of Land and Natural Resources under the Legacy Lands
Conservation Program will ensure protection for perpetuity so this precious
environmental resource can be restored for future generations. I enthusiastically
support this proposal.
Mahalo nui loa.
Maui County Councilmember
Chair, Committee on Climate Action, Resilience & Environment
Member, Local Government Advisory Committee to the U.S. EPA
P. O. Box 2122 Wailuku, Maui, HI 96793
February 10, 2022
Leah Lani Rothbaum
Sustainable Hawaii Project Manager
The Trust for Public Land
1164 Bishop Street, Suite 1512
Honolulu, HI 96813
Letterof Support forthe Acquisitionand Protectionof Maalaea Mauka and Pohakea
Watershed (Tax Map Key (3)6-001-018)
RE:
Aloha Ms. Rothbaum,
Ma'alaea VillageAssociation(MVA), a 501(c)3Maui nonprofitcorporation,withover190 dues-paying
members, enthusiasticallysupportsthe proposed acquisitionand protectionofMa'alaeaMauka and the
Pohakea Watershed. The protectionofthese landswillensure thatculturaland historicalresourcesare
preserved.Purchase willprovidemuch needed resourcesfornaturalhazardmitigationas wellas the
opportunityto expand access to scenic vistas,open spaces and thecentury-oldLahainaPaliTrail.
The Ma’alaea community, alongwith Maui community groups from KiheitoHaikuand SierraClub Maui
Chapter,has worked fordecades topreserve“Ma'alaeaMauka” Ag. landsatthecrossroadsbetween
Lahaina,Kiheiand CentralMaui, inopen space and freefrom development.The propertywithitsscenic
views of Ma'alaea Bay and Haleakalaiskey to restoringthe Pohakea Watershed.Ma'alaeaBay ishome
forthe Hawaiian IslandsNationalHumpback Whale Marine Sanctuary,and KealiaPond NationalWildlife
Refuge as wellas environmentalleadersMaui Ocean Centerand thePacificWhale Foundation.
Currenteffortsto restoreMa'alaea Bay, designateda 303(d)‘impairedbody ofwaterby EPA, undertaken
by DLNR DivisionofForestryand Wildlife(DOFAW), and Maui nonprofitMaui NuiMarineResource
Council,have begun to address wildfireand erosionthatthreatentheBay and thewatershed.With DLNR
DOFAW planstocombine this257 acre propertywiththe3,000+acreWest Maui watershedinforest
preservewillallowthe stateto manage the entirewatershed,addressingerosionand wildfirechallenges.
MVA and other Maui advocates were successfulinobtainingMaui County CouncilOpen Space funding
toward purchase ofthe property.With TrustforPublicLands helpingtofacilitatetheprocess,we have
made greatheadway withthe County and the landowner towardrealizingthislong-helddream.Legacy
Lands funding could make allthe difference.
We supportthe acquisitionand management ofthispropertyby DLNR DOFAW toensureprotectionand
preservationof thisland’sscenic views,open space and Ma'alaeaBay forfuturegenerationstoenjoy.
Mahalo!
Lynn Britton
Immediate Past President and Co-Founder, Ma'alaea VillageAssociation
Scott Fretz,Maui Branch Manager, DLNR DOFAWCc;
I
Marine Resource Council
February 9, 2022
Leah Lani Rothbaum
Sustainable Hawai'i ProjectManager
The Trust for Public Land
1164 Bishop Street,Suite 1512
Honolulu, HI 96813
Re: Letterof Support forthe Acquisitionand Protectionof Ma'alaeaMauka and Pohakea Watershed {Tax
Map Key (3)6-001-018)inMa'alaeaAhupua'a,Wailuku Moku, Maui Mokupuni
Dear Ms. Rothbaum,
On behalf of our Board of Directors and staff at Maui Nui Marine Resource Council (MNMRC), Iam
writingto express our organization'swholehearted support forthe proposed acquisitionand protection
of Ma'alaea Mauka and Pohakea Watershed by the Stateof Hawaii Department of Land and Natural
Resources Divisionof Forestryand Wildlife.
Since 2018, our nonprofithas focused on identifyingand implementing improvements on these landsto
reduce the sediment runoffthat has plagued Ma'alaea Bay and contributedto the severe declineof its
coral reefs."In 1972, Maalaea coral reefs were described as being 'strikingintheirdiversityand inthe
presence of rarecoralsspecies.'By 1993, estimated coralcover was 50- 75% closeto the sitewhere
cover was measured at 8% in2006." {Hawaii DAR & Hawaii Coral Reef InitiativeResearch Program)
To address the sediment runoffissues,MNMRC publishedthe Pohakea Watershed Stormwater
Management Plan in November 2018, which we had commissioned Maui Environmental Consulting,LLC
to researchand createfor us. The Plan has provided a comprehensive roadmap foraddressingthe
sediment pollutionissuesoriginatingon the landsof Ma'alaea Mauka and Pohakea Watershed.
With thisplan in hand, Maui Nui Marine Resource Councilhas raisedfunding to implement its
recommendations. For example, with support from NationalFish& WildlifeFoundation, we've been able
to installfirebreaksand plantvetivergrassinthe Pohakea Watershed to controlerosion.We've also
completed a monitoring study of three significantheadcuts {erosionalfeatures)on these lands.We
found that during a singlemoderate rainstorm,stormwaters flowing through these headcuts eroded an
estimated 60,000 lbs.of sediment which were likelytransported intoMa'alaea Bay.
The acquisitionand future management of Ma'alaea Mauka and Pohakea Watershed by DLNR DOFAW
willplaya criticalroleinsecuringthe significantresources needed to address these headcuts and control
the runoff.This willultimatelybenefitthe ocean water qualityof Ma'alaea Bay,which isan important
community resource forrecreation,fishingand boating,as well as the coralreefsthat help protectthe
shorelineof Ma'alaea and provide habitatfor marine wildlife.By ensuring thisprotectioninperpetuity,
future generationswillbe able to be able to enjoy the resourcesthat Ma'alaea has to offer.
Sincerely,
Michrof+ogarty
Executive Director
Mike@mauireefs.org
MAUI OCEAN CENTER
Our Mtss/on:To fosteruriderstanding,
wonder and respectforHawaii’smarine life.
February 10, 2022
Leah Lani Rothbaum
Sustainable Hawaii ProjectManager
The Trust for Public Land
1164 Bishop Street,Suite 1512
Honolulu, HI 96813
Letter of Support for the Acquisition and Protection of Ma‘alaea Mauka and
Pohakea Watershed (Tax Map Key (3)6-001-018) in Ma‘alaea Ahupua'a, Wailuku
Moku, Maui Mokupuni
Re:
Aloha e Ms. Rothbaum
My name isTapani Vuori.Iam General Manager of Maui Ocean Center(MOC), Presidentof
Maui Ocean Center Marine Institute(MOCMI), Vice President of Ma’alaea VillageAssociation
(MVA), and Secretaryof Ma’alaea TriangleAssociation(MTA). Iam writingto express my very
strong and enthusiastic support forthe proposed acquisitionand protectionofMa'alaea
Mauka and Pohakea Watershed. The protectionof these landswillensure thatnatural,cultural
and historicalresources are preserved,providemuch needed resourcesfornaturalhazards
mitigation,as wellas the opportunitytoexpand access toopen spaces and theLahainaPali
Trail.
This specificTMK lotiscriticalforthe healthofthewatershed and specificallytothe near shore
marine ecosystem. Ma’alaea Bay isclassifiedas 303d impairedbody ofwater by EPA and non
pointsource pollutionisresponsibleforthis.As oftodayMa’alaeaBay has lessthan8% coral
Reef coverage as per DLNR/DAR and Limu has become difficulttofind.The Ma’alaea
community isworking towards creatinga more sustainable,livableand healthycommunity and
has taken a more holisticand collaborativeapproach to address issuesdetrimentaltothis
vision.This visionnot only addresses issuesof concern today butwillcreatea betteroutcomes
forgenerations to come.
Within our community there iscollaborativeeffortscurrentlyundenway inregardstocreatinga
regionalwastewater reclamationcenterthatistechnologicallyadvanced and futureproofwith
reuse and rechargingofwatershed crucialpartsof it.There isalsoa Low ImpactDevelopment
(LID)studythatwas recentlycompleted tooptimizethe permeabilityofthelargeparkinglotat
MTA. Pohakea Watershed study thatwas completed in2018 isa foundationaldocument tohelp
the community buildupon thisvision.Currentlywatershed restorationand sedimentation
prevention effortsare underway.
RoadWailuku.Hawaii96793.mauioce1^92Ma'alaea ^nceoter.Com
● 808.270.7000
I have been at Maui Ocean Center since 2002 and have personallywitnessed multiplestorm
and fireevents.During the storm events Ihave seen mud and boulderscome downhillfrom the
hillside:Ihave seen basketballsized boulders rolldown on Ma’alaea Road and sedimentation,
fillup the gulches and storm drains.Ma’alaea Harbor isfullofsedimentationand one can talkto
any boat owner therethe#1 complaintisthattheirboatsaregettingstuckatthebottom.Maui
Ocean Center operatesunder the NPDES permitfrom DOH/EPA which isbased on the Clean
Water Act of 1972. We measure water qualityinthe harbor monthly and inthe zone of mixing
twice a year.Ihave personallytaken operationalwater qualitysamples from the non point
source storm water enteringthe harbor and the nutrientreadings have been an orderof
magnitude differencevis-a-visstandard sampling results.
This TMK lotalso has significantculturalvalue as the “King’sTrail”traversesthrough thislot.
There are also few remaining petroglyphs inthe area at the Ma’alaea Harbor area on the
hillside.Ma’alaea also played a significantroleinpre contact days inwarfare and also isknown
foritsred dirt(Alaea)found inMa’alaea.
Needless to say thatMa’alaea isalso one of the main commercial boating centers with whale
watching and snorkeltours and as such a significanteconomic engine forthe Maui economy.
Finallyand not leastimportantlywe justneed to treatthe environment and nature with respect
and rightsItdeserves and not leave a mark behind us.
"I WANT TO ASK YOU TO KEEP THIS GREAT WONDER OF NATURE AS IT NOW IS. I
HOPE YOU WILL NOT HAVE A BUILDING OF ANY KIND, NOT A SUMMER COTTAGE, A
HOTEL OR ANYTHING ELSE. TO MAR THE WONDERFUL GRANDEUR, THE
SUBLIMITY. THE GREAT LONELINESS AND BEAUTY OF THE CANYON. LEAVE IT AS
IT IS. YOU CANNOT IMPROVE ON IT. THE AGES HAVE BEEN AT WORK ON IT. AND
MAN CAN ONLY MAR IT. WHAT YOU CAN DO IS TO KEEP IT FOR YOUR CHILDREN.
YOUR CHILDREN’S CHILDREN, AND FOR ALL WHO COME AFTER YOU, AS ONE OF
THE GREAT SIGHTS WHICH EVERY AMERICAN IF HE CAN TRAVEL AT ALL SHOULD
SEE.”
- Speech by Theodore Roosevelt at the Grand Canyon, May 6, 1903
The acquisitionand futuremanagement of thispropertyby DLNR DOFAW willensure protection
for perpetuityso thatfuturegenerations willbe able to be able to enjoy the many bounties that
Ma’alaea has to offer.
Mahalo,
L
Tapani Vuori
General Manager
Maui Ocean Center
c.808.561.2022
tvuori@mauioceancenter.com
Maui Tomorrow Foundation, Inc.
Protecting Maui’s Future
Leah Lani Rothbaum
Sustainable Hawaii ProjectManager
The Trust for Public Land
1164 Bishop Street,Suite 1512
Honolulu. HI 96813
V^illuniN
PrvsiileHl
liHitilik.-
Mfe I’resnkml
February 10, 2022Itdl
lirwjilfjl
Re; Letter of Support for the Acquisition and Protection of Ma'aiaea Mauka
and Pohakea Watershed (Tax Map Key (3)6-001-018) in Ma*alaea
Ahupua'a, Wailuku Moku, Maui Mokupuni
Tnp
Umh
rmoMn*r
Aloha Ms. Rothbaum,Mtki>
Iam writingto express Maui Tomorrow Foundation’s enthusiastic support forthe
proposed acquisitionand protectionof Ma’alaea Mauka and Pohakea Watershed.
The protectionof these lands willensure that culturaland historicalresources are
preserved, provide much needed resources fornaturalhazards mitigation,as well
as the opportunityto expand access to open spaces and the Lahaina PaliTrail.The
mission of Maui Tomorrow includes preservationof open space and promotion of
ecologicallysound development. We have fought againstseveral poorly conceived
proposals forthisland,and have always maintained that itshould remain
undeveloped in order to help protectthe health and sustainabilityin the lands makai
and allthe way to MS'alaea Harbor and Bay. Fishing and other ocean recreational
activitiesare vitalcomponents of the lifestyleof Ma’alaea.
lira
iinHv
Mklud
ilnhcrskit)
Mj
SiMII
IX-N
h /kirtll/
Ihiimti
The acquisitionand futuremanagement of thispropertyby DLNR DOFAW will
ensure protectionof these lands inperpetuity,so that fbturegenerations willbe
able to enjoy them.
UiImn)
Vlh<Tl
Ikm'tor
Mahalo,
/
Albert Perez ^
fctgcutiveDjjgctor
N ( hiirx I)Mrr»i Miiif .v < ● W jiliikii.Hi ● i’ltotn* HnH » "S”!! ● iliivi inmoiTtm orji ● i<tmorrow <»r>j
SierraClub
OF HAWAI‘1
MAUI GROUPFebruary 9, 2022
Leah Lani Rothbaum
Sustainable Hawaii ProjectManager
The Trust for Public Land
1164 Bishop Street,Suite 1512
Honolulu, HI 96813
Letter of Support for the Acquisition and Protection of Ma‘alaea Mauka and
Pohakea Watershed {Tax Map Key (3)6-001-018) in Waikapu /Ukumehame
Ahupua'a, Wailuku & Lahaina, Moku, Maui Mokupuni
Re:
Aloha e Ms. Rothbaum,
Sierra Club Maui Group has accessed this257 acre parcel of land fornearly50 years to offer
educational hikes along the historicLahaina PaliTrail.We are deeply gratefulto the TPL and
the state’sLegacy Lands Conservation Program forconsideringthisiconiclocationfor
permanent preservation forthe people of Hawaii.
As an organization dedicated to environmental education, responsibleoutdoor recreationand
advocacy forour community and nativefloraand fauna, we appreciate the irreplaceablevalue
thisland holds. Itissuch a perfectfitforthe Legacy Lands mission:itprovides habitatforrare
and endangered native species; ithas outstanding scenic views; itisalready surrounded by
publiclands and isthe key piece to Pohakea Watershed management plans to reduce run-off
and sedimentation of our reefs;;itprovides access to and parking forMaui’s mist famous and
popular publictrail(Kealaloloa/ Old Lahaina PaliTrail);itcontains a raretraditionalahupua’a
boundary line(Waikapu-Ukumehame); itisadjacent to the culturallysignificantMa’alaea
petroglyphfieldson stateland;isissome of the best agriculturalland on Maui, with deep
alluvialtopsoils,and ithas been under the threatof massive {900- 1100 units)development for
the last40 years, with only unifiedcitizenaction (and two citizenlegalchallenges) preventing
the various proposals from moving forward.
In short,we must act to keep the naturalbeauty of thisunique place on Maui protectedand well
managed, forour community and futuregenerations to enjoy.
Mahalo nui loa to allconcerned inthiseffortto preserve these worthy lands.
SierraClubMauiGro^
Lucienne de Naie, Chair person
PO Box 791180
Pa’aia, HI 96779
Legacy Land Conservation Program
Divisionof Forestryand Wildlife
1151 Punchbowl Street,Room 325
Honolulu, HI 96813
THE
TRUST
FOR
PUBLIC
LAND
February 14,2022
H AWAl‘1
1164 Bishop St.,Ste. 1512
Honolulu, HI 96813
tpl.org Dear Stateof Hawaii Legacy Land ConservationProgram Review Committee,
Mahalo forconsideringfundingour grantapplicationfora landconservationtransaction
with The Trust forPublicLand (TPL) to acquireand protect257.7acresofprivately
owned landthatisthreatenedwith development, TMK (2)3-6-001-018(“Ma‘alaea
Mauka”). As a matterof policy,we providethe followingtoallpotentialfunders:(1)
Appraisaland PublicBenefitsPolicies,which we providetoourpublicfunding,agency,
and NGO partners,(2)our 2020 year-endupdate,(3)a summary ofourHawai'iprogram,
and (4)a one-pagefactsheetand map ofour work.
ADVISORY BOARD
Earlynne Malle, Chair
Hawaiian Electric Co.
Race Randle, Vice Chair
Howard Hughes Corp.
Dr. Noa Emmett Aluli
Molokai General Hospital
Stanford S. Carr
StanfordCarr Development
Ka'eo Duarte
Kamohameha Schools
Mahina Paishon-Duarte
The Waiwai CoUective
Bob Hines
Mediator
Steve Kelly
James Campbell Company LLC
Mark Linscott
Conservationist
Kurt Matsumoto
Pulama Lana'i
John Meier
Conservationist
MIno McLean
IslandSotheby'sInternational
Realty
Catherine Ngo
Central Pacific Bank
Edmund C. Olson
Farmer, Rancher, Landowner
Blake Oshiro
CapitolConsultantsof Hawaii
Gregory C. Pletsch
PietschPropertiesLLC
Brad Punu
BJP Consulting
Kirstin Punu
AES DistributedEnergy
Tom Reeve
Conservationist
Gregg H. Takara
Morgan Stanley
The Trust for Public Land
The Trust forPublicLand has been connectingcommunities totheoutdoors—and toeach
other—since our founding in 1972.To date,we have preservedmore than3.5millionacres,
createdortransformedcloseto2,000parks,playgrounds,and gardens,and developedmore
than 2,000 miles of trailsacross the United States.The TrustforPublicLand has helped
statesand localcommunities generateover $72 billioninnew publicfundsforparksand
open space,includingthe U.S. ForestServiceForestLegacy Program,StateofHawaii
Legacy Land Conservationand CapitalImprovement Programs and countyopen space
funds. In Hawaii, we focus our work on creating,enhancing, and protectingparksand
trails,landsthatperpetuateHawaiianculture,and workinglandsthatcontributetoHawaii’s
self-sufficiency.Community isattheheartofeverythingwe do.
The Trust for PublicLand works in partnershipwith many agencies,organizations,and
communities to conserve land.We contractdirectlywith the landowner via optionsor
purchaseand saleagreementssothatwe have sitecontroland cancompletethenecessary
fundraising,governmentand community engagement,and due diligencetocompletethe
project.Our agencyand non-profittakeoutpartnersrelyon usforourrealestateexpertise
and abilitytotakeactionmore quicklyto meet landowner expectations.Not many people
understandour roleor our work, so we have generallyoutlinedourroleon thefollowing
pages.
TPL As A Primary ContractingParty.TPL isNOT a brokeror realestateagent,
althoughwe usuallyconvey thelandorconservationeasementtofederal,state,andcounty
agenciesand otherNGOs (we calltheseentities“take-out”partners).Our take-outpartners
appreciateour work becausewhile they may be excellentstewardsand managersof
conservationor culturalresources,they oftenlackrealestateand landconservationfunding
expertise,and cannotmove quicklyor obtainappropriategovernmentalapprovalsto
contract with landowners.
ii
Fundraising. TPL leadsallthe fundraisingneeded to successfullycompleteour landprotectionprojects.Inthe
case of the Ma’alaea Mauka, we have alreadyspent significanttime working with community groups and State
of Hawai'i DLNR to discuss community concerns, determine a projectstructure,funding sources,desired
outcomes, and the management plansnecessarydeliverthedesiredoutcomes forthisacquisition.Each funding
source requireswriting detailedresponses to applicationcriteria,providingfmancial/budgetinformation,
researchingthehistoryof the landand itsresources,completingappraisalsand reviewappraisals,and completing
allnecessarydue diligence. Each program has an extensivevettingprocess requiringus to organize/host
numerous sitevisits,present at many public hearings,briefelectedand government officials,meet with
community members and organizations,draftmodel supportivetestimony,and coordinateand submit supportive
testimonybeforevariouscommissions,councils,or decision-makingbodiesor officials.
With regard to federalfunding,we work with our take-outpartnerto craftcompetitivefunding applications,
vettingthesedraftswith our federalaffairsteam in Washington D.C which helpsus improve our applicationsper
federalscoringcriteria.Our federalaffairsteam alsotracksfederalappropriationsto ensurethattheprograms we
relyon are funded at sufficientlevelsand works with our Hawai'i Congressionaldelegationto ensureHawai'i
projectsare funded.
In some cases,we may conduct a privatecapitalcampaign, which requiresmobilizationof our philanthropy
resources- e.g.,creatingmarketing materialsand case statements,meeting with major donors,applying/reporting
to largefoundations,coordinatinggrassrootscommunity appeals,and many more sitevisits.
Fundraisingmillionsof dollarsfrom multiplesourcesforlandprotectiontakestime.Iftheappraisalcomes out
near the value that the current owners have discussed with us,we have identifiedtheMaui Open Space fund as a
potentialsource of the public funding needed, are prepared to move forward to secure the funding, and
expeditiouslyclosethisrealestatetransaction.
Government/Community Engagement. In additionto the officialcommunity and government supportwe
solicitand coordinatefor fundraising,we often facilitateor leadsubstantialcommunity engagement processes
regarding the future visioningand plans for the land. This entailscountless individualcoffee meetings,
community organizationmeetings, and presentationsand updates before various boards, commissions, and
community alliances/huis,as well as coordinationwith our take-outagency or NGO. Itmay requireus to retain
a professionalplanningfirm to assistthe community and takeoutentityin itsvisioningprocess.
We also complete all necessary due diligencesuch as appraisals,review appraisals.Due Diligence,
environmental surveys and clean-ups(subjectto contractualterms),titlereview,and site-inspections.We work
closelywith our take-partnerto addressitsconcerns,and draftdeeds and conservationeasements so thatthey
comply with allof thedifferentfundingsources’requirements.Each fundingsourcerequiresdifferentrestrictions
and may be attemptingto achievedifferentgoals. Coordinatingamong state,county,and federalprograms can
be difficultand time-consuming. However, our attorneyshave been doing thiswork fordecades and are very
skilledat resolvinginter-agencyissues. Each program also has a lengthy listof pre-closingrequirements,
includingforexample, a resourceor baselinedocumentation reportdetailingallof theresourceson the property,
with maps, GIS locations,photos,and descriptions.Many programs requiresubmission of detailedinvoicesand
proof of payment forallcostsrelatedto thetransactiondown to the penny - appraisals,environmentalPhase Is,
titleinsurance,escrow fees,etc.Stateand County programs requiregranteesto submit vendor and taxcompliance
forms. We ensurethatallreports,forms,and burdensome filingrequirementsaremet toenablea timelyclosing.
2
Stewardship. We oftentimessupport our take-outNGOs and even Statetake-outagenciesby includinga
stewardshipendowment or otherinitialstewardshipftmd in our fundraisingeffortsso thatithas the resources to
properlymanage the propertywhen itacquiresthe land.Even ifa government agency isthe takeout,we have
sometimes establishedstewardshipendowments at a community foundationor NGO friendsgroup.
We hope thisclarifiesour roleand our work as we move forward. Pleasefeelfreeto callme or email me ifyou
have any questionsatlea.hong@tpl.org,808-783-3653.
Mahalo -
Leah Rothbaum
ProjectManager
Ends:
AppraisalPolicy
PublicBenefitsPolicy
TPL-HI 2020 year-end update
Summary of TPL Hawai'iprogram
One-page factsheetand map
3
TPL Appraisal Policy
The appraisalisa key element inany TrustforPublicLand (TPL, www.tol.org^assistedconservation
transaction.An appraisalsetsthepropertyvalueforpublicagencies,many ofwhich arelegallyrequiredto offer
fairmarket valueforproperty,and an appraisalassuresthatTPL willnotbe overpayingfora property,and thus
conferringa privatebenefiton a landowner.
ItisinTPL’s, theacquiringagency’sand thepublic’sbestintereststhatappraisalsbe performed by qualified
appraisers,inconformancewithappropriatestandardsand methodologies,and basedupon thebestdata
suggestingvalue,with rigorousreview of thefinalresults.
TPL’s policyistosupporta publicagency appraisalprocessthatisindependent,fairand has integrity.TPL
believesitisimportanttoassurethepublic,and thepublicagenciestowhich we transferlands,thatthey are
acquiringlandfrom TPL fora fairprice.
To implement thispolicy,TPL will:
_ rigorouslyfolloweach agency’sappraisalrulesand procedures;
_ hireonly themost accomplishedappraisers;
_ instructappraiserstoconform tothestandardsidentifiedinthe UniformStandardsofProfessionalAppraisal
Practice,and where applicable,the Uniform AppraisalStandardsfor Federal Land Acquisitions;
_ providetotheAgency, upon itsrequest,any writteninformationinourpossessionthatisrelevanttothevalue
of thesubjectproperty,unlessTPL isprohibitedfrom releasingthisinformationby a confidentialityagreement;
and conform to the highestethicalstandards.
4
Trust for Public Land Public BenefitsPolicy
Revisedand Restated:September4,2018
The TrustforPublicLand isa nationalnonprofitorganizationthatconservesland forpeople to enjoy as
parks,community gardens,historicsites,rurallands,and othernaturalplaces.Protectingtheplaces
peoplecareabout --from innercitytowilderness— isatthe heartof our work.
The TrustforPublicLand’s work depends on thegeneroussupportof donors and volunteerswho share
our missionof conservingland forpeople.The Wall StreetJournal’sSmartMoney Magazine, Money, Forbes,
and The Chronicleof Philanthropyhave allratedTPL among the most efficientcharitiesin the United Statesfor
keeping fund-raisingand operatingcostslow while meeting missiongoals.
The TrustforPublicLand isa recognized501(c)(3)publiccharityand, as such,donationstoThe Trustfor
Public Land are tax deductible. The Trust for Public Land isnot a membership organizationand receives
no dues.Instead,we receivedonationsand supportfrom corporations,foundationsand individuals-
includinglandowners.We ask landowners to contributeto The Trust forPublicLand invirtuallyevery
transaction. And because landowners well understand our mission,skillsand dedication,we usuallyare
successfulin receivingtheirsupport.
All donationsto The Trust forPublicLand are plowed back intoour work toconservelandforpeople.
Our donors voluntarilysupportThe Trust forPublicLand because of theirinterestinthelandwe protect,
and because of our “Land and People” mission.This supportallowsThe TrustforPublicLand toriskitsown
fundsto protectthreatenedlandsforthepublic,topay fortheconsiderableprojectcoststhatwe incur,and to
generallysupporttheorganizationand our mission.The public,and publicagenciesinparticular,benefitfrom
The TrustforPublicLand’sapproachtofundinglandprotectioninseveralways:
Save cherished lands.
Because we are independentlyfunded,we can takefinancialriskstoprotectextraordinary,and oftenthreatened,
properties- risksthatpublicagenciesareappropriatelyreluctanttotake.As an experiencedorganizationwith
more than fortyfiveyearsof success.The TrustforPublichasparticipatedinmore than4,500transactions
protectingover3,600,000acresoflandvaluedatover$8.2billion.
Allow limitedpublicfunds togo further.
Our goalistocreatesavingsforthepublicby conveyinglandtopublicagenciesforlessthanfairmarketvalue,
the pricethatmany agenciesare requiredto offer. The TrustforPublicLand typicallysavesagenciesproject
costs.We save agencieshundreds of thousandsof dollarseach yearinappraisal,survey,staff,option
considerationand otherprojectcostsby absorbingthem ourselves.Thanks toourdonors,we areabletopay for
coststhatotherwise would be borne by the government agency,and ultimately,by thetaxpayer.
5
The TrustforPublicLand does not offer(and by thisdocument does notprovide)taxadviceand
makes no representationsas to the tax consequences ofany transactioncontemplatedby this
document. Landowners are encouraged to retainindependent tax advisorsand to relyon their
advice inevaluatingthe tax implicationsof a transaction.
WORKING WITH THE TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND:
INCOME TAX INFORMATION FOR LANDOWNERS
January 24, 2018
The purpose of thisdocument isto provide landowners sellingor donating land or conservation
easements to The Trust for Public Land with information about:
The tax treatment of cash donations to The Trust for Public Land in connection with a
landowner's saleof property to The Trustfor PublicLand.
IRSsubstantiationrequirements for donations or bargainsalesto The Trustfor Public
Land of land and conservation easements.
Procedures adopted by The Trust for PublicLand when requested to signa landowner's
IRS Form 8283.
The Trust for Public Land welcomes donations of land and conservation easements and cash
donations from landowners who wish to support The Trust for Public Land and our mission.
Many donors may be unfamiliarwith current IRS requirements and failureto properlycomply
could resultinadverse consequences, conceivablyincludinglossof a charitablededuction.
Ifa landowner intends to claim a tax deduction in connection with a real estate transaction with
The Trustfor PublicLand, itisthe landowner's responsibilityto ensure that the transaction
meets the requirements of the InternalRevenue Code Section 170, the accompanying Treasury
Department Regulationsand any other federalor staterequirements.The materialbelow
provides only general guidance.
The rulesregardingtax deductions for giftsof land or conservationeasements can be extremely
complicated.The Trustfor PublicLand iscommitted to working with landowners to help them
obtain availabletax benefits.However, The Trust for PublicLand willnot participatein any
transaction about which we have significantconcerns about a tax deduction.
The Trust for PublicLand always encourages landowners to retain independent tax advisors and
to relyon theiradvice in evaluatingthe tax implicationsof donations and meeting the IRS
requirements forsubstantiationof donations.
1
Cash Donations
Many landowners support The Trustfor PublicLand'scharitablework by making a donation to
The Trustfor PublicLand when theirproperty issoldto The Trustfor PublicLand. A logicalway
of treatingsuch a donation isas a cash giftto The Trust for PublicLand, not unlikeother cash
donations the donor makes to favored charities.
But there may be another way of analyzingthe donation,one that may yielda greaterafter-tax
benefitto the donor. We believeyou should be aware of thispossibility,incase you wish to
discussitwith your advisers.
Itispossibleto take the two elements of the transaction—the saleto The TrustforPublicLand
and the donation to The TrustforPublicLand—and integrateor "collapse"them such that the
substance of the transaction isa sale to The Trust for Public Land at less than fair market value.
A saleof propertyto a charityat lessthan itsfairmarket valueisknown as a "bargainsale".Ina
bargain sale,there are reallytwo transactions:the saleof the propertyto the charityand a
donation to the charityof a portionof the property'svalue.
Let'sstartby usinga sample projectinwhich The TrustforPublicLand ispurchasingproperty
with a fairmarket value of $800,000 from a landowner ata priceof$800,000.The landowner's
basisinthe propertyfortaxpurposes is$40,000.At closing,the landownerismakinga $200,000
cash donation to The Trust for Public Land to support The TrustforPublicLand'scharitablework
throughout America. Forthe purposes of thisexample, itisassumed the landownerisinthe
32% federal tax bracket and the 9.3% state tax bracket.
Ifthetransactionistreatedas an acquisitionat$800,000,followedby a cashdonationof
$200,000 to The Trustfor PublicLand, the landowner willhave a capitalgainstaxliabilityon the
differencebetween the pricepaid by The TrustforPublicLand ($800,000)and the taxbasis
($40,000),or $760,000. Inaddition,the landowner willbe entitledto a charitabledeductionfor
the $200,000 giftto The TrustforPublicLand.
There isanother way of lookingat the transaction.Based on the specificfacts,timingand
documentation of a transaction,itmay be argued thatthe substance ofthe transaction,
integratingthe saleand the donation,isessentiallya saletoThe TrustforPublicLand ata
deemed priceof$600,000 (the$800,000 purchasepricepaidby The TrustforPublicLand less
the $200,000 donation to The TrustforPublicLand).As such,the transactionwould representa
bargain sale as described above.
Viewed inthismanner, the landowner would have capitalgainstaxliabilityforthe difference
between the pricedeemed to be paid by The TrustforPublicLand ($600,000)and the adjusted
basis($30,000—in a bargainsalethe basismust be allocatedbetween thesalecomponent of
the transactionand the giftcomponent) or $570,000. Inaddition,the landownerisentitledto a
charitabletax deduction for the $200,000 of value donated to The TrustforPublicLand.
The bargainsaletreatment givesthe landowner a bettertaxresult(saving$40,515)because
$190,000 lessissubjectto capitalgainstax.
2
While there may be taxadvantages to the integratedbargainsaletreatment,thereare
disadvantagesthatshould be taken intoaccount,when compared tothe cashdeduction
treatment:
● The donation must be substantiated by an appraisalof the donated interestand
substantiated on IRS form 8283, as discussed below.
● Deductions for long-term capitalgain property may not exceed 30% of adjustedgross
income (AGI)for any year,with the unused deduction being carriedforward forfive
years. Deductions for cash donations,incontrast,may not exceed 60% of AGI ina year,
with the unused deduction being carriedforward forfiveyears. Therefore,donors may
be able to take advantage of deductions forcash donations more completelyand
quicklythan isthe case fordonations and bargainsalesof land.(NOTE: Donationsof
conservation easements may enjoy greatertax benefitsthan donationsof land.)
Donors who wish to pursue bargain saletreatment should consultwith theirlegaland financial
advisors and should understand the risk that the IRS might not agree with that characterization.
No two transactions are identical.
NOTE: Unless priorto the conveyance of the property interestthe Donor has advised The Trust
for PublicLand differently,any giftacknowledgment letterprovided by The Trust for PublicLand
willreflectthe understanding thatthe Donor has electednot to pursue bargain saletreatment.
Tax Substantiationfor Property Donations to The Trustfor Public Land
The purpose of thissectionisto describe IRSsubstantiationrequirements forgiftsof land and
conservation easements.
● Donations of Land
A taxpayer must fileForm 8283 with the IRS to claim a tax deduction for a donation of property
exceeding $500 invalue-$5,000 forC corporationsotherthan personalservicecorporationsand
closelyheld corporations.Inaddition,fora donation of propertyor interestinpropertyvalued
over $5,000,the donor must have a "qualifiedappraisal"from a "qualifiedappraiser."Pleasesee
More about Form 8283 and QualifiedAppraisalsbelow.
● Donations of Conservation Easements
A donation of a conservation easement meeting the definitionof a "qualifiedconservation
interest"under Section 170(h) of the InternalRevenue Code and relatedregulationsqualifies
the donor to claim a charitable deduction for the fair market value of the easement. The
requirements discussedabove forfilingForm 8283 and obtainingan appraisalalsoapply to
donations of conservation easements.
3
● Bargain Sales of Land and Conservation Easements
The Form 8283 and appraisalsubstantiationrequirements apply to bargain salesof land or
conservation easements, sincebargain salesinvolvea donation of property value.A bargain sale
isthe conveyance of property to a charityor governmental agency at a pricebelow the
property'sfairmarket value.The landowner isdeemed to make a charitablecontributionof the
discount in price.
● More about IRS Form 8283 and QualifiedAppraisals
As noted above, a taxpayer must fileForm 8283 with the IRSto claima taxdeduction foran
outrightdonation or a bargainsaleof propertyor interestinpropertyexceeding $500 invalue.
Inaddition,fora donation of propertyor interestinpropertyvalued over $5,000,the donor
must obtaina "qualifiedappraisal"from a "qualifiedappraiser"inhand, and the appraisermust
signan appraisalsummary on Form 8283. The appraisalitselfmust be includedwith Form 8283
ifthe fairmarket value of the donation exceeds $500,000 or ifthe donated property isan
easement on a buildinginan historicdistrict.
Itisthe donor's responsibilityto determine the value of any giftof land or a conservation
easement and obtain the needed appraisal.Appraisalrequirements can be complicated,
particularlywith respectto conservation easements and every donor and tax advisorshould
consultthe IRS regulationson appraisalrequirements.The followingare a justa few thingsto
keep in mind:
The appraisalmust be made no sooner than sixty(60)days priorto the date of the
giftand must be received by the taxpayer no laterthan the filingdate (orany
extension)of the income tax return. Ifthe effectivedate of the valuationisafter
the donation, itmust reflectthe value of the conservationeasement or fee property
on the date of the gift.
The Trustfor PublicLand stronglyencourages donors to obtain high quality
appraisalsfrom qualifiedappraiserswho are well-positionedto appraisethe subject
property and followthe Uniform Standards of ProfessionalAppraisalStandards.
Characteristicsof a "qualifiedappraiser"are discussedinthe IRS Instructionsfor
Form 8283
Omission of any of the IRS required appraisalelements. Includingwithout limitation,
thatappraisalstake intoaccount any enhancement invalueto the donor'sretained
property resultingfrom the conservation donation, may disqualifythe donor from
claiminga charitablededuction.
The appraisalmust statethat itwas prepared for income tax deduction purposes.
o
o
o
o
The Trust for Public Land willrequest a copy of the appraisalsupporting any IRS Form 8283 itis
asked to sign.
Donors should also be aware that the IRS isexercisingincreasedscrutinyon the valuationof
property interests,includingconservationeasements, donated to charities.Thisresults,inpart,
from documented cases of abusive valuations.
4
Additionally,fordonations of conservationeasements, a statement must be attachedto the
Form 8283 that:
Identifiesthe conservation purposes of the donation.
Shows the fairmarket value of the property before and afterthe gift,ifthat method
of valuation was used.
States whether the donation was made in order to obtain a permit or other
approval from government and whether the donation was required by contract.
Describesany interestof the taxpayer or a relatedparty ina nearby property.
o
o
o
o
● The Trust for Public Land Practices:
The Trustfor PublicLand has adopted the followingprocedures and practicesregardingits
review of IRS Forms 8283:
Any IRS Form 8283 sent to The Trustfor PublicLand for signingmust be completed
and signed by both the landowner and appraiser.Itmust alsoincludethe related
appraisaland any other requiredinformation,such as the supplemental statement
required forconservation easement.
o
The Trust for Public Land will review the Form 8283 and the accompanying materials
and share any concerns with the landowner. We willwork with the landowner to
resolve any issuesand may request additionalsubstantiationof value ifnecessary.
o
The Trust for PublicLand typicallyneeds at least30 days to review any Form 8283
and appraisal.Please plan accordingly.
o
The Trust for PublicLand may refused to sign a Form 8283 ifwe believethat we have not
receivedthe giftdescribed on the Form 8283 or ifwe have any other significantconcerns about
the tax deduction.
NOTE: The Trust for PublicLand isrequired to inform the IRS ifwithin three years of a giftfor
which we signed a Form 8283 we sell,exchange or transferthe property (orany portion of the
property) by flingIRS Form 8282. Insuch a case,we willsend a copy of the Form 8282 to the
donor.
Donors should consult with theirtax advisors, or review the following IRS publicationsfor more
information:
Publication 526: Charitable Contributions
Publication561: Determining the Value of Donated Property
Instructions for Form 8283
o
o
o
IRS forms and publicationsare availableat www.irs.eov.
5
4
1
%
♦
I ● fj'1
rT 4ur~
/5^r.'
:£.Ht
-*K-' t*‘«
■ ' T '
\»●
:!^v-
,> »●
The Trust for Public Land in Action: 2020
CELEBRATING WHAT YOU MADE POSSIBLE
IN HAWAI'I AND BEYOND
V
●V
i-
4< y'.
>
THE
TRUST
FOR
PUBLIC
LAND
partnering withMahalo nui loa for
us in Hawai‘i
At The Trust for Public Land,
community isatthe centerof
everythingv\/edo.
while alsosupporting localfood production and
perpetuating the region’spaniolo traditions.We
announced the launch of our signatureParks for
People program in Honolulu with a pilotproject
at ‘A'alaPark. We completed seven community-
driven land protectioneffortsacrossour islands
with an unshakeable belief that 'A'ohe hana nui ke
alu 'ia— no task istoo big when done together.
Nationally,we are thrilledto announce that after
30-I-years of advocacy by The TrustforPublicLand,
the Great American Outdoors Act was signed into
law,permanently funding The Land and Water
Conservation Fund, which significantlyimpacts our
abilityto continue creatingparks and protecting
land forpeople acrossHawai‘i and the nation.
I hope you are inspired by the work described
in the followingpages.With your help,we will
continue protecting land, creating parks, and
connecting people to ‘ainaallacrossthe country.
Mahalo a nui,
The coronavirus pandemic, itseconomic fallout,
and the ongoing realitiesof these new and
unprecedented hardships impact allof us.Many
of us suddenly have more time at home with
our familiesand in our communities, greeting
neighbors from a distance,checking in on one
another, trading mangos or avocados,and offering
and accepting help when needed. We recognize,
now more than ever, how much we need each
other.In Hawai'i,communities come together in
times of crisis like nowhere else - and for that I’m
always gratefuland inspired.
We are seeing people turn to their community
parks likenever before - for fresh air,exercise,
meditation, solace, and a much-needed break
from the stressesof a quickly changing world.
This surge in activityhas underscored that close-
to-home parks and natural areas are crucialto a
community’s quality of lifeand public health.
We’ve also heard the callto diversifyour
economy, create green jobs, and increase local
food production because job and food security
are criticalto our islands’recovery and resilience.
We are irsingto these unprecedented challenges
by protectingagriculturallands that grow food
to feed our communities and bringing parks and
green spaces where they’reneeded most.
This year,in Hawaii, we protected an ancient
lo‘iso that linealdescendants and the Hakipu'u
community are forever connected to their ‘aina.
We preserved lands along the Ala Kahakai National
HistoricTrailso the Ka‘u community can easily
access their coastline, trails,and cultural sites
LeaHong (J
Hawai'i State Director
Edmund C. Olson Trust Fellow
V - .
OUR TEAM ADVOCATING FOR THE LEGACY LAND CONSERVATION
PROGRAM: LEA HONG. RAEANNE COBB-ADAMS, REYNA RAMOLETE
HAYASHl, LESLIE UPTAIN
Announcing Parks for People Hawai'i
and more. But now. sadly,residentsoften feel
unsafe and unwelcome at the park.
We know that 53 percent of households within a
10-minute walk of the park are low-income. Like
many lower-income communities in Hawaii,
Downtown-Chinatown suffersfrom inequitable
social,economic, and environmental conditions
and health issuesrelatedto those inequities.
‘A‘alaPark presentsan incredibleopportunityto
empower residentsto improve theirhealth and
qualityof life,utilizingThe TrustforPublicLand’s
nationallyrecognizedand community-focused
Parks forPeople strategy.
This three-yearpilotwillallowus to engage in
a community-led participatoryvisioningand
planning process where surrounding residents,
community groups,and businessescome together
to articulatea visionforthe park that honors its
past and lookstoward a shared future.With this
foundation, we plan to createa model to scale
our work forother park improvement and public-
privatepartnershippark projectsin Hawaii.
At The Trust for Public Land, we know that
great parks and green spaces can transform
communities from the ground up: they improve
public health,advance economic opportunities
and learning outcomes, and connect people to
nature and to each other.
Yet walk around any American cityor community
in Hawaii, and you’llsee:Not allneighborhoods
are created equal.Some communities have vibrant,
invitingplaygrounds,lush green parks and trails,
bustlingbusinesses,and plenty of welcoming
public spaces.Others don’t,and we are working to
change that.
On the continent, The Trust for Public Land iswell
known forour richhistoryof partnering with
citiesand engaging communities in designing,
building,and stewarding innovative and award
winning park projects.
Now, thanks to the leadership of our Hawaii
Advisory Board and with the support of
localfunders likeAmerican Savings Bank,
HawaiiUSA Federal Credit Union, Atherton
Family Foundation, Robert Emens Black Fund
of the Hawaii Community Foundation, C&C of
Honolulu Grant in Aid program, HEl Charitable
Foundation, Island Insurance Foundation,
Ward VillageFoundation, and Finance Factors
Foundation - we are excited to announce the
launch of the Parks for People Hawaii program
with a pilotprojectat 'A'alaPark!
v>
'A'ALA PARK
A'ala Park isa 6.69-acrecity-owned park in the
heart of an exceptionallydense and underserved
community. Builtin the early1900s,formany
decades the park was a thrivingcommunity hub, a
politicalgatheringplace,a siteforethnicfestivals.
●MX
'a'ala park
Protecting our treasured ‘aina
CELEBRATING A RECORD NUMBER OF LAND PROTECTIONS
We expanded Honolulu’sWallupe Nature
Preserve - nine acresin the back of Wailupe Valley
in ‘AinaHaina,0‘ahu.When the propertywas
slated for residentialdevelopment, the community
ralliedto preserve the natural land forpublic
access into Wailupe Valley.Residents and agency
staffcan now use Wailupe Traildailyfor hiking,
conducting traditionalHawaiian culturalpractices,
and managing ‘elepaiocriticalhabitat.
We partnered with Kuahiwi Ranch to procure an
agriculturalconservation easement to protect
Kawala, 795 acres in Ka'u, Hawai'i Island. The
agreement will preserve numerous culturalsites
and ensure the property isused foragriculture
in perpetuity.The Ala Kahakai TrailAssociation
holds thiseasement to safeguard culturalsites
and perpetuate Ka'u’s paniolo traditionsand local
grass-fedbeef production.
The Trust for Public Land works in partnership
with communities across Hawai’i to conserve
the lands they love.We work with landowners
to protecttheirland forpublic benefit,identify
funders who believein our land-for-people
mission, and partner with communities to bring
theirvisionfora property’sfutureto life.
Supporters likeyou make thistransformational
work possible.Thank you forbelievingin the
power of place and our communities’ vitalrole
in protecting,restoring,and upliftingour
treasured ‘aina.
Over the lastyear,your support helped to protect
seven specialplaces across our islandhome:
We purchased the 3,443-acreKamehamenui
property on the northern slopesof Haleakala
in Kula, Maui, and conveyed itto the Hawai‘i
Department of Land and Natural Resources,
Division of Forestryand Wildlife (DLNR). DLNR
will plant a sustainable forestof native hardwoods
and open the formerly privateproperty to the
public for exploring,hiking,and mountain biking.
Reforestationwillrecharge the water aquiferto
ensure clean drinking water for the futureand to
protect endangered species.
WAILUPE NATURE PRESERVE
KAMEHAMENUI KAWALA
> L
●V
V, ■
HAKIPU U LO I KALO WAIMEA NATIVE FOREST
MAO PALIKEA EXPANSIONWAIKAPUNA
We protectedover 3,700acreson 0‘ahu’sNorth
Shore to create the Waimea Native Forest. We
conveyed the land to DLNR to protectnative
forest and a crucial watershed. With The Trust for
Public Land’s past and current effortsin the lower
Waimea ahupua‘a-Waimea Valleyin 2006 and
Pu'ukua in 2019-nearly the entirewatershed,
from summit to sea,has been protected,resulting
in protectednativeplantand bird species,and
secured drinking water supply.
We’ve partnered with MA‘0 Organic Farms once
again to add the 21-acreMA'O PallkeaExpansion to
their farm in Lualualei, 0‘ahu. MA‘0 is a movement
to develop a comprehensive and livinglocal
food system- educating youth, fightinghunger,
improving health and nutrition,and growing the
organicagricultureindustry.Now, organicfruits
and vegetablesare growing on the land forthe
people of Hawai’i.The expansion alsoallowsMA‘0
to enlargeitseducation internshipopportunities.
After eightyears of partnering with the
community, we purchased Hakipu'u Lo'iKalo,
1.5acres in Hakipu'u, 0‘ahu, which has been in
continuous lo‘ikalo production forhundreds of
years.The land isnow owned by nonprofit Ho'ala
‘AinaKupono, with a conservationeasement co
held by the C&C of Honolulu and Hawaiian Islands
Land Trust.The land willremain a peaceful refuge
for Hakipu'u residentsand visitors,and provide
educationalopportunitiesforschoolchildrenand
the public to continue the lo'ikalo traditioninto
the future.
Waikapuna - the familialsummer retreatof
revered scholarMaiy Kawena Pukui - helped inspire
the 20th century Hawaiian culturalrenaissance.
Tliis2,013-acrelandscapein Ka'u,Hawai'iIsland,is
now protectedforever.Ala Kahakai TrailAssociation
now owns the land.They willpartnerwith the local
community to honor the many historicand cultural
siteson the property,allow existinggrass-fedcattle
ranching to continue,and contributeto Hawai'i’s
food security.
Celebrating the Great American
Outdoors Act
Thanks to decades of tirelessadvocacy from a
diverse coalitionof park lovers across the country
and Hawaii’s Congressional delegation,we’re
celebratingan incrediblelegislativevictory:
permanent, full,and dedicated funding for LWCF.
We recentlysought additionalLWCF funding
that vidllallow us to complete the protection
of Mapulehu on Moloka’i,and our Hawai‘1 Koa
Forest and Pohue Bay conservation projects on
Hawai’i Island.
At the federal, state,and local levels,The Trust
for Public Land advocates for the importance
of parks and open space and the need to fund
them. Securing permanent, full,and dedicated
funding forthe Land and Water Conservation
Fund (LWCF) has been the top legislativepriority
for The Trust for Public Land for over 30 years.A
lotgoes intomaking a law thisbig happen - and
our Federal Affairs team in D.C. has been at the
front leading the charge.This longstanding federal
program directsfeesfrom oiland gas drilling
to investments in parks and open space.Itcosts
taxpayers nothing-but benefitseveryone.
The Senate introduced the Great American
Outdoors Act in earlyMarch with two main goals:
to fixthe longstanding $9.5billionmaintenance
backlog in our nationalparks,forests,and other
publiclands:and to guarantee fulland dedicated
funding - $900 millionevery singleyear - for
LWCF. The billpassed the Senate inJune, passed
the House of Representatives in July,and on
August 4 the billwas signed into law. HAWAI I KOA FOREST
LWCF IN HAWAM
The Trust for Public Land has leveraged LWCF
funding for many of our past land protection
efforts,including:
● Haleakala National Park at Ka’apahu, Maui
● Lands surrounding Lumaha’i Beach, Kaua’i
● Mokolea Point and Crater Hillexpansions
of Kilauea Point National Wildlife
Refuge, Kaua’i
● Waimea Native Forest, O’ahu
● Helemano Wilderness Area, O’ahu
Moanalua Valley,O’ahu
Honouliuli Forest Reserve, O’ahu
Kawa, Hawai’i Island
Kauleoli addition to Ala Kahakai National
Historic Trail,Hawai’i Island
Ki’ilaeExpansion of Pu’uhonua 0
Honaunau National Historic Park, Hawai’i
Island
Wao Kele O Puna, Hawai’i Island
Kalapana Expansion of Hawai’i Volcanoes
National Park, Hawai’i Island
Looking ahead
IN THE YEAR AHEAD, YOUR PARTNERSHIP WILL SUPPORT...
ALOHA 'AINA
ProtectingHawaii’s culturallysignificantlands:
● Advance our partnership with the Moloka‘i
Land Trustto purchase and protectMapulehu,
a 1,918-acreproperty located in East Molokai.
Six intermittent streams wind from the 3,488
foot summit through native habitatand mixed
forestto lower Mapulehu Valley.The property
ishome to Tli‘ili‘6paeHeiau, the second largest
heiau in Hawaii.
● Assist our work with the Ala Kahakai Trail
Association and the Ka‘u community to
purchase and protectKlolaka'a.The 1,836-acre
property includes an intactdryland native
forestand portions of the ancient Kamakalepo
settlement and Lua Nunu cave system. Built
during the wars with Kamehameha, thisarea
featuresthe most extensiverefuge cave on
Hawaii Island at over a kilometer long; it
includes a fortress with an elevated defensive
wall and 102 sleepingplatforms.
● Accelerateour work along the Ala Kahakai
National HistoricTrailin Ka‘u as we permanently
protect23,115acresofpristinecoastallands.
PARKS FOR PEOPLE HAWAM
Creatingclose-to-homeaccessto qualityparks:
● Support our work at'A'alaPark as we engage
the surrounding community and transform a
park intoa safe,welcoming publicspace forover
18,000residentswho livenearby.This work will
form the basisof a model to scaleother park
improvements and public-privatepartnerships.
SUSTAINABLE HAWAIM
SecuringHawaVi’sfood,forests,and water:
● Advance our partnership with the Kane'ohe
community, localfarming nonprofits,and the
Stateof Hawaii to purchase and protectthe
approximately1,000-acreKane'ohe Palito Lo'i.
The land includesfreshwater springs,at least
11 streams, a nativeforest,prioritywatershed,
criticalhabitatfor nativeplants and animals,
heiau, burials,and geologicalformations famed
in Hawaiian mo'olelo, mele, and oli.
● Protect community access to the coastline
and preserve over 400 culturalsites,while
continuing ranching at Kaunamano, a 1,363-acre
coastalproperty in Ka‘u where grass-fedbeef is
produced for localconsumers.
● Purchase and protectthe 13,130-acreHawai'l Koa
Forest north of Hilo in partnership with DLNR.
This property includes the largeststand of old
grov/th koa on privatelyowned land in the state
and isimportant watershed land,with eight
perennialstreams and habitatforendangered
native birds,bats,and plant species.
MAPULEHU
Hawai'i Advisory Board
We are so gratefulfor our volunteer leaderswho advise,guide,
and inspireour work acrossHawai‘i Nei!
Edmund C. Olson, Edmund C. Olson Trust
Blake Oshiro,CapitolConsultantsofHawai'i
JeffOverton, G70
Gregory Pietsch,PietschProperties
Brad Punu, Honolulu Seawater
KirstinPunu, AES DistributedEnergy
Race Randle, The Howard Hughes Corporation
Tom Reeve, Conservationist
Gregg Takara, The IslandLegacyGroup at
Morgan Stanley
Dr. Noa Emmett Aluli,Moloka'tGeneralHospital
Stanford Carr,StanfordCarrDevelopment
F. Mahina Paishon-Duarte, The Watwai Collective
Ka'eo Duarte, Kamehameha Schools
Bob Hines, Retired
Steve Kelly,James CampbellCompany
Mark Linscott,KaiserPermanenteofHawai'i
Earl50ineMaile,Hawaiian Electric
Kurt Matsumoto, Pulama Ldna'i
CatherineNgo, CentralPaci^cBank
> k
Lana kakou i ka
hau’oli o ha’i
We riseby upliftingothers
Lea Hong
Hawai'i State Director
Edmund C. Olson Trust Fellow
808.524.8563 |iea.hong@tpl.org
Mahalo
for supporting The Trust forPublic
Land as we work to protectland and
createparks forpeople in Hawai'i and
beyond. We couldn’tdo itwithout you.
THE LeslieUptain
Directorof Philanthropy
808.524.8694 |ieslie.uptain@tpl.org
1003 Bishop Street,Suite 740
Honolulu, Hawai'i 96813
TRUST
FOR
PUBLIC
LAND
tpl.org
COVER: TOP RIGHT, 6RIANNE RANDLE: ALL OTHER PHOTOS, TPL STAFF.
THE
TRUST
Hawai‘i Program OverviewFOR
PUBLIC
LAND
●r .
-
.1
jJV
>
4 ■?5-^ ●
I
i
"r.7*%
f
Kawela Bay, protected in2015 by The Trustfor PublicLand and community partners,as partoftwo projectsthat
permanently preserved over 1,000 acres surrounding and owned by TurtleBay Resortfora totalof$51 million.
About The Trust for Public Land
The Trust for Public Land has been connecting communities to the outdoors—and to each other—
sinceour founding in 1972. To date,we have preservedmore than 3.5 millionacres,createdor
transformedcloseto 2,000 parks,playgrounds,and gardens,and developed more than 2,000 miles
of trails across the United States. The Trust for Public Land has also helped statesand local
communities generateover $72 billioninnew publicfunds forparks and open space,includingall
of the Stateand County land conservationprograms in Hawai'i.
Our work rum thegamut ofprotectingnationalparks to neighborhoodparks,conservingspecial
places thatcommunities loveand cherish.In Hawai'i,we’ve protectedover 54,000 acresof land in
partnershipwith federal,state,and county agencies,and otherNGOs. We’ve helped theNational
Park Serviceexpand Volcanoes NationalPark,HaleakalaNational Park,Pu'uhonua O Honaunau
National HistoricPark,and partsof the Ala Kahakai National HistoricTrail.And, we have helped
community organizationsliketheNorth Shore Community Land Trust protectshorelineand rural
landscapesincludingover 1,000acressurroundingTurtleBay Resort,Waimea Valley,Pupukea-
PaumalO, and Sunset Ranch - allforcommunity benefit.In December 2019, The Trust forPublic
Land helpedthe Stateof Hawai'iDepartment of Land and NaturalResources acquire3,716 acres
at Waimea Native Forest- the upper prioritywatershed of Waimea Valley.
Hawai^i Program Overview
The Trust for Public Land createsparks and protectsland for people to ensure healthy,livable
communities for generationsto come. We believethat equity and fairnessmatter,and that a
relationshipbetween people and natureiscriticalforhealthypeople and a healthylandscape.Our
visionforHawai‘i isthatitspeople are thriving,healthy,and meaningfully connected to the land,
each other,and a livingHawaiian culture.The Trust for Public Land accomplishesthisvision
through our strategiesof Parks forPeople,SustainableHawaii, and Aloha ‘Aina.We’ve protected
over 54,000 acresthroughoutthe Stateinpartnershipwith many agenciesand NGOs.
Parks for People:At theTrustforPublicLand, we believethateveryone shouldhave a park,
playground,trail,and othernaturalplaceswithina 10-minutewalk from home. Every day,we see
thatwhen childrenhave thechance to learnfrom and play innature,when neighborhoods have safe
community gatheringspace to enjoy the outdoors,and when neighbors of differentbackgrounds
buildcommunity bonds - everybody wins. In late2020 we willlauncha new urban parksprogram
with a pilotprojectat ‘A‘ala Park in Downtown Honolulu/Chinatown, a very diverse and
underservedcommunity. We willleada community participatoryvisioningand planningprocessin
which surroundingresidentsand businessescome togetherto articulatea sharedvisionforthe Park.
Together we can createa safe,welcoming ‘A‘alaPark for the children,families,seniors,and the
generalpublicwho liveand work inthe area.
2
In 2019, the TrustforPublicLand assistedthe City & County |
of Honolulu in acquiringa 9-acre property to expand the
Wailupe Nature Preserve.The land is withina residential
community and providespublicaccess intoWailupe Valley
for hiking,culturalpractices,and managing elepaiocritical
habitaton the watershed land.TPL secured funding for the
$4.1MpurchaseandtransferredownershiptotheCity. ^‘ ”●' J-
In 2017, the Trust for Public Land worked with nonprofit
Livable Hawai‘1 Kai Hui and the broader community to
purchasethe lastthreatenedparcelsof landalong the Ka Iwi
Coast on 0‘ahu. The protectionof these landshonored 40
years of grassrootsadvocacy that saved the surrounding
coastlineasopen space.These mauka landsaresurroundedby
the denselypopulatedHawaii Kai community and belovedfor
theirnativeplants,culturalsites,and thescenicviewplanes.
Sustainable HawaiT: The Trust for Public Land’s vision for Hawai‘i is ‘aina momona- islands
thatare self-sufficientand abundant, with the abilityto feed and nourishour peopleand provide
ample cleanwater forthe future.Although Hawai‘i was once self-sufficient,feedinga population
estimatedatone million,we now import90% ofourfood.As islands,ourwaterresourcesarelimited
to what isgeneratedinour aquifers,streams,and springs- yethalfof Hawaii’s originalwatershed
forestshave been destroyed.By working with privatelandownersto conserveagriculturaland
forestedlands,opportunitiesarecreatedforfarmersto own and leaselandataffordablepricesand
forlongerterms,increaseHawaii’s food securityand self-sufficiency,and diversifyoureconomy.
In 2019, we helped the Wai‘anae Community Redevelopment
Corporation,dba MA‘0 Organic Farms, to expand in two
separateprojects.The firstwas a 21-acre parcelMA“0 is
alreadygrowing fruitsand vegetableson, with an estimated
outputof 12,000pounds of food permonth. The second project^
was a 236-acre property,100 of which will be farmed and ^
another 40 acres will be used to develop affordablefarm
manager and internhousing.TPL providedtechnicalassistance
to MA‘0 in the second project,includingfacilitatinga $1.1 ^
million contributionby the U.S. Navy through itsbuffer
program forthisproject.
In 2019, we partneredwith the Stateof Hawai‘i DLNR’s
Divisionof Forestryand Wildlife(DOFAW) to protect3,716 |
acresof the upper mauka landsof Waimea Valley known as
Waimea Native Forest.TPL securedfullfunding fortheS3.7M g
purchasethroughfivesources,and transferredownershipto
DOFAW, protectingpreciousnativerainforest,endangered
birds,plants,snailsand bats,and high prioritywatershed
securingcleandrinkingwater forgenerationstocome.
^4
L” r-.
A4 '■
3
Aloha ‘Aina: The TrustforPublicLand’s organizationalcommitment to equity,health,and
community isreflectedinourAloha ‘Ainaprogram.‘Aina,theHawaiianword for‘land’,means that
which feeds. ‘Aina is foundational to Native Hawaiian culture,identity,and traditionalpractices.
Connection to land is essentialto the physical,emotional and spiritualwell-beingof Native
Hawaiians. Likewise,the healthof theseplacesistiedto the healthof Hawaiian communities. The
concept of aloha ‘aina,or love of the land,teachesus thatifyou take care of the land,itwilltake
care of you. Yet the historyof Hawai‘i has involved catastrophiclossof land.Culturalsitesand
burialshave been destroyed or segmented, Hawaiians have been displaced from theirlands,and
traditionalcustoms and practiceshave been severed and lost.The Trust for Public Land works in
partnershipwith Native Hawaiian communities to protectland from development and returnthese
landsto Hawaiian organizationsforcommunity-based stewardship,empowering allin Hawai‘i to
aloha ‘aina.
In 2019, TPL partnered with the Ala Kahakai Trail
Association(ATA) to purchase Waikapuna, a 2,317-acre
propertyinKa‘u thatisrichinculturalheritagesites,habitat®
fornestingseabirds,humpback whales,and turtles,aswell b
as prime grazing land for cattle.Hundreds of ancient
culturalsitesaredocumented on theproperty,includingthe
petroglyphsand konane board featuredin thisphoto.TPL
secured the full $6M for the purchase and transferredWlS
ownership to ATA.
^ 3
E >●
Also in2019, TPL partneredwith Kuahiwi Ranch toplace
an conservation easement owned by ATA over 772 acres
in Ka‘u known as Kawala. Kawala is nestled between
Waikapuna and Kaunamano, and is a combination of
sprawlingpastureland,numerous lavatubes,culturalsites,| .^7
and ancientburials.The land isowned by Kuahiwi Ranch
and the easement restrictsthe land to agriculturaland
culturalpreservationuses in perpetuityand protects
importanthistoricalsites.
59
. ■
Mahalo
Mahalo foryour supportof The TrustforPublicLand. Together,we willprotectHawai‘i’smost
treasuredlandsto enhance community well-being,renew culturalconnections,and protectnatural
resources.
4
THE
The Trust for Public Land Hawai'i TRUST
FOR
PUBLIC
LAND1003 Bishop St.Suite 740 Honolulu, HI 96813 1 Phone: (808) 524-8560 I Visit:tpl.org/hawaii
What we do & why
The TrustforPublicLand createsparks and protectsland forpeople,ensuringhealthylivablecommunities for
generationstocome. We believethatequityand fairnessmatter,and thata relationshipbetween peopleand natureis
criticalforhealthypeople and a healthylandscape.
In Hawai'i, health is the foundation of our work. We focuson meaningfullyconnectingpeople to theland and each
other,and support theempowerment of underserved and NativeHawaiian communities.Our visionisthatthepeople
of Hawai'i arethrivingand healthy,and meaningfullyconnectedtotheland,eachother,and a livingHawaiian culture.
The TrustforPublicLand accomplishesthisvisionthroughour strategiesofParksforPeople,SustainableHawai'i,and
Aloha 'Aina.
How we do it
CREATEPROTECTPLAN FUND
We engage communitiesin
designing& buildingnew
parksthatfostera strong
sense ofplaceand connection
to nature.
We helpcraftmeasures&
passlegislationtosecure
fundingforparksand
conservation.
We structure,negotiate,and
execute conservation
transactionsthatbenefitthe
whole community.
We bringcommunity
togethertoidentify&
prioritizelandforparksand
conservation.
Our work by the numbers
l56,700i6,000++
DONORSPLACES ACRESYEARS PARTNERS
Our wor1(would not be
possiblewithoutthe
supportofour6,000-^
Hawai ibased donors.
toprotect43 special
placesacrossourisland
home.
Permanentlysafeguarding
over 56,700 acresand
counting.
We have been conserving
Hawai'i’sprecious'Sna lor
41 years,sirwe1979.
We have collaborated with
over31 community,
landown^, and
governmentpartners.
Bob Hines
Mediator
Steve Kelly
James Campbell Co., LLC
Mark Linscott
Kaiser Permanente
Jeff Overton
G70
Mahina Paishon-Duarte
The Waiwai Collective
Gregory C. Pietsch
Pietsch Properties,LLC
Kirstin Punu
AES DistributedEnergy
Brad Punu
Honolulu Seawater
Tom Reeve
Conservationist
Gregg Takara
Morgan Stanley
STAFFOur Hawaii Team
Lea Hong
Hawai'i State Director
Edmund C, Olson Trust Fellow
ADVISORY BOARD
Earlynne Maile, Chair
Hawaiian Electric Co.
Race Randle, Vice Chair
Howard Hughes Corp.
Dr. Noa Emmett Aluli
Moloka'i General Hospital
Stanford S. Carr
Stanford Carr Development
Ka'eo Duarte
Kamehameha Schools
Leslie Uptain
Directorof Philanthropy
Reyna Ramolete Hayashi
Aloha 'AinaProjectManager
Stephen Rafferty
Sustainable Hawai'i ProjectManager
Raeanne Cobb-Adams
Program Coordinator
Kurt Matsumoto
Pulama Lana'i
Catherine Ngo
Central Pacific Bank
Edmund C. Olson
Fanner, Landowner
Blake Oshiro
CapitolConsultants of Hawai'i
Kllauea Point NWR
® (CraterHili/MokOleaPoint,1988)
^^Waipa Kuleana
Lumaha'i Beach (2001}
Limahuli Garden (1998)
TurtleBay Ag Lands (2016)
/Kahuku-Kawela (2015)
Waimea Native Forest(2019)
/Whitmore AgriculturalLands (2016)
✓Helemano Wilderness Area (2018)
✓ Hakipu'uLo'iKalo (2020)
^^_^^WaiahoieBeachPark(1995)^Kane'ohe Pali to Lo'i
● UHU'E
Pupukea-Paumalu (2007)'
Sunset Ranch(2010)\
Pu’ukua (2019)-
Waimea Valley(2006)-
Lands of Llhu'e- Galbraith (2012)-
Pa cific Oce an
Ka'ala Farm (2003)——
MA'O Farms (2009,2010,2019)--===
HonouliuliPreserve(2010)'^
Moanalua Valley(2007)
Ho’ouiuOla,KalthiValley"^
'A'alaPark^
Wailupe Nature Preserve(2019}'
Kanewai Spring (2017)-'
Hawea Heiau Complex and
Keawawa Wetlands (2014)
HONOLULU
Ka IwiCoast Mauka Lands (2017)
● Halawa Valleyl-lll(1998,1999)
^Mapulehu
Ka'ehu Bay & Wetlands (2012)
9WAILUKU
Kamehamenui (2020)^
KAUNAKAKW
„HANA
^ ● Mu'oleaPoint(2004)
Haleakala National Park
(Ka'apahu,1998)
Kauhola Fbint(2012)
Lapakaht(2011)
Pao'o (2010)
●WAIMEA
● Hawai'i Koa Forest
●hiloKAILUA-KONA
Kuamo'o (2015) ●
Pu'uhonuao Honaunau(2006)^
Kauleoli (2016)
^Wao Keleo Puna(2006)
Kahauale'a (2006)
'^Kalapana(1979)
Since 1979, The Trustfor Public
Land has protected over
56,000 acres throughout the
islands-working with
communities to help protect
the lands they love.
Completed project
Current project
Conserved land AKawa Bay (2011)
●^onu'apo Fishpond(2006)
Y\^Kaunamano
X^Kawala(2019)X^Manaka'aFishingVillage
'Waikapuna (2019)
Pohu’eBay'T>o Trust for Public Land
creates parks and protectsland for pcopkv
4’nsunng healthy,hvahle lumm unilies
forgenerationstocome.
Kiolaka'a
MilesA0 10 20
Hawai'i THE
TRUST
FOR
PUBLIC
LAND
CURRENT AND COMPLETED PROJECTS
September 30,2020. Copyright ©The TrustforPublicLand. The TrustforPublicLand and The TrustforPublicLand logo arefederallyregisteredmarks ofThe Trustfor PublicLand.
Informationon thismap isprovided forpurposes ofdiscussionand visualizationonly,www.tpl.org
County Clerk
Jeremy Inferrera<jinferre@icloud.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:27 AM
County Clerk
Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from jinferre@icloud.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
My name isJeremy Inferreraand Iwrite to you in strong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Jeremy Inferrera
Sent from my iPhone
73c. ● t
CD
mC->
o-i hOm
-< o moo
mfn
S>
D\jj
o
1
RFCF!V/FDCounty Clerk
Tamara A. PaltinFrom:
Sent:
ZOZZOCT20 PH 12:39
Thursday, October 20,2022 12:35 PM
PSLU Committee; County Clerk
AliceL Lee;YukileiSugimura; Shane M. Sinenci;Tasha A.Kama;Keahinvi.®£vlfc^Gibe^BOUNTY GLERK
To:
Cc:
Johnson; Mike J.Molina;KellyKing
FW: Short Term RentalsSubject:
Aloha,
This constituentreached out to my officeconcerned with thisissue.She became frustratedwhen we began explaining
the processand timingforsubmittingtestimony.We agreed to forward her testimony to the appropriate people at the
appropriate time.
So, 1would liketo submit thistestimony on her behalf in regard to Bill159 (2022)and Reso 22-70,CDl, FDl.
Mahalo,
Tamara
OriginalMessage
From: Marlane Jackson <marlanejoyjackson@gmail.com>
Sent: Tuesday, October 11, 2022 12:24 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin<Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject:Short Term Rentals
[You don'toftenget emailfrom marlanejoyjackson(5)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Iwould love itifyou would shut down the short term rentalshere in Puamana. 1am a fulltime residenton the water
here in Puamana bought in1986...Iam a registeredvoter here in Hawaii Thank you Marlane Jackson
216 PuaieiDr apt 3
Lahaina, Hi 96761
808 661-8982
Sent from my iPhone
1
Rprg/vco
ocr 19
-FRce of ^
>'OUNTYcU':
Count^CleH<
Dave Jager <daverjager@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 2:25 PM
County Clerk
re: Bill159: short-term vacation rental
Maui Short-term rentals feedback.docx
From:
Sent: fW 2‘-35To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Ti' f-
I n (_
Rl<
I You don'toftenget emailfrom daverjager@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
As Owners of a short-term vacation rentalplease see our comments below, thank you.
Short term vacationrentalscan offerunique experiencesnothing likethe commercial resorthotelscan offer.It's
important that people understand that there ismore to itthan justlettingpeople stay inour home to make money. It
involveskindness,politeness,caringof residentneighbors,respectforrulesas wellas localpeople and cultures,and
gratitudewhich isallthe best form of humanity. As owners, itisour opportunity and responsibilityto promote itin
order to contributetowards community healthand growth.
Bylaws and regulationscould weed out owners who are not prepared to adhere to bylaws or rules.We already heard
from our guestsworrying about not being able to stayin our condo anymore. Insteadof banning alltogether,could you
please lookforthe ways to save the qualityof shortterm rentalsinMaui?
Thanks to the short term vacation rentalopportunity,itwas 30 years into our marriage when we were finallyable to
explore Maui for the firsttime. Itwas the most memorable vacation. There was a guest book inthe condo which we
ended up readingthe entirebook filledwith joy and happiness from pasttravelersfrom allover the world. This isthe
reason why we started our own vacation rentalin Maui with a hope and passion to share the beauty and our loveof
Maui with many others.
Instead of the fruitplatterat the hotel,our guests explore localfarmers markets to enjoy locallygrown produce. Instead
of lunch or cocktailsserved by the pool,our guestsexplore localrestaurants,food trucks,and happy hours. Insteadof
dining out at on-siteresorthotel restaurants,our guests explorelocalstoresto cook with localfreshingredients.We
activelytake a great partof promoting localbusinesses.We now have many repeated guests,and some ofthem even
get involved in the localvolunteer activitiesbecause they grow to care about communities.
Dave &Toshiko Jager
Cell:(619)402-4465
1
As Owners of a short-term vacation rentalplease see our comments below, thank you.
Short term vacation rentalscan offerunique experience nothing likethe commercial resort hotels can
offer.It'simportant that people understand that there ismore to itthan justlettingpeople stay inour
home to make money. Itinvolveskindness,politeness,caringof residentneighbors, respectfor rulesas
well as localpeople and cultures,and gratitudewhich isallthe best form of humanity. As owners, itis
our opportunity and responsibilityto promote itinorder to contributetowards community healthand
growth.
Bylaws and regulationscould weed out owners who are not prepared to adhere to bylaws or rules.We
already heard from our guests worrying about not being able to stay inour condo anymore. Instead of
banning alltogether,could you please look forthe ways to save the qualityof short term rentalsin
Maui?
Thanks to the short term vacation rentalopportunity,itwas 30 years into our marriage when we were
finallyable to explore Maui forthe firsttime. Itwas the most memorable vacation. There was a guest
book inthe condo which we ended up readingthe entirebook filledwith joy and happiness from past
travelers from allover the world. This is the reason why we startedour own vacation rentalin Maui
with a hope and passion to share the beauty and our love of Maui with many others.
Instead of the fruitplatterat the hotel,our guests explore localfarmers markets to enjoy locallygrown
produce, insteadof lunch or cocktailsserved by the pool,our guests explore localrestaurants,food
trucks,and happy hours, insteadof diningout at on-siteresorthotel restaurants,our guests explore
localstoresto cook with localfresh ingredients.We activelytake a great part of promoting local
businesses. We now have many repeated guests,and some of them even get involved inthe local
volunteer activitiesbecause they grow to care about communities.
CountyCIei^
From:
Sent:
Alana Kaili<alanakk31@icloud.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8;18AM
County ClerkTo:
You don't often get email from alanakk31@icloud.com. Learn why thisisimportant
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Council members,
My name isAlana Kailiand Iwriteto you instrongopposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith the
amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Alana Kaili
oc- 73
r- -n m
o210 ro
m o
O <9^^
rn
rn
aUJ
o
1
County Clerk
im OCT20 W 9=30
From:
Sent:
Curt K. <curtk808@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 9:03AM
County Clerk
Bill159
To:
Subject: ;rFlGE OF THt-
:'OUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom curtk808@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
To: County.clerk@mauicounty.us
Council members.
My name isCurt Kalama and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Curt Kalama
Sent from my iPhone
1
Countj^£lerk “TTFrriTFD
mi OCT 21 AH 8:06
WikoliaKaluna-Palafox<vkalunapalafox1@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8;00 PM
County Clerk
Testimony:on Resolution159 Amendment
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
'●?r-FICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha and thank you forthisopportunityto share my testimony.
Iappose to ammendment resolution 159. Because as a kanaka maoli itwilltake away my vested rightsto continue to
practice our culturaland traditionalpractices,which isalreadyprotectby law. This ismy kuleana,1willprotectformy
children,grandchildren,greatgrandchildrenand the childrenthatareyetto come and to continueto thriveand not be
mistreated and disrespected of theirrightsas kanaka maoli,we willnever be erased.
Mahalo forthisopportunity:Mrs. VictoriaKaluna-Palafoxof Lahaina
1
Count^^Clerk Riinr.
Kanani Kan Hai <kaukakanani@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:11 PM
County Cierk
testifyBill159
From:
Sent: im OCT 21 AM & 06
To:
Subject: ●:-friCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kaukakanani@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Isupport the billto cap tourism
Shutting down our islandsduring covid showed us we can with less,
please put a cap and letour aina restand restore
mahalo
ma Kona inoa,
Kauka
Kanani Kan Hai, Ed.D.
WUCP Preschool Director
(808) 242-5950
kaukakanani@gmail.com
wae aku i ka lani
1
Comit^Cleric
ocy20 AH 8:55
From:
Sent:
Jordon Kapu <jordon.kapu@yahoo.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:28AM
County Clerk
Council members
To:
Subject: ri-tCE OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
ii
[You don'toftengetemailfrom jordon.kapu@yahoo.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSendertdentification]
My name isJordon kapu and Iwriteto u instrongoppositionof bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith the
amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawaii Hotel Alliance.
Thank u foryour consideration,
Jordon kapu
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^CleHc KCODVgO
20??OCT20 W 8=56
ICE OF THE
■;OUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Kawika Kekuawela <kkekuawela5@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 8:52 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom kkekuawela5@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isKawika Kekuawela and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten. However Isupport the bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Kawika Kekuawela
1
SSR RECEIVED
mi OCT21 AH 8=08INSTITUTE OF HAWAII
OFFICE OF THF
COUNTY GLEKK
Oct. 21. 2022
9 a.m.
To: Council of the County of Maui
Alice Lee, Chair
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
From: Grassroot Institute of Hawaii
Joe Kent, Executive Vice President
Comments Only
Dear Chair and Committee Members:
The Grassroot Institute of Hawaii would like to offer its comments on proposed resolution
22-206 — “Authorizingproceedings ineminent domain forthe acquisitionof approximately 257
acres at Ma'alaea Mauka/Pohakea Watershed, Maui, Hawaii.”
We have concerns thatthisproposal would needlessly infringeprivateproperty rightsand set a
dangerous precedent of using eminent domain to appease voters who oppose particular
proposed residentialdevelopments.
The resolutionstatesthatitspurpose isto use the Ma'alea Mauka/Pohake Watershed for
"watershed projects,open space, reservoirdevelopment and publicparks.”
But italso admits that “therehas been publicsupport for Maui County to acquire thisland in an
effortto curb additionaldevelopment,” which suggests the proposed acquisitionismore about
politicsthan protectingthe environment.
Considering the severityofthe county’shousing shortage,thistrulywould be a strange policy
forthe county to adopt — buying land to prevent needed homes from being built.
As we allknow, Maui already has among the most burdensome housing regulationsinthe
nation.The misuse of eminent domain to furtherdiscourage new homebuilding would add yet
another element of uncertaintyto the homebuilding process.
Italso would impose considerable unneeded costs on Maui taxpayers, who already are
stretched to the limitto pay the county’s bills,as well as theirown.
Even ifwe take the alleged environmental goals ofthisresolutionat face value, itisnot obvious
thatthe land could not also accommodate the buildingof new homes — which, again, is
something Maui residentsdesperately need.
Additionallythere islittlereason to believethe county can address the environmental needs of
thisarea betterthan the privatesector.As with most government bodies, itsenvironmental track
record isless than encouraging, and we often read about neglected or damaged publicpark
restrooms, loitering and dumping, abandoned cars, and persistentlitter,on county properties.
In conclusion,even when supposedly used forthe “publicgood,” eminent domain isnonetheless
an infringementon privatepropertyrightsand should not be used frivolously,such as to
appease “Not In My Backyard" groups opposed to new housing.
To do so would put the County inthe awkward positionof buying land to prevent housing from
being built,at a time when itshould be encouraging homebuilders instead.
We think itwould be wise for the Council to shelve thisproposed resolution.
Sincerely,
Joe Kent
Executive Vice President
Grassroot Institute of Hawaii
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
jkevan(S)gmail.com
Thursday, October 20, 2022 5:03 AM
County Clerk
WrittenTestimony forFridayCouncilof the County of Maui
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfromjkevan@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
The Planning Commissions proposed changes would equal tens of millionsof dollarsingross revenue lostwhich
willinturnhave significantimpacts on the vendors, cleaners,maintenance teams and staffthatthey employ and the
accompanied losttax dollarsforthe county. Businesses willclose,more localemployees willlosetheirjobs and this
willnot stop arrivalsintoMaui. Our industryishighlyimpacted by thisbilland yet,we have not yet been calledas a
resource group, invitedto the tableor given the chance to share our concerns and input.
This willnot fixaffordablehousing as these unitsare not affordableto the localcommunity due to special
assessments, HOA dues, lack of parking etc..This willnot fixlack of buildingforthe last20 years!!!
This billshould continue to be vetted in committee and allow the commission to complete theirreview. More voices
need to be heard as we do not feel this billhas been a collaborativeeffort.The planning commission should be
allowed to give theirrecommendation and they have not been allowed to do theirwork.
It’sour hope thatwe can finda balance and way as a countyto createthe affordablehousing needed and manage
tourism withoutthe need to take away and negativelyimpact our locallyowned and run smallbusinesses.
Talk to the companies, employees and vendors who support the Maui economy and pay forso many ofthe needs of
Maui residentsthrough taxes.
You may also want to look at the court case Oahu justlostfortakingaway vested owner rights.Lawsuitswillhappen
on Maui too.
John Kevan
MAUI PARADISE
PROPERTIES
O ● ;
C -i
20
Maui Paradise Properties LLC
727WaineeSt. Ste 206
Lahaina, Hi.96761
ikevan@mpphawaii.com
808-283-9790
73o
m
ot>0H m mCD
<
oo
rnrr.
O.A.)
-A .O -o
1
Count^CletJ<
Bruce Klug <klughome@gmail.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 9:45AM
Bryceand JanisKlug;County Clerk;AliceL Lee;KeaniN. Rawlins
Re:Fw: Publicwrittentestimonyon Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don’toften get emailfrom klughome@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Maui County Clerk,Council Chair,and Council Vice Chair;
Regarding the Council meeting on October 21, 2022, here ismy writtentestimonyon Bill159:
1am writingin oppositionto Bill159. Our familyhas owned a unitforover 50 years.Our familyhas endless
memories with our family,our kids,our grandkids, and our great-grandkids.The onlyway we can keep the
unitinthe familyisto rent itout when we are not there.Not onlyinthe lossofincome revenue,the unit
value willplummet, which willalso reduce the amount of propertytaxthatiscollected.We are opposed to
Bill159 and the provisionthatchanges Transient Vacation Rentals inplanned developments from
permitted,to non-conforming. The potentialnegative economic impact on the islandeconomy WILL be
significant.
Bruce Klug
On Fri,Oct 21, 2022 at 8:19 AM Bryce and JanisKlug <ak klugs@vahoo.com> wrote:
FYI
— Forwarded Message —
From: Bryce and Janis Klug <ak kluQS@vahoo.com>
To: countv.clerk@mauicountv.us <countv.clerk@mauicountv.us>: alice.lee@mauicountv.us
<alice.lee@mauicountv.us>: keani.rawlins@mauicountv.us <keani.rawlins@mauicountv.us>
Sent: Friday,October 21, 2022 at 07:18:35 AM AKDT
Subject: Publicwrittentestimony on Bill159
Maui County Clerk,Council Chair,and Council Vice Chair;
Regarding the Council meeting on October 21, 2022, here ismy writtentestimonyon Bill159:
1 am writinginoppositionto Bill159. Our familyhas owned at leastone STVR unitinPuamana sincethe
early1970’s. That isover 50 years of revenue to the County thatisindanger ofbeing extinguishedalong
with our property rights.Itdoes not appear thatthe economic ramificationsofthisordinance have
realisticallybeen considered. Six years ago we expended over $250,000 on a 2-bedroom unit,expanding
itssize and upgrading it.No bedrooms or bathrooms were added. Next year we are lookingatrepainting
the interiorand installingsome new flooring.These kindsofimprovements resultindollarsbeing spent in
the localMaui economy on materialsand labor.This high levelofinvestmentispossiblebecause thereis
a volume of visitorsthatare willingto pay forqualityaccommodations. This resultsinsignificantreal
propertytax and transienttax revenues to Maui County, inadditionto visitorspending from these
guests. We are opposed to Bill159 and the provisionthatchanges TransientVacationRentalsinplanned
developments from permitted,to non-conforming. The potentialnegativeeconomic impacttothe island
economy could be significant.
Bryce Klug
1
Count^Clei^
Bryce and JanisKiug <ak_klugs@yahoo.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 5:19AM
County Clerk;AliceL Lee;KeaniN. Rawlins
Publicwrittentestimony on Bill159
From;
Sent: 202?OCT21 AH&06
To:
orFlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom ak_klugs@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Maui County Clerk,Council Chair,and Council Vice Chair;
Regarding the Council meeting on October 21, 2022, here ismy writtentestimonyon Bill159;
Iam writinginopposition to Bill159. Our familyhas owned at leastone STVR unitinPuamana sincethe early
1970's. That isover 50 years of revenue to the County thatisindanger of beingextinguishedalongwith our property
rights.Itdoes not appear that the economic ramificationsof thisordinancehave realisticallybeen considered.Sixyears
ago we expended over $250,000 on a 2-bedroom unit,expanding itssizeand upgradingit.No bedrooms or bathrooms
were added. Next year we are looking at repaintingthe interiorand installingsome new flooring.These kindsof
improvements resultindollarsbeing spent inthe localMaui economy on materialsand labor.Thishighlevelof
investment ispossiblebecause there isa volume of visitorsthatare willingto pay forqualityaccommodations. This
resultsinsignificantrealproperty tax and transienttax revenues to Maui County, inadditionto visitorspendingfrom
these guests. We are opposed to Bill159 and the provisionthatchangesTransientVacationRentalsinplanned
developments from permitted,to non-conforming. The potentialnegativeeconomic impacttothe islandeconomy
could be significant.
Bryce Klug
1
Countj^CIerk RCCfliVED
im OCT 20 AH 8:54
PAA HI <paahawaii@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 8:19 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: '^rncE OF i KiF
●-■IJNTV CIER;-:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom paahawaii@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
To: Countv.clerk@mauicountv.us
Council members,
My name isManny Kulukulualaniand Iwriteto you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the
billwith the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmittedby the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Manny Kulukulualani
1
Count^Clerk
RECEIVEDSuzanne Lahl <SLahl@msn.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 11:31 AM
County Clerk
Support for Bill159
From:
Sent:
OCT 19 PH f:02To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toften get email from siahl@msn.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
)ear Maui County Council,
Please vote in favor of Bill159 to limit new transient accommodations! We MUST cap the buildingof
hotelswhich willonly continue to harm our fragileeco-system, qualityof lifeand continued over-use
of tourism venues.
Thank you foryour wisest and moral considerationto do the rightthing.
Sincerely.
Suzanne Lahl
Kiheipropertyowner and resident- 20 years.
Suzanne Lahl, MSOD
www.syncupleadership.com
#808-284-2859
1
Count^CjeH<
MarjorieLang <alohalady222@icloud.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 9:59 AM
County Clerk
Support of bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from alohalady222(S)icloud.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Ifullysupport thisbill,especiallyrestrictingallcamping vehicles,restrictingapartments to long term only,limiting
STVRs and forbiddingthem in residentialneighborhoods.
Please protectMaui from over tourism!
Mahalo
Marjorie Lang
155 Wailea Ike Place
Apt 17
Kihei HI 96753
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clet^
Amy Larsen<amy@secretsofmaui.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 2:24 AM
County Clerk
Resolution 22-70
22-70
From:
Sent:
To:
Pleasedo not pass ResolutionSubject:
[You don't often get email from amy@secretsofmaui.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
To Council Members:
Ido not support resolution22-70.1firmlybelievein managed tourism and regenerativetourism. However thismeasure
does not have enough informationwhen itcomes to economic repercussions.Ido not support changing property uses
described in the measure, and Ifeelthe measure could accomplish itsgoal without changing the use out from under
property owners. Iwould liketo see amendments to the language in the billto allow the existingproperties continue
theiruse legally.
The intentof thisbillisto cap transientvacationaccommodation rentalunitsat existinglevels.However there are
severalplacesinthe department of planningreportrecommended changes that indicatecurrentTVR use incertain
zones willbe disallowedmoving forward,and existingpropertiesdoing thisuse would be now considered non-
conforming.
Implementation of thisbillwillresultinlossofjobs and taxes collected.
Thank you,
73o o
mCTlAmy Larsen
Owner, Maui Kamaole AlOl o50 rO
rrio
-<
O
o=-r!
mr"
^3 ^ aui
*0
1
Count^^leH<
Una Latu <unalatu@yahoo.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:51 AM
County Clerk
Council Members
From:
Sent: mi OCT 20 AH 8: 56
To:
Subject: .t-rlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom unalatu@yahoo.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
Hi My name isUna Latu and Iwriteto you inStrong opposition of bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendment proposed indraftbillsubmitted by the Hawaii Hotel alliances.
Thank you foryour consideration
Una Latu
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clerk nECLiVLD
From:
Sent:
I<laurieinhawaiinei@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8;41AM
County Clerk
Bill145: PleaseVote to Regulate Bike Tours!
im OCT 20 AH 8: 56
To:
Subject: OF THIi
OUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom laurieinhawaiinei@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
Here are justa few of many dozens of recentcomments about bike tours that have been posted online.Please vote in
favor of Bill145 for allthe citizens of Maui.
Mahalo,
LaurieinHawaiinei@Rmail.com
Seline Kaleialii Cruz
It’sdangerous having to go around the bikes!Not Pono
Barbara J. Ac
!trulyhate those bike tours n they don’tmove to the side.Idon’twant to honk my horn from scaringthem.
Roseanna Smartano
Those bikes are a menace on the road. God forbid one of them fallsover and you run them over and it’s
not even your fault.
Malia Anderson Vandervoort
Everyday it’sa likeRussian roulette.
It’snot IF but when you willhave one of these commercial bike companies bikerswith
Fall
Swerve
Or cuttinfrontof you while drivingon a road thatvehicletaxes pay for.Ihave had too many close callsto
count. Enough isenough!
For the record, Itake no issue with road bikers and people thatactuallyknow how to ridea bike,have
common sense.
Lisa Alo
This iswhat Iexperience,dailyand over and over.Driverscoming intothe other oncoming lane,instead
of waitingforclearpassage. Bike dudes, allover the road with no knowledge of how heavy trafficisnow
that our islandisSo Congested. This tourism sport should have ended 20 years ago. Everyone isput in
danger, everyday and countless accidents.Ithas to stop.
Susie Q Quipotia
We Should Always Know How Much Our County IsPaying Out For ALL LAW SUITS !!Bikes Or Not.
Eddie Fong
What happened to limitingovertourism? Let'sstartby riddingour islandofthese tours period!
Lacy Reich
1
These bike tours are the bane of my existence!
Nadine Awana
...those dang bike tours!IVe been inthatsituationbefore and itsUnacceptable!6 ●
Kat Warm
People have been dealingwith thisdangerous issue forfartoo long.This activityhas put driversand
ridersin harms way. Enough with thisdangerous situation!!
Sheri Wahinekapu
Obliviousto safetyand when they get hurt,they likesue. Pono’ole
Sandy Tupman
Idon’t understand how itislegalto operate a privatebusiness on publicroads.
Tania Alvarez Hansen
Iwhite,knuckle itevery day!!
Champ Taylor
lt‘snot only an annoyance, it‘sa danger
Cj Nakanelua
Itsnot justa hazard. Itsan inconvenience to residentswho are tryingto get to work and theirkids to
school. Another aspect of our islandthatcaters to tourism and does not care about the residents.
2
Count^Gerlc
im OCT20 AH 7=58
LauraLegge <laura.legge@icloud.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 7:50 PM
County Clerk
KellyKing
TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF BILL 159 to be heard on the C^uml^SUfQirAjdrfda
OUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject: on
October 21, 2022
You don'toftenget emailfrom laura.legge@icloud.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
\/lauiCounty Council:
Please accept thistestimony inSUPPORT of Bill159 “ A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS.”
We have owned our home on the Southside of Maui for 20 years and our familyhas been coming to Maui since
the 1920s. Yes, you read thatcorrectly.
Enough isenough. Maui County iscompletelyout of balance and everyone who callsMaui islandhome
experiences thisimbalance every singleday. Maui doesn’texistsolelyfortourism.
The Maui islandplan passed in2012 callsforthe number of visitorsto be no more than one-thirdof the residential
population.Clearlythisisnot being adhered to.
We do not need more shortterm rentals.We need long-termhousing solutions. Time and time again we are asked
by our friendsifwe know of any availablerentals,letalone affordablelong term rentals.Why aren’tthey
available? Because of greed. Too many homes on our Southside have been converted to shortterm rentals,
includingB&Bs.
And don’t tellme that those who work for the hotels willsufferifthisBillpasses. Just thisweek itwas reported that
Hawaii has the highest-earninghotelbusinesses inthe nation and thatMaui hotelscontinue to increase revenue per
availableroom sincethe pandemic in2019. Every singlehotelon the Southside iscurrentlyadvertisingformore
workers.
Don’t get me startedon the devastation of our Southside beaches and reefs I’vewitnessed over the past 30 years
caused by too many visitors,too many condos being builtmauka and too many homes on the beaches (thatliterally
sitempty because the homeowners are off-islandatone of theirother mansions inthe world).Meanwhile, the
wetlands and reefsforeverdestroyed. Our keikiwillblame our generation, as they should, ifwe don't get this
overuse reversed.
As we Southsiders know, the trafficon Piilaniand South Kihei Road has become intolerable. And don’t even think
about gettinga parkingspot at Makena Landing or Ulua after7:30 a.m. Nope. Alltaken by the visitors.
And where isallthe needed water fornew development going to come from? My understanding iswe don’thave
enough now. And what about the waste water created by additionaldevelopment? Are we going to put even more
partiallytreatedwaste water intoour ocean via injectionwells? Bacterialcounts at Kalama are already through the
roof.
This island is out of balance, and we allknow it.it’snot too lateto turn itaround. Please do the rightthing and pass
this Bill.
Mahalo nui loa
1
The Legge-Welter Family
292 Alaume Street
Kihei. HI ■
96753
82 n OS TOOm
O ZiOi'r .
/'‘/iJJO YTi/liJC..
● f
2
Count^£lerk
Nancy and StaffordLombard <stafford_nancy@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:42 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom stafford_nancy@hotmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
My husband and Iown a short-term vacation rentalat the Maui Vistaand have owned itfor over 20
years. We are residentsof Hawaii Island.
We understand Maui County's desireto assertsome degree of controlover the burgeoning number oftourists
and short-term rentalson Maui. Iknow you have heard and readtestimonyfrom owners such aswe and from
businesses who benefit from tourists and short-term rentals.I'm equallysure that you have heard of the
positivefinancialimpacts to Maui's economy from short-term rentalsand the people who come stayinthem.
While Iagree with most of those points,my purpose here isnot to rehash these arguments but ratherto ask
that you continue to allow those resortson the Minatoya List- "Apartment DistrictPropertiesAllowed to be
Used forShort-Term Occupancy" to continueto be allowed to be used forshortterm vacationrentalsas they
have been withoutthe requirement of obtainingSpecial Permits.
Thank you foryour considerationand time. 0"i <=>
Tmn
no●<Nancy Lombard
Kea'au, Hawaii OO 2:-n
r“
mm -1
7s
ov_n
CO
1
Count^CleiJ< ni:G:Ll'j£D
mi OCT 20 AH 8'-55
From:
Sent:
David Maeva <davidmaeva31@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:28 AM
County Clerk
Bill159
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom davidmaeva31@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isDavid Maeva and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
David Maeva
1
Count^Clerk ^Fi-FiVFn
Marcus Malepeai <mmalepeai53@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:35 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
20??OCT 20 AH 8: 55
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from mmalepeai53@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members.
My name is,Marcus Malepeai, and Iwrite to you instrong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupportthe bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Marcus Malepeai
1
Count^^CleHc
From:
Sent:
CollinMansanas <kuumaka7373@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:23AM
County Clerk
Bill159 opposition
To:
Subject:
[You don’toftenget emailfrom kuumaka7373@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
My name isCollinMansanas and Iwriteto you instrongopposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Collin Mansanas
3
V
c?
mczi
"● m
c~>
a
mo
OO
r*-
rn ^
O\jjr.i C3
1
County Clerk
LouisMansanas <mansanaslouis@gmaii.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 9:00 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from mansanaslouis@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
My name isLouis Mansanas And 1write to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as itiswritten.However 1willsupport the
Billwith the amendments proposed Inthe draftBillsubmitted By the Hawaii hotel alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration.
Louis Mansanas
Sent from my iPhone
S
O--: oc m
2;o oH rom
●< CD m
oo "n
mrn-^
Oyjj
1
FREC LIVEDDear Planning Commission,
im pCT19 PH2'-25I ask the Planning Department to recommend removing the proposed
changestosection19.32.040Iforplanneddevelopments^^^^''^ CLE^KBack in 2013 a billwas passed to allow short-term rentalsTbVPlanned
development like Puamana. Puamana was builtin the late 60's and has been
operating with vacation rentals since itsbeginning (around 53 years). It is a
230-unit development on 30-acres and there is no availabilityor possibility
of building new/more units. Puamana has itsown roads, security, and
amenities and does a pretty good job of containing tourist making their
impact much less on the Island as a whole. The few things that Puamana
doesn't have are restaurants and shopping, which isgreat for the
surrounding community as this supports small businesses throughout
Lahaina and the rest of Maui.
: I
The operation of short-term rentals within Puamana helps a number of small
businesses survive on Maui: cleaning companies, maintenance companies,
appliance repair companies, management companies, gardening services,
snorkel/beach bike rentals, photographers, etc. I feelthat you need to be
aware of who willactually be affected by this change.
According to a study done by Jen Russo of Maui Vacation Rental Association
about the Real Property Tax*, STR's contribute the most to the Real Property
Tax, in digging deeper, Puamana is in the top 10 complexes of revenue
generated for the County of Maui through real property tax. Out of the top
10, 7 are STR's and 3 are Hotels. I think this would a be huge unintended
consequence for changing the PUD zoning to non-conforming in this bill.
Again, I ask the planning department to recommend removing the proposed
changes to section 19.32.40 for planned developments within Resolution
22.70.
Thank you for your time,
Andy Marchello
’ Russo,Jen - ShortTerm Rentalsare the BiggestRevenue Source for Maui County Real Property Tax FY22-23
Maui Vacation Rental Association- Sunday May 22, 2022 - httPs://mvra.net/ne\A/s/12800076
Furtherinfoabout top 10 came directlyfrom Jen Russo
Below isthe Chart that Jen Russo sent to us from her research intothe Real Property Tax
Sum of CURRENT
TOTAL NET
TAXABLE
REVENUE
Rating {Y
5TR P H)
NUMBER
OF UNITS
Sum of RPT
Revenue
TOP
PROJECT PROPERTY ADDRESS 20
HONUA KAI 130 Kai Malina Pkwy 736 1479,135,500 13,972,756 1 1
50 Nohea Kai DrKAANAPALI ALII 275 657,716,900 7,793,945 2 2
Grand Wailea 3850 WAILEA ALANUI DR 780 621,756,100 7,305,634 1 3
KAPALUA BAY CONDO 1 Bay Dr 106 487,731,400 5,779,617 3 4
WAILEA BEACH VILLAS 3800 Wailea Alanui Dr 96 474,547,900 5,623,393 4 5
Kea Lani 450 410,022,500 4,817,764 2 6
Hyatt Total 200 NOHEA KAI DR 806 386,224,700 4,538,140 3 7
WAILEA POINT I,II,III 4000 Wailea Alanui Dr 103 360,302,000 4,269,579 5 8
WAILEA ELUA 1,11 3600 Wailea Alanui 155 354,432,200 4,200,022 6 9
PUAMANA Pualei Dr 190 296,446,000 3,512,885 7 10
Four Seasons 3900 WAILEA ALANUI 380 297,937,400 3,500,764 4 11
Sheraton 2605 KAANAPALI PKWY 508 296,801,600 3,487,419 5 12
Westin Maui Total 759 292,717,300 3,439,428 6 13
KAMAOLE SANDS 2695 S Kihei Rd 440 278,724,700 3,302,888 8 14
Royal Lahaina 2780 KEKAAOR 254,303,200 2,988,063 7 15
WAILEA EKAHI I,II,III 3300 Wailea Alanui Dr 209 245,631,400 2,910,732 9 16
3543 Lower Honoapiilani
PAPAKEA Rd 364 238,776,500 2,829,502 10 17
Wailea Beach Marriott 3650 WAILEA ALANUI DR 544 238,336,000 2,800,448 8 18
2777 S Kihei RdMAUI KAMAOLE I,II,III 240 226,794,000 2,687,509 11 19
Andaz 323 205,360,300 2,412,984 9 20
Manele Bay Hotel 1 MANELE BAY RD 236 195,762,900 2,300,214 10 21
KAPALUA BAY VILLAS 500 Bay Dr 141 175,535,500 2,080,096 12 22
(blank)RitzCarlton 163,362,000 1,919,504 11 23
45 Kai Ala DrHALE KAANAPALI 258 161,065,400 1,908,625 13 24
500 Kapalua DrKAPALUA GOLF VILLAS 186 146,211,800 1,732,610 14 25
155 Wailea Ike PIGRND CHAMP VILLAS 188 142,419,600 1,687,672 15 26
100 Ridge RoadTHE RIDGE 161 139,597,000 1,654,224 16 27
3200 Wailea Alanui Dr 150PALMS AT WAILEA I 139,192,700 1,649,433 2817
10 Wailea Ekolu PI 148WAILEA EKOLU 135,207,100 1,602,204 18 29
2191SKiheiRdMAUI VISTA 280 126,701,800 1,501,416 19 30
Maui Lu Int-Hilton TS Total 120 123,186,400 1^447,440 12 31
LAHAINA SHORES 475 Front St 206 118,914,700 1,409,139 20 32
2531 SKiheiRd 232KIHEI AKAH! 114,921,800 1,361,823 21 33
Kaanapali Beach Total 2525 KAANAPALI PKWY 432 115,706,200 1,359,548 13 34
4365 Lower Honoapiilani
RdROYAL KAHANA 238 113,318,800 1,342,828 22 35
2737 S Kihei RdHALE KAMAOLE 188 112,645,100 1,334,844 23 36
Maul Coast 2259 S KIHEI RD 265 107,670,200 1,265,125 14 37
1032 S Kihei RdMAUI SUNSET 225 105,276,500 1,247,527 24 38
5295 Lower Honoapiilani
RdNAPILI POINT I,II 111 102,374,200 1,213,134 25 39
Residence Inn Wailea 75 WAILEA IKE DR 200 83,832,100 985,027 15 40
Lodge at Koele 1 KEOMOKU HWY 102 60,448,900 710,275 16 41
Makena Beach Resort 5400 MAKENA ALANUI 55,022,700 646,517 17 42
Maui Seaside lOOWKAAHUMANUAVE 187 49,445,600 580,986 18 43
38 WAILEA IKE PLAC HOTEL MARRIOTT 43,701,100 513,488 19 44
Hotel Wailea (Diamond Resort)allTotal 79 41,290,600 485,165 20 45
Maui Beach 130WKAAHUMANU AVE 147 23,247,100 273,153 20 46
(blank)Montage 18,477,800 217,114 21 47
Hotel Hana Maui-not privateunits(no cpr 18/20) 14,630,90051 171,913 22 48
Mauian 44 13,129,200 154,268 23 49
Pioneer Inn (7 only)Total 34 9,026,000 106,056 24 50
Lodge at Maunaloa D MOKIOST 22 3,760,900 44,191 25 51
Mana Hana Condos 3,018,600 35,469 26
RECEIVEDDear Maui County Council,
IasktheCountyCounciltoremovetheproposed ?o19.32.040 I for planned developments in Resolution 22-70, CD 1, FD 1.
oFRGE OF THE
Back in 2013 a billwas passed to allow short-term rential^lPbGRfarVh^d
development likePuamana. Puamana was builtin the late 60's and has been
operating with vacation rentals since itsbeginning (around 53 years). It isa
230-unit development on 30-acres and there is no availabilityor possibility
of building new/more units. Puamana has itsown roads, security, and
amenities and does a pretty good job of containing tourist making their
impact much less on the Island as a whole. The few things that Puamana
doesn't have are restaurants and shopping, which is great for the
surrounding community as this supports small businesses throughout
Lahalna and the rest of Maui.
The operation of short-term rentals within Puamana helps a number of small
businesses survive on Maui: cleaning companies, maintenance companies,
appliance repair companies, management companies, gardening services,
snorkel/beach bike rentals, photographers, etc. I feel that you need to be
aware of who willactually be affected by this change.
According to a study done by Jen Russo of Maui Vacation Rental Association
about the Real Property Tax*, STR's contribute the most to the Real Property
Tax, in digging deeper, Puamana is in the top 10 complexes of revenue
generated for the County of Maui through real property tax. I think this
would a be huge unintended consequence for changing the PUD zoning to
non-conforming in this bill.
Again, I ask the County Council to remove the proposed changes to section
19.32.040 I for planned developments within Resolution 22.70 CDl FDl
Thank you for your time,
Andy Marchello
* Russo,Jen - Short Term Rentalsare the BiggestRevenue Source for Maui County Real Property Tax FY22-23
Maui Vacation Rental Association- Sunday May 22, 2022 - https://mvra.net/news/12800076
Furtherinfoabout top revenue generatingpropertiescame directlyfrom Jen Russo
TOP REVENUE GENERATING SHORT TERM
RENTAL AND HOTEL PROPERTY, MAUI COUNTY
total
ASSESSED
	
PROPERTY TAX
REVENJE
ASSESSMENT
»ER UNIT
AVE. REVENUE
PER UNITPROJEa PROPERTY
Largest
Ave''Ur t4 L4:
2
'' ●
3 ●i : ●:? : ■1. -t.
::4| 4
s
s
t
Largest by “otal
^>^i|BRev
PUD
4
ao i
11 f-4- r":
12
4<1
Largest ave-'u'»it
hote410,022,500 4S17.764 10.70614 <ealan S21.1S1
151- :
195,762.900 2.300,214 S29.504 9,74716 MANE.EBAY -OTEL
Largest Hotel
by Totalrev17 GRAND '.VA _EA 621,756.100 7.305,634 9.566
iM15
=OjR seasons 297 937,400 3,500,76419 7S4.D46 9.213
Be.
2*
22
23 ANOAI 205,360.300 2,412.984 635,790 7,471
24 i
296.801.6C025 S-i£PATON 3 4S7.419 554.255 6,565
ROYAL LAHANA 254 302.2C0 2,968.063 5S0.6C1 6.822
27 -YATT 386,224.700 4,538.140 479.187 5.630
WAILEA. 5EACH MARRIOTT 23S,336.DCO 2,800.448 438.1182S 5,148
292,717.300WESTIN N'VkJi 3,439,428 385,662 4.532
30 RT2 CAR-TON 163,362.000 1,919,504 350,562 4.119
Source. Maui Cojrny Rea Prop Tax
Legend STR P'opeTes
Hotel Properties
Count^Clei^ RET 'F D
im OCT !9 AH 9:28Marty Martins<mauimanokane@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:51 AM
County Clerk
Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
‘5FFJCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom mauimanokane@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
support the ordinance amending the comprehensive zoning ordinance relatingto transient
accommodation caps.
Marty Martins
KThei
1
County Clerk RCOLiVC£»
michael masutani <neuspeedkekoa@yahoo.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:21AM
County Clerk
Opposition to Bill159
From:
Sent: im OCT 20 AM & 54
To:
Subject: h:i●rlor: OrC
COUNTY CLIERK
I You don'toften get email from neuspeedkekoa@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isMichael Masutani and 1write to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However 1support the bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Michael Masutani
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone
1
Count^Clerlt I r**
Ghana Maui <ohanamauiyouthfoundation@gmail.com>
Tuesday, October 11,2022 10:04 AM
County Clerk
ReferenceCommittee Report No. 22-98 regardingResolution22-206^- Qp
..o'uNTYCLERK
From:
Sent: ?0nOCTi7 W9:26To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom ohanamauiyouthfoundation@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
My name IsJudson McCall Nagasko of Lahaina.Ihave currentlybeen directingour family'syouth foundation for around
10 years.Our familiestiesto thiscommunity and it'speople are of obvious proportion.
As a businessowner, publiceducatorand figureof integritywithin our community Icome to provide thistestimony
today inhopes you willrefrainfrom the use of eminent domain.
● Reference Committee Report No. 22-98 regardingResolution22-206.
We are currentlyat a breaking point within our community. Many of our kidstoday sitpacked intoschools with
inadequate numbers of teachersdue to the lackof housing.
Many of our non profitsand localbusinesses are forced into debt tryingto provide serviceswith no means or pathway
to ever obtainhousingof theirown or operationalland for program development.
Many of our landssitInidlenot being protectedbut rather neglected .
Iforone would be the firstto ask.Ifno one willprotect these lands,ifno one else willprovide some kind of actualplan
and visionforour island.Ifthe county of Maui has seen no reason before to protectthese lands .Why as soon as we
have someone step up to do so arewe so quickto send theirideasintothe abyss.
Our county has to do better.For our children,forour Kapuna.
Ihave watched as the county does nothingto protectitsown parks now from desecration.Ihave watched our
communities become overrun with crime and poverty righthere on the propertiesour county issupposed to have
controland jurisdictionover.
At some point Iwould ask.Ifyou can'tprotect Launiupoko, Puamana, and Front Street. How can you possibly have a
visionforsomething new.
Where willour kids live,where willteachers be housed. How do we create programs to develop our next generation of
leaders.
We are leftto answer those questions on our own. While eminent domain isbeing decided at a county councilhearing.
We have to do better.Ihope you willlookatyour decisionsand decide againstthisidea alltogether.
1
Mahalo Nui Loa
Judson McCaN Nagasako
Ghana Maui'Youth Foundation
2
Count^Clei^ ● V V- u
Matt McDonald <mattmcdon@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 7:26AM
County Clerk
Testimony inSupport of Cap on VisitorAccommodations
From:
Sent: im OCT 20 AH 7: 59
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom mattmcdon@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Hi there Council Members,
Iam a concerned resident of East Maui --we already have too many visitors,yet the hoteldevelopment industrywants
to keep buildingmore and more without end! Overtourism isa seriousproblem affectingour qualityof life,and our
community islooking for solutions.We can't controlwhat the airlinesdo, so the best way to remedy overtourism at the
County levelisto limitwhere people can stay when they come here.Thisisan historicopportunityto make a meaningful
impact on the islandour keikiinherit.Please cap visitoraccommodations now!
Thank you,
Matt McDonald
https://63mph.com | (5)63mph |808.500.8054
1
CountyClerk RCOliVCD
Eileen<meileen(o)yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 3:07PM
County Clerk
In Favor of the Visitor Accommodation Moratorium
From:
Sent: im OCT 19 PH 02
To:
Subject: ,:)FF1CE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftenget emailfrom meileen@yahoo.com. Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha,
1am a 20 year residenton Maui, livingin the Kiheiareathe entiretime.As many are aware,theislandissuffering
with the huge influxofvisitors.We allknow the Maui Islandplanpassed in2012 callsforthe number ofvisitorsto
be no more than one thirdof the residentialpopulation,or 33%. The visitorinfluxiswreaking havoc on our
sensitiveinfrastructure,upsettingresidentswho can'tfindparkingattheirlocalbeaches,but do gettofindshelves
empty atthe supermarkets.We hear horror storiesofvisitorsbuying beach equipment atCostco,onlytoreturnthe
items on theirway to the airport,and boasting about iton socialmedia. Costco can'treselltheseitemsso theyend
up inour ever increasinglandfill.This isan unsustainablesituation.
Currently,in mid-October, when we used to have a lullinvisitorarrivals,we are experiencingon the south sidean
insane amount of traffic.Yes, there isconstruction going on, but justlastyear [priorto constructionstart),getting
stuck atthe Lipoa Streetstoplightwould findyou backed up tosouthofHope Chapel.Now we are backed up tothe
policestation,and atpau hana time,as workers commute home from thehotels,trafficisbacked up even further.
[See Pi'ilaniHighway photos.)
So one thinks,maybe betterto go South KiheiRoad. Tried thattoday,October 19th,at 10:30am, and thattoo, was
backed up. [See SKR photo.)
Unfortunately,the planning commission justapproved another 1,000 homes on the south side.Then thereisthe
constructionprojectoccurring in Makena. Heaven knows the trafficimpactthesethousands ofcarswillhave.
Let'sdiscusswater. Where isitallcoming from? Willyou startdemanding thathotelsconserve water as we
residents have been asked to do? Do the short term vacation rental owners request visitorsto conserve water? I
doubt it.
This isutterlyunsustainable,and Ifearwe willrun out ofwater completely,and willlosethebettervisitorwho
actuallyspends money here [ratherthan the folkson socialmedia who adviseotherstobringtheirown
condiments and pack theirown frozen meats in theircarryons).
Please,help us save thisonce idyllicislandby approving Bill159,theVisitorAccommodation Moratorium.It’sa
step inthe rightdirection,with another step being the completionofthe North-SouthCollectorRoad.
Mahalo for considering my testimony.
Eileen McKee
808/298-1886
1
z
^ 'A
s.
i
SOI'S-OfiE^VlSjasjnti ?i\mByo
r
V
I
I
r'
/ /./
f
● / ..-*
-f ●■ '
■ / ■'T* '^●-■S'.
r-u-'v 1
"■●!
■r I
-.1 -
I
!V.* *" * /
'-■■i
●J
w-. J*.55t
^i.

Hawaii Operating Engineers
IndustryStabilizationFund
2181 Lauwiliwili Street
Kapolei, HI 96707
Phone: (808) 845-6221
Website: www.hoeisf.com
LOCALS^STAB1LI2AT ION ^
CQ
O TJ 73Honorable, Alice Lee, Chair
Honorable, Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Honorable Members of the Maui County Council
B—i
c"n m
“j-m ONO
-c o r
oo T1
XT rnm H
XX
m
October 20, 2022
Ow
CO
RE: BILL 159- A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS
My name isPane Meatoga IIIand Iam the Community Liaisonforthe Hawaii Operating Engineers
IndustryStabilizationFund (HOEISF). We are a labormanagement fund representing3000 unionized
members inheavy engineeringsitework and 500 general contractorsspecializinginheavy siteand
vertical construction. Our organization opposes Bill159 as itis currently written and recommend
amendments.
We understand that there are issues with over tourism on the islandof Maui. Unfortunately,Bill159 as
itiscurrentlywritten willhave severe negative impacts to Maui's economy, itsconstructionindustry,
and forthe existinguses currentlyallowed by law and permitted forcurrenthomeowners. We are also
worried thatthe expedited pace of thisproposed legislationdoes not allowforproper publicinput.
There are a lotof issuesand confusion by stakeholdersaffected by thisbill.
HOEISF would like to recommend amendments that will remove "accommodations caps" inthe
appropriatelyzoned areas of Hotel Districtsand Business-ResortCommercial Districtswith no
conditionaluse permit requirements.The billshould alsoallowforexpansionoftimeshare unitswithin
Hotel Districts.
We look forward to seeing Bill159 amended to mitigatenegativeimpactsto homeowners, stakeholders,
and Maui's economy.
Mahalo,
Community Liaison
Hawaii Operating EngineersIndustryStabilizationFund
UNITED OUR STRENGTHS AND WORKING TOGETHER FOR A BETTER TOMORROW
Count^CleH< miOGVCD
Greg Mebel <gregmebel@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 10:28 PM
County Clerk
Oppose Bill159
From:
Sent: im OCT 20 AH 7: 59
To:
Subject: OFRCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom gregmebel@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
OPPOSE Bill159
Maui County Council
Aloha Council members,
I am OPPOSED to the billas written.
There are good arguments to slow down tourism.This isforsure.
BUT, the method by which itisslowed, and knowing the unintended consequences first,are both the ways of BEST
governance.
We should not shoot firstand look down range later.
Making existingoperations NON-CONFORMING statusisNOT FAIR to those existingpropertyowners who are in
operation.This puts theirexistinglivelihoods,at risk.
This proposal would make further,privateinfrastructureinvestment less attractive.Itmay not allow Itat all- Even if
owners are making improvements or upgrades to what isALREADY there.
Please vote NO to this bill.
Thank you foryour considerationand your serviceto the County -
Greg Mebel
1
Count^Clei^
david medina <david.w.medina@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 9:21 AM
County Clerk
bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom david.w.medina@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
am the owner of 58-2 Pualoke Place in Puamana.
Ihereby objectto the proposed language of Bill159 which seeks to deletethe currentlanguage in Maui County
Code 19.32.040 I(“Code”)and accordinglychange the status of short-term rentaluse at Puamana from a
permissibleuse intoan existingnon-conforming use.
This sectionofthe Code appliesonlyto unitsinPuamana. Kaanapali Plantationand Alaeloa thatwere builtand
used forTransient Vacation rentalpriorto April20, 1989. Itdoes not allow any new visitoraccommodations to be
builtor converted from residentialto TVR use. This part of the Code was established in 2013 to clarifythe long
standing legalTVR uses inthese specificprojectsand helps the planning department when approving building
permits and SMA exemptions forremodels and renovations of these 40-60-year-old units.The proposed deletion
turnsthe legalTVR use intoan “existingnon-conforming”use and makes any renovations or remodels difficultto get
permit approvals.This inmy view isunwarranted and should be rejected by the Council.
In additionto the above, itwould appear thatthe Planning Commission was not consulted fortheirrecommendation
with respect to the proposed deletionto the Code. Itwould also appear thatthe short-termvacation rentalindustry,
which is vitalto the economic lifeand health of the County, has not been afforded any opportunityto share its
concern with the Council or the Commission and address the significantpitfallsand problems inherent in this
proposed change..
Accordingly,Irequest thatthisportionof Bill159 which seeks to delete the current language in Maui County Code
19.32.040 Ibe rejectedoutrightor alternativelythisportionof the Billreturned back to committee to allowthe
Planning Commission to complete itsreview (withinputfrom the short-termvacationrentalindustry)beforeany
furtherconsiderationisgiven to thisproposed change to the Code.
Thank You
C V .
730-’'Dave Medina &
mr~>
ozo ro
-Im mo-<
O <o -n
m
75^
KFT‘
aw
1
Pf.
Count^Cletjt f '
jjI >
r \ w-
Thomas Mellin<tmellin@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 12:38 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
m? OCT 19 PH T:02From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[You don't often get email from tmellin(5)yahoo.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Please,please,pleasewe alreadyhave too many tourists!OvertourismwilldestroyMaui notjustforresidents,but also
fortouristswho want to go to someplace special.Do not listentothosewho want to make a quickbuck and who do not
care about the long term effectsof too many tourists.
Tom Mellin
40 HaliliLn, Kihei
1
RECEIVED
mi OCT20 PH 20County Clerk
T I 1
Of FICE OF
COUNtY CLERt
I r
From:
Sent:
IreneMiller<irene84319@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 1:10 PM
County Clerk
Bill159 Testimony
\
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom irene84319@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Please submit the followingtestimony relatedto the proposed Bill159.
Ioppose the proposed language of Bill159 which seeks to delete the currentlanguage in Maui County Code
19.32.040 I(“Code”)which was establishedto clarifythe statusof long standing vacation rentalsin Puamana and
other West Maui communities. This clarificationhelps the planning department when approving buildingpermits and
SMA exemptions forremodels and renovations of these 40-60-year-old units.The proposed language would
change the longstanding statusinthese communities which were builtand used forTransient Vacation Rentals prior
to April20, 1989 from a permissibleuse intoan existingnon-conforming use. Please rejectthischange and consider
possible alternativesolutionsthatmeet community needs while also protectinglong-standingapproved use inthese
developments and returnBill159 back to the Planning Commission to allow foradditionalreview and solutions.
Thank you forthe opportunityto testifyvia email.
Sincerely,
Irene Miller,Trustee
GDIM JointRevocable Trust(Owner of 176 PualeiDr,Apt 2, Lahaina)
1
County Clerk
R !;■„C1--rv C;,D
ml OCT21 AH 8:06
Jessica/JustinMinnoch <jjminnoch@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 6:07 PM
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
;FRCE of the
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget email from]jminnoch@gmail.com. Learnwhv thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isJustinMinnoch and iwrite to you instrong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Justin,Minnoch
1
RECEIVEDCount^Clerk
LindaMitchellEscape2Maui<lindafinearts@gmail.com>?0?2OCT 20 AH 7^58
Wednesday, October 19,2022 5:05 PM
County Clerk
Oppose Resolution22-70
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
BOUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don’toften get email from lindafinearts@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
To the Maui Council,
Please do not pass Resolution22-70.
I do not support this measure. I firmly believe in managed tourism and regenerative
tourism. However this measure does not have enough information when itcomes to
economic repercussions. I do not support changing property uses described in the
measure, and I feel the measure could accomplish itsgoal without changing the use out
from under property owners. I would liketo see amendments to the language in the bill
to allow the existing properties continue their use legally.
The intent of this billisto cap transient vacation accommodation rental units at existing
levels. However there are several places in the department of planning report
recommended changes that indicate current TVR use in certain zones willbe disallowed
moving forward, and existing properties doing this use would be now considered non-
conforming.
Implementation of this billwillresult in loss of jobs and taxes collected.
Thank you,
Linda Mitchell
1
County Clerk p,r^r.\/Fn
Moody, Chris<ChrisM@iwinsulation.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 7:09 AM
County Clerk
Moody, Chris
Opposed to removal of language in19.32.040I- Very conceijrt^(:fF\Cja3i^iiaR\<i4^er
From:
Sent: mi OCT21 AH 8=06
To:
.FFICE OF THECc:
Subject:
You don’toftenget emailfrom chrism@iwinsulation.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Please add to the writtentestimony regardingthissubjectbefore the Council-
As owners of Puamana we stronglyobject to the removal of language contained in Maui County Code 19.32.040 Ithat
affirmed the legalTVR use at Puamana that has existedfor50 years. We stronglyoppose the Maui County Councilfrom
takingaway thisrightforthe Puamana community that has been a very beautifulpartof Maui and the Lahainaarea.
Puamana has 230 unitsand isnot going to add any units.We have been builtfor 50+ years and are not adding any new
buildingsor new units.Leaving the code as itisdoes not allowforANY new TVR unitsto be established.But renovations
are important on a complex 50+ years old and owners should be allowed to renovate theirunitswithout the added
complexity of being turned intoexistingnon-conforming units.But again,Puamana isnot adding any unitsover the
existing230 units- we've been builtout fora long time.
Pleasedo not impact 50+ years of historyon the Puamana community. Pleaseleavethe code 19.32.040 1as ithas
existed in regards to Puamana.
Thank you foryour consideration
Chris& Missy Moody
Owners at Puamana
1
Count^Clerk RECiii'vCD
?!!??OCT20 ,fM8:55
From:
Sent:
mulvihillthomas@yahoo.com
Thursday, October 20, 2022 8;25 AM
County Clerk
Bill159
To:
Subject: ^'"rlCE Or 'T- i ,r~
'yJNTY CLCHk
You don'toftengetemailfrom mulvihillthomas@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
am an owner of 9-1 Puamalia Place in Puamana.
Ihereby objectto the proposed language of Bill159 which seeks to delete the current language in
Maui County Code 19.32.040 I(“Code”)and accordinglychange the status of short-term rentaluse at
Puamana from a permissibleuse intoan existingnon-conforming use.
This sectionofthe Code appliesonlyto unitsinPuamana, Kaanapali Plantationand Alaeioa that
were builtand used forTransient Vacation rentalpriorto April20, 1989. Itdoes not allow any new
visitor accommodations to be built or converted from residentialto TVR use. This part of the Code
was establishedin2013 to clarifythe long standing legalTVR uses inthese specificprojectsand
helps the planning department when approving buildingpermits and SMA exemptions forremodels
and renovationsof these 40-60-year-old units.The proposed deletionturnsthe legalTVR use intoan
“existingnon-conforming” use and makes any renovationsor remodels difficultto get permit
approvals. This inmy view isunwarranted and should be rejectedby the Council.
In additionto the above, itwould appear thatthe Planning Commission was not consulted fortheir
recommendation with respect to the proposed deletionto the Code. Itwould also appear thatthe
short-termvacation rentalindustry,which isvitalto the economic lifeand healthofthe County, has
not been affordedany opportunityto share itsconcern withthe Council or the Commission and
address the significantpitfallsand problems inherentinthisproposed change. .
Accordingly,Irequest thatthisportionof Bill159 which seeks to delete the currentlanguage inMaui
County Code 19.32.040 Ibe rejectedoutrightor alternativelythisportionof the Billreturned back to
committee to allow the Planning Commission to complete itsreview (withinputfrom the short-term
vacation rentalindustry)before any furtherconsiderationisgiven to thisproposed change to the
Code.
Thank You
Thomas Mulvihill
1
Gabrielle Nae’ole
945 Haliimaile Rd
Makawao, Hawaii
emtlife808@icloud.com
October 21,2022
To whom this concerns,
Iam writingthisinregards to the ongoing strikeof Kaiser’smental healthprofessionals.
Iam a long time Kaisermember who has been drasticallyaffectedby the inabilityto
access mine and my daughters therapists.Iam also a Maui County Paramedic who
has dealt with numerous kaiser members in a mental health crisisdirectlydue to their
own inabilityto access care.
Mental healthisvitalto physicalwell-being.How are we supposed to take care of our
bodies physicallyifwe are unable to take care of our mental health?IdealwithPTSD
and have reliedon EMDR to successfullytreatthe traumas Iveexperienced inmy past
as wellas currenttraumas Iam going through. 1have been unable to schedule an
appointment with Dr Dan due to kaisermanagement not honoringor acknowledging
the essentialnessof your Mental Health providers.My daughter was assaulted2
months ago and 1have been unable to get her intoher therapistseven withnumerous
phone callsto kaiser.She feelsunsafe on Maui so has moved to Oahu to be withfamily
and hopefullyhave access to behavioralhealth providersthere.Maybe she would have
feltsafeto stay here with her familyifkaiserhad providedthe care we deserve.Shortly
afterour daughters assaultmy husband completed the depression survey on your
website and scored as severelydepressed but was unable to get into see anyone
regardingthis.He finallyhad to use hisVA benefitsto be able to starttreatment.We are
both gainfullyemployed and paying massive amounts infamilymedical to kaiseryet
we cannot get the care we need and deserve.
This isa travestyand disgustinglycruelof Kaiserto not honor the hard work and
extensive education of theirbehavioral health psychologists and therapists.
Please do better,be better,serve your community as ifeach of us were your child,
parent or familymember and desperate to have a positivehealthymental state.
Sincerely yours,
Gkbrielle Nae’ole, MICT
Count^Clei^ UT ; ' /
From:
Sent:
John Naylor <jdancer@kula.us>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:24AM
County Clerk
Support forBill159
imm 19 AM 9^28
To:
Subject: ●’.FFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toften get email from jdancer@kula.us.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha,
Please note my support fora cap on visitoraccommodations via support for Bill159.
Mahalo,
John Naylor
Makawao homeowner and voter!
1
Count^£leH<
From:
Sent:
cody nemet <kokoroots@gmail.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 5:01 PM
County Clerk
Testimony
To;
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom kokoroots@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha mai kakou Council members,
Iam writingin support ofthe followingitems on today'sagenda:
1.Bill154 (2022] relatingto the development of Culturaloverlay districts
2.Bill145 FDl [2022] relatingto bicycletour businessesand the amending ofChapter
5.22
1am in oppositionto Bill159 [2022] amending the comprehensive zoning ordinance
relatingto transientaccommodations.
Where the followingisstatedin the Bill...
" Ifany buildingor structureapproved or lawfullyexistingisreconstructed,renovated,
or expanded, then the transientvacation rentaluse islimitedto the originalbuilding
envelope."
There should be a stipulationadded to thisstatement to disallowany reconstruction,
remodeling or expansion ofany transientvacationrental,bed and breakfast,time
share or hotelwhich has been proven to have disinterredany previouslyidentifiediwi
kupuna. IfANY type of alterationsto the currentbuildingstructurerequiresany
diggingwhere iwi kupuna have been previouslydisturbedor disinterred....NO
exemptions whatsoever should be allowed or any type ofpermit [specialor otherwise]
be granted.
Mahalo foryour time
Aloha a nui
Cody Nemet
Count^£lerk
LyleNicely<lylenicely1995@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 8:40 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from Iylenicelyl995@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
My name isLyleNicelyand Iwrite to you instrong oppositionof Bill159 as itiswritten.However Isupportthe billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the hawaii hotelalliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Lyle Nicely
Sent from my iPhone
rW
72t i
CD
mC3}
m
r->
aTO
o●<
O <o goj'Ti
mm ■i? O\jj
o
1
County Clerk R£C>K!ViiD
From:
Sent:
joda08@yahoo.com
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:38AM
County Clerk
Bill159
mi OCT 20 AM 8- 56
To:
Subject: OFrlCE OF THu
C.O’JNTY CLERK
[You don'toften get email from joda08@yahoo.com. Learn why thisisImportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council Members,
My name isJenna-lyn Oda and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However, Isupport the bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawaii Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration.
Respectfully,
Jenna-lyn Oda
1
Count^Cleijc
Kale Ornellas <kaleornellas(a)icloud.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 8:40 AM
County Clerk
Support
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from kaleornellas(5)icloud.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
My name isKale Ornellas and Iwrite to you in strong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Kale Ornellas
Sent from my iPhone
O C. :xiQt:
c31
2:0
o
m<r>
olO
-4 rn FT Io
-<
O
o -n
in -4
7^^
se
rp.
o
o
1
Count^£lerk
From:
Sent:
Nalu Paikai<nalupaikai1998(5)gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20.2022 10:21AM
County Clerk
Opposition
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom nalupaikai1998@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isKainaiu Paikaiand Iwrite to you instrong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Kainaiu Paikai
73or-
§ mc^i OrO
o
-<
C
O -n 9
mrn ^
5T.
a
1
Countj^leiJ< ■ R..',7.CuiVED
im OCT20 8:55From:
Sent:
vpapapa <vpapapa@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:25AM
County Clerk
Oppose Bill159
To:
Subject: '^f-ncE Or j}
-OUNTV CL
I I r—
. 1
C t\
I You don'toftengetemailfrom vpapapa@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
My name isVictorPapapa] and 1write to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you
Vic Papapa
Sent from my T-Mobile 4G LIE Device
1
County Clerk \ *
-iVFn
Z02?OCT20 AH 8:55From:
Sent:
i.peiler01@gmail.com
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:34AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
To:
OF TfiF
''OUNTY CLERK
Subject:
w
[You don'toften get email from i.peiler01@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members.
My name isIan Peilerand Iwriteto you instrongoppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupportthe billwith the
amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Ian Peiler
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
John Peterson<jhpeterson3@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 10:07AM
County Clerk
Resolution 22-70
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom Jhpeterson3@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
I am writingto you as a longtime propertyowner at Puamana inLahaina and am writingtoday in
opposition to resolution22-70.
I do not supportthismeasure. I firmlybelieveinmanaged tourismand allof the directand indirectbenefitsto
the community from tax base tojobs. Thismeasure does not have enough informationwhen itcomes to
economic repercussionsand the indirectnegativeimpact on shortterm rentals.
Thank you foryour consideration.
John Peterson
'Y u
O-rt J)C3C ’■‘1 m
om
-< o (T1OO 3PW <■=3C
mm -f
TJX
X .r' OtN>
1
Count^Clerk RCcr-iviiD
2022OCT20 AM 8=54
From:
Sent:
gabe pieper <gabe.pieper@gmail.conn>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:18 AM
County ClerkTo:
‘rtCP-OF THE
v.O'JNTV CLERK
I You don'toftengetemailfrom gabe.pieper@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isGabriel Pieper and Iwrite to you Instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration.
Gabriel Pieper
1
Count^Clerk R1:0l:V5P
im OCT19 W 10=*<3
ffice of the
3UNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Deborah Pozin <deboraheyem@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 9:44 AM
County Clerk
My testimony on Bill159
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom deboraheyem@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
The Maui community supports a cap. and we want to prioritizethe qualityof lifeforour
residents first.
I have livedon Maui forover 45 years, and the topicof creatinga more diversified
economy has been discussed formany decades, with no actiontaken towards a viable
solution.Over tourism issimply not sustainableforthe aina,forthe people, or forthe
environment. Maui residentsagree thatwe already have too many visitors,yet the hotel
development industrywants to keep buildingmore, using massive amounts ofwater
that hotels use in abundance.
Every new home means more water usage. Ifthere isa water shortage itisthe local
people who are expected to rationwater so the hotelshave more availability.
Overtourism isa serious problem affectingour qualityof life,and people are lookingfor
solutions.We can't control what the airlinesdo, so the best way to remedy over tourism at
the County levelisto limitwhere people can stay on Maui.
When 1firstmoved here tourism was primarilyin Lahaina. Soon, tourism spread to Kihei
Paia, Makawao and leftno area not affected and transformed into less than ideal living
situationsbecause of so many cars,so many tourists,and not enough space fora
more "traditionalway of life"that residentshave long enjoyed.
Maui isnow one largetouristdestination,and the localswho livehere now have to drive
the roads during certainhours to avoid so much congestion. During covidwe allsaw the
thousands of rentalcars parked near Costco thatwere allon roads thatsimply do not
have the infrastructurein place to accommodate thousands more vehicles.
Ifwe do not cap tourism we willcontinue down thisnever ending slipperyslope towards all
of Maui becoming justanother Waikikior another Honolulu squished on Maui.
Your vote isvotingeither formore water usage by more development, more cars on the
roads, more congestion, or against uncontrolleddevelopment.
Support the Hawaiian Way of Lifeby votingFOR A CAP ON TOURISM
I
We are watching your vote.
SincerelyI
Deborah Maika'ikalaniPozin
2
Count^CleH<
Matt Quaglino <mq@quaglino.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 10:35AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from mq@quaglino.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Planning and SustainableLand use Committee,
Iam an owner of a unitat Puamana, in Lahaina.My familyand Iuse the condo about three months each year.The time
we are not visitingwe share the unitwith friendsand enjoy the benefitsof a short term rentalprogram. We were
originallyattractedto Puamana's many amenities,but most of allthe quietand peacefulatmosphere ithas to offer.
When visitingwe support the localrestaurantsand other retailbusinesses,we pay a propertytax based on the highest
and best use, a shortterm rental.Ifthe practiceof shortterm rentalsinPuamana are repealed willthe county lower the
tax base?
Ido not believethisactionwould help the localhousing supply.Ifpassed our unitwillsimply sitvacant when we are not
visiting.Ifthisordinance ispassed then our unitwillsimply sitvacant while we are not visiting.With the unitsitting
vacant there willnot be short term visitorssupporting the localeconomy. Vacant unitswillresultinlostrevenue to the
localeconomy, effectthe job market and have the exact opposite effectthat thisordinance promotes.
Puamana was built for and has been used for short term rentalssince itsinceptioninthe late1960's. Itjust seems so
odd to tryand reverse a long standing approved use aftermore than 50 years.Ipersonallydo not thinkthe ramifications
of reversinga longstandinghistoricaluse has been fullyvetted.
Iurge you to vote no on amending the current historicaluse of shortterm rentalsat Puamana.
Ican appreciate the factyour positionisvery time consuming and thank you foryour serviceto thiswonderful
community.
O
73o-
“im
Matthew Quaglino
Quaglino Properties,LLC. \Quaglino Rooifng
P: 805.543.0561 \F: 805.543.0214
Direct Line: 805.543.0882
815 FieroLane. San Luis Obispo.CA 93401
www.qua2lin0.com
c?
mr->
oro
o \ > ’
Oo ●n
mm -H o
a
r.' \jj
oo
1
Count^CleHc R£cr!'v'Fn
im OCT 20 8--50
From:
Sent:
John Rabanal <rabanal@rsinouye.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:23 AM
County Clerk
Bill159
To:
Subject: ('jrncE Or
‘-.OUr^TY CLERK
♦ I
> n [
[You don'toftenget emailfrom rabanal@rsinouye.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
My name isJohn Rabanal and Iwrite to you instrong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
John Rabanal
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk t \
Chelle.<hawaiigurl55@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:07AM
County Clerk
Support of Bill159
From:
Sent: 20??OCT 19 AH 8: 20
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom hawaiigurl55@hotmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
To whom itmay concern:
My name isMichelle Ramos and IAM writing to show supportofBill159.W6 already have tOO many visitOfS
yet the hoteldevelopment industrywants to keep buildingmore and more withoutend!
Overtourism isa serious problem affectingour qualityof life,and people are lookingfor
solutions.Puttinga Cap on overtourism isa solution.Please consider supportingthe bill.
Mahalo.
1
Count^CleH< RCCLJVgp
From:
Sent:
StanleyRaymond, I!<kiope@hawaii.edu>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 8:05AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
Z072OCT i9 AH 8:20To:
Subject:
OFRCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kiope@hawaii.edu.Learnwhv thisisimportant
I support Bill159:
II
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS. If
Mahalo,
Stanley KT'ope Raymond
740 Copp Road, Kula,HI 96790
S. KT'ope Raymond
Professor.HWST (retired)
(808) 280-5149
'O ko kakou makemake io no ia o ka loaa o kekahi mea oiaioloa." J. H. Kanepu ‘u
1
County Clerk RFnP^VFG
From:
Sent:
Jean Reader <jand5ds@aol.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 3:48 PM
County Clerk
Moratorium vote Oct.21
im OCT 19 PH 4:02
To:
OFFICE OF THE
:OUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfromjand5ds@aol.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
As Maui residentsformany decades we stronglysupport passage of the visitoraccommodation lodgingmoratorium. The
Council needs a detailedstudy of infrastructuretosupport already overloaded traffic,ocean pollutionand medical
practices.What existstoday isa already difficultsituationforcommuters...trysittinginmiles long trafficeach morning and
afternoonto keep a job thatpays $12 an hour or less.PLEASE HAVE MERCY. Dave and Dee Reader 2531 S. Kihei
Rd.
1
Count^^leiJ< i£n
OCT20 W 8--56
...ffige luy;-OUNTY
From:
Sent:
Chad Rees <crees1225@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:50 AM
County Clerk
Bill159 Caps Bill
ion
To:
Subject:
[You don’toften get email from creesl225@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council Members,
Aloha my name isChad Rees and Iwriteto you instrongopposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the Bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the HawaKi Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Chad Rees
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clerk 5
■% L. i ■ UV .
From:
Sent:
Kathleen Roberts <kathleen4roberts@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 12:43 PM
County Clerk
Bill159 Support
im OCT 19 PH T-02To:
Subject:
OPflOE QF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kathleen4roberts@hotmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha County Clerk
1support Bill159. We have enough transientaccommodation unitson Maui and allowingmore willcontribute
to over tourism. Our infrastructurecan't handle any more tourists.There are residentswho don'teven have a
water supply at theirhome.
Thanks, Kathleen Roberts
Kathleen Roberts
5180 F Kupele Place
Lahaina, HI 96761
(808)280 6916
1
Count^CleHt ■rnrc—rnr
W? OCT20 AH 7:58
Stan Robinson <stanrobinsonartist@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 5;00 PM
County Clerk
Support of a cap on visitoraccommodations
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OrFlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom stanrobinsonartist@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Maui CouncilMembers - Iwanted to sharewith you thatmany Maui residents
support a cap on visitoraccommodations. Our smallislandcannot sustainmore
tourism.
Over tourism is:
●harming our fragilereefecosystems
●having a major impact on our land and air
●impacting our oceans health
●displacinglocalpeople
●creatingcongestion on our roadways and parks
●depletingthe small amount ofwater we have
●strainingour infrastructure
●only benefitingthe wealthy developers,while our residentsqualityof lifeis
depleted
The argument thatthe billwillaffectexistingjobsisnottrue.There isplentyofwork
forthe peopleofMaui. Look atallofthe unfilledpositionsaround the island.Over
tourismisa seriousproblem and has major effectson Maui residentsaswellasthe
environment. Please listen to the residents of Maui and say no to more visitor
accommodations. Maui issmall and cannot sustain more developments fortourism
orforpeoplewanting to move here.
Thanks forlistening- Stan Robinson
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
loretta ross <loreticm@hotmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 10;08AM
County Clerk
Maui vacation rentals
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom loretlcm@hotmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
To whom itmay concern,
Our property would go inforeclosurewithout vacation rental.With high intereston loans and high tax on
Maui. We cant limitvacation rentalguests.
Thank you
Loretta Ross
o 73o
mc~i
21.0 Oro
"im mo-<
O <;■o Tl
m
7;rn
o
Oro
1
M A UI
VACATii^N RENTALA S S O CIATIO N
O Q}Oct 19, 2022 73O T c=>
C-n mc~>
"jm OHonorable Chair Lee and Councilmembers
200 South High Street
Wailuku HI 96793
hO
rno-<
Oo ●n
rnm
X n:
X r.--
o
QRE: Reso 22-70, Please amend the measure ro
Aloha e Council,
Thank you fortakingthetime toreview thisbilland taketestimony.
We want tosupportthismeasure,we believeina managed hospitalityindustryforMaui. However we seeissues
with thismeasure removing thepropertyrightsincertaindistrictsforexistingpropertiesoperatingwith thisuse.
The councilshould amend the language so thatitdoes not remove thepropertyrightsinthesedistrictsforthe
existingoperatingproperties.Amend theexistinglanguageto say theexistingpropertiesdoing thisuse can
continuewith legaluse.Restrictfutureuses,but do not change the existingpropertyuse.This isstillin linewith
the intentof the proposal.
The county’soperatingbudget has increasedtoover 1 Billiondollars.Most ofthecounty’srevenuecomes from
the shortterm rentalclassification.The county of Maui has long had a strategyof taxingthe ShortTerm Rental
Classificationinordertokeep taxeslow fortheresidents.A bigpartof thisstrategyisthepartofthe
assessmentsof theseproperties.
TOP REVENUE GENERATING SHORTTERM RENTAL AND HOTEL PROPERTY, MAUI COUNTY
TOTAL
ASSESSED
VALUE
PROPERTY TAX
REVENUE
ASSESSMENT
PER UNIT
AVE. REVENUE
PER UNITPROJECT PROPERTY
Largest
Ave/Unit5,623,393 4,943,207 58,577474,547,9001 WAILEA BEACH VILLAS
4,601,240 54,525487,731,400 5,779,6172 KAPALUA BAY CONDO
4,269,579 3,498,078 41,4523 WAILEA POINT I,II,III 360,302,000
38,7144,723,107 3,267,0034 HOOLEI 398,574,400
7,793,945 2,391,698 28,3425 657,716,900kaanapali alii
2,286,659 27,097{354,432,200 4,200,0226 WAILEA ELUA I,II
Page 1140 Hoohana St. Ste. 210, Kahului, H! 96732-2467
M A UI
VACATION RENTALA S S O CIATIO N
Largest by
Total Rev.7 HONUA KAI 1,179,135,500 13,972,756 1,602,086 18,985
8 PUAMANA 296,446,000 3,512,885 1,585,273 18,785 PUD
9 KAPALUA BAY VILLAS 175,535,500 2,080,096 1,244,933 14,752
13,92^10 WAILEAEKAHII, II,III 245,631,400 2,910,732 1,175,270
11 MAUI KAMAOLE I,II,III 226,794,000 2,687,509 944,975 11,198
12 PALMSATWAILEAI 139,192,700 1,649,433 927,951 10,996
13 WAILEAEKOLU 135,207,100 1,602,204 913,561 10,826
Largest
ave/unit hotel410,022,50014 KEA LANI 4,817,764 911,161 10,706
15 THE RIDGE 139,597,000 1,654,224 867,062 10,275
16 MANELE BAY HOTEL 195,762,900 2,300,214 829,504 9,747
Largest Hotel
by Totalrev17 GRAND WAILEA 621,756,100 7,305,634 797,123 9,366
18 KAPALUA GOLF VILLAS 146,211,800 1,732,610 786,085 9,315
FOUR SEASONS 297,937,40019 3,500,764 784,046 9,213
20 GRAND CHAMP VILLAS 142,419,600 1,687,672 757,551 8,977
21 238,776,500PAPAKEA 2,829,502 655,979 7,773
22 KAMAOLE SANDS 278,724,700 3,302,888 633,465 7,507
205,360,30023 ANDAZ 2,412,984 635,790 7,471
24 HALE KAANAPALI 161,065,400 1,908,625 624,284 7,398
25 SHERATON 296,801,600 3,487,419 584,255 6,865
26 ROYAL LAHAINA 254,303,200 2,988,063 580,601 6,822
27 HYATT 386,224,700 4,538,140 479,187 5,630
28 WAILEA BEACH MARRIOTT 238,336,000 2,800,448 438,118 5,148
29 WESTIN MAUI 292,717,300 3,439,428 385,662 4,532
30 RITZ CARLTON 163,362,000 1,919,504 350,562 4,119
Source: Maui County Real
Prop Tax
Legend: STR Properties
Hotel Properties
140 Hoohana St. Ste. 210, Kahului, HI 96732-2467 Page 2
M A UI
VACATION RENTALA S S a CiATIO N
Ifyou look atthistableof shortterm classifiedand hotelclassifiedtaxedproperties,you can seethatthe
assessment of many shortterm rentalsresultina higherrateand taxrevenue than many of our hotelproperties.
One of the toolsused by the assessment divisionisthe factthattheshortterm rentalsaresoldmore frequently
on the real estate market and then these sales are factoredintothetaxablevalue of theproperties.Thus the
assessed values in the short term rental class are some of thetop realpropertytaxvaluedpropertieson the
island,generatingmost ofthetaxrevenueforthecounty.
The assessedvaluesof propertiesareaffectedby theuse designatedtotheseproperties.Decisionsthatthis
body makes that affectthe property values,can alsonegativelyaffectthe bottom linefor realproperty
tax.Any declinein revenue in the hoteland shortterm rentalclasscouldresultinan increaseintaxesfor
residents.
Ifyou look atPuamana forexample, thatisthe 8thlargestrevenuegeneratingproperty(forpropertiesclassified
as shorttemi rentalor hotel).The measure seeks to change theuse forthispropertywhich willaffectthe
$296,000,000 million in assessment value thatresultsinthecollectiverealpropertytaxofabout $1.6million.
This propertyhas had thislegaluse since1970. In a yearwhere we have reliedupon theshorttermrentalclass
to bear increases to fund our over a billion dollar operatingbudget,itisbafflingforthecounciltomake these
kinds of changes totheuse forthisproperty,withouttheproperdiscussionfrom theplanningcommission,input
from thepropertyowners and thesmall businessesthattheysupport,aswellasa formalmarketanalysisofthe
impact.
The Lahaina HistoricDistrictraisesa significantamount ofrevenueforpropertytax.The propertiesinthis
districtaccommodating our visitorsare an importantpartofourhospitality.Stayinginthehistoricdistrictcan
reallydemonstratethe significanceand historyof Lahaina.The gueststhatseekoutthesestaysarethekindsof
guestsMaui wants.
This resolutionhas raised a red flagwith the county realpropertytax division.AdministratorMarcy
Martin indicatedina letterto the Planning Department on June 6 thatthereareconcernswiththelegislationthat
pertainstothe financialrepercussionsof thismeasure.
Martin states‘Tfa propertywith TVR or timeshareentitlementslosestheirentitlements,assessedvaluesand
classificationcouldbe impacted.For example,classificationwould changefrom hoteland resortorshortterm
rental to a lower tax rate classification. This bill could reduce realproperty tax revenue. The impact cannot
be measured without a market analysisof impacted properties.”
Page 3140 Hoohana St. Ste. 210, Kahului, HI 96732-2467
M A UI
VACATION RENTALA S S O CIATIO N
This yearthecountyapproved over $1.07billiondollarsfortheirFY2022 budget.For thefirsttimeinMaui’s
historywe are going over 1 billiondollars.This willbe more thana $200 Millionincrease,or 27% over last
fiscalyear.The county fundsmost ofthosedollarsinrealpropertytaxrevenue.In all,thecountywillraise$430
Millioninpropertytaxrevenue thisfiscalyear.
The short term classification will raise $160 Million in RPT tax,12% more than lastyear.This was an
increaseof $17 Millionintax dollars,the highestincreaseinallthetax classifications.This year shortterm
rentalsrepresent37% of therealpropertytaxrevenue,and 15% ofthecountyof Maui’s entireoperatingbudget.
What thisdemonstrates isthat the county depends on the tax revenues of propertieslikethe ones
operating in the districtsthat would be affectedby this measure.
Much of the increasesinrevenue inpropertytaxesoverallcame from theincreaseinvaluesof properties.Total
assessmentsrose$4 BillionoverallinMaui County in fiscalyear 2022-2023. Increasesinassessedvalueswere
5% overall in the short term classification. Short term rentalswill contribute $12.1 Million in revenue to the
AffordableHousing Fund, the largestcontributionof alltheclassifications,and thelargestcontributionto date.
Over the last5 years the short term rentalclassificationhas generated $31.5 million dollarsfor the
affordable housing fund.
Guttingfunding categoriesforthe county does notmake good fiduciarysensegiventhecurrentbudget.
Changing thepropertyrightsof owners withoutnoticetothosepropertyowners forcomment isproblematicand
should not be theway our County makes changes.
I am surethereisa way forthiscouncilto finda method forward with thismeasure thatdoes not remove the
propertyrightsinthesedistrictsfortheexistingproperties.Amend theexistinglanguagetosay theexisting
propertiesdoing thisuse can continuewith legaluse.Restrictfutureuses,butdo not change theexisting
propertyuse.This isstillin linewith the intentof theproposal.
Thank you forconsideringmy testimony.
Best,
Jen Russo
Executive Director
Maui Vacation Rental Association
140 Hoohana St. Ste. 210, Kahului, HI 96732-2467 Page 4
M A UI
VACATION RENTALA S S O CiATIO N
Who Pays for Maui's Affordable
Housing Fund? FY20I9-2023
Review
Transient Vacation
Rentalsincludinglegal
permitted homes,
condos, and B&Bs
Vacation Rentals
$12.1 Million
SecofMt Homes
^ $8.3 Million
Hotel/Resort
$3.3 Million
Timeshare
$3.1 Million
Homeowners
$2.3 Million
I TI
;WJ;o/i IQUmu
Source:Maui CountyRealPropertyTaxVacation Rentals have contributed a total of $31.S million from 2019'2023
Second Hornet have contributed a total of $12.3 million from 2019*2023
Timeshares have contributed a total of $9 million from 2019*2023
Homeowners have contributed a total of $6.3 million from 2019-2023
Hotel/Resorts have contributed a total of $4.8 millionfrom 2019*2023
The Short Tenn Rental classificationisthe largestcontributortotheaffordablehousingfund.
Page 5140 Hoohana St. Ste. 210, Kahului, HI 96732-2467
M A UI
VACATION RENTALA S S O CIATIO N
Maui County Real Property Tax Revenue
Associated with Visitor Accommodations
Fiscal Years 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023
S160M
Short Term
Rentals & Bed and
Breakfast
Time Share Hotel / ResortSecond Homes
■/
Scxjrce:Maui County RealPropertyTax
The County of Maui has a 5 year upward trendinReal PropertyTax Revenue generatedfrom VacationRentals
140 Hoohana St. Ste. 210, Kahului, HI 96732-2467 Page 6
M A UI
VACATION RENTALA S S O CIATIO N
Vacation Rental Enforcement Quarterly Report
Date of report;October 6,2022
The Department of Planningissuesquarterlyreportson transientvacationrental(TVR) enforcement.This
reportisfortheperiodJuly1 to September 30,2022,and providesdataforadvertisements,requestsfor
serv'ice,noticesof warning and violation,and finesassessedand collectedforillegalvacationrentalactivity
inMaui County.Onlineads,as confirmedby a vendoralreadydoingresearchforthelatestRFP, number
between 20 and 25.000 forthe islandof Maui. Through agreements with Airbnb and Expedia.all
advertisements without a correct TMK will be removed from theplatform.Those averagearound 66 ads for
Expedia and 339 forAirbnb whether theyarelegallyallowed to operateor not.
Fines
Assessed
Fines RFS RFS#Ads #NOV#RFS #NOW
ClosedCollected Pending
S31.000 240 0*NA 24 7 0
The Planning Department posts Quarterly reports on theirenforcement of illegalvacation
rentals. Violators initialfines start at $20,000, with dailyfines at $10,000 per day. The
Planning Department has a thirdparty contractor to findviolatorsas well as the Zoning and
Enforcement
https://w\Am/.mauicountv.aov/121/Planning-Department
find quarterly reports attheirDivision. You can
Page 7140 Hoohana St. Ste. 210, Kahului, HI 96732-2467
County Clerk
mi OCT 19 AH 7=50
From:
Sent:
IreneRyding <irene@mauiharper.com>
Tuesday, October 18,2022 9:07 PM
County Clerk
Bill159 Caps Bill
To:
Subject: yFFICE OF 7H£
county clerk
I You don'toftenget emailfrom irene@mauiharper.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Pleasevote to Cap constructionof transientaccommodations on Maui.
Contractors are too busy and don't even return local'scallsforwork because they are cateringto the visitorindustryat
the expense of residents.
We do not have the infrastructure to accommodate more visitors.Our airportisover capacity,trafficisalways a mess
now, beach parkingishard to find,localscan'teven get intomost restaurantsanymore because we have too much
tourism.
Enough isenough. We do not want to become another Oahu.
Please vote to extend the CAPS bill159.
Irene Ryding, CHIP
CertifiedHarp Therapy Practitioner
irene@mauiharper.com
www.mauiharper.com
(808) 573-2188
cell:(808) 280-0062
0
1
Count^Clei^ ^FCf^iVFD
MitchellRyder <mitchfyder1@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 8:48 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
im OCT 20 AH 8: 56
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom mitchryder1@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
To: Countv.clerk(S)mauicountv.us
Council members,
My name isMitchellRyder-Kawelo and 1write to you in strong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the
billwith the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
V/R MitchellRyder-Kawelo
1
County Clerk
Daylan Saniatan<daylansaniatan@gmaiLcom>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:43AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from daylansaniatan@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
My name isDaylan Saniatan and Iwrite to you in strong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Daylan Saniatan
Sent from my iPhone
< ●
CZ21
-Im
CD
m<r>
ohO
mo
O <2sTl
mm
m
'i?
aw
1
Count^£lerk
BetsySchusser<betsyschusser@gmail.com>
Friday,October 21,2022 8:46AM
County Clerk
Doug; BetsySchusser
Supporting Limitson TVRs
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from betsyschusser@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Been working and livingat Puamana full-timefor32 years,and we are now overwhelmed withTVRs.Too many of
them don't act with aloha,when they park,drive,or surf.Enough istoo much! Pleasehelp!Aloha,Dr.Betsy
Schusser
1
ppr.PiVrD
mi OCT20 8'35
Count^CIerk
TEDDIE SCOTT <kahakiiart@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:22AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
nr?\Cf. Or
●●OUNTY CLERn.
Subject: ! ■'
[You don't often get email from kahakiiart@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Council Members,
My name isTed Scott and Iwrite to you in strong opposition to Bill159 as itiswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel alliance.
Mahalo foryour consideration
Ted Scott
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clei^ RPnr;\/Pn
Steve Slater <steve@vcasa.net>
Thursday,October 20,2022 12:48 PM
County Clerk
jette@vcasa.net
Frustratedcitizensinputon item 159:TVR LimitationinCertai-h^<^i(^isYCLERK
From:
Sent: 20??OCT 20 PH |:20
To:
nCE OF THECc:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from steve@vcasa.net.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Having run an exemplary licensedshort term rentalhome forthe past 10 years,it'sshocking to thinkthatwe could have
our businessterminated because we are technicallyina specialmanagement zone. We have been such good neighbors,
limitingour rentalto an average of two weeks out of a month, mostly to a singlecouple never more than four people,
asking guests to be considerate of neighbors never any noise never any problems at all.
We use no pesticides,keep a nature preserve going because of the vacationrental,and we're surrounded by neighbors
who constantlydo illegalbulldozingrightnear the ocean, burn theirtoxicwaste infires,have loud parties,have a
amazingly noisyZiplinescreaming, a ziplinethat never even had to get a permit.We have so many Illegaldwellingsin
the immediate area and yet we could get singledout and pushed out of our only income as 40 year permanent, retired
residents.
Be carefulof blanketrestrictionsstrictlyby zoningwith no abilityto make any exceptionsfor people likeus that have
gone beyond The norm in being considerate and givingtouristsan experience that they reallylove.There are no other
places likeours take a look:
www.mauichalet.com
Icould paste hundreds of rave reviews,we paid closeto 100,000 dollarsintaxessincewe've been going legallyforover
10 years. We are finallynow so successful,that we can affordto turn down a portionof people wishingto reserve so
that we get the realnature loversthe ones that reallyappreciate what we've done. And we limitthe reservationsto
keep from being greedy and overloadingthe area,our goal issimply to survive,not to get richer.
Steve Slater
1
Count^CleH< aI
Thomas Smith <kaleosmith@gmaii.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:45 AM
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
mi OCT 20 AH 8: 56
To:
Or-rICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject: Bill159
[You don't often get email from kaleosmith@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
My name isThomas Smith and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of bill159as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawaii Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration
Thomas Smith Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEIVEDCount^^lerk
2BH0CT21 AH 8:06VictoriaSmith <u2vnmaui@yahoo.com>
Friday,October 21, 2022 5:48 AM
County Clerk
Fw: TransientAccomodation Cap
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THL
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toften get email from u2vnmaui@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iagree with thisletter.Stop transienttraffic.Too many people,not enough money to coverthe damage. VictoriaSmith
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
— Forwarded Message —
From: "ColleenCurran"<ccurran27@sbcglobal.net>
To: "Countymauicounty.us" <County.clerk@mauicounty.us>
Sent: Wed, Oct 19, 2022 at 10:32 AM
Subject:TransientAccomodation Cap
Dear Council Members,
Our community, myself included,supports a transientaccommodation cap and wants to prioritizethe qualityof lifeforour
residentsfirst.Please hear our plea to protectour beautifulislandfrom over-tourismand over-development.We're almost
out of time...
With Aloha,
Colleen DeLima
1
County Clerk
RSGiliVCD
blake scares <blakesoares@yahoo.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 8:23 AM
County Clerk
BILL #159
From:
Sent: 2P2?OCT 20 AH C.-55
To:
Subject: C;*:
:.OUNTY CLE
~ I r* r- — ● I —
■ Or 1 rli.:
KI \
I You don'toftengetemailfrom blakesoares@yahoo.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Council members.
My name isBlake Soares and 1write to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the HawaiT Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Blake Soares
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone
1
Count^lerk RECtri vtrU
im OCT 19 PH 2:08
From:
Sent:
kiheisouzas@aol.com
Wednesday, October 19,2022 1:59 PM
County Clerk
Support Bill159
To:
Subject:
jitIce of the
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toften get email from kiheisouzas@aol.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Council Members,
Iam writingto express my strong support for Bill159.1 love Maui with allof my heart and can tellyou that the local
people want thisand deserve this.Afteryears of being treated as second classcitizensand watching hotelafter hotel be
builtwhile localsliveat Harbor lightsand on the streetsitistime to letdevelopers and businesspeople know that Maui
isNOT FOR SALE! Maui stillhas so much naturalbeauty.Let us appreciate the locallandscapes and stop the exploitation
of thisplace.Da lawa makou ika pohaku. Ika 'aikamaha'o o ka 'aina.
Mahalo nui,
Chanel Souza
(808)344-1414
1
RFCEIVEPCount^£leii<
1022OCT20 MT8=59From:
Sent:
Kevin Spellman <Kevin.B.Spellman(a)co.maui.hi.us>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:57AM
County Clerk
Testimony - Bill68
To:
OPf ICE OF THE
COUNTY CLErv^Subject:
I You don'toften get email from kevin.b.spellman@co.maui.hi.us.Learn why thisisimportant
Maui County Council
200 S.High St.
CouncilChamber, KalanaO Maui Building8th Floor
Wailuku, HI 96793
October 20, 2022
Subject:Testimony Regarding Bill68
To Maui County CouncilMembers,
Irespectfullypropose thatBill68 forthe additionof Chapter 3.97to the Maui County Code to establisha managed retreat
revolvingfund to address development needs as a resultof shorelineerosiondue to climatechange and risingsea levels,
returnto the Budget, Finance,and Economic Development Committee fora fundamental re-drafting.Isuggest Bill68
containtwo core sectionsbased on the ownershipof realpropertyand relatedassets:personaland commercial.The
currentmechanisms withinBill68 regardingestablishinga managed retreatrevolvingfund are only suitableforpersonal
property and associatedassets.Shorelineerosion and subsequent requirements forshiftingexistingand new development
away from the shoreline,perhaps even beyond the specialmanagement area (SMA), isnot a sudden problem. Maui
County commercial entitieshave had yearsto save fora stormy day,and as such,they bare the entiretyof responsibility
forthe costsrelatedto managed retreat.The properallocationof liabilityforthe costsof managed retreatforcommercial
entitiesnotwithstanding.Bill68 isan opportunityfor Maui County to assistcommercial entitiesviaan investment
approach. Suppose a commercial entity,such as those in Kahana, must fortifyor relocateassetsaway from the shorelineor
beyond the SMA. Ratherthan offeringdirectpayments,grants,or even loansto the commercial entity,Maui County
should,viaa specialpurpose development agency,become a shareholderof the enterprise,with a positionon the
executiveboard,which includesveto rightsover administrationand operationactivities.Inreturnforthe investment
provided by the county to the commercial entityconnected with the requirementsof managed retreat,Maui County
should receivea percentageof quarterlyrevenueand a furtherportionof any profitsattained.Maui County should retain
the share of ownership and rightsuntil200% of the investment returnsto the specialpurpose development agency fund.
Followingthe completion of involvementwith the commercial entity,Maui County should publiclyauctionoffthe
associatedshares.Bill68 isan opportunityforMaui County to manage shorelineretreatforowners of personaland
commercial propertywhilesimultaneouslyincreasingrevenueforthe county ina manner unrelatedto taxation.
Thank you foryour time.
Kevin Spellman
108 Kealaloa Avenue
Makawao, HI 96768
1
Count^Cle^
im OCT20 AH ?!58Tom <firetee298@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 5:01 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
n- v\CE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom firetee298@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iwas recentlyinformed of a new billthat the County Councilisattempting to pass,#159. As a homeowner in Puamana,
Lahaina 1respectfullyrequest that the County Councilrestorethe language proposed fordeletionin 19.32.0401
My reasons for this request to include 19.32.040 Iare many:
This sectionof the County code appliesonly to unitsin Puamana, KaanapaliPlantationand Alaeloathatwere builtand
used forTransientVacation rentalpriorto April20,1989. Itdoes not allow ANY new visitoraccommodations to be built
or converted from residential to TVR use.
This partof the County code was establishedin2013 to clarifythe longstandinglegalTVR uses inthese specificprojects
and helps the planning department when approving buildingpermits and SMA exemptions forremodels and
renovations of these 40-60 year old units.
The proposed deletionof thispartof the existingcode turnsthe legalTVR use intoan "existingnon conforming" use
and makes any renovations or remodels difficultto get permit approvals.
I feel that more voices need to be heard and do not feel this billhas been a collaborative effort.
The planningcommission should be allowed to givetheirrecommendation and they have not been allowedto do their
work.
I ask that Bill 159 return back to committee to allow the Planning Commission to complete theirreview.
Thank you
Thomas G Staubitser
Sent from my iPad
1
County Clerk
ncGL:'/CD
mi OCT 19 PH 4:28Stillys<stillys@hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 4:26 PM
County Clerk
InSupport of Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFr'lCE OF THE
r.OUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom stiliys@hawaii.rr.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilors, Ivoice my support forpassage of Bill159 toAmend the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance
Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps. The topicof “overtourism”has been top of mind forMaui
residentsformany, many years and itseems that ittook a globalshut down in2020 before anyone on Maui
with politicalwillmade any effortto examine the issue and put the brakes on. We long ago exceeded the
carryingcapacityof 1 touristforevery 3 residents.It’stime to actuallystop talkingand take action.Itmay not
be a perfectbill,but it’sbetterthan doing nothingover and over and over again whilethe qualityof lifeforboth
residentsand the guest experience continues to erode as we allface declininginfrastructure,trafficjams,
unhealthy ocean water, reef degradation, crowded beaches and hikingtrails,increased hostilitytowards
tourists,food insecurityinevent of a disaster,...the listislong.This billisjusta mininistep,but a necessary
beginning. Thank you foryour time and attention.
Respectfullysubmitted,
PatriciaStillwell,Kihei.
0 Virus-free.www.avast.com
1
CountyClerk
ritccLiv'CD
nn OCT19 PH 4=02
kstover@maui.net
Wednesday, October 19,2022 3:50 PM
County Clerk
Support forBill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: -nee OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kstover@maui.net.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha honorable council members,
As residentsof Maui for more than 30 years,we have witnessed many changes, many which have a negative
impact on the carryingcapacityof the islandand the tollon the environment. Enough isenough. We need to
controlovertourism.A cap on transientaccommodations would be a step inthe rightdirection.
Mahalo nui.
Ken & Karen Stover
490 Mikioi Place
Kihei,HI 96753
1
Count^CleH< RiiciiivEa
ionOCT20 W 8--55Matthew Suzuki <msuzukirvca@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8;25AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: rlCE OF THE
::OUNTY CLERK
(
[You don'toften get email from msuzukirvca(5)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
My name isMatthew Suzuki and Iwrite to you in strong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Matthew Suzuki
Sent from my iPhone
1
Countj^^Clerk KLOC-iVfeP
mi OCT20 AH -T59
Ane Takaha <bhaktirocks@earthlink.net>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 10:38 PM
County Clerk
Re bill:159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: ' i^FlCE OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from bhaktirocks@earthlink.net.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
To whom itmay concern.
Ihave not read the billand Ido know that itisnot perfect BUT We need some kind of cap on something to stop us from
becoming another Oahu.
There are too many people,too many tourists,AND too much development in Kihei,Wailea, Makenna.
Pleasedo whatever you can to stop thisjuggernautof "destruction"of the reason we alllivehere and pay taxes.
Thank you
Ane Takaha
Maui Meadows
1
RF.Cl.v'EDCounty Clerk
mi OCT20 PM 1=20From:
Sent:
Faye Taylor<fayetaylor@msn.com>
Thursday, October 20,2022 1:03 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom fayetaylor@msn.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Dear County Council,
IfBill159 isenacted initspresent form, itwillhave devastating economic consequences to elderlyowners
such as myself and create a windfallto resorts. Iam 77 years old. When Iretired7 years ago, Ipurchased a
one bedroom condominium in a South Maui complex which is located inthe B-R district.This complex has
always allowed vacation rentalssince the time thatitwas builtover 30 years ago. Ipaid a premium formy unit
because !wanted to be able to rentmy unitout when Iwas inthe mainland visitingfamilyand friends.The
rentalincome has made my spending my retirementyears in Maui economically viableforme and many other
elderlyowners. The unitsinthe complex where my condo is located are primarilyrented out to average
Americans who cannot affordto stay inthe high end resortsthatlineour beaches. For many of my guests,itis
a once in a lifetime vacation in Paradise to celebrate theirmarriage or anniversary.Making Maui affordablefor
allAmericans should be part of our “Aloha” culture.Maui shouldn’tbe made the exclusive providence of the
ultrarichand those fortuneenough to have livedhere many years.
When Idialedinyesterday to the planning council’smeeting, a person representingthe owners of280 unitsat
Maui Vista, was told that the drafters’intentionwas to allow those currentlyoperating vacation rentalsto
continue to do so and assurance was given thatthe owners of Maui Vista unitswouldn’t be impacted by the
legislationbecause they were zoned A2.
1 respectfullyrequest thatthe same assurances be given to owners of unitswithinthe B-R district.Section
19.32.040 ofthe Maui County Code should not be amended so as to delete [transientvacation rental]as a
permissible use.
Thank you
Faye Taylor
Sent from my iPad
1
Count^Clei^ REOlIVGD ■
im OCT20 m & S']Dave Terilrere<dave.teriirere@yahoo.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 8:19AM
County Clerk
Opposition of Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: I
●●■●'’nCE OF i n-'i
^ CU-RK
[You don'toften get email from dave.teriirere@yahoo.com.Learn \A/hythisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members,
My name isDave and Iwrite to you instrong opposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the billwith the
amendments proposed inthe draft billsubmitted by the Hawai'i Hotel Alliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Dave TERIIRERE
1
RFnPi\/fznCountj^CleHc
hau'oli thielk <naluhiwa@aol.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 10:46AM
County Clerk
OCT19 AHl(:20
pPFiCE GF THEv.OUNTY GLERK
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: cap
I You don'toften get email from naluhiwa@aol.com. Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha,
Isupport puttinga cap on the amount of touriststhatcome to Maui and allof Hawaii. We are overwhelmed with them
and our qualityof lifeisbeing affectednegatively.They should stay at theirhotelbeaches since we are not allowed to go
therewithoutbeing hassled by hotelemployees. Maui isnot the same. Stop pimping out our home.
Mahalo Hau'oli Thielk
1
County Clerk BEGaiV^SD
MarjorieTyler<margieonmaui@gmail.com>
Wednesday, October 19,2022 3:56 PM
County Clerk
Iam writingto fullysupport Bill159.
From:
Sent: mi OCT 19 PH 1|:02
To:
Subject: ■FFICE OF THE
●-OUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget email from margieonmaui@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Pleaseincludeme insupport of Bill159 to reduce buildingfortourists.
Thank you, MarjorieTyler
Kehi residentfor19 yearsat Kamaole Sands,
1
a IVJUJ!COUNTYFARM BUREAU RECEIVED
Z0Z2OCT 20 PH 3; 41
October 20, 2022P() Box 14S.Kula.Ili96790
nv.uiicouimfiirmhiirciiu.org
aFFie-E Or THE
GOUNTY CLERKChair Alice Lee
Maui County Council
Executive Director
Warren K. Watunahe Re: Bill 160 "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 22.04A,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO KULA AGRICULTURAL PARK PHASE I
EXPANSION AREA"
Board of Directors:
President
Kyle Caires Chair Lee and Members of the Council
Maui County Farm Bureau on behalf of our farm and ranch familiesand organizations
strongly supports with suggested amendments, Bill160 amending Chapter 22.04A,
Maui County Code, relatingto the expansion area of the Kula AgriculturalPark.
Vice President
JoshuaShylohStaftord-Joncs
Secretary
JaysonWatts Phase 1 of the expansion provides an opportunity forexpansion of agricultural
production on Maui. It'slocationsuitsa variety of crops that long been associated
with Maui and its'proximity to the Universityof Hawaii FieldExperiment Station
provides technicalresourcesto the new farm tenants.
Treasurer
Tim Stevens
Directors:
We ask for reconsideration of two matters.
Committee make up: Reconsiderationof a GoFarm position.GoFarmispart
of the Universityof Hawaii CTAHR that already has a positionon the
committee. CTAHR has an extensive network of education outreach
programs.
While the applicationform requires a Soiland Water Conservation practice
plan as part of the farm plan,an areawide Conservation Planshould be
undertaken by the County priorto plotallocation.Some practices may cross
plot boundaries and such plans should be put intoplacewith applicantsaware
of the requirements.
Section 22.14A.085 This proposal prioritizesfood production over other crops.
Food Securityinvolvesplantingof nonfood crops.
Importation of non food nursery plantsand other ornamentals Isa major
source of invasivespecies that not only impact the environment but food
production. Localproduction of highlydesirablefoliagee.g.Myrtaceae
spp demanded by floristsfor bridesisan important step to protecting us
from Ohia Rust species.
Crop rotationisa criticalpartto maintain pestsand improving soilhealth.
This can involveplantingof non food speciesthat are oftentilledintothe
ground or could be sold.
Rodrigo“Rudv”Balala
Brendan Balthazar
1)
James “Kimo” Falconer
2)
Bobbie Patnode
Teena Rasmussen
Heidi Watanabe 3)
a.
b.
●?
I
‘ 130 mIP
We urge the deletion of thispriorityto allow implementation of
integrated pest management practices.
7.« .
We appreciate thisopportunity to voice our opinion on thisexcitingopportunity for
agricultureon Maui. Ifthere are any questions,please contact Warren Watanabe at
8082819718.
Count^^lerk pcr-n: i^/cn
JL Watts <joshlishawatts@gmail.com>
Thursday,October 20,2022 1:31 PM
County Clerk
From:
Sent: im OCT 20 PH J Ml
To:
OFFIGE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toften get email from joshlishawatts@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Council members,
My name isJoshua Watts and Iwrite to you in strong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However 1support the billwith
the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
Joshua Watts
1
Count^^Clerk
James Weaver-Reyes <jweaverreyes@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 8:33 AM
County Clerk
Opposition to Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from jweaverreyes@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https;//aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council members.
My name isJames Weaver-Reyes and Iwrite to you instrong oppositionof Bill159 as iswritten.However, Isupportthe
billwith the amendments proposed inthe draftbillsubmitted by the Hawai'iHotelAlliance.
Thank you foryour consideration,
James Weaver-Reyes
Sent from my iPhone
O ‘n C3
mc c~>
-Jm
O
;T1o
OO <-n
m[Tt —4 >P
oX' Vjj
O
1
Count^^lerk
Madolin Wells <weilsmadolin@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 20, 2022 2:49 PM
County Clerk
Re: "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS."
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from wellsmadolin(a}gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Council Members,
Ienthusiasticallysupport thisbill.Itisdesperately needed to preservethe alreadydegraded qualityof life,fragile
ecosystems, and overburdened infrastructurethat cannot withstand continuing,unmitigated development and tourism.
The vast majorityof residentssupport it.
Mahalo foryour consideration.
Sincerely, - > C.:
On)
C
m
73C3
mc~i
Madolin Wells
Kihei
oIS>
fT'.<3-<
O
<2 "H
[T. --I
“t3
2C
mv*l
o73 j=
1
Lauren Saldana
TraciN. T.Fujita
Friday,October 21,2022 8:49AM
Kathy L Kaohu; James G. Krueger
OCC Legislative;David M. Raatz
FW: New eComment forCouncilChair'sMeeting on 2022-10-26 10:00 AM
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Hi Kathy and James,
Please consider the eComment below as testimony for the Council meeting today.
Thank you,
Traci
(x7687)
From: Chairs Meetings <chairsmeetings@mauicounty.us>
Sent: Friday,October 21, 2022 7:44 AM
To: Tammy Frias<Tammy.Frias@mauicounty.us>; TraciN. T. Fujita<Traci.Fujita@mauicounty.us>
Subject:FW: New eComment forCouncil Chair'sMeeting on 2022-10-26 10:00 AM
From: noreDlv@Qranicusideas.com<nQreplv@aranicusideas.com>
Sent: Friday,October 21, 2022 7:43:50 AM (UTC-10:00) Hawaii
To: ChairsMeetings <chairsmeetinQS@mauicountv.us>
Subject: New eComment forCouncilChair'sMeeting on 2022-10-26 10:00 AM
You don'toften get email from noreolv(S)granicusideas.com.Learn why thisisimportant
New eComment for Council Chair'sMeeting on
2022-10-26 10:00 AM
Guest User submitted a new eComment.
Meeting: Council Chair'sMeeting on 2022-10-26 10:00 AM
ltem:AGENDA
eComment: Council Member: My name isGary Wetsel my wifeand Ihave owned unit15-3 for
over 20 years. During that period there has been very mixed messages relevantto legalTVR's in
Puamana. This has caused great stress among owners thatdepend on the income from TVR's
to support theirinvestment. Finallyin2015 thiswas clarifiedand the issuewas put to rest.Ido
1
not understand how thisproposed billcould have a materialeffecton the Councils goal,itwill
onlycomplicatea billthatclarifiesTVR forowners and PlanningCommission. Therefore,I
oppose thisbilland are asking forthe billbe returnedto the committee to allowthe Planning
Commission to complete theirreview.We proposed changes to section 19.32.0401 forplanned
developments to the Maui CityCouncil.This sectionof the county code appliesonly to unitsin
Puamana. Kaanapaii Plantationand Alaeloa thatwere builtand were used forTransient
Vacation rentalpriorto April20,1989. This partof the county code was establishedin2013 to
clarifythe long standing legalTVR uses inthese specificpropertiesand helps the planninf
department when approving buildingpermitsand SMA exemptions forremodels and renovations
of these older units.Itwas created specificallyto prevent there being any question about the
rightforunitsinthese communities to be used forshortterm rentals.Itdoes NOT allownew
visitoraccommodations to be builtor converted from residentialtov TVR use, they have been
used forthispurpose since theirdevelopment inthe latesixties/seventies.The proposed
deletionof thispartof the existingcode turns the legalTVR use intoan "existingnon
conforming" use and makes any renovations or remodels difficultto get permitapprovals.The
Planning Commission should be allowed to do theirworl and providetheirrecommendation.
RespectfullyGAry Wetsel finallyin2015 this
View and Analyze eComments
This email was sent from httDs://aranicusideas.com
Unsubscribe from futuremailings
2
Count^CleH< Rr^o;:-VL:D
mi OCT20 PH 1:20
From:
Sent:
Michele McLean <Michele.McLean@co.maui.hi.us>
Thursday,October 20,2022 11:31AM
kevatga@gmail.com
County Clerk;PSLU Committee
Re:Testimony regardingsection19.32.040::Williams
To:
Cc:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
Aloha Williams Ghana,
The billisbeingconsideredby the County Council--by itsPlanningand SustainableLand Use Committee today (October
20) and by the fullCounciltomorrow. The PlanningDepartment does not providestaffsupport to these bodies,so I've
copied the PSLU staffand the County Clerk,who can share your testimony accordingly.
Mahalo,
Michele.
MicheleChouteauMcLean, AICP, PlanningDirector
County of Maui
One Main Plaza,Suite315
2200 Main Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Office: 808/270-7735
Fax: 808/270-7634
>>> KevinWilliams<kevatga@gmail.com> 10/20/2022 10:59AM >>>
Aloha Planning Committee and DirectorMcLean,
Mahalo, in advance, for reading our testimony. This isalloriginalcontent from our
Ghana. Ihope thistestimony reaches you in time. Iapologize ifitisLate.
We ask that you, the Planning Committee, recommend removing the changes proposed
to section 19.32.040 for Maui PUDs to the Maui County Council.
The idea of our Puamana condo changing itsuse statuswould be detrimental to our
growing family here in west Maui. Our immediate family consistsof 5 adultsand 5
children who are positivelyactive and charitablein our Lahaina community and within
Maui county. We recently combined our family'sfunds to purchase a home in Puamana
lastyear 2021 with the knowledge that Puamana has been operating as Legalvacation
rentalsfor about 53 years since the firstphase was builtin the '60s.Itwas thishistory
and the idea of how our guests would shop, eat and participatein LocalLahaina small
businessesnearby that gave us the confidence and peace of mind needed to make such
an investment for our future. We would almost immediately be underwater on our
mortgage ifour unit use statuschanged from short-term vacation to anything else
thereby puttingour family’sfinancialfuture at risk. /
1
Itseems irresponsibleand a bitfrighteningto recommend such changes to section
19.32,040 so quicklyand without the necessary data and studiesconducted to overturn
this much historyand previous decisions by the council.
For these reasons, Iask that the planning department recommend removing the
proposed changes to section 19.32.040 for planned developments within resolution
22.70 CD1 FD1.
Aloha and Mahalo,
Kevin, Kelly,and allof the Williams Ghana
808-495-2869