MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-02-04
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1157,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
February 4, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2022,
BEGINNING AT 9:00 AM., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
February 4, 2022, please come to order.
Good morning. Members. The, In the chat you'll see the greeting is omo yoran from
the island nation of Nauru.
Madam Clerk, can we have roll call?
ROLL CALL
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Good morning. Chair.
Yes, Councllmember Shane SInenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Omo yoran, Chair and fellow Councllmembers. And aloha
kakahiaka kakou my Maui hikina, where we are broadcasting this Aloha Friday from
the Hana Cultural Center. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
COUNTY CLERK: Councllmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and omo yoran, Madam Chair and my fellow colleagues,
as well as everyone else joining us for our Council meeting today, Friday, February 4,
2022. For the record. I'm transmitting from my residence in Makawao. And my wife is
In the other room. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 2
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka and omo yoran, Madam Chair and colleagues.
I am transmitting today from my home in South Maui in Kihei. And my husband has
left for the farm already, so I'm all by myself.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair. And good morning, Councilmembers.
Omo, omo yoran to all of you. I am home alone on the island of Lanai in my nice little
office here. And I'm ready for an exciting meeting. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Omo yoran kakou and aloha kakahiaka. Transmitting live and
direct from the Lahaina District Office in sunny Lahaina Tov\/n. And with me are my EA
Angela Lucero and Christian Balagso.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka, everyone. And I am in my home in my
workspace. And I am alone. Omo yoran everyone.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair, my Molokai aina momona.
(Spoke in Hawaiian.)
I'm at the Molokai District Office, alone on my side of the office. Aloha mahina olelo
Hawaii kakou. And omo yoran.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L Lee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 3
CHAIR LEE: Omo yoran my colleagues. 1 am here in my workspace alone. And looking
forward to a wonderful weekend on my new electric bike and riding with Koa Lei Lee.
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON. KELLY T. KING. TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN. NATALIE A. KAMA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA.
(Councilmember Sugimura was not present when the roll was called; however, she arrived at
10:36 a.m.)
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight Members present, zero Members absent, and one
Member excused. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am County Clerk Kathy Kaohu. Also present from the Office of the
County Clerk are Deputy County Clerk James Krueger; and Legislative Division staff
Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Opening remarks will be provided by Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Kama.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for those beautiful and inspirational words. Thank you so much.
Now, Members, please join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 4
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Before we proceed with today’s agenda, may I please request that everyone
keep their microphones muted unless it is your time to speak. Decorum shall be
maintained at all times.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: Members, at this time we will set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder the
calendar can still be adjusted even after it's set. Are there any requested changes to
the Consent Calendar at this time?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I would like to add to the Consent
Calendar, all the mass nomination resolutions.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And, and that'll be for referral.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. The mass nominations. Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered. Anybody else? If not, the Consent Calendar is set
Ms. Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, just request.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Could, could you have the Clerk read off the numbers of those
resolutions just so we can follow along with the agenda.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 5
CHAIR LEE: Oh. certainly.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's Resolutions 22-26 through 22-47. And I can put
it in the chat. And then that way we don't have to read every single one because they're
all consecutive, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. That, that would be great. Thanks for doing that.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, absolutely.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. One second, Madam Clerk.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I thought we were taking action on 22-26, cause we discharged
it from GREAT?
CHAIR LEE: Let me see.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 22-27.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 6
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 22-27 through 22-46?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh. 47.
CHAIR LEE: 46. I believe.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, are you sure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think we're taking action on 22-47 as well.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, right. I think she's right. There probably will be action on 22-47 and
22-48, and 49. Is that correct, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I put it in the chat.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay, you did?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 22-27 through 22-46.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other corrections or adjustments? If not, thank you, Members. The
Consent Calendar is set and we're ready for testimony.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda items.
Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting by
phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for
up to three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name
of any organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying.
Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media or on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 7
mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at
any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, our first person to testify is Lucienne de Naie. To be followed by Erin Wade.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE. [testifying on Resolution No. 22-47 and Bill No. 14 (2022)1.
Good morning. Ah, how nice to see you all again. I, I'm testifying today on two matters.
The first is the resolution that was referred to the Council on Tuesday, was it, regarding
the settlement for the Lahaina Wastewater Treatment Plant violations and subsequent
lawsuits. And this was a settlement agreement from 2015.
On behalf of Sierra Club Maui, we are very grateful to this Council for offering resolution
for this matter and clarification for the Department of Environmental Management, and
for the folks at Corporation Counsel, that we can move forward on a project that fits the
description that was in the 2015 settlement. So, it's been a long road and the road will
continue. But this is a very, very positive first step.
And my second testimony is on the second and final reading of the Water Use and
Development Plan. This, too, has been a very, very long journey. And on behalf of
the Haiku Community Association, we are appreciative of the many changes that have
been made. However, we do feel that this Council and our Water Department should
actually have a Plan B in case after all the studies and considerations, the aquifer
capacity of Haiku is not what is been projected or expected because it is based on very
scanty data and a lot of projections.
And I would just say personally, as a researcher, they were very, very optimistic
projections of the capacity of the lao Aquifer back in the 1970's when it was seen as
the main source. And those proved to be unfounded. It was thought that that aquifer
had twice the capacity, 40 million gallons a day that it actually had. And half that
capacity was promised to others. And it didn't turn out so easy in the end. It caused a
lot of back and forth of renegotiation, and readjustments, and accusations and so forth.
So, if that proves to be true with Haiku, which water is very unpredictable, it's hard to
know, this plan doesn't really have a plan B. And  Iguess the folks from throughout
Maui will be addressing that at the Water Commission process. But it really didn't get
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 8
addressed here. So, mahalo for your considerations of our comments. And good luck
on the rest of your agenda. I hope you have a short day. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, especially about the short day. Any questions for the testifier? If
not. thank you, Lucienne.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next, our next testifier, Chair, is Erin Wade. To be followed by Mark
Takamori.
MS. ERIN WADE. DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENT [testifying on Bill No. 28 (2022)]:
Aloha kakahiaka and omo yoran, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. WADE: Good morning, and Council. Thank you for taking up Bill 28, requesting a budget
amendment to support the Park Maui Program. As we've discussed in the many
meetings leading up to this. Park Maui is a program to proactively manage heavily used
County-owned parking areas. The primary goal of this program is to prevent the
overuse of limited and sensitive resource areas and ensure local families, employees,
and residents have access to parking where it is needed most.
As you are aware, discussions up to now have focused around policy creation, to allow
the County to charge for parking and to outline the internal functions County staff will
need to take on to support the program. The program will live with the Department of
Transportation, per the responsibilities outlined in the County Charter.
The bill before you represents year one costs to get external partners onboard for
things such as equipment, software, operations, and other functions we do not have
the skilisets or capacity to accomplish in-house. So just to be clear, this remains a very
open process. We will still be back at the Council for several more discussions,
including on rates and fees.
So, the reason this request is coming before those conversations is because we know
one of the expectations from the outset is that the program needs to be able to pay for
itself and be self-sufficient. And in order for us to come back to you folks with a
proposal on rates and fees to cover costs, we first have to find our external partners
and know what those costs are going to be. So, since we're building this program from
the ground up, we just want to say we greatly appreciate your patience as we work
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 9
through a really long list of to-dos. to ensure the legality of the program and be clear
about everyone's roles and responsibilities. And now to find the right partners that can
ensure we make this transition as simple and worry free for residents as possible.
I will stick around for any questions. Also, Director Mark Takamori from Department of
Transportation is here to talk about expansion position. And wanted to let you folks
know, too, I'm also available to respond to any questions on Bills 35 through 38 relating
to 60 South Church Street. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Erin. Members, any questions?
Member, Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Wade, for your testimony.
I just was wondering in that, is Maluuluolele the, the parking lot that funds that, is that
included?
MS. WADE: It is currently not included in our year one program.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
MS. WADE: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you very much for your testimony.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mark Takamori. To be followed by AnMarie Mabbutt.
[testifying on BillMR. MARC TAKAMORI. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
Nos. 28 (2022) and 29 (2022)1:
Good morning. Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Councilmembers.
Happy Aloha Friday.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 10
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: I'm Mark Takamori, the Director for the County
Department of Transportation. I would like to testify in support of Bill 28 and Bill 29 that
would approve budget amendments to allow the Transportation Department to start
working towards getting the Park Maui Program started. As mentioned earlier by Erin
Wade of Department of Management, Bill 28 would provide startup funds that allows
the Department of Transportation to get external partners onboard for equipment,
software, and operations.
Bill 29 would provide three unfunded EP's that would allow the Department to start the
process with Department of Personnel Services on position descriptions to eventually
get those positions filled. So, we're anticipating that in the next fiscal year budget we
would, or in the next fiscal year, we would then seek to fill those positions. So, we just
wanted to get the ball rolling on, on those EP's as it does take time to get those filled.
Again, as this is a new program for the County, we do appreciate your patience as we
work through getting the program off the ground. We expect, we definitely expect more
discussions of this program in the future. And should you folks have any questions, I'll
be available. Erin Wade, as well as Budget Director Yoshimura, is available to answer
any questions on this today as well. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Any questions. Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, then Member Paltin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Director Takamori. Mahalo
for your testimony today. For the three E, E, three EP's, the equivalent personnel, and
it's just for the position. No funding is coming with this bill at the moment. What, what
are those three positions? There, and they would be exclusively to work on Park Maui?
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you for your questions, Councilmember
Rawlins-Fernandez. Yes, the three positions that we're looking to fill would be a
transportation parking coordinator, a transportation contract specialist, and a
transportation planner. And those three positions are what was recommended to us
by the consultant that the Department of Management has on, on contract.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, we met with her. Mahalo. Director Takamori
for that response. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Just as for clarification, Vice-Chair, these items are going to be
referred to your Committee, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 11
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: My intention is to see if the Members would consider
passing it now, because I won't have any Budget Committee meetings--
CHAIR LEE: I see. Okay, I see.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: --in March. I gave,  Igave them up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you, Chair. You just asked my question. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, alright. Any more questions for Mr. Takamori? If not, thank you very
much. Have a great weekend.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is AnMarie Mabbutt. To be followed by Keisa Liu.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Mabbutt? Good morning. You're muted.
[testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-38 & 22-48;
Resolution No. 22-24: and Bill Nos. 27 (2Q22T 28 (2022), 33 (2022), and 36 [2022)1:
MS. ANMARIE MABBUTT
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Now we can, yes.
MS. MABBUTT: Okay, thank you. Good morning. I would like to speak today to County
Communication 22-48; Bills 27, 28, 33, and 36; and briefly to Resolution 22-24. And
two, just general comments. First, 1 would like to thank Councilmember Kama for her
beautiful and wise words during the introduction today. Then secondly, to the, for all
the items that I'm going to speak to, to the extent that the agenda today does not
indicate what the Council plans to do with these items today, I would respectfully
request that all of these items be referred and not waived and passed today.
Beginning with number one, 22-48 is amending the Rules of Council. That, as I
understand, is always referred to the GREAT Committee, reviewed, and then
recommended back. That I would absolutely recommend be done with this. And I
want to thank Councilmember Lee for the proposed amendment that would change the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 12
agendas to specifically indicate which ordinances are being considered for second and
final reading at the meeting. It is very helpful to the members of the public to know
what actions are intended for all items on the agenda. And in that spirit, I would ask
that you please consider adding a section for introduction of legislation, whether it be
bills or resolutions, so it is clear what items are being introduced at a meeting.
And then secondly, to add also an item that indicates what legislation is being approved
on first reading. All those things are separate actions, and it is very helpful to the public,
especially those not experienced with Council meetings and agendas, that would like
to speak to issues that are important for them to truly understand what is supposed to
be happening at each meeting.
Moving onto Bill 27, which is amending and increasing the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget by
$700,000 for private donations to the Parks and Rec [sic] Department. That $700,000,
the source of those funds should absolutely be indicated in this bill to avoid any
potential conflicts of interest or apparent conflicts of interest. That is a large amount of
money, and the source of that money should be indicated .
Moving on to Bill 28 (2022), which is amending the Fiscal Year Budget to appropriate
$638,000 [sic] to the Park Maui Program. My comments on this item are specifically
related to the title of this legislation. It is not clear at all what is being done here. This
money, this 638,000 [sic], if you actually look carefully, is being taken away from
tourism enforcement and management, and being reshuffled over to this Park Maui
Program. That action is not at ail indicated in the title.
And this money was only applied to tourism management enforcement in October
when the Council approved the 15 million in transient accommodation taxes to the
budget. At that time, you pledged to the public that you would be adding 2 million of
that 15 million for tourism management and enforcement. And now, just four months
later, are taking more than 25 percent of that money and switching it over to something
else. As far as I can tell, tourist management and enforcement, such as parking
violations, illegal camping, wildlife harassment, and mask use violations are still
occurring. And it would seem that this money could be, still be used, and is needed for
tourism management and enforcement.
Moving on to Bill 33 (2022), which is a proposed increase to the Fiscal Year 2022
Budget of $400,000 from Carryover/Savings in the General Fund or renovations to the
Molokai Police Station. This legislation does not include in the, in the board packet,
which is just a copy of the bill, any certification of the availability of the revenues for
this request. Furthermore, like I said, the board packet for this item contains nothing
except the language of the bill. So, there's no cost estimates, there's no work project
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 13
report or description. It's more or less just a few sentences saying we need 400,000
for this. So, that is not sufficient.
And it also is strange given that included on the agenda today is Communication 22-37,
which is a certification of availability of revenues for the exact same type of increase
from Carryover/Savings, Genera! Fund. So, please do not approve this bill on first
reading prior to receiving a certification of availability of revenues and some kind of
additional information on the project.
Moving on to Bill 36 (2022), which again is an amendment, a proposed amendment to
the Budget of $7 million dollars. This Bill 36 does not require the issue of $7 million in
General Obligation Bonds to cover the associated project at the Church Street. You
actually read the language of this bill; all this bill is doing is increasing the maximum
allowable amount that the Council can borrow through its General Obligation Bond
financing. It does not in any way require that bonds be issued in the amount of
$7 million to cover this project. Furthermore, this is supposed to be a project for Fiscal
Year 2022.
County Communication 22-, I believe it's 38, I'm not sure, that's included today on the
agenda, is a letter from the Finance Director on the General Obligation Bond issued by
the County. And the letter for that county communication indicates that the County
does not intend to issue another general obligation bond issue until mid-2023. So, i
don't see how this 7 million that's proposed fits into that reality.
Finally, Resolution No. 22-24. Again, as I said at the beginning, I hope this resolution
is being referred and not approved today. Because as currently written, it does not
satisfy the requirements of Maui County Code 3.16.020, regarding settlement of claims
by the County. That, that is it for my testimony today. Thank you.
CFIAIR LEE: Member Paltin has a question for you, Ms. Mabbutt.
MS. MABBUTT; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Mabbutt, for your testimony.
Just wanted to clarify for the record on Bill 27, you were talking about Parks and Rec,
but you meant Public Works?
MS. MABBUTT: Oh, I'm sorry. Yes. I misspoke. Public Works, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, just.
MS. MABBUTT: Thank you. Sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 14
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: ... I was on the right page. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Do we have any more questions? If not, thank you very much Ms. Mabbutt.
MS. MABBUTT: Okay, thank you. Have a good day.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Keisa Liu. To be followed by David Henkin.
MS. KEISA LIU rtestifvina on Resolution Nos. 22-22 & 22-43: and Bill No. 15 (2022)1:
Aloha kakahiaka. Happy aloha, or Olelo Hawaii month. I'm attempting to try, in
solidarity, to speak as much as I can. E kala mai. I'm not very good at it. But I am
here to speak on, actually I'm going to add one more agenda item today, Bill 15.
But I will be talking on Reso 22-22 and Reso 40, 22-43. And just real quickly for those
two reso's, you know, for me, I don't know any of nominees at all. So, this really isn't
about the content of their character and really just kind of what I'm looking for when it
comes to people who are coming on to these commissions, because they are really
important as it relates to houselessness and homelessness. I, I'm really hoping that
as we continue to add people to this particular commission, that the people who are
coming on are really actually interested in looking at healing solutions for
homelessness, and not defending our current policies and procedures as it relates to
this, but really looking for solutions.
So, for this one in particular, I, I don't know,  iknow that she gets to come on and maybe
speak a little bit and so I'd love to hear what she has to say about it. But to me, that's
really important and I hope that that, that comes through and when she speaks.
When it comes to the Police Commission, I, again, don't know these people at all. But
what I'd really like to see, and I know this is going to get referred to the GREAT
Committee, but what I'm hoping to see for them is their interest in Hawaiian law, trauma
informed response. And then, also, their interest in understanding the MPD policies
and procedures. One of the things I've really noticed in the Commission is that a lot of
time is spent explaining to the Commission how the MPD works or how certain things
work. And so, it would be really nice if they would, at the very least, be interested in
taking the necessary training to make sure that they understand what's going on kind
of upfront, or if they already had that, also would be helpful. But I just want to make
sure that's in there so that we can just be a little bit more efficient in those meetings.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 15
As it relate, relates to Bill 15, I’m going to kind of move on this, there quick today. The
only concern, there are a lot of concerns, but I'm just going to point out something really
quickly, because I know this is the final reading and your, you guys are pretty much
going to be done with it. But just something to kind of think about when we're looking
at this particular bill, and as it relates to addiction and houselessness and where people
are allowed to, you know, to, to use those things. You know, if you have a house, you
do it in your house and it's okay. If you don't have a house, you, you have no choice
but to do those things in public. And so, it makes it a little bit challenging in
understanding how do we actually move towards really addressing the issue of
houselessness and addiction and behavioral health?
And is this bill really actually addressing that or is it meant for something else to make
sure that nobody is doing this? So, is this going to relate to tourism as well? Like,
who's really going to be affected by this? Again, it's, it's late for me to really bring this
up, but I just really want to think about this. Is that what's really going to be done here?
Are we going to be penalizing our most vulnerable residents with this bill? And is that
really what we're trying to do, or are we trying to really actually create public safety?
So, it's just something that I was thinking about. It's you know. I'm not really saying
much more than that because I really can't at this point. But anyways, I just wanted to
hopefully have you guys hear me out on those a couple of things. Mahalo for your time
and consideration.
CFIAIR LEE: Thank you. Question from Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Thank you. Ms. Liu, for your testimony. My
question would be on Reso 22-43. To clarify, in addition to the things that you meant,
is a track record of actually showing up to the meetings one of the things as well?
MS. LIU: That would be kind of a minor thing for me. But yeah, it would be important. What
would be more important is that they again understood Hawaiian law, trauma informed
response, and MPD policies and procedures.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, showing up is minor, a minor one?
MS. LIU: Compared to the other three things that  1said. Like, those three things, I would
want to see first, and then that would be a nice add on in addition.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Got it. Thanks.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 16
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more questions? If not, thank you very, oh, we have one more.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha, Ms. Liu.
{Spoke in Hawaiian.)
I amend, commend your effort to, to practice and try Olelo Hawaii. Mahalo for that.
I just wanted to ask a quick question. And mahalo for the email you sent with
resources,
reappointment of Zhantell Lindo, your, your comments about whether she is solutions-
driven? And so, the question is just if you were aware that she drafted the bill to
establish the Commission on Healing Solutions as  asolution?
So, theThe question regarding Resolution 22-22.I  did get it.
MS. LIU: No, I was not aware of that. I think it would be great to know that, you know, she
drafted it. But again, I would like to see, you know, when you build something like that,
when you build a community that's really focused on something like that, you also have
to build in the people who are going to be doing it. And I understand the idea like,
okay. I’m going to put this together. But it's also the group as a whole that's really going
to matter when it comes to this. And so, I love the idea that that was brought forward.
And then, I would love to see it go further. But, you know, if she's the one putting this
together and she's leading the charge when it comes to these healing solutions in a
way that actually makes sense for our community and does not, again, like I said,
defend what we've been doing before.
So, I wasn't aware. I love that she's doing it. And I would hope that if she's going to
move forward, that she's moving and leading the whole group at, towards that, that
objective. So, mahalo.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. Mahalo, Miss Liu. I  agree about the
composition of boards and commissions is very important. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Miss Liu.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is David Henkin. To be followed by Hannah
Bernard.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 17
MR. DAVID HENKIN, EARTHJUSTICE (testifying on Resolution No. 22-471:
Aloha kakahiaka and omo yoran, Chair Lee and Members of the, of the Council. I'm
happy that my, my aloha shirt matched the opening convocation that was, that was not
prearranged with Member Kama. But in the spirit of her comments, I'm really happy to
testify in support of Resolution 22-47, which seeks to kind of move forward together
between the plaintiffs in, in the Hawaii Wildlife Fund case and the County of Maui to
find some solutions to the problems associated with the line injection wells.
We just talked about this earlier in the week, and so I understand you have a very full
agenda. Just wanted to express my strong support for passing that resolution so we
can work forward on these positive solutions that, that will provide additional water for
for, for the needs of the area of West Maui, and also keep it out of the injection wells
where it's harming the reef. So, I'm available to answer any questions the Council may
have and just encourage you to please pass this resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you very much. Any questions for the testifier. Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I had one question that I wasn't able
to ask in, in Committee. So, I don't know if Mr. Henkin would be available when the
item comes up for that question, cause it's not a clarifying question. But maybe we
could have staff contact him when the item comes up, or I can ask it now?
CHAIR LEE: Well, Mr. Henkin, will you be available when we take up this item?
MR. HENKIN: It all depends on timing. 1 have meetings from 10:30 pretty much straight
through to 1:00 pm. So, any, if I can jump out of the meetings, I will. But if it's possible
to answer the question now, that would be probably most convenient.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you mind?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, if not, Vice-Chair, why don't you ask him now.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No objections.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 18
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo, Chair. Just a quick one. Mahalo,
Mr. Henkin, for being available and testifying this morning. So, in addition to my
question in Committee, where I asked about it, majeure. I can’t remember the first part.
MR. HENKIN: Oh, force majeure. Force majeure. So, if-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
MR. HENKIN: -if issues come up-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, no, no. no, no.
MR. HENKIN: -that are outside the County's control, yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, force majeure.
MR. HENKIN: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Outside of County's control. Outside of the control
of the contractors of the County as well?
MR. HENKIN: Yes, it's, it's the type of events that just, you know, everyone's doing their best
but things happen, dock strikes, natural disasters, I mean, you know, things like that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. And then, my second question in Committee
was about your comments about November 30 to, I think November 16. 1 had it written
down. And I'll ask our DEM Chair about that, if that can be changed.
MR. HENKIN: Yeah, so if 1, if I understand the issue that you're thinking about, the settlement
agreement calls for the design of the project that's selected to be completed within two
years of the final judgment. So, that would be November 19 of 2023. And just in the,
the schedule that, that the Department provided, that Mr. Nakagawa provided, it
indicated that it might be a couple of weeks after that. I didn't get the sense that that
was carved in stone, that they, that you couldn't make the initial deadline.
But the most important deadline, of course, is going to be completion of construction.
And that would be November 19 of 2026. And I understand the schedule says that that
can be accomplished. And again, if there are unexpected things that arise, we'll of
course talk with the County about that. And, and we're just excited for the County to
be taking on this project and expanding the reuse. So, we look forward to working
collaboratively with the County to make it happen.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 19
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Henkin. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any more questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Henkin,
MR. HENKIN: Thank you very much. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Hannah Bernard. To be followed by Camry
Gach.
MS. HANNAH BERNARD. HAWAII WILDLIFE FUND (testifying on Resolution No. 22-47):
Aloha kakahiaka. E ola Olelo Hawaii and omo yoran. Thank you so much for allowing
me to testify. This is a happy day for me and for all of us who are in support of the
health of. . . reef and all of our reefs. I'm just so grateful, Chair Lee and Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez, that we can have this discussion today about Resolution
No. 22-47 and support it one more time. This is a very long and coming resolution for
us to do something positive for our reefs, to use the wastewater in the best possible
use that we can reuse it.
And I just want to thank, once again, this body, this Council, especially under the
leadership of former Chair Kelly King and Mike Molina for their foresight, and their
vision, and their steadfastness in holding ground for us to come to a final conclusion,
and stop the litigation, and get this resolution, and get the problem solved.
So, thanks once again for putting this on the agenda in such short notice and getting
this meeting agenda met as well. I'm in strong support of Reso 22-47, for the Kaanapali
Resort Expansion for the wastewater treatment treated water. Mahalo
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Bernard. Members, do you have any questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Again, it's, it’s not a clarifying
question of the testimony because we weren't allowed to ask questions, more
questions in Committee. So, I don't know if Ms. Bernard is available when the item
comes up?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 20
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Bernard, will you be available later in the next, a few hours?
MS. BERNARD: In a few hours, I, I will. I, I have  ayouth group I'm hosting at 11, but hopefully
I'll be. I'll be available in two hours, if that's what you're talking about.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. We'll probably take this up after lunch.
MS. BERNARD: Great.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Would, would you mind giving staff your, your
number and then that way they can contact you when the item comes up?
MS. BERNARD: Absolutely.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo.
MS. BERNARD: My pleasure.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Alright, so apparently, we have no questions now. So, thank you,
we'll talk, oh, we have one question from Member King.
COUNCiLMEMBER KING: I think, I think this is pertinent to what you talked about,
Ms. Bernard. Thank you so much for being here and for your years of advocacy and
sticking with it. But because you mentioned the protection of all the reefs, were, are
you following any of the other areas that we have similar problems in?
MS. BERNARD: Following, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MS. BERNARD: Very interested in, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Cause you know. I'd like to sit down and talk with you folks
before we get to the point of another lawsuit. See what we can do, okay?
MS. BERNARD: You got it. You have a, you have a deal there.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 21
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ... thanks, Hannah. Thank you, Chair.
MS. BERNARD: Thank all of you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, we'll talk to you later, Ms. Bernard.
Thank you.
MS. BERNARD: Mahalo. Have a great day.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is CamryGach. To be followed by Deeana, Deena
sorry; Deena Kiyabu.
MS. CAMRY GACH Ftestifyina on Bill No. 14 (2022)1:
Okay. Aloha kakahi, kakahiaka. My name is Camry Gach, and I am representing the
Maui District Student Council Organization as the Chair. We are a group of students
who are many, on this call today representing high school, high school student councils
across Maui County. And we're here to learn a little bit about the issues, see how we
can be of service and start to integrate ourselves within, yeah, what's going on in our
community.
So, I'm here to testify today on the Water Use and Development Plan for the island of
Maui, Bill 14. I really appreciate the sustainable initiatives that are being implemented
in this bill, such as control, controlling invasive species and the reforestation efforts to
promote groundwater recharge in our watersheds, including the loi restoration project
and the funds being allocated to that, to preserve streamflow from mauka to makai. In
addition, however, I do have the concern of how our water resources are not fairly
distributed between residential, agricultural and, and also the resorts, the hotels, and
that is something that is real. And, and it's due to the, the, the way that water is
privatized in Maui County.
Water supply only has so much control over the public resources. And 1 read in the bill
that in Chapter 8 there are, that 30 percent of water consumed in Maui County is
multiuse and resort, while only 2.4 percent is allocated to agriculture. And in order to
develop sustainably with our, our food supply, I am looking to find solutions so that we
can allocate more of our resource to traditional kalo farmers and diversified agriculture.
But yes, I completely understand the paradigm in that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 22
And also, 1 really appreciate the new tiered fee structure that is incorporated in the bill
to incentivize conservation while also helping to identify the system repairs needed for
inefficient water systems. And I think that's a great improvement.
Oh, and so, I am also looking into ways that, I appreciate the emphasis on doing
alternative irrigation methods such as greywater use and rainwater catchment. And I
think maybe finding other ways to incentivize such conservation, like maybe creating
more funding for greywater toilet installations, especially in the tourist and agricultural
sectors where a lot of that water can be reused.
In addition, a Maui Department of Water Supply 2016 study revealed only two percent
of residential users water their lawns with greywater or rainwater catchment systems.
So, that's a testament to how we can do better. But I'm really, it's a really positive
improvement hearing the testimony and the appreciations today on the, the reuse of
wastewater in Lahaina. I think that's very, it's  alot of progress that we're making and
I'm really excited to see how we can, we can develop in a way that's sustainable and
equitable for all of our Maui County residents.
So, yeah, just some of my concerns with the distribution. Making sure that residents
like Lucienne de Naie said that like in Haiku and Kula, we have the projections right.
And that we're able to provide sufficient resources to all of Maui County and not just
the, the, the profiting sectors that are influencing with the financial leverage that they
have. But yeah, trying to find solutions for everyone is something that's really
meaningful to me.
And yeah, so, we, we as MDSCO are tuning in and very grateful to be here on the call
with you today. This has been a really positive experience. And thank you to Council
Chair Lee and her office, with Diane who has been helping us. And she's going to
debrief us today on another call. So, thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms, Gach. Yes, Members, this, this, I thought we'd surprise you
with this youngster. And, and there'll be another person testifying. And on the call, do
you have, like, something like 12 people watching from your organization, from the
student council organization?
MS. GACH: Yes, I believe we do.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay, now, now we have some questions for you, okay?
Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 23
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Camry. So good to see you again.
MS. GACH; Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And thanks for mentioning MDSCO. And 1 really want to. I'm not
sure if you got signed up yet, but I really, we really need you to sign up for the Youth
Council. So, I hope you come back into that sphere. You know, we had talked about
it a couple of years ago with you. And encourage your peers, as well, because, you
know, you've got some really good ideas and would love to see them brought forth into
the, the Council realm.
MS. GACH: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; So, Axel, contact Axel Beers in my office. He's on this call as
well. And hopefully, we can get you folks signed up.
MS. GACH: I'm really glad that you're pursuing that. I'd love to join.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; It's going full force. So, Axel's on. He's going to, I think he might
have your contact information already from the last time we spoke, so.
MS. GACH: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you so much for being here.
MS. GACH: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I saw so many hands. I'm not sure who's next. Is it Member Paltin? Did you
have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, I didn't. But I'm looking forward to the next science fair
already.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci. Member Molina, did you have your hand up also?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, thank you. I just want to, thank you. Madam Chair. And
thank you, Camry. It's really enlightening to see  aperson of your, your generation
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 24
taking the time out to testify on our many important issues. And you're certainly beyond
your years. You're looking ahead. So, I commend you and the student council for your
involvement in government, government. Mahalo.
MS. GACH: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Ms. Gach, for your
testimony this morning. I, I didn't have any questions. I \A/as just wondering if Ms. Gach
is available to be a resource for the next 30 years?
MS. GACH: I plan on coming back after college. I,  Iwant to go into engineering and help
with the issues, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Wonderful.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I loved your testimony, Camry. And I, 1
really appreciate it. What school do you, did you say you go to?
MS. GACH: I go to Seabury Hall.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Alright. That was my only question. Thank you
Chair.
MS. GACH: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Gach. Excellent,
excellent testimony. Mahalo for joining us. Like Member Sinenci, i was, I was
wondering if you're available to run for Governor.
MS. GACH: Thank you. You guys are so kind. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 25
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, well, thank you so much, Camry, for joining us. And we look
forward to many more visits from you. Thank you.
MS. GACH; Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Chair. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Deena Kiyabu. To be followed by Carol Lee
Kamekona.
MS. DEENA KIYABU rtestifvina on Bill No. 30 (2022):
Hello. My name is Deena Kiyabu, and I am part of the Maui, sorry, Maui District Student
Council Organization. And I'm the secretary. And  Ialso attend Baldwin High School.
The Bill that I'll be talking about today is Bill 30, which is about funding for affordable,
affordable housing. And I would just like to say that I really like the idea that having
funds for the Kilohana Makai Project. I feel like it will help a lot of Maui residents who
plan to live here for a very long time to find houses that aren’t overly expensive. And
since the Kilohana Makai Project is made for only Maui residents, and Maui residents
are planning to stay for a very long time, I feel like it helps a lot of the residents to be
able to find housing here instead of having to move somewhere else to find affordable
housing so they can live here.
And I think that also having, or the Maui residents to be able to. like, 1 think I found it in
the Maui News where it says like they have to be owner-occupied for a period of
20 years. I think that really helps with having maybe people who are only planning to
stay here for a few years not be able to buy the affordable housings, which allows more
long-term Maui residents being able to stay here. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Great testimony. Great. Oh, and, and we have a question from
the Member who is Chair of the Housing Committee.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Good morning. Miss Kiyabu. I have a
question. You're, you're in school. I'd like to hear what the students are saying about
their plans. Or do they plan to stay or is the affordable housing so expensive they're
going to leave to the mainland? Or have you heard what your classmates are talking
about this topic?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 26
MS. KiYABU: Urn, well, for me personally, or I know a couple of my friends, too, like, they do
want to come back to Maui, like, after maybe going off to college. But I know that it
can be a little difficult depending on the jobs. And I feel like some people, like, maybe
they want to be something, but they know that that job won't be able to afford the living
here. So, they plan on a different job to be able to stay here on Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. See, even the kids know it. Thank you so much
for your testimony. I appreciate it. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to put another plug in for the
Youth Council. And Ms. Kiyabu, encourage you to also apply for that. You know, we
need these, we need the voices of the folks who are going to outlive us on Maui. So,
you know, please consider that. Thank you, Chair. Thank you for your testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. So, they represent the Maui District Student Council Organization.
So, maybe Axel can contact the organization. Any more questions, Members? If not,
thank you.
Oh, one more. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just had a question if you cared where the money came from?
If it came from the Affordable Housing Fund or the Federal American Recovery Act
money, as long as the street gets done?
MS. KIYABU: I would probably have to do, would have to do a little more research on that.
But I think that just being able to help the Maui residents that plan to live here for like
most of their lives, like 1 think just being able to help them stay and live here is a good
thing.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just make sure it gets done then, right?
MS. KIYABU: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Kiyabu. You did
a great job.
MS. KIYABU: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 27
CFIAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Carol Lee Kamekona. To be followed by Lisa
Darcy.
MS. CAROL LEE KAMEKONA ftestifyina on Resolution Nos. 22-22. 22-29. 22-34. 22-40.
22-43, & 22-47. and Bill No. 39 (2022)1:
Aloha kakahiaka . . . kakou. Madam Chair, Vice-Chair, and Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. KAMEKONA: Can you guys hear me okay? 1 don't see me but, mahalo. In the event I
get cut off, I am also connected by phone, so I can switch to phone. ... I will preface
my testimony by saying mahalo, mahalo, mahalo to Camry and Deanna [sic] for comng
forward. I am so in awe to see our young generation stepping up and getting involved
and being engaged in government issues. I think Vice-Chair kind of beat me to it. But
I see maybe a potential future Councilmember for Upcountry with Camry or maybe
even a candidate against Councilmember Molina maybe. Whatever the case may be,
1 look forward to seeing them in future government.
So, I will go on with my testimony. Mostly . . . has to do, I understand, with resolutions
that are going to be referred to the GREAT Committee. However, I still would like to
provide my manao starting with 22-22, and the Commission on Healing Solutions. 1
strongly support the common sensical, grounded and understanding that is needed to
better the lives of our houseless by Zhantell. So, I hope the GREAT Committee does
move forward and approving her.
With regards to 22-29, the Ethics Commission, I believe that Kelly Pearson has an
awesome foundation and knows the value of good ethics. She does great work at the
Boys and Girls Club.
With regards to 22-34, the Commission on Aging, I don't think anybody can say
anything bad about candidate. Kahu Hau'oli does not have a bad bone in his body, in
my opinion. So, I seriously do support him for the Council on Aging.
For 22-40, the Commission on the Cultural Resources, I strongly support Kapono as I
know he is grounded in his traditional and customary practices. And he knows his
culture very well, the protocols that go along with it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 28
With regards to 22-43, the Police Commission, I echo what Keisa said earlier, that I
would like to see that our police force is trauma informed. They understand humility
when you need to interact with ... in that is in any kind of traumatic incident when they
respond to a call. I would also like to see that the kanawai and the public trust is known
by our police, so that they understand when they get calls, when it comes to direct
action by our kanaka maoli, when they stand up for their rights, that they understand
that the kanawai does stand forth most over west law.
With regards to 22-47, echo what Hannah and Lucienne said. And I support the
passage of this bill [sic] to move forward.
With regards to 22-49, 1 support the Council's decision to withdraw their support of
HB 1450 and Senate Bill 2053, regarding the TAT.
And finally, Bill 39, I support the bill for electric gun licensing. So, for all of that . . .
blessed day. ... all well and a short, short day.  Ahui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Thank you, Carol Lee.
We have a question from Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Kamekona. On 22-43
same question as I asked Ms. Liu. How important is attendance in your?
MS. KAMEKONA: Very.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Got it.
MS. KAMEKONA: Any kind community engagement, yes, very. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you very much. You have a great day too.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Lisa Darcy. To be followed by Junya Nakoa
who is the last testifier currently signed up for testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Darcy?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 29
MS. LISA DARCY, SHARE YOUR MANA [testifying on Bill No. 15 (2022)1:
Hi. Hello. Hello. And I'm sorry, I ... the whole time and then my connection drops
when I'm coming on. Good morning, everyone. My name is Lisa Darcy and I'm here
to testify on item 15. And I am the founder of Share Your Mana and am on the
Commission for Healing Solutions for Homelessness. I come before many of you
before expressing my concerns with this, and how it will be implemented in light of the
fact that we're spending a great deal of time in court lately with people. And it doesn't,
it isn't really producing any sort of the kind of results that we as a community would like
to see.
So, I again, I urge you to reconsider moving this forward in the condition that it is in.
And the, and that it doesn't actually connect people to the services, because generally
this will probably be implemented to people that have chronic situations. And it will
simply move people into different locations. And I, I just want to make sure that it is
very clear that I appreciate the. the amount of consideration that it takes for, for you to
to, to, to protect sacred areas. And, and that's, I, I understand weighing that very much.
So, anyway, I’d really like to see it connected to the ability for people to have hand to
. . . services versus just kind of moving people around. And that's the way I, I kind of,
the way I'm seeing that this is happening. So, thank you again for your consideration
and I hope you have a great rest of your morning.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you. Members, do we have any questions? If not, thank you, Lisa
MS. DARCY: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Junya Nakoa. To be followed by Faith Chase. And
currently, Faith is the last testifier signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Junya, good morning.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA [testifying on Resolution No. 22-47 and Bill No. 15 (2022)1:
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Junya, I have to say--
MR. NAKOA: How's it?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 30
CHAIR LEE: Junya, Junya, wait.
MR. NAKOA: Yo.
CHAIR LEE: I just want to say that we love your testimony, but you have to be careful on that
colorful language, okay?
MR. NAKOA: Oh, what color you like? Nah, only joke, only joke. Only joking. Only joking.
Only joking. Only joking. Thank you for the warning. Thank you for the warning. Eh,
lucky a little bit early in the morning, so da kine eh, so little bit good. Usually in the
afternoon, ah, I jam up already. So, 1 good. 1 good. I good. Thank you. Thank you
for the warning. Yessah. Okay, see now you throw me off. Now I gotta think about
urn again.
Yeah, eh. Bill, Bill 15, the homelessness one. Eh, you know, since I think was Monday,
Tuesday, I don’t know when the thing came up but  Iwhen testify for the thing. Brah,
plenty people talking about this whole homelessness thing, positive, negative, all the
kind of stuff is happening gang. Mahalo you guys for bringing em up. you know what I
mean? It's going, it's going to help. It's going to help. I just want to say mahalo you
guys cause whoa brah, I getting cracks from all kine people, which is good. You know,
what I mean? People are trying to step up, trying to, you know, get involved. I tell em
shut up and get involved. Oh, I hope that's not colorful. You know what I mean? But
you know what I mean.
But the thing is that that's a, I, I mahalo you guys. Gabe Johnson, mahalo. I told you,
the buggah going stir up the, stir up the pot no matter, no matter if da thing okoie
backwards. The thing, the thing, the thing is da kine, thing is help, thing is working,
brah. Thing working cherry. Keep it up. Keep it up. Okay, see, not to bad eh? Thank
you for the warning.
But, but the thing is, gee, I . . . what I say now. Okay, the injection well, the injection
well. Yeah, mahalo for keep um going. Yeah, that $2.5 million, get em going. It's a
first step. I know, eh, eh about time we taking the first step. The buggah kinda late,
but it's all good, you know what I mean? Yeah, poho, poho the guy, the guy never
listen to the community and you guys, and now, and still when take um to the, still when
take um to the Supreme Court, you know, with the guidance of the, you know, the, the
Corp. Counsel guys, yeah. Poho, poho, but you know what, it's, it's getting fixed. It's
getting worked on. Going finally start protecting our reefs and our beaches. And I
mahalo you guys for again bad okoles for doing um, you know, for stepping up. And
yeah, just keep it up. Just keep it up, brah. Keep it up. No, whoa,... what I say every
time. But yeah, awesome, awesome, awesome. You guys are doing wonderful, great
job.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 31
And I support all the guys who like run for the, who like be on the commissions, all da
guys commissions. Brah, them, they doing urn from their heart. Awesome. Thank
you, guys, so much.
Oh, wait, I gonna talk about, I can rec, request to have, to get teached by the student
Council people, by the Camry girl and Deena. Whoa brah, they, they, they the future.
Watch out, gangie. Yessah, you guys have a great, great weekend, safe one. Happy
Friday. Yessah.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you, Junya. You see. I'm just trying to help you because I heard
you're running for Mayor. So we had to, you know, polish you up. okay?
Any questions. Members?
MR. NAKOA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions? if not, thank you so much. You have a wonderful weekend.
MR. NAKOA: I will. Mahaio.
CHAIR LEE: Mahaio.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier and final testifier signed up right now is Faith
Chase.
MS. FAITH CHASE [testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-22 & 22-49: and Bill No. 14 (2022).
15 (2022) & 39 (2022)]:
Good morning, Chair. Good morning. Council. Aloha kakahiaka . . . Maui, 1 guess. Is
that how you say Maui Council? \
(Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Bill 14 the WUDP. Aloha, my name is Faith Chase. I'd like to speak on Bill 14. You
know, I've made these comments before. I'd like it to be on public record over and over
again. I know that this is not a perfect piece. I appreciate Aunty Lucienne de Naie's
massive historical perspective and experienced-based points. I understand the
timeline of moving this forward.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 32
And I just want to state on the record that as you move forward and you do not see the
traction you need from the Board of Land and Natural Resources, Department of Land
and Natural Resources, that you have a resident body of indigenous farmers to support
you in going after the properties that eventually you will learn and you will see that are
actually in your possession, ownership. We were going to see this over time. You own
the lands around. You own the lands for the people in perpetuity that serve the people.
So, the lands surrounding the waterways and the transfers, the transfer aquifer, the,
what do you call that, excuse me, it's early, the diversions, all the existing infrastructure.
You are the body that is responsible to keep, to keep that for the people, to serve the
people.
And so, as we move forward with this correspondence with the BLNR, I just want to
reassure you that while this is not a perfect WUDP, that you do have the support of the
people and the farmers behind you. And so, fear not. And I do, I do understand the
sentiments of Aunty Lucienne with regards to the Haiku aquifer. 1 have spoken to it in
Committee, and we'll just have to see how that goes. And, you know, you. you have
to move forward, so 1 appreciate the, the, I appreciate how hard that the Committee
worked to get that to the place it's at.
I want to speak to the item number 15. You know,  Iknow this is a sensitive issue. And
I know that you have your homeless, homeless, houseless advocates coming forward
speaking on this. And the reason why you have such feedback is because those
advocates are and, and myself too, as well and my family, we spend tireless hours just
volunteering, going to support people who get tickets in the court system. And
ultimately, they get thrown out.
But I also understand the historical parks that we're speaking of in Lahaina. I've seen
pictures. I've seen pictures from Aunties who are worried about our burials of ali'i. So,
I understand where it's, it's a very centre, it's  avery high contrast issue because you
have indigenous Hawaiians who are at the top of the houseless, homeless, vulnerable
population. And then, you also have indigenous Hawaiians who are in high respect of
our mb'! ali'i and the burials. And so, when you see historical spaces that are being
not treated right, it's, it's a, it's a hard it's  ahard, it's a little bit of a tug of war. But
ultimately, if any any, anybody gets a ticket in these historical spaces for alcohol
drinking, you're going to see these same advocates coming to support them on the
back end. And so, that's why you have that testimony so strong. But I understand the
premise of it, and we'll move through that as well.
Item 22, 20, 22-22, at, you know, i think that I like, I like the points that Keisa Liu was
making in regards to, you know, having fresh contributions to the Healing Solutions of
Homelessness. But Zhantell is, is in a space of her own. She is an amazing community
giveback person. I'm so glad to see that she is on that, in that revolving door to be
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 33
placed on the Commission for a little bit longer. So, I support that. But I do understand
what Keisa is saying, you know. We do, we don't, we, the old narrative, that’s why we
have the Commission. We want to try to get away from what hasn't been working, so.
And 22, what is 22-49? Why did I write that down?  Imight have to skip that. It's, it's,
it's slipping my mind right now.
I am concerned about 39. I don't know enough about 39. I'm sort of confused, because
this just, this, this taser gun things moves, moved to quickly, I want to know more. I
honestly didn't have enough time to look into it. But I'm a little concerned about how, I
talked to a couple of lawyers, and 1 guess we're just going to have to monitor that. I'm
not sure what that means in a larger scope, but I don't really have anything to say. Oh,
I know what, yeah, I don't know what to say. You guys tell me more about 39. I, I want
to trust you.
22-49, I see now, it's the, I just want to say I support that, the Council's rescinding the
support for the 1450. Thank you so much.
CFIAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Members, any questions. If not, thank you very much,
Ms. Chase.
MS. CHASE: Ahuihou.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we don't have any other testifiers noted at this time. And if an
individuals connected to the meeting and has not yet testified, but would like to, please
unmute and identify yourself now. This is the last call for testifiers. Please indicate if
you would like to testify. Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify and
confirming that we have received written testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, are there any objects to receiving written testimony into the
record and to closing public testimony? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM DAVID HENKIN OF EARTHJUSTICE, WAS
MADE A PART OF THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no objections. So, ordered.
We have the minutes and then we'll go take a break, okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 34
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with our minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's public hearing of November 18, 2021 was
presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
THE MINUTES AS READ BY THEI MOVE TO APPROVE
CLERK.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Tempore Tasha Kama
to approve the minutes of the public hearing of November 18, 2021.
Any discussion? Any questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's unanimous, motion carries. One excused, Member Sugimura.
Now, Members, it's almost time for our break. So, why don’t we take a break until 9:35.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 35
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any object, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I think you meant 10:35, but-
CHAIRLEE: 10:35.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But I just, I don’t want to do this, but I don't, I also
don't want someone to point this out later on and then we have to do it again. So, we
don't have all nine Members and the opinion that was given to us is even if we have
unanimous support from the Members present, if it's, if we don't have ail Members
present, then we have to do roll call vote.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we did this yesterday. We went through this yesterday, Vice-Chair. And
David, our attorney, David Raatz said. There he is, David. Reappeared.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, OIP gave us a different opinion?
CHAIR LEE: David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ: Yeah, thank, thank you.
Chair and Vice-Chair, if I may? Yes, the Office of Information Practices said that it's
about the Members who are present, even if some Members are excused. So, it's
possible to have a unanimous vote even if one or more voting Members are not
present. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. So, at 10:35, we will reconvene. Meeting is in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:21 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:36 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT FOR MEMBER
SUGIMURA, EXCUSED.)
(Councilmember Sugimura arrived at the meeting at 10:36 a.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting please reconvene. The Council meeting of February 4.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 36
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-27
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Casey Nicole Josiah to the Affirmative Action Advisory Council for a
term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-27 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-28
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Scott Randall Luck and Leslie Ann Aiko Yokouchi to the Animal Control
Board fora term expiring March 31, 2025.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-28 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-29
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
BOARD OF ETHICS FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Kelly Lanilei Maluo-Pearson and Kathryn Reeves Shroder to the Board
of Ethics fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-29 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 37
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-30
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
BOARD OF VARIANCES AND APPEALS FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Leon Salacup Bolosan and Harry Richard Hecht to the Board of
Variances and Appeals fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-30 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-31
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Kalikolehua Elizabeth Keanuenueonalani Storer and Ralph Jude
Thomas to the Board of Water Supply for a term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-31 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-32
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Sharon Mie Suzuki to the Civil Service Commission fora term expiring
March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-32 be referred to the Government
Relations. Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 38
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-33
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
COMMISSION ON CHILDREN AND YOUTH FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Ericka Ashley Chavez, Heidi Angela Drahn, and Brian Thomas
McCafferty to the Commission on Children and Youth for a term expiring March 31,
2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-33 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-34
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
COUNCIL ON AGING FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Valerie Mapuana Kalaniopio-Cook, Michael Alexander Lilly, and John
Anson Hau‘oli Tomoso (Reappointment) to the Council on Aging for a term expiring
March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-34 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-35
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Luke Makani Bailey and John LeRoy Buck III to the Fire and Public
Safety Commission fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-35 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 39
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-36
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
LANAI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Erin Simone Trevino Atacador, Reynold Masaji Gima, and Jay S.
Margulies to the Lanai Planning Commission fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-36 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-37
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
LIQUOR CONTROL ADJUDICATION BOARD FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Harold Cathcart and Rhonda Iwalani Lai Loo to the Liquor Control
Adjudication Board for a term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-37 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-38
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Patrice Masae Matsumoto and William Kaimohala Richardson to the
Liquor Control Commission fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-38 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 40
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-39
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
MAUI COUNTY COMMISSION ON PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
Nomination of Mahina Yasmin Filiotama Hannemann-Gago, Melissa Ann Johnson
(Reappointment), and Davie Wainee Tallant HI to the Maui County Commission on
Persons with Disabilities fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-39 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-40
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCES COMMISSION
Nomination ofKapono Palani Kamaunu (Reappointment) to the Maui County Cultural
Resources Commission fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-40 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(See pages 101 through 104 for discussion.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-41
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
MAUi PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Jerry Ediao (Reappointment) and William Gordon Greig to the Maui
Planning Commission fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-41 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 41
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-42
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
MOLOKAI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Kaleialoha Moss (Reappointment) and John Robert Sabas to the
Molokai Planning Commission fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-42 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-43
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
POLICE COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Lahela Kaleiohawane Aiwohi and Calmentina "Tina" (Pedro) Gomes to
the Police Commission fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-43 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-44
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Keshia Leiana Adolpho and Noah Kekaimalu Walin to the Public Works
Commission fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-44 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 42
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-45
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
REAL PROPERTY TAX REVIEW BOARD FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Carolyn Mildred Franklin (Reappointment) to the Real Property Tax
Review Board fora term expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-45 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(See pages 101 through 104 for discussion.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-46
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
SALARY COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Uvette Josette Sakamoto to the Salary Commission for a term expiring
March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-46 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(See pages 101 through 104 for discussion.)
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 22-28
(dated January 19, 2022)
Transmitting the State of Ha\A/aii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for November 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-28 WAS U\TER
REFERRED TO THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE. See page 46 for discussion.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 43
NO. 22-29 - KARLA H. PETERS. DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION
(dated January 19, 2022)
Relating to the reallocation of a Park Security Officer I to Park Security Officer II in the
Permits and Enforcement Section in the Department of Parks and Recreation.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated January 12, 2022)
NO. 22-30
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from Matson Navigation Company
Inc., in the amount of $1,000.
- HERMAN ANDAYA, EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ADMINISTRATOR, (dated January 13, 2022)
NO. 22-31
Notifying of the receipt of FEMA Public Assistance reimbursements from the State of
Hawaii, Hawaii Emergency Management Agency.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS (dated January 18, 2022)
NO. 22-32
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Executive
Office on Aging for the Nutrition Services Incentive Program in the amount of $29,795.
- JOANN INAMASU. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DIRECTORNO. 22-33
(dated January 21, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of WlOA Bulletin No. 002-21 from the State of Hawaii Workforce
Development Division, with allocations for the Youth, Adult, Dislocated Worker and
Local Administration Programs.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated January 27, 2022)
NO. 22-34
Informing of the appointment of JoAnn Inamasu to the Conservation Planning
Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
February 4, 2022
Page 44
NO. 22-35 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR
(dated January 19, 2022)
Informing of a vacancy on the Civil Service Commission due to the resignation of
Marcus Merchasin, effective January 19, 2022.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO FILE ALL THE ITEMS ON THE CONSENT
CALENDAR AND REFER RESOLUTIONS 22-26. OKAY. I
MOVE TO FILE ALL COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS ON THE
CONSENT CALENDAR AND REFER RESOLUTIONS 22
THROUGH 20, 22-26 [SIC] THROUGH 22-46 TO THE GREAT
COMMITTEE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
I'LL SECOND THAT.
but I think the 22-26 was not supposed to be referred today. I think they were going to
act on that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Yeah, that was my understanding too. But let's go finish the resolution.
I mean the motion. So, can we have a second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Friendly amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Can we have a second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I. I did second it.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you did second? Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
seconded by Member King, to file all these-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Refer.
CHAIR LEE: -items. Refer all the items as read by-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 45
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No.
CHAIR LEE: No, she said file.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: File and refer.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. To file all county communications on
the Consent Calendar and refer Resolutions 22-27 through 22-47 [sic].
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Alright. That takes care of 26. Okay. And then, it was seconded by
Member King.
Any discussion? Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, then Member Paitin, then Member
Paltin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We’re, we're not supposed to have
discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Or any questions then?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We're not to file or refer 22-47. That's the injection well one.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, mahalo. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I thought you said ... 46.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I did. And then I read it again and it was, it's . . .
OKAY, SO THE MOTION IS TO FILE ALL COUNTY
COMMUNICATIONS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR AND
REFER RESOLUTIONS 22-27 THROUGH 22-46 TO THE
GREAT COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just a quick question about the wording, because some of them
say "appointment of members" and some of them say "appointment of a member".
22-45, 22-46 says 'APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE REAL PROPERTY TAX
REVIEW' and then a "APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE SALARY
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 46
COMMISSION", so those weren't specific members that we were planning to appoint
were they?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
If, if any of the Members have questions or
discussion on any of the items in the Consent Calendar, then it should be pulled out of
the Consent Calendar for discussion. We're not supposed to discuss any of the items.
We're just supposed to take the vote.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you want to pull out any of these items?
Member Sugimura. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I THINK 22-28 WAS MENTIONED. I WOULD LIKE IT TO GO
TO IT. SO, WE CAN PULL THAT OUT OF THE CONSENT
CALENDAR. 22-28.
CHAIR LEE: 22-28.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I'm not too sure if Keani mentioned that. I'm not
sure.
CHAIR LEE: Can you read that? Can you read that?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The item is Director of Water Supply, transmitting to State
of Hawaii Commission on Resource Management water use reports for November
2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui. And I think Keani's motion
was from 22 through, I think it was part of her motion, right, to file all the consent, the
Consent Calendar items. So, I want to pull that out. Is that correct, Keani?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, sothatwould-
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. So, that would be an amendment to
the motion. And Member Sugimura usually removes that item from the Consent
Calendar when we set the Consent Calendar, but she wasn't here.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 47
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. Sorry about that. Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's on the Consent Calendar. It's not a resolution
it's a county communication.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay, so-
CHAiR LEE; Okay, I'd like to-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I can . . .
CHAIR LEE: . . . make an amendment.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; -make the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair? Since she wasn't here, can, can she make an amendment now is
the question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: According to the Rules?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: So-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
AND I SECOND IT.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Sugimura and seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins
Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Keani.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, to-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 48
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
JUST BECAUSE I'M REALLY UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THE
WORDING, I'D LIKE TO PULL OUT 22-40, 22-45. AND 22-46,
SO WE CAN FIX THAT.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to pull out, can you
repeat the numbers again?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, it's all the ones that say, 22-40, 22-45-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -22-46.
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We have a motion on the floor. I know it's, it's minor,
but we're not supposed to take more than two motions to amend the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: We're not allowed to take, to make two amendments, more than two
amendments? Is that what you're saying?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: i think that's the rules of order. Unless, Member
Sugimura, is taking it as a friendly amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair, can we get a ruling from OCS to, to clear
this matter up, so we can move forward?
CHAIR LEE: Sure.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 49
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: With the Council business.
CHAIR LEE: David, are you on the call? David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ: Yes, Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear the discussion?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: I’ve heard the discussion, yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, are more than two amendments allowed?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Generally, not. I'm, I'm trying to find the
specific reference in Robert's Rules of Order. It is, that's all procedural matters. It is
up to the body to decide exactly what procedure you want to follow. Robert's is a
reference. And it's, it's not common to have multiple amendments on the same motion.
But i. I'm trying to find the specific reference in Robert's on, on that rule.
CHAIR LEE: You know, I'm inclined. Members to, to allow it because we're dealing with a
new procedure that is a littie complicated. Maybe not to you Vice-Chair, but to the rest
of us it's, it's a little complicated. So, you have your hand up, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, if Member King would rephrase
what she's saying as a friendly amendment to Member Sugimura's motion to amend,
then we can resolve it that way and then 1 think that's pretty clean. And if Member King
could put those numbers, resolution numbers into the chat so that we all have it, and
then we can restate the motion as amended when we take the final vote. That, I think
that would be the clearest.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Everybody clear on that. Members? Everybody, any objections?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ms. Sugimura, are you okay with that?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm fine.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 50
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you for accommodating. Thank you everybody.
Sorry, I missed the important part of the . . .
CHAIR LEE: Which reminds me, I'm sorry I didn't recognize you when you first came on after
the break.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura is present.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning. I'm present.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, can you repeat your motion
and then the, and then the second, the seconder and then the amendment? There are
two amendments, yeah?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. The main motion on the floor is to file all county
communications that are on the Consent Calendar and to refer Resolutions 22-27
through 22-46 to the GREAT Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It was already-
CHAIR LEE: And then the amendment? I'm sorry?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, second. That motion was already seconded.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that was seconded by Member King, I believe. Okay, so the amendment.
Can you repeat the first amendment?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It is to remove CC, sorry, 20, 22 dash-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 28.
CHAIR LEE: Which one, Sugimura? Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 28. 28. CC dash, 22-28.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 51
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Remove CC dash 22-28. And the friendly amendment was to?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Remove 22-40, 45 and 46, resolutions, so we can . . .
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry, was it 40, 45, and 46?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It was all the ones that say "A". 22-40, 22-45, and 22-46.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. So, we're allowed one more amendment then.
Member, I mean, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, in the restating of the first amendment, it was left off that the
communication would be referred to IT.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh.
COUNTY CLERK: The removing and referring.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. And do you want to clarify your friendly amendment, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, just to remove and amend before we refer it, because
they're written like we only get one member to those different committees.
CHAIR LEE: Remove and amend? Remove and amend?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Remove it from the Consent Calendar to amend it before we
refer.
CHAIR LEE: To amend.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any, anymore? Okay, so are we ready to vote, everybody? Okay, so
assuming everybody is in agreement, yeah. So, the, the, the motion, can you repeat
your motion, Vice-Chair and then the amendments, and then let's vote on them. One
more time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 52
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We have to vote on the motion to
amend first. And then, we'll vote on the main motion as amended.
let's vote on the amendment. All those in favor, raise your hand andCHAIR LEE; Okay. So
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, motion carries; no "noes".
Now. the main motion as amended. Do you want to repeat the main motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Sure, Chair. The motion is to file all county
communications on the Consent Calendar and to refer. File all county communications
on the Consent Calendar except for 20, CC 22-28, which will be referred to IT; and to
refer Resolutions 22-27 through 22-39, Resolutions 41 through 44. That's it. To the
GREAT Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. And to remove? Oh, that includes the removal of 40, 45, and 46? Okay.
Alright.
And to remove 22-40, 22, Resolution 22-40VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Resolution 22-45, and Resolution 22-46.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody ready to vote on the main motion as amended. All those in
favor of the main motion as amended, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, opposed, "nay".
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 53
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries. It's unanimous. It's a little confusing yeah?
Member Paltin, are you waving hi to me or what?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. that was the mailman. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. Is he getting married? Oh, my goodness.
Okay, next. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with item J. County Communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated January 14, 2022)
NO. 22-36
Transmitting 162 contracts/grants for the month of December 2021.
(See pages 55 through 61 for discussion and action.)
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTORNO. 22-37
(dated January 21,2022)
Transmitting a certification of additional revenues for Fiscal Year 2022 from the
General Fund for $175,000.
(See pages 55 through 61 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, procee-
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry. I thought you were done.
COUNTY CLERK: I can continue reading the referrals.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 54
CFIAIR LEE: Okay, go ahead. Go ahead.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with County.
CFIAIR LEE: Unless you wanted, anybody wants to take action, please raise your hand
quickly so I can see. Alright. Proceed, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with communications for referral. The following county
communications and are recommended for referral to the following Committees as
noted:
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated January 21,2022)
NO. 22-38
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the General Obligation Bonds Series 2023 Fund, as
of December 31, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-38 be referred to the Budget
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated January 19, 2022)
NO. 22-39
Transmitting two reports on the settlement of claims as of December 31,2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-39 be referred to the Budget
Finance and Economic Development Committee.
- SANDY BAZ. MANAGING DIRECTOR,
(dated January 18, 2022)
NO. 22-40
Transmitting the Fiscal Year 2022 2"^^ Quarter CIP Reports.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-40 be referred to the Budget
Finance and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 55
NO. ^22-41 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated January 24, 2022)
Transmitting the Short-Term Investment Reports as of December 31, 2021 (Fiscal
Year 2022 Second Quarter).
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-41 be referred to the Budget
Finance and Economic Development Committee.
NO. 22-42 - MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated January 27, 2022)
Transmitting the Budget Implementation Report as of December 31,2021 (Fiscal Year
2022 Second Quarter).
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-42 be referred to the Budget
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NOS. 22-36 AND 22-37
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE, I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION
22-36 AND 22-37, EXCEPT FOR THOSE GRANTS AND
CONTRACTS THAT COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR
COMMITTEE REFERRAL.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCi:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins, Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sinenci, okay, to file the items that she mentioned, except those that Members want to
pull.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 56
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
informational, and no further action is required by Council.
Mahalo, Chair. These communications are
Relating to County Communication 22-36, Councilmembers have the opportunity to
request specific contracts and grants to be referred to Committee for further review
and discussion.
The information included in County Communication 22-37 will be resubmitted at a
future Council meeting with the related bill. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Consideration for County Communication
22-36 contracts.
THE FIRST ITEM. CONTRACT NO. C747 [SIC], THE OLD HANA
SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT. PHASE 2. C7547
SECOND CONTRACT NO. WC1181, THE KAUPAKALUA WELL
BOOSTER PUMP UPGRADE.
AND CONTRACT NO. WC0854-7. THE DLNR DAM SAFETY
DEFICIENCY OF DWS RAW WATER RESERVOIRS.
Thank you. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, and this is referred, referred to--
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: APT.
CHAIR LEE: --the Budget Committee or your Committee? APT Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, APT? Okay. Any objections. Members?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 57
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Further contract requests?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
YES. I HAVE SEVERAL OF THE GRANT. CONTRACT AND
GRANT REQUESTS TO THE CARE COMMITTEE:
THAT'S C7092, ON THE DISCHARGE TO NAVIGABLE
WATERS. ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITTING;
G5496. COASTAL WATER QUALITY MONITORING;
G5537. BUILDING COASTAL RESILIENCE THROUGH
SEABIRD PROTECTION;
G5545, ADVANCING MARINE CONSERVATION IN MAUI NUI;
G5548. CLIMATE CREW;
COMMUNITY FOODS PROJECT TO REDUCEG5551
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM IMPORTED FOODS;
G5553, ELECTRIC VEHICLE AWARENESS CAMPAIGN.
AND THEN, I'D LIKE TO, I’D ALSO LIKE TO PULL TWO
CONTRACTS AND HAVE THEM REFERRED TO THE
IT COMMITTEE, WHICH MEMBER SUGIMURA SAID SHE'D BE
WILLING TO TAKE:
C6099-6, WHICH IS, HAS A LONG EXPLANATION BUT
BASICALLY ITS THE NORTH-SOUTH COLLECTOR ROAD;
AND
C7503, WHICH IS THE KIHEI R-1 REUSE IRRIGATION
SYSTEM.
So, the last two contracts to be referred to IT if there are no objections.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 58
CFIAIR LEE: Any objections, Members, to the request?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: And referrals. Okay. So, ordered. Anymore requests?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair.
UNDER GRANT G4654-4, AND I THINK THAT WAS THE TIME
EXTENSION FOR THE BOYS AND GIRLS CLUB PAUKUKALO.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. To your Committee? HCP?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, to HCP. Thank you. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Did I see other hands?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Kelly, for flagging those and
sending it to IT. 1 appreciate that.
AND SO, CAN 1 HAVE C7530, KIHEI WASTEWATER
RECLAMATION FACILITY; AND C7534; C7548, ONEHEE
AVENUE; C7549, CENTRAL MAUI DISTRICT, THESE ARE
RESURFACING PROJECTS; 7, C7550, WHICH IS
UPCOUNTRY RESURFACING PROJECTS.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: To refer it to the IT Committee? Okay, any objections. Members, on the
contracts and the referral?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Member Paltin. You folks realize you're adding to, to your master agendas now?
Okay, Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 59
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I'D LIKE TO ADD, ALSO TO MEMBER SUGIMURA’S MASTER
AGENDA, IF SHE WOULD ALLOW 7498, REGARDING THE
LOWER ROAD AT KAOPALA BAY.
AND I'D ALSO LIKE TO ADD TO MEMBER KING'S MASTER
AGENDA, IF SHE WOULD ALLOW, G5556, INCREASE
BIOCHAR PRODUCTION TO REGENERATE MAUI COUNTY'S
SOIL.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections? Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can you give me the . . . Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It was G5556, about increasing biochar production.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, got it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes. I'd like to add some more to Member Sugimura's
Committee, another three contracts. Nah, just kidding. No. I'd just like to stay, state.
I'm not going to be requesting any contracts cause I got enough work in the GREAT
Committee: Charter amendments, boards and commissions, legal issues. So,
anyway, but appreciate everybody's efforts to look into these contracts.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Can you finish off, 1, for the resurfacing.
I'M SORRY, 1 MISSED C7551, WHICH IS THE PAIA-HAIKU
DISTRICT; C7552, WHICH IS WEST MAUI.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 60
AND THEN DID. DID. DID TASHA TAKE CW1158 fS/C;. WHICH
IS RENOVATION KEPANIWAI WELL PUMP & MOTOR
REPLACEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY?
WC1158
CHAIR LEE: No, she didn't.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, I did not.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: . . . take that because we're, when we did that site visit,
which I think Tamara talked about, they were talking about the ponds at Kepaniwai
Park. I don't know if that's related.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: That's fine.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered for the additional items that Ms. Sugimura requested to go to her
Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair.
I'D LIKE TO PULL C7485, THE LANAIIF POSSIBLE
WASTEWATER WWRF POND IMPROVEMENT AND TO BE
PUT IN COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA’S IT COMMITTEE, IF
SHE WOULD ALLOW IT?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 61
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, we need to build that for, yes, for our housing, so
that's perfect. I think we need to have another IT meeting in the month of March,
people.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Mahalo, Councilmember Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anymore? By the way, I’m resigning from all of your Committees. Just
kidding. Alright, so, any objections to the, the late additions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Madam Clerk, I'm sure you got all of these contracts down, right? See, she even left
home. Oh, okay. Oh, okay, there she is.
COUNTY CLERK: We got them. And we still need the vote for the removal.
CHAIR LEE: We need to vote? Okay. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. All nine Members.
Proceed with the agenda.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with item K. Committee Reports.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 62
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
NO. 22-9
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 22-17 . entitled "REMOVAL OF LEINAAU\ PERRY FROM
THE BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be
ADOPTED;
1.
That Resolution 22-18 . entitled "REMOVAL OF ERIC CUOMO FROM THE
COST OF GOVERNMENT COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be
ADOPTED:
2.
That County Communication 21-490, from the Mayor, be FILED; and3.
That County Communication 21-532, from the Mayor, be FILED.4.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTIONS 22-17 AND 22-18.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-9.
Discussion, Member Molina.
Your GREATCOUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair.
Committee met on January 18. 2022, to discuss a proposed resolution to remove
Leinaala Perry from the Board of Water Supply due to her non-attendance at meetings;
and a proposed resolution to remove Eric Cuomo from the Cost of Government
Commission due to his non-attendance at meetings.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 63
Now, in accordance with Section 2.41.090 of the Maui County Code, "within a six-
month period, once a board, commission, or committee record reflects a member's
non-attendance of fifty percent or more meetings, within thirty days of the member's
last excused or unexcused absence, the chairperson of the board, commission, or
committee must send a letter to the mayor, with a copy to the council, informing of the
member's attendance record."
Furthermore, in accordance with the Charter Section 13-2, "members of boards and
commissions appointed by the mayor, with approval by the council, may be removed
for cause upon recommendations of such removal by the mayor and the approval of
two-thirds of the entire membership of the council."
Neither Ms. Perry or Mr. Cuomo attended any board meetings since being appointed.
And your Committee notes both individuals were given ample notice of their proposed
removal with a meaningful opportunity to be heard. And your Committee voted 8-0 to
recommend adoption of the proposed resolutions and filing of the communications.
Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any further discussion?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And mahalo. Member Molina. Yeah, just
for the record, we did speak to Ms. Leinaala Perry. And within her capacity with the,
her nonprofit project Ho'omana and an increase of COVID-19 cases in East Maui, her
duties kind of took her beyond her capacity on this board. But we've since spoken with
Mr. Mossman, and he has recommended some fine applicants to take her place.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for that. Any more information or questions? All, ready to vote? Ail
those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 64
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, I need to take one step back to the referrals before moving forward
and just get, just get confirmation that the body was okay with the referrals as read.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are you, have, do you have any objections to the referrals as read?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Oh, do you want me to take a vote?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
COUNTY CLERK: Oh, no. Votes not necessary.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No objections.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. Okay, we can proceed now.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-10NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
(2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND1. That Bill
THE COMMUNITY PLAN DESIGNATION FROM SF-SINGLE FAMILY TO
P-1 PUBLIC/QUASl-PUBLIC FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KiHEl, MAUI.
HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-9-48:109," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and
be ORDERED TO PRINT;
25
(2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE2. That Bill
ZONING FROM R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO P-1 PUBLIC/QUASI-
26
PUBLIC DISTRICT (CONDITIONAL ZONING) FOR PROPERTY SITUATED
AT KIHEl, MAUi, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-9-48:109," be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
3. That the County Clerk RECORD the Unilateral Agreement; and
That County Communication 21-553, from the Planning Director, be FILED.4.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 65
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-10.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, second by Member Sugimura, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-10.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on December 16, 2021, and discussed two proposed bills entitled "A
BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE COMMUNITY PLAN DESIGNATION
FROM SF-SINGLE FAMILY TO P PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC FOR PROPERTY
SITUATED AT KIHEI, MAUI, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-9-48:109"; and "A BILL
FOR AN ORDINANCE TO CHANGE ZONING FROM R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
TO P-1 PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC DISTRICT FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KIHEI,
MAUI, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 3-9-48:109".
The planning, the Maui Planning Commission reviewed the proposed bills on May 26,
2020, and voted unanimously to recommend the bills be approved, with a condition
that the property owner work with the County to provide adequate off-street parking.
Your Committee recognized the Jewish Congregation of Maui was operating under a
Special Use Permit that had expired on August 31, 2010.
Your Committee noted that structures built or expanded on the property should be
consistent with the residential character and height of houses and structures in the
neighborhood.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 66
Your Committee revised the proposed bills to add additional conditions, including the
maximum height of any structure on property is limited to 30 feet or two stories,
whichever is lower; and the permitted uses allowed in the P-1 Public/Quasi-Public
District are limited to: a. churches; b. community centers; c. education, general and
specialized; and d. facilities for nonprofits.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of the revised proposed bills on first
reading, recordation of the unilateral agreement, and filing of the communication.
And I wanted to add, this might be like one of the first times in history where the Council
change in zoning process was faster than the Maui Planning Commission process.
So, we're speeding it up in Committee. I respectfully ask for the Members support of
my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Member Paitin.
Any more discussion, Members? If not. all those in favor of the motion, please say
"aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. It's unanimous.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with resolutions.
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-19
APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF
STACEY VINORAY AS COMMITTEE SECRETARY
IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 67
CHAIR LEE: Council Chair Vice--
COUNTY CLERK: Reso-
CHAIRLEE: What?
COUNTY CLERK: No.no. Go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-19.
COUNCiLMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama
to adopt the Resolution 22-19.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. There's a reason that so many
Members raised their hands to second that motion, because we're so excited to
welcome back Ms. Vinoray. Ms. Vinoray was employed as a Committee Secretary in
the Office of Council Services from 2016 through 2020, where she staffed the lEM,
WR, MT, AH, and CAR Committees.
Ms. Vinoray has a general notary license. She has strong administrative and clerical
skills and has a very positive attitude. We are happy to have her back at OCS. And I
ask for the Members full support in adopting the resolution for Ms. Vinoray. And again,
I can't say how excited I am, express how excited  Iam to have Ms. Vinoray back with
us.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, ail those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 68
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes"; motion carries. Congratulations, Ms. Vinoray.CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'
Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-20
APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF
JOCELYN MONIZ AS COMMITTEE SECRETARY
IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-20.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to adopt
Resolution 22-20.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Again, the enthusiasm. Ms. Moniz
is a graduate of Maui High School and attended UH Maui Community College where
she majored in Office Administration and Business.
She has been employed in the Department of Corporation Counsel for almost 15 years
as a Law Technician II, where she does legal secretary work. Her secretarial skills will
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 69
be greatly, will be a great asset in the Office of Council Services. And I am also excited
to welcome her to the team. I ask for the Members full support in adopting the
resolution for Ms. Moniz. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, 1 too would like to welcome Jocelyn Moniz. We
probably all know her from her 15 years of working with Corporation Counsel. But by
talking to her when I interviewed her, she was talking about where she. her journey in
this whole next step, which is joining Office of Council Services. As she did work in
private practice and then she worked 15 years with the Corp. Counsel. And now, she
wants to join us as she can see the evolution of how laws are made. And interesting
mind she has. And I look forward to working with her also. She's very talented, she
understands process, and she'll be a great addition to our office. So, thank you. I vote
"yes".
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We didn't get to that yet. But any other questions or comments? All
those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes": motion carries. Welcome aboard, Ms. Moniz.CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes
Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-21
APPROVING THE REAPPOINTMENT OF
SAMUEL AKOI IV AS A MEMBER TO THE
CONSERVATION PLANNING COMMITTEE FOR
THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 70
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Kama, to waive the Rules of
the Council on this matter.
Discussion? Ms., Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. Given the time restraints the GREAT
Committee is currently facing with the anticipated Charter Commission report--
CHAIR LEE: Whoa, whoa. We're just, we're just voting on the Rule, waiving the Rule, yeah?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion on waiving the Rule? All those in favor, raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now, our resolution. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-21.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 71
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Kama, to adopt Resolution
22-21.
Discussion? Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Members, on November 9, 2021, we
appointed Mr. Akoi as the East Maui Community Plan Area representative to the
Conservation Planning Committee for a term expiring March 31, 2022.
And so, according to Section 13-2(6) of the Revised Charter of the County of Maui, as
amended, a member serving for less than two years may be eligible for reappointment
to the same board or commission.
So, Mr. Akoi is the owner of Ulupono ‘Aina, LLC,  amember of the Maui Nui Makai
Network and East Maui Huliamahi Project, and has participated in various conservation
and preservation activities. So. given his experience and his expressed interest in
preserving ‘aina and kai resources to sustain hunting, fishing, and gathering practices,
I ask for the Members full support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just a question. I, I fully support Mr. Akoi. I've met him and I
think he's a great representative for your community. Just wonder if you know,
Mr. Sinenci, has the, that Committee had any meetings yet?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I don't want to misspeak. So, I mean. I can refer to, that it
looks like Member Rawlins-Fernandez says not yet.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. We got, we're reappointing people and they haven't
met yet. Just kind of curious. But 1, I support you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. We want to secure his nomination.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 72
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I fully support the motion for Mr. Akoi.
Just to add information to Member King's question, cause I followed up on that this last
week. And the position that Ms. Makalea Ane had filled, I, 1 believe is not filled yet.
That, that was the understanding. So, unless someone has more updated information?
It looks like Member Paltin does.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, it's, I, it's not for sure, but is that not what we appointed
Ms. Inamasu to, or no? Cause the Mayor--
VICE-CHAiR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm sorry, her, her paid position.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh. okay. Okay, got it. Got it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, was she-
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you. Thanks for that information. I know she, she,
her, we're still waiting on that appointment. 1 think they finally found somebody. Was
she the advisor for that Committee, is that why? Oh, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. Mahalo for explaining that part of it. Yeah, so
she was going to staff that Committee. And until that position, that paid position is filled
in the Mayor's Office for climate change and environmental, I don't know the position
title, but that position.
CHAIR LEE: You should. You go and, go and check on that for us.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: That was, and you can tell me if it's inappropriate, but is it
possible for members of the commission to meet even without the staff meeting, even
without the staff being present? Do they have to meet? Cause the reason they're not
is because there's no staff to staff the commissions and the committees.
CHAIR LEE: I think that it's important to have the staff, because the staff provides all the
recordation.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 73
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Right. Yes. yes, yes.
CHAIR LEE; And all of the resources.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: The documentation.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. In addition to what you responded to
Pro Temp Kama, the, they, they would also be held to Sunshine Law. So, there are
certain legal requirements such as notice that would need to be done appropriately.
And they wouldn't be able to meet without that notice requirement satisfied. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? So, let's see, we are in the middle of taking a vote, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Call for the question.
CHAIR LEE: To adopt Resolution 21 dash, 22-21. All in favor of the motion, raise your hand
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 74
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-22
APPROVING THE REAPPOINTMENT OF
ZHANTELL UNDO AS A MEMBER TO THE
COMMISSION ON HEALING SOLUTIONS FOR
HOMELESSNESS FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Oh, that's what I have here.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Or is it Member Molina? Either one.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Say yes.
CHAIR LEE: No? Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Molina.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to waive
the Rules of the Council on this item.
Any discussion on the waiver? If not, all those in favor of, of the motion, please raise
your hand and say "aye". Member Sugimura?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-22. 2-2-2-2.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Molina,
to adopt Resolution 22-22.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. Members, on March 19, 2021, we
appointed Ms. Lindo to the Commission on Healing Solutions for Homelessness, as
the Council's Molokai representative and the designated Native Hawaiian traditional
and customary practices expert, for a term expiring March 31, 2022 [sic].
According to Section 13-2(6) of the Revised Charter of the County of Maui (1983), as
amended, a member serving for at least two years may be eligible for reappointment
to the same board or commission.
Ms. Lindo has been tirelessly working with the homeless population on Molokai since
2014, providing necessary resources and care, and helping to find sustainable and
beneficial solutions to eliminate poverty, and has volunteered for various cultural
projects, including Hui O Kuapa, a Hawaiian learning center; restoration of‘Ohalahala
Fishpond at Kumimi Beach; and Ahupua'a O Molokai.
I did speak with a testifier earlier to find out if there were any concerns about
Ms. Lindo's appointment. And she clarified that it had nothing to do with Ms. Lindo
herself. It was just about urging the Council to be mindful in the composition of the
council. And to remind the Members that when we establish this new commission, the
very technical process of pulling names and numbers to match the terms in order to
have staggered terms, letting those know that if they ended up with a one-year term
like Ms. Lindo ended up with, that if considering that she did a good job that, you know,
she could reapply for a three-year term like other members on the commission ended
up getting purely by pulling names and numbers and matching them. And that's, that's.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 76
so it's not a revolving door. That is the process that we developed in establishing this
new commission. Mahalo Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with resolutions for referral. The following resolutions
are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-23
AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITION BY SEALED BID COUNTY OWNED
SANDHILLS ESTATES LOTS 22, 74 AND 76, IDENTIFIED AS
TAX MAP KEY NOS. (2) 3-8-089:022, 074 AND 076,
SITUATED IN WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII.
PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.44.030, MAUI COUNTY CODE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-23 be referred to the Budget, Finance,
and Economic Development Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-24
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
JESSICA HARRIS vs. HALEAKALA BIKE COMPANY. INCORPORATED:
PARADISE VACATION ADVENTURES. LLC:
STATE OF HAWAII: COUNTY OF MAUI, ETAL.. CIVIL 18-1-0202 (1)
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-24 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 77
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-25
PROPOSING ALTERNATIVE AMENDMENTS TO THE
REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
(1983). AS AMENDED, REIV\TING TO THE 2021-2022
MAUI COUNTY CHARTER COMMISSION FINAL
REPORT
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-25 be referred to the Government
Relations. Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-26
NOMINATION OF SAUL K. KAHIHIKOLO, JR, TO THE
COMMISSION ON HEALING SOLUTIONS FOR HOMELESSNESS FOR
THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-26 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-26 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 104 through 106 for discussion and
action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-47
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT IN HAWAII WILDLIFE FUND, ET AL. V.
COUNTY OF MAUI, CIVIL NO. 12-00198 SOM-KJM,
U.S. SUPREME COURT CASE NO. 18-260
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-47 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-47 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 107 through 111 for discussion and
action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 78
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-48
AMENDING THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-48 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(See pages 117 through 127 for discussion and action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-49
RESCINDING THE COUNCIL'S SUPPORT FOR
HOUSE BILL 1450 (2022) AND SENATE BILL
2053 (2022), RELATING TO THE COUNTY
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS TAX, AS PART
OF THE 2022 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION OF
COUNTIES’ LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE, UNLESS
AMENDED TO RETAIN THE DIRECTOR OF
FINANCE'S AUTHORITY
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-49 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-49 WAS AMENDED AND ADOPTED
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 79 through 100 for
discussion and action.)
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with ordinances. You have-
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk, hold up one second.
Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 79
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-49
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
CHAIR. I'D LIKE TO MOVE TO FILE RESOLUTION 22-49. AND
IF I GET A SECOND, I CAN EXPLAIN.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Member, moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to fileCHAIR LEE:
Resolution 22-49.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. The main intent of the TAT bill v\/as to remove
the cap, the three percent cap. lt\A/as widely agreed by the board, and especially Kauai
and Hawaii County, that the administration section was problematic. And we intended
to amend this section out, if we are headed to hearing.
Due to the package deadline, we could not amend before the submission and all four
Councils approved the bill. Since its submission, we received feedback from
Rep. Onishi that he would not be hearing the bill. So, Jon Okudara, who's our
legislative consultant lobbyist, saw no need in moving forward with such an
amendment.
The bill was accepted by the body for its main objective and the fact that at the time
Honolulu did not have their TAT secured. The, their approach, the agreed approach
had been to expand our submission and use these items as vehicles to substantiate
on our County needs. So, the idea of the administration was not supposed to be part,
was not the original intent of the bill. And so, without the amendment, was plan, was
planned for if the bill was going to move forward.
But just want to share with you the, our president, our HSAC President's concerns.
HSAC agreed with the request to amend the, the mentioned section by including an
option to use a, use the State administration and had every intention of doing so if it
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 80
moved forward. I agree with the resolution's concern. That being said, the resolution
highlights the disconnect in communication between HSAC and its membership and
its willing to collaborate towards a shared interest. And it inadvertently creates a
perception of a lack of unity among our State, in our State, and among our counties.
That in, and to the State Legislature, that in this case may be unnecessary that I hope
does not seep into our other bills.
So, the worry is that this bill, this resolution would show a disunity and could erode the
support for the other bills. And he's, he's had some comments from legislators in the
past. You know, so once we pass our package, we should all be behind our package.
And we have no, we have no process at HSAC for any of the Council's coming back
and rescinding their support for any of the bills. We, we give our support as a full
Council and then we move forward with the package.
So, anyway, I just ask for my Members support in, our Members support in filing this
communication. And we were, were, I met with HSAC this morning with, and the
President was there and the Secretary, and we agreed that if this bill does come
forward, we won't make that amendment, but it's pretty much dead for now. Thank
you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. As stated in the resolution, the
version of the proposed bill for an act related to County Transient Accommodation Tax
that was included in the HSAC Legislative Package inadvertently and inappropriately
stripped the County Finance Directors of ail the rights and powers related to the
Transient Accommodation Tax.
Unless a proposed bill for an act is amended to retain the Department of Finance's
authority in relation to the County TAT, this bill will not support the structure set up by
Maui County and other counties in Kauai and Hawaii County, for administering this tax.
The purpose of this resolution is to rescind the, this Council's support of that bill, unless
the appropriate amendments are adopted.
So, Rep. Onishi is on the House side. There's a House Bill and there's also a
concurrent Senate Bill. So, although Rep. Onishi confirmed that he would not be
scheduling it. it's still uncertain what would happen with the Senate Bill. And I, so I did
speak with the HSAC Chair about this to see if there is a way that we could still retain
our position of not supporting that section of the bill that has moved forward.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 81
And the solution that we came up with is to strike the second "BE IT RESOLVED"
clause that sends certified copies to those listed, and to add a "WHEREAS" clause that
states, "while the Council supports striking; No county shall set the transient
accommodation tax greater than three percent of all gross revenue, all gross rental,
gross rental proceeds, and fair market rental value taxable under this chapter," it does
not support striking "the applicable county director of finance shall have the, the rights,
the powers of the director of taxation provided under this chapter".
Members, we've already contracted the person, the vendor that will be collecting on
our behalf. And I've invited our Finance Director here, if Members have questions on,
on this.
SO, I MOVE TO AMEND THE MAIN MOTION FROM FILING
THIS RESOLUTION TO ADOPTING THE RESOLUTION WITH
THE TWO AMENDMENTS THAT I STATED.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
I SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member Kama, to amend the motion.
Now, for discussion. Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I speak against this motion, Chair. And I'm not sure what
the conversation was with the, the President of HSAC. But we had a meeting this
morning and their meeting, probably as we speak, with the Senate President. We've
already heard from some Senators that they will not, nobody will support an increase
in the TAT ceiling, which was the original intent of that bill, until they see what the
current three percent brings in for each County. So, that bill is pretty much dead in the
water.
But again, it erodes the unity of, and the purpose of having a Hawaii State Association
of Counties if county, individual counties start pulling their support out of certain bills.
And we risk other counties trying to follow suit and having bills that we support being
eroded by other counties. So, I would just urge my colleagues to support the filing of
this bill because it, it really does, it really does no service to HSAC to start, you know,
after we've approved a bill for the bill package to start changing the bills. The time to
change the bills would have been at the time that the Council was approving the HSAC
package, and that has passed. So, I, so anyway, I'm in strong opposition to this
amendment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 82
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and then Member Sinenci.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, this resolution would not be sent
to anyone with the amendment that I made. It strikes the "BE IT RESOLVE" second
clause that certified copies of this resolution be transmitted to anyone. So, this would
just be for our own internal purposes. This is how we make decisions as a Council, by
adopting resolutions so that our Chair can speak on our behalf.
So, we know that the State Legislature is the wild, wild west oftentimes, and anything
can happen. And we need to be prepared. And so, if we adopt this resolution today,
then our Chair will be prepared to speak on our behalf. But no one will know, or no
one will get a copy of this resolution. That's just so that we have it ready if anything
happens with the Senate or House bill at any time, because we know that leadership
in the House and the Senate can change the number of referrals and bring bills back.
So, I, I don't trust that a bill is dead, dead, dead until sine die. And that that's just the
way the Legislature works. So, as far as eroding the credibility of HSAC, this would
just be for our internal purposes. And mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci, and then Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to hear from the Director of
Finance if can?
CHAIR LEE: Sure. Mr. Teruya, are you on the call?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE SCOTT TERUYA: Yes. Good morning. Chair, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: I just logged on, so I kind of just caught the tail end. But if this is
in regards to our TAT, Kauai County, Maui County, and the Big Island ail entered into
an agreement with Sturgis, who is our contractor for our TAT software. We've had an
effective contract as of February 1, three days ago. We are scheduled to go live very,
very soon, if not today, maybe Monday. But there's a space, two phases and we're
trying to implement phase one right now, which is for them to just get us up and running.
So, we are very close.
And the three counties are in support of retaining the Director of Finance to be the
collection agency and not, not the State of Hawaii. Because the State of Hawaii, if they
do collect for the County, they're going to have  abig fee on top of that. My
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 83
understanding from Director Choi, initially, he wanted to collect possibly five percent of
the revenues for, for their own purposes of administering it for the County. So, for sure,
1 think it's in the County's best interest to retain the position of collecting it from the
Director of Finance. The, the four counties talked about the cap. But I think we're just,
it’s way too early to talk about the cap right now, because we're just trying to find out
what we're collecting.
To date, we've been pretty good. We've budgeted $15 million for the, till the end of the
fiscal year. I think we're on track to being close to that I think Hawaii County might
be a little short of their projections, but Maui County is seeing a very large amount. I
think we're at about $9 million dollars for the two months of collecting. So, we're doing
very well. But we don't know, you know, that was the winter season and we're getting
into not so attractive season right now. But still, we're on track to hit our goal of
$15 million by the end of the fiscal year, Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any more questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: By acting, thank you, Chair, by acting today on this
Mr. Teruya, does this . . . interrupt that collection on, from the County side?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair Lee?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Thank you for that question.  Idon't believe what your decision
will affect our collecting, but I, you know, 1, which way you guys go, I don't have an
opinion. I think it's good to keep it open, but you never know what the State's going to
do until they make their final determination. So, from the County perspective, for the
three counties, 1 can only speak on behalf of Maui County, likely Kauai County, and
the Big Island. We are all ready to defend if it should come to Committee. We have
to take that position.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you, Chair. Yeah, and I totally agree with you.
Director, that we will take that position if anything happened. But have you heard of
anyone, you know, from the administrative side, have you heard of anyone in your
dealings with the State Legislature who's willing to hear this on either side, on the
House or Senate, this bill? Because we've gotten no indication that there’s any support
for even putting in a hearing.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 84
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair, I have not contacted any of the, the Chairs that it's in
Committee yet. So. I, I cannot tell you I, I've done that yet. But I will be calling around
to make sure and to see what it is. But at this time, I didn't get a response from either
Chair on the House or the Senate side.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Fair enough. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions?
Member Molina, did you have a question? Okay. Member Kama, did you have a
question?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I didn't have a question for our, for Scott. But 1 did want to make
a comment that as I tried to listen to what's going on, I really appreciate the fact that
as a County that we, just what I learned today is, it's, and I try to learn one new word
every day besides what you teach us. But po'o kuleana is to take action. And this
Council has learned to take large strides and take actions in directions that most people
would probably say you shouldn't go, and we get real cautious sometimes. But
sometimes it's okay to put your feet out and let it get wet and maybe you'll get some
tips chopped off, but nonetheless, 1 think by exercising our kuleana to go forth in this
manner, to me it's favorable towards our County, it's favorable towards us.
And I think that if we're always, you know, I like the relationships I have with our
Representatives, you know, Mr. Hashimoto, and Mr. Kyle Yamashita, and Justin, and
all them guys. But, you know, sometimes we just need to have more conversations
with them that we, they can help us, you know, in what we're doing. And they could
help us to pursue and push our agendas forward, too. So, I know that the decision
we're going to have to make today is going to be important. But just have faith and
step out. That's my comment. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody have other questions or comments?
Member Paltin and then mem, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. This one would be for Director Teruya.
CHAIR LEE: Director Teruya?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Yes, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have a question for you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 85
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Omo yoran. And
move forward on the Senate side or if, you
truthful or whatever, is the Administration
we're going with that Sturgis already?
I just was wondering, so if the bill should
know, maybe some Representatives aren't
prepared to speak out against it because
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair, I believe myself and the Mayor would like this to be passed
because I think we want this as like in our back pocket. We want to make sure that we
are prepared for whatever happens. And ! think it just gives us an opportunity to be on
the safe side.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you for that.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, if a bill were to be scheduled right
now, we as a Council, adopted a resolution to support that bill. So, Director Teruya,
would it be more beneficial to the County, when attending the hearing and testifying,
to have the Council in alignment with the Administration to show that we don't support
that the State collect our County T and T, TAT? That our County can collect our TAT
on our own?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair Lee? Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead. Member. Go ahead. Director.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Thank you for that question.  1believe, on behalf of Maui County,
for certain, Kauai County and the Big Island, we are, we've already successfully, well,
at least for us and Kauai, we have successfully collected the first two months. So, we
are prepared to, to continue that that practice of collecting it ourselves.
Furthermore, the Director of Taxation, Director Isaac Choi, has been very supportive
of the County doing their own collection. So, by him actually having to do the collection,
I think it would be a very punitive measure that he's going to want some funds to take
care of that because he's got enough on his plate. He's, they got like 15, 17 different
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 86
taxes. I mean, they got like 300-400 employees. They don't need additional work for
the County. So, if he's going to do it, believe me, it'll come at a high price tag.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, Director, when Director Choi saw that bill, did it
give him, did it send mixed messages from our County, from Maui County, about what
it is that we want?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Thank you for that question. Director Choi was kind of taken off
guard, obviously. He thought that we had it worked out, that we're going to take care
of it on our own. So, I think, yeah, he was kind of concerned. He called me personally
asking what was going on. I told him, you know, I would have to look into it. But I
think, you know, I think everybody's position, we want to be on the same page between
Administration and the Council with a message moving forward.
I think Kauai is onboard as well. I believe Mayor Kawakami and Mayor Roth are both
onboard that the County collect it on their own. So, I think there will be tremendous
support for it. And I think Honolulu might only be cautious because they, they don't
have the staffing to do it. And I'm not sure if that’s the reason why their, their
Administration might be pushing for something else because they're not ready to do it
on their own. But we, all the other three counties are ready to take it on. In fact, we've
already done it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Director. So, adopting this resolution would
be in the best interest of, of our County. Mahalo, Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, yeah. I, I, you know,  Iappreciate the Director's position.
All of the counts, all of the neighbor island counties have started moving forward, which
is why we're pretty confident in HSAC that we can make those amendments should it
get a hearing. All of the Administrations are on board. Even, even Councilmember
Waters agreed that we would make those amendments and, and apologized for, you
know, skewing the, the bill the way it was. But, you know, there was no. there was
none of the, unfortunately, none of the Council’s stopped the bill at the point that we
approved the package.
So, anyway, I just wanted, I, I, I think it's a bad idea to start pulling bills out as a County.
I think we should do that as the HSAC, as the unified counties and make those
amendments if we need to. Otherwise, we're at risk of some of our bills that are in
HSAC package being, you know, pulled out by other counties. So, I just want to
reiterate that. And that’s the position of HSAC. I'm just hoping we can file this
resolution, oppose the amendment, and file the resolution today. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 87
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, we have one motion to file and one motion to adopt.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I think the, the motion to file, we're on this amendment
because Member Rawlins-Fernandez made an amendment to my motion to file. So,
we have to dispose, you know, figure out the disposition of the amendment first.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We still have questions.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I'm, second and final.  Ijust was thinking about it, you
know, and I think that taking out the "BE IT RESOLVED" to send to folks and just
keeping it as a backup, it's a pretty good compromise. Myself, if we look at the history
of the TAT, the original TAT, we were supposed to get a portion of, and then the State
was the one collecting it and then we lost our portion of it. It was capped and so on
and so forth.
And you know, in just being a, a novice or a non-professional watcher of the State
dealings, I don't really trust anything anyone over there says or does, is the problem.
So, I mean, they don't, they're not even held to the Sunshine Law, you know. So, I, I
do appreciate Director Teruya's back pocket idea where this would be kept in a back
pocket should we need it because we can't rely on the words, sadly, that our State
politicians tell us most of the time, in my experience, unfortunately. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore? Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Last word. It doesn't make sense to me to have somebody
collect my money and not pass it over. It's like I'm going to give Keani my rent and she
says she going pay urn to you, Alice. But she doesn't and then, I get stuck. And that's
what we're talking about over here. The State wants to collect our money, but do we
know if you're going to give it to us? How long, how many years did they not give us
our TAT? This way, I know. If we get it, we're honest, right? And we'll cut them the
check for whatever it is that they're wanting. But it's safer in our hands than it is in their
hands. That's my last word for the, for this particular item. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? There, there is one, as part of the discussion, there is one more
consideration for a compromise, and that is to refer the item to Committee. And,
because that keeps it in the back pocket, and it doesn't take out the whereases.
Because I'm not, I'm not sure how effective it will be to pass something out today that
doesn't go anywhere. So, 1, that's my conundrum right now, is thinking of that as a
third possibility.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 88
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair, for my very last time. So that idea of
referral-
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me, oh, did you say for your second and last time? What did you say?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: For my very last.
CHAIR LEE: I think it was your, I think it's your fifth and last time. Okay. But hey, I'm flexible
like a bamboo. Okay, go ahead.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, regarding referral. Referral doesn't make a
decision. Referral keeps it in limbo and that's not how we make a decision as a, as a
Council. The only way we can make a decision as a Council is through these
resolutions. So, in order to have this position in our back pocket, we would need to
take action on it. And by referring it, it just keeps it, you know, a question, an
unresolved question on this Council's position on that bill, which we would default to
supporting the bill, because that is what the resolution that we adopted in the HSAC
package said we would do. So, unless-
CHAIR LEE: 1 have a question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -we as a Council to-
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead. Finish your sentence and I have a clarifying question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I lost my train of thought. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, sorry, sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; But basically, you cannot speak on behalf of the
Council without Council taking an action. And I want you to be able to speak on our
behalf. And that's why I want to have this resolution adopted. Otherwise, when you
testify, it would be in your individual capacity as a Councilmember only. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, what I was thinking is if we adopted this resolution today and took out the
where, and took out that it goes to the State Legislature, yeah, so it, like, basically
doesn't go anywhere, nobody's going to know about it. So, if, God forbid, the time
comes where we have to send it to the Legislature, because for some reason
somebody revived the bill or something, yeah, we'd still have to amend the resolution.
Because whatever we took out has to be put back in, right? No?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 89
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, Chair. Chair, you would, you would write the
testimony for our Council. So, by adopting this resolution, we keep it as our position
as a Council and then you, OCS would, you know, help with testimony and then you
would send it on the Council's behalf, and not as an individual Councilmember. So~
CHAIR LEE; Right. Wouldn't the, wouldn't the logical question be why wasn't this resolution
when adopted, sent to the State Legislature? Why did-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I'm-
CHAIR LEE; . .
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, they wouldn't, they wouldn't, ! mean, they
probably don't even see the resolutions that we send to them.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have another question.
Member King's hand's up.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just, I don't know if we're ever going to get to everybody's final
word, but I want to, I want to just say that everybody agrees that we don't want, that
we're, you know, we've already moved ahead with administering this, the TAT
surcharge ourselves. So has Kauai. So has the Big Island. So, everybody agrees the
purpose of this, of my discussion is not to debate whether that part of the bill is bad.
We've already decided it is and HSAC has decided it is. We will make that, that
amendment, if and when the time comes.
Everybody feels like it will never come because this bill won't get heard. And there is
concern at HSAC, if, if individual Councilmembers or a Council Chair starts speaking
out against bills in the package on their own, what, what are they going to, you know,
are we going to start fighting among ourselves because someone speaks out against
one of our bills that's on the HSAC package? As a Council, we can always, we can,
we can speak on our own package. But if we start speaking out against individual bills
that we've all agreed on, then there's no point in even having an HSAC package. So,
the, so my argument is not about the fact that that we, we don't want the State to
administer this. We all know that. And it's not going to happen because we've already
started administering on a County level.
But we, we have a purpose for HSAC. And the main purpose is to unify all the counties
together. So, I just want, I, I'm, I'm, just will hope my colleagues can see that this is
about process. It's not about whether the bill is good or not. And, you know, we've
got, we've got legislators. And one of the main reasons why legislators don't want to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 90
hear it is because they don't want to raise the tax, which was the main purpose of the,
of that propo, the original proposal was to, you know, take off the three percent tax and
allow us to charge whatever we wanted.
So, anyway, that's, I, I'm just going to leave it at that because, you know, all I can do
is speak on behalf of FISAC and, and let you know how the rest of the HSAC body
feels about this resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But I think your idea of referring it to Committee is probably a
better idea, is just leave it there.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore? Otherwise, we're going to take the vote on Vice-Chair's amendment.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Point of information.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the, the, what is, what is before us is to vote on the
resolution and take out the whereases or leave it in? Which one.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, the motion to amend is to amend
the main motion from filing to adopting; to remove the "BE IT RESOLVED" clause-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, I got it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -number two.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And to add in a "WHEREAS" clause, and I'll put it in
the chart for everyone. And this would be the second "WHEREAS" clause. Mahalo,
Member Sugimura. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Members, I'd like to take the vote and then go to lunch.
And then get on a plane and go straight to Vegas. No, just kidding. Okay, any more
questions? Okay, you heard the motion. This is to adopt, adopt the resolution as
revised, okay? Okay, ready? Everybody understand that.
Roll call. Madam Clerk. Okay, roll call.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 91
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK:
Sorry, I didn't hear a-
CHAIRLEE: She didn't say.
COUNTY CLERK: -response. Oh. okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 92
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA. MOLINA, PALTIN,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDE2.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS KING, JOHNSON, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE; So, the vote is--
COUNTY CLERK: That’s-
CHAIRLEE: Go ahead.
COUNTY CLERK; Six "ayes" and three "noes".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries, right?
Member-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Main motion as amended.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I would like to put back the whereases that was
previously deleted, so that certified copies of the resolution can get sent to the
appropriate people. Cause you really want the Legislature to hear it. If, if 1 got what
we just did was I supported the resolution cause  Ithink it needs to be said. I think a
mistake was made and this resolution tries to correct it. This whereas, which I
supported, which Keani put in, makes it clear what the intent is. But, oh I'm sorry, the
"BE IT RESOLVED". I'm sorry, to keep the "BE IT RESOLVED" in the end so that
certified copies of the resolution can be sent to the appropriate people. So, that's my,
that's my motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I, I think the, isn't the vote already taken?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we already voted on that, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, is this a new? Wait, did we keep the, the certified
copies in there, "BE IT RESOLVED"? Did that get eliminated?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, eliminated.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 93
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's what I'm saying. So, that's why I think we need to
keep that in. That's what I'm trying to do, keep that in.
CFIAIR LEE: Yeah, but we voted on it already. Actually, that's the reason why 1 said let's
refer it, so we keep it together. But there, you know, the majority said to adopt it with
the revisions by taking out the "BE IT RESOLVED", taking out sending it to the State
Legislature.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so can I withdraw my vote? Cause, cause I think
that, I think it's important. What Keani did was good. I mean, I see what Keani kind of
clarified, this mistake, with this "WHEREAS". But if it's not going to go anywhere and
if it's going to be only for us, I mean. I would,  Iwould like to withdraw my vote and
change it then to "no".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Sugimura. The
reason I, I included in my motion to amend to remove the second "BE IT RESOLVED"
clause is because of what Member King said that Rep Onishi, who is the Chair,
Committee Chair, said that he would not schedule the House Bill. We don't have
confirmation on what's going to happen with the Senate Bill yet.
But by removing that section, that clause, what we're doing is keeping it internal for our
Council Chair to be able to testify at the appropriate time. So, we don't need this to be
sent to them now, but we need this to take action on this now, so that when, if, if it were
to come up, we're ready.
Otherwise, if we, our, our posting process and having a meeting and getting a
resolution passed takes too long for us to be able to take immediate action to testify
against the bill if it were to be scheduled. Because they only need 48 hours to post
their things. We need six days. So, so, so by removing it, you know, we don’t need to
send it to anyone until the appropriate time. But I, but I understand what you're saying.
Member Sugimura. Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Going to back to my question, can I vote "no"?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 94
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: No. No.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, yeah, just a procedural matter. Now, once the
vote has been affirmed, as a 6 to 3, would the, would there have to be a reconsideration
in order for Member Sugimura to change her vote.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: More of a procedural question.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. And that, and that has to be done by the prevailing
side, yeah?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Alright, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear that, mem, Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I can't do it. I screwed up on my vote. I get it. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, Madam Clerk, can you read the motion again?
COUNTY CLERK: The motion that you just took, acted on?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. No. we. we approved of the amendment.
COUNTY CLERK: Uh huh.
CHAIR LEE: So, now the next motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 95
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, the next motion was the initial motion from Councilmember King
seconded by Councilmember Sinenci, to file.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But the initial motion was to file.
COUNTY CLERK: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNTY CLERK: And then there was an amendment that you just acted on.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: That passed.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: So, the motion, the main motion is to file as amended.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Didn't we take that vote already?
CHAIR LEE: No, we didn't. We only voted on Vice-Chair's amendment. That's all we voted
on.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Sorry about that. The motion is to adopt the amended resolution.
CHAIR LEE: No, we, we already took that vote.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I took that vote already.
CHAIR LEE: We took that vote.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The thing is already over.
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah, so, so in other words, ordinarily, when somebody makes an
amendment that passes, the next step is to take a vote on the main motion as
amended. But in this case, the main motion was to file.
COUNTY CLERK: Correct.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so, what Vice-Chair is asking then, is to adopt this motion, adopt her
amendment and file. Is that what you're, is that what you're saying?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 96
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, it's to adopt the resolution and make those two
amendments by taking out the second "BE IT RESOLVED" clause and adding a new
"WHEREAS" clause.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; To adopt the resolution.
CHAIR LEE: What I'm saying, does that nullify the main motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's no longer to file.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. no long-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It’s to adopt.
CHAIR LEE: So, in other words, you, ordinarily we, we would move to approve the main
motion as amended. But the main motion is oppos, contrary to your amendment. So,
that's why I'm asking for clarification from the, from the Clerk. So, what is the next
step?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, the main motion as amended. And the main
motion as amended is to adopt with the amendments.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; But Chair, didn't we already vote on that?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We, we only voted. You made the motion to file. That was the main
motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No. But I, I made the motion, then the Vice-Chair moved to
amend it.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; And then the amendment was passed. And then the original
motion was passed with amendments.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 97
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, with amendments would mean-
CHAIR LEE: No. So, the, we never got to your--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, we didn't vote.
CHAIR LEE: We never got to the main motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We didn't take the vote on the main motion with amendments?
Oh.
CHAIR LEE: No, we didn't, we didn't do that. That's what I'm trying to do, but it doesn't make
sense.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, yeah, it makes sense because it was amended to be the
opposite of what it originally was.
CHAIR LEE: No. Her, hers was to adopt the-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But hers, hers basically just changed mine. Because that was
the amendment, was to change it from filing to adopting with the amendments. So,
now we're on the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but I still feel that the main motion was to file. Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Or the original motion was to file.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that was the main motion.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Just seeking clarification from Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez about
the other amendment regarding the whereases.
CHAIR LEE: She put it in the chat, right? You put it in the chat?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 98
COUNTY CLERK: Can you, can you--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo-
COUNTY CLERK; Can you state-
VICE-CFIAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I state my motion again that passed. It was to amend
the main motion, which was to file, to adopt the resolution, and to remove the second
"BE IT RESOLVED" clause, and to add a new "WHEREAS" clause that I put into the
chat, which reads, "WHEREAS, while the Council supports the striking of: No county
shall set its transit accommodation tax greater than three percent of all gross rental,
gross rental proceeds, and fair market value taxable under this chapter," it does not
support striking "the applicable county director of finance shall have all rights and
powers of the director of taxation provided under this chapter".
So, that was all encompassing in the motion, and we voted to, to pass it. So now, the
main motion as amended, which Member King accurately stated, is now to adopt with
the, with the amendments. So, the main motion as amended. It makes sense.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Call for the question.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, makes sense to you. Doesn't make sense to me. But, but I'm hungry.
So, any more comments or questions? All those in favor of the motion, of the oh-
COUNTY CLERK: Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: I just wanted to add to your comment that that now becomes the main
motion because it, it passed. It prevailed.
CHAIR LEE: That becomes the main motion? Okay, now that makes sense.
COUNTY CLERK; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: That makes sense.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But we already passed that. Hui, don't go, don't go away.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's what I thought. I thought we-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 99
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Call for the question.
COUNTY CLERK; You, you passed it as an amendment. But now, it's the main motion.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. The main motion as amended. All those in favor, well, let's take a roll
call. Madam Clerk, let's take a roll call.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK;
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK;
NO.COUNCILMEMBER KING;
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK;
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 100
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, PALTIN,
SINENCl, SUGIMURA, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER KING, JOHNSON, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
COUNTY CLERK: So, that's six "ayes", three "noes". Motion, as amended, carries.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. And that should take us to lunch till 1:30, Members.
Yes, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering if we still wanted to refer Resos 22-40,
22-44, and 22-; no 22-40, 22-45, and 22-46. There's only one member being
appointed. So, we can go ahead and refer it cause it's not plural, because there's just
one member being re, appointed.
CHAIR LEE: Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I, my, my purpose in taking that out was just to change it
to say, to, to align with the others to say, "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
REAL PROPERTY TAX", "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE MAUI COUNTY
CULTURAL". So, cause it, it just, I don't know how it turned out like that. But maybe
Ms. Kaohu could tell us why those three were taken out and it says, "a member",
instead of-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Because only one member is being appointed from the Mayor.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: I just wanted to add, those are three items that 1 was going to need
disposition on after we come back from the lunch break.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Cause they were removed and then put back to the, the main list.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 101
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright. Is that alright with everybody?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we, can we. can we do it now before lunch?
CHAIR LEE: Well, we have others to, to deal with too, I think.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just. I, I just, so curious to know why it ended up being worded
like that, so.
CHAIR LEE; See, no, we want you to be curious, so you come back after lunch, okay, to find
out. Okay?
COUNTY CLERK: I'll see. I'll see what I can find out.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, good. So, we are in recess until 1:30.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:17 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:31 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council, Council meeting of February 4, 2022, please
come to order again, reconvene.
Madam Clerk, let's proceed.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NOS. 22-40. 22-45. AND 22-46
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have several resolutions under item, under agenda item L., for
disposition. And we left off with Councilmember King and her question regarding
Resolutions 22-40, 22-46, and 22-45.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Am I muted?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No, I was trying to get my mouse to work, but it was, it didn't want
to work on my, on the Surface, so I had to use my keyboard. Thank you, Madam Chair.
I think I got my questions answered. So, I just want to give this clarification. Maybe,
Madam Clerk, you can just confirm. Because when I first heard all these, you know,
these appointments of members, I thought they were like, we were putting categories
onto the GREAT agenda, so that we could, so they would be there in order for us to,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 102
to do. But then, I went back and looked at it and they're all actual appointments. Is
that correct? So, that's why some said, "a member".
So, so my question, if, if Ipo Mossman is here, is this is a lot of stuff to refer to GREAT.
And they usually have deadlines of when we have to appoint them, or they're
automatically approved. So, how does that work with, you know, all these, like, 20,
you know, there's, there's with the multiple members too, there's even more than that.
So, he, he, is, is he going to be under time constraints to get these through GREAT
Committee?
CHAIR LEE: Ipo Mossman, are you there?
MR. IPO MOSSMAN: Hi. Thank you. Chair Lee and Councilmember Kelly. What we did
was, we are following basically the format that is given to us by the Council Service,
your gang. And so, what we do is we picked those board, boards and commissions
that need approval and/or disapproval in the 60-day timeframe. And so, what you see
in front of you now is based on that, that listing. And what we have is we also have
those that have a little bit, needs approval but with no timeframe and then those that
don't need approval at all.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MR. MOSSMAN: So, you'll get it in that stack.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Cause I was just-
MR. MOSSMAN: Does that make sense to you?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, it makes sense, but it's an awful lot of appointments for
Mr. Molina to put on his schedule right before Budget. You know, if it's 60-days, you
know, getting through. I've never seen this many, this many resos for appointments in
one, you know, in one sitting. So, you know, that was kind of why I was curious about
the different wordings. But. you know, I guess it's a, that's a challenge for Mr. Molina
to get through his Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: We'll get it done.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'll let him. I'll let him figure it out. But you know, I just was, I, I
just thought that was an awful lot. So, and, cause some of these are multiple members
that we have to appoint too. But, you know, good job getting those people appointed,
Mr. Mossman. I hope they stay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 103
MR. MOSSMAN: Yeah, me too. Thank you very much for that, Kelly, Council Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; For sure.
MR. MOSSMAN; Thank you.
CFIAIR LEE; Alright. Vice-Chair, you have your hand up? Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I think I figured it out. Mahalo, Chair. Yeah. I think,
I think I get it. It's because of our new process of posting resos individually, that
generally, it would have been various nominations to boards and commissions under
one county communication. And that list would all be under that one county
communication. Because we do this every year, mass nominations. So. we do this
every year and it, there's a whole number of nominations that we take up in GREAT in
mar, February, March timeframe, because of the staggered terms of all the boards and
commissions. Because they have five-year terms or, you know, mostly, and so that's
why there's so many, because their term ends this year. And it looks like a whole lot,
because it used to be under one county communication. But now, it's all listed
separately. So, I, I get it. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Madam Clerk, proceed.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay, so just to verify that the disposition for Resos 22-40, 22-45, and
22-46 is to be referred to the Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency
Committee?
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Repeat that. 40?
COUNTY CLERK; 22-40, 22-45, and 22-46. Those were initially pulled out and put in the
Consent Calendar. And then, they were removed from the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.
COUNTY CLERK; At the beginning of the meeting.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, they're added back you said?
COUNTY CLERK; Now, they're added back to our general agenda.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, general agenda. Okay.
COUNTY CLERK; And so, the disposition-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 104
CHAIR LEE; For referral?
COUNTY CLERK; For referral.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. So, which one are we on? Are we on all, all of them?
COUNTY CLERK; We have, we have just a few left. Resolution 22-26, which is the
nomination of Saul Kahihikolo, Jr.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, okay. Okay, I see. I see.
Member Johnson.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-26
COUNCiLMEMBER JOHNSON;
MADAM CHAIR, I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENTS OF
COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Second.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Molina, to waive the Rules
of the Council.
Member Johnson, discussion? Not really, right?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; No, I move to adopt Resolution 22-26.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. No, we're only doing the Rule, waiving the Rule.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Oh, okay. No discussion on the waiver part.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 105
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. All those in favor of the motion
say "aye".
please raise your hand and
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Back to you. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-26.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Kama [sic]-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think that's me.
CHAIR LEE: -to adopt Resolution 22-26.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank, thank you for that second, Councilmember King.
Your Government Relations, Ethics, and Transportation [sic] Committee interviewed
Mr. Kahihikolo at its meeting of February 1,2022.
Mr. Kahihikolo is a Lanai resident, who is currently employed with the Kaunoa Service,
Senior Services and Maui Economic Opportunity. He's also an ordained pastor, who's
committed to serving the needs of the Lanai community, particular with the needs of
our kupuna.
Mr. Kahihikolo is ready to be a much needed voice of the Commission of Healing
Solutions for Homelessness to help address the community's housing, the County's
housing issues; affordable housing issues; and vulnerable housing populations,
including those who require mental health services, people with substance addiction,
and the working impoverished. I ask for the Members full support.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 106
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those, mem, no?
motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
If not, ail those in favor of the
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
CHAIR LEE.
AND
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all "ayes". Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I was just going to make a comment for the edification of the
public and just to let people know that we did interview him at, in Mr. Johnson’s [sic]
Committee. So, that's why we're on all onboard. He was, he was fabulous.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Molina's Committee. Mr. Molina's Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I mean, Mr. Molina's Committee. Just to let you know.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that is true and we're lucky to have him.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, all the, that completes all the resolutions being called up.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, just-
COUNTY CLERK: And if-
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member, Member King and then Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think you might be saying the same thing as me. I thought we
were going to take action on 22-47?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 107
COUNTY CLERK; That's for the body to decide. That, the item has been called up and ready
for either referral or comment by the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. And Member Molina.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-47
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. As it was mentioned back in
Committee on Monday, we were going to take action on this at Council.
SO, WITH THAT SAID, I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS, ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF
RESOLUTION 22-47.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, to discharge the
Committee of this item.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Discharge is needed to enable the
Council to consider action today on the proposed resolution. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye’
and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 108
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King.
Any discussion on the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. Approval of this motion by a
two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council will enable the Council to
consider the proposed resolution today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye", raise
your hand.
Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: All "ayes".
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-47.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 109
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Kama [sic], to adopt
Resolution 22--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Member King.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah . . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. Member King, to adopt Resolution 22-47.
Discussion. Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your GREAT
Committee met on this matter February 1, 2022, to discuss a proposed resolution to
authorize the construction phase of a new distribution system mainline into the
Kaanapali Resort Expansion project in satisfaction with the Settlement Agreement and
Order.
The Director of Environmental Management provided an overview of the project for
which design monies were approved in FY 2014. Your Committee also heard from
Corporation Counsel and Mr. Jenkins /s/cj from the EarthJustice organization.
And due to time constraints in the GREAT Committee, weTe not able to entertain every
single question from the Members. But with that said, we did ask for representatives
from Corporation Counsel and Environmental Management to be present in the event
other Members have questions. So, I ask for the Members full support of this matter.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I would just like to reiterate everything that all of our testifiers said
in support of this bill. It's been a long time coming. And I'm glad we came full circle
on all, on the same page about the need to retire this lawsuit and settle it and move
forward with solutions. So, I'm really happy for the project that's moving forward.
And I want to thank everybody who's been involved in these efforts to help clean up
the, you know, the environment, retire the injection wells. This is, this is step one,
because we have other injection wells. So, you know, we have other cleanups to do.
But just want to acknowledge that, you know, this Council's support for the settlement
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 110
agreement back in 2019 as well. So, happy to be here. And, you know, better late
than never. Thank you for getting it through the Committee, Mr. Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Well said. Members, any other comments or questions? If--
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. You know, I've been following this issue
since about 2007. I recall in 2008, when the EPA came to Lahaina Civic Center and,
you know, how rare occasion it was where everybody from all facets of our community
agreed on something, which, which hardly ever happens. And I think Mayor Arakawa
on his first, first term had agreed as well. I'm not sure what happened in the second,
first term and the third term. But to me, this is kind of a bittersweet victory, because if
people had worked together from the start, we would've been there already. We
would've had all of this done already. And so, I mean, it's, it's a victory in a sense that
we didn't lose. But what we lost was 14 years or so, and a lot of coral cover, and a lot
of money, and time, and effort.
And you know. I'd much rather see the mauka, most mauka line installed as part of this
but, you know, as the loser, we don't have a lot of choice in what projects we pursue
and whatnot. And, you know, the only thing that we can hope at this point is the 3.2 sea
level rise estimate is accurate, which I don't believe it will be, because we're at the
equator and 3.2 feet is the global estimate. And as we've seen in oceans, it doesn't
follow any formula. And because we're at the equator, my projection is it'll be worse
than 3.2 feet. So, you know, it made a lot of sense maybe in 2015, but with what we
know now. I'm not sure the life expectancy of this. But as the loser, we just got to
celebrate what we can. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I echo everything that Member Paltin
said. I will be voting in strong support of this motion, because I'm happy that this has
finally come, the lawsuit and litigation regarding this, hopefully, has finally come to an
end, end. And then, we can move forward with the solutions under the settlement.
But as Member Paltin stated, it's, it's unfortunate that there weren't other options that
the petitioners could have chosen from that may have had a longer shelf-life or life
expectancy. Such as what Director Nakagawa informed us of in IT, which was
400 acres mauka would enable our wastewater department, the wastewater facility to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 111
not inject anymore water into the wells. And, you know, like, they would've been
mauka, so it would be well above the SLR-XA.
And, you know, like some of the projects that came up in her Committee with, you
know, bamboo and maybe construction hemp, and, you know, other ideas like that
where it could be a double benefit of not injecting, you know, reuse water into the
ocean, but also watering, you know, plants that we could use as construction material
maybe for housing. And, you know, we, we, we're, we're where we're at, and as
Councilmembers, we can work to advance those projects, regardless. But I, I, I fully
support the motion on the floor. And I, you know, extend my, my deepest gratitude to
the petitioners for their, their long, long commitment to this, to this work, to our County,
to our aina . . . Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and raise
your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: And it is unanimous. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Great job, guys.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with bills, ordinances.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 14 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AN UPDATE TO THE WATER USE
AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR THE ISLAND OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 112
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
i MOVE TO PASS BILL 14 (2022) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Kama, to pass this Bill on
second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Sinenci
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Members, I gave you a breakdown of our
revisions and our discussions at the last meeting. You can recall the time and thought
that we all invested in the Maui Island Water Use and Development Plan.
I'd like to say that I'm greatly appreciative and proud of this Council's work, of our
community input, and of the Water Department for all the care that went into this report
and document.
I know there were times we didn't see eye to eye on issues, but that showed the
passion we had to fight for what is best for our people and for future generations. It
was because of the work of everyone involved that we were able to provide a voice in
the document for aha moku district councils and various community groups that
provided us with their expertise, their respective fields, and sector areas.
For example, we directly recognized the Public Trust Doctrine. We added strategies
that will require input from Native Hawaiian practitioners and from additional studies.
We included noncommercial and cultural agriculture opportunities in the plan's
recommendations. Council added language to protect our watersheds and native
ecosystems, just to name a few significant things initiated in this,
implemented, Members, Council oversite and monitoring of the Haiku Well strategy,
as we move forward to make sure we're given regular updates on the required studies.
We also
Members, the APT Committee is also committed to exploring other strategies as noted
by Ms. Gach and Ms. Kiyabu this morning, including addressing water rates to prioritize
conservation, address the housing demand, making sure that affordable housing is a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 113
priority, getting local control of East Maui waters so it can be managed as a public trust
resource, creating a water authority to manage future water systems acquired by the
County, better watershed management, invasive species control so that we protect
what we have for future users and for future stakeholders. So, with that, Members, I
ask for your full support of my motion. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. I also rise in full support of this plan. I
want to thank Councilmember Shane Sinenci for working so hard. What were we at,
15 meetings or something like that? I mean, it's  alot of work we put in this as a body
and I, I commend your leadership.
I also want to again mention what the, the young testifiers say, said today. They get
it, they understand it. They know that water is life. They know that it's a Public Trust
Doctrine. And they see the inequities when the hotels get all the water. And then,
we've got guys, you have to come on a YouTube video and tell them how much the,
they don't have the water. So, we see, it’s so refreshing to see the youth getting
involved, because we're not going to sit in this seat forever. And hopefully those
leaders take on these big, these big projects themselves and these big issues
themselves. So, stand in full support. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
If not. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you very much, Shane, for doing
a very good job. And everything you said, I ditto that and more. I also wanted to
commend Jeff Pearson, the Director for the Water Department; and Eva Blumenstein,
who actually spent a lot of time doing research and everything in depth that created
the foundation for the Water Use Development Plan. This is a very important
document. I've spoken to Jeff Pearson about it and, you know, it's something that
needed to get done to be sent to CWRM for Maui County, I'm sorry, for Maui island.
So, appreciate that. And appreciate, I just wanted to give my appreciation to the
Department and the Administration. Thank you. I stand in support of this. Thank,
good job, Shane. Good job.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 114
VICE-CFIAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 1 too want to commend our
APT Committee Chair Sinenci for his very, very, very hard work in going through pain
staking detail of the WUDP to get it to this point. And I'm sure he and his staff,
Committee staff and office staff are super thrilled to finally send it on its way. So, in
addition to, you know, mahalo to Member Sinenci and his team, to Department of
Water Supply and their team. Also, a big mahalo to our community members like
Ms. de Naie, . . . and I want to say, Mr. William  .. . And you know, all the ohana that
came out to consistently testify. I believe Mr. Perez and others in Haiku, making their
voices known so that it was reflected in the. the WUDP as well. And all the West Maui
community members to make sure that the water for kalo on that side, it was included.
So, there, there's, there's so many wonderful aspects that, and components that were
added through Member Sinenci's leadership and process. That it's, I, I'm so happy
that we get to take this vote today and send it off to CWRM for their votes and approval.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I also want to commend Councilmember
Sinenci for the hard work for taking this on enthusiastically, and also for your, for
working with the Department so closely. And I know they didn't always agree with us
on some of the things that we were approving. But, you know, we, we compromised
and they, they will support it.
I also want to thank you for taking on the big issues of bringing into the discussion the
purchase of the Wailuku Water Company and EMI, because, you know, taking control
of our water systems and our water delivery system has not really been something that
this, that the Council has been willing to talk about, much less pass resolutions for and,
you know, move forward on action. So, it's really exciting to me to be able to look at
possibly owning our own water delivery systems for our people. And, and I think it was
your leadership that, you know, brought that into the discussion.
I would, I would say it's arguable, but I don't think any other Council has put so much
work into the Water Use Development Plan before. And so, this, this Council worked
really hard looking at every detail. And I think the product shows that it was worthwhile.
So, thank you, everybody, on the, on the Council for getting this through. And thank
you, especially, Mr. Sinenci, for your leadership on this issue. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 115
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. I want to continue the lovefest for my colleague
from Hana, you know. It certainly takes a lot of patience to deal with a very politically
charged matter. And that is typically water and other issues related to that. So, I'm
hoping that even though it's not a perfect plan, but it's a start, and a very good one.
And as we move forward with this Water Use Development Plan, we can address all
of the other issues, namely as to where water goes and what, and for what purpose if
water is being taken out of a certain area and it goes to another district. So, these are
always a hot button issues that will have to be dealt with. But at least now we have a
plan that we can work off of. So, thanks to not only Mr. Sinenci, but also many of the
members in the community who participated and who provided their manao on this
very important matter. So, ! stand in full support. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. As the member of the Committee, but not, a
nonvoting member, i am just amazed that, we all know that nothing is perfect. There
is nothing perfect. But we always come close to it. And the closer you get to that
perfection, the better you become as a leader. So, I told Shane that I, I never wanted
to sit on the Water Committee, because you're right, it is political, it's highly charged.
And my views on water is, it should belong to, it should belong to the people. Ancient
Hawaiian, that's who it belonged to. You know, one king said this is how it's done, and
everybody followed suit. Nobody owned it. Nobody fought over it. Everybody got it
equally no matter where you were. So, as you continue in this vein Mr. Sinenci, you
will find the strength to be as your ali'i were, ku kanaka. So, thank you, Mr. Sinenci,
for the work on this. I want to say it's perfect because it's perfect to me. And it'll get
more perfecter as time goes on. But thank you very much .. . Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we're perfect in literacy as well. Perfecter. Anybody else?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I pretty much blew my load at the last
meeting. But I'll just keep it short. You know, again, a famous guy said that whiskeys
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 116
for drinking and waters for fighting. And I'm glad we had a referee like Councilmember
Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Short and sweet.
Anybody else? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Congratulations.CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NOS. 22-23. 22-24. 22-25. AND 22-48
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk, do you want to call up those resolutions 22, 23
24, 40-something?
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. This is all stepping back to the resolutions. There were
four that weren't, they were just referred to Committee, and we need to get it on the
record that there were no objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections to the referrals-
COUNTY CLERK: And that's-
CHAIR LEE: -as read by the Clerk. Okay, no objections.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So. ordered.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, point of order.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 117
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Those were for the four that came from the Consent
Calendar, right, you're talking about, Ms. Kaohu?
COUNTY CLERK: No. There's 22-23, 24. 25, and 48. They were the only four that weren't
touched in some manner.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-48
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, alright. I didn't know what four you were talking
about. I do have an objection. Resolution 22-48, amending the, the Rules of the
Council. I move to adopt reso-
COUNTY CLERK: For. . . oh. Go ahead.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I move-
COUNTY CLERK: Sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-48, THAT'S THE RULES
AMENDING THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Second? Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama
to adopt Resolution 22-48.
Discussion, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This amendment, as. I'll just read
from my paper. On behalf of Chair Lee, in addition to nonsubstantive revisions, an
amendment is being made to Rule 7.G. by now requiring that resolutions that refer
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 118
proposed land use ordinance to the Planning Commission must receive the
Committee's report final, prior to first reading or adoption.
And in response to our updated numbering system for legislation in accordance with
Rule 6.6.A., Rule 12 is being amended by adding and revising Council agenda
headings as follows; amending M. to now read "Resolutions - Second and Final
Reading", inserting a new N. for "Bills", inserting a new O. for "Bills - Second and Final
Reading", and re-lettering the last agenda heading "Unfinished Business" as P.
So, Members, when we made the amendment to, last year in the GREAT Committee
to do the new legislative numbering system, we didn't do corresponding amendments
to the agenda headers. And so that's, that's what this intends to do so that it's clear
on our agenda, which ordinances, which bills are up for second and final reading, and
what resolutions are up for second and final reading. So, that's what that intends to
do.
But I guess there's also that section of, we amended last year to allow the resolutions
to send bills to the commission, the Planning Commission, without having to waive
Rule 7.G. So, that, that's that section. So, if that's, so that's the two amendments to
this resolution. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Can you clarify that Planning Commission part? So, what the
process is now if this Rule passes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, what it was last year, and I'm trying to find
that section so I can read it. Here, resolutions referring proposed land use ordinances
to the Planning Commission. Okay, so we, before we amended the Rules last year, it
required those resolutions to go to Committee referral and report, have, be referred to
Committee and then have a report. And then, we together decided that we didn't, we
wanted to allow us to take action on resolutions on the floor without sending it to
Committee for those bills that we wanted the Planning Commissions or advisories.
Advisory Committees to review. So, that's, that's what that would do.
We can still, so, oh, okay, and then we amended it so that we don't have to waive
Rule 7.G. of the Rules of the Council, right? So, if we remove this section, we would
then have to make that motion to waive Rule 7.G. referral and report. So, that, that's
what this amendment would do. I, I put that out for consideration. It's not something I
hundred percent support. But I do support renumbering on the agenda.
CHAIR LEE: That's the part I was, that's the part  Iwas proposing.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 119
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. So, that. that, that's Chair Lee's-
CHAIR LEE; Not the planning-
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -resolution. And I  .. .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Can I ask a follow-up hypothetical-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, just a clarification. I was supplying the renaming and the clarification of,
you know, the headings on the agenda. I don't recall proposing the Planning
Commission matter. That, was that part of it, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. That's what's on the resolution. So,
if you don't want that on the resolution, then we can take it off.
CHAIR LEE: I'm not sure how it got on the resolution. I was just worried about reading the
the agenda.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright.
I, I MOVE TO, I MOVE TO AMEND THAT SECTION TO NOT
DELETE "RESOLUTIONS REFERRING PROPOSED LAND
USE ORDINANCES TO PLANNING COMMISSION".
If I can get a second, if, if you can get a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. I wouldn't mind that being a separate matter. I was just trying to make
the agenda clearer, you know. Not take on anything else. Okay.
Okay, for further discussion. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, I appreciate, because I'm the one that
wants, asking to clarify this, the agenda. But there's a  lot of stuff on this, this
amendment to the Council Rules. And I think for myself I would like to see it discussed
in Committee so we could all be part of—
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 120
COUNCILMEMBER KING: --how it goes forward. Because you know, the agenda was
confusing today. And then, the issue of, you know, the time I had to take up by pulling
things off the Consent Calendar because I just wanted to ask one question. I thought
that was a little bit, you know, sad for me, because I just needed a question answered
and I, I wouldn't have had to do that. But, you know, I think it’ll be, I think it'll be good
to take it to Committee. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anybody else have a problem with us-
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, Madam Chair, as the subject-matter Chair, i guess I
think I feel more comfortable we can hash it out further in Committee to clear up any,
you know, misunderstandings for clarity sake. And then, this way, we have a more
finished product, so to speak, that comes out of Committee, and we can deal with at
Council level. And I'll, I'll try to schedule it ASAP on top of all the other stuff I got. But
I'll try to put it on my calendar expeditiously. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you so much. Appreciate that.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just wasn't sure, like, for the DHHL item and the Maui Island
Plan reso, how that would work with the Planning Commission piece in it. But I think
that we should change the, the format issue today because otherwise, as long as we
don't take this action, the agendas are going to be confusing that much more longer,
where people don't know what's up for second reading and don't know what's being
referred. And so, i, I think we can take up the Planning Commission part, cause I'm
still not a hundred percent clear on that and how that would play into the plan I have
for the DHHL, which we heard in Committee, but we don't have the resolution yet. And
Budget was coming up, so that's why I heard it.
But as far as the numbering and the labeling and the headers, if we don't take action
on that today, we'll have quite a few Council meetings where it's confusing to the
readers at home. But I guess my point being that when things are confusing, it takes
longer and so we'll be here longer, all of us, and the staff as well. So, that was my, I
guess, second and final.
CHAIR LEE; Good point.
You, Members, you want to separate the two items? Or are there more than two?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 121
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Point of order.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. There are basically two items.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: To remove the, the 7.G. section for resolutions going
to Planning Commission. And my motion to amend the main motion is just that,
removing that amendment from the motion so that we only are taking up the reordering
of the agenda, which everyone expressed, and those that testified also expressed
concern with. And as I explained in my opening comments, that was something that
we didn't do when we amended the legislative numbering system section.
And so, if you read, "The following will be in the order of business Council meeting,
unless Chair determines a different order is appropriate." So, instead of just letting,
you know, Chair Lee do whatever, we're, we’re saying together that we would like
"Resolutions", "Resolutions on Second Final", "Bills", "Bills on Second Final". So, that,
that's what that section does. And then, we would take out the Planning Commission
amendment. So, that's the amendment to the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: That's your amendment to the main motion? So--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I already, we already, we, Pro Temp Kama
seconded my motion. So, that motion is on the floor now, the motion to amend the
main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Any more discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. Yeah, and this is why I wanted it to go to Committee,
because it's still confusing to me. Because resolutions don't usually have a second
and final reading, you know? Resolutions that don't have the force and effect of law
don't only have one reading. So, now you have a category of "Resolutions - Second
and Final Reading". That's confusing to me. What, what does that mean?
CHAIR LEE: You want to respond, Vice-Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 122
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Resolutions that have the force and
effect of law would have a second and final reading, like we just did with Member
Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But, but there's no, but there's no difference in category. I mean,
we had a lot of resolutions and there’s no differentiation between what reso, resolutions
are likely to be acted on and which ones are, you know, are for referral? And which
ones are, you know, the first reading, which ones are the second reading? So, I, you
know, that, I mean, my thought was if we, if we could hash this out in Committee, we
could try to figure out how to make it. . . And then, maybe we can get some, some
testimony on how, how, what parts are confusing to the public.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, if, the longer, so-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, ! understand. But I'd rather get it right instead of having to
keep going back and changing it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, there, there's other things that we will have to
change anyway. So, it's better to at least make it clearer for the time being than to
keep making, to keep having our agendas posted that is very unclear.
CHAIR LEE: So, Vice-Chair? Vice-Chair? Your, what you're saying is the amendment, I
mean, the resolution only covers a few changes but does not allow for additional
changes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The resolution allows for a few changes? I'm sorry
what was, I-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, ... I, I, I, I had the floor and I have one more question.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you have one more question? Okay, sorry. Member King. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, the other thing is, you know, we went to this format without
necessarily having this ail outlined the way it was, the way we're looking at it now So,
I mean, can they just make these changes and see if they work? Then we can go back
and put it into the, to the Council Rules? Because I still have, I mean, I, I, I’m having
a hard time, because I appreciate the, the effort to clarify and I'm one of the ones that's
been pushing it. But it would, it would be good if, to have discussion with all
Councilmembers to make sure we're all comfortable with the way we're trying to clarify
it. That's all I'm saying.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Vice-Chair, you want to answer that question?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 123
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sure. So, how would you like it, Member King? How
would you like it to look? How would it be clearer to you?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I don't know. ...
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Because you've been asking for it to be clearer. So,
if you ... to be clear, then it would make . . . have an amendment, then we can have
a proposal, then we can consider it, you know?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That was just a statement that I, you know, we all require the
discussion. We don't want to have a Committee discussion here. But if we're all part
of the discussion, we could probably, you know, make it clearer to everybody.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Well, we're discussing it now.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yeah, I'm not. . . I'm just, I'm giving my opinion. I had the floor
and I'm giving my opinion. I'm not asking a question.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, let's take a five-minute break. I need to talk to the Clerk. So,
2:25. 2:25, short recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 2:16 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2:28 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of February 4, please reconvene.
Alright, what's on the floor is the motion to delete the portion of Resolution 22-, what is
it, 47? The Planning Commission portion of that.
COUNTY CLERK: 48.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 48.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 48.
CHAIR LEE: 48. Okay. So, that wasn't controversial. All those in favor of deleting that
portion, raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 124
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE: So, that's eight "ayes", two. four, six, eight "ayes'
One "excused". The excused is--
zero "noes": motion passes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yuki.
CHAIR LEE: -Member Sugimura, who had to go to a meeting. Something more important
than us, I don't know.
Okay, now back to-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: She thought the meeting was going end early.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, well.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Jinxed it. Jinxed it.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: And over Rules of all things. Okay, so now we're back to the main motion,
which was to adopt Resolution 22-48. So, would you consider, Vice-Chair, that we
simply refer this to Committee instead, because there seems to be more to review than
what's in this amendment? I mean, what's in this resolution.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, it's your, it's, it's your resolution. What-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, then I say let's refer it then.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And what, what we're now going to be sending,
because we just removed that Planning Commission section is just going to be the
numbering.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Hello? Oh, look. Hi Robin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yuki.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 125
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Hi Annette. Hi Shelly.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Let's listen into her conversation. Yeah, right now, what's more important are
the Rules, okay. Let's just refer them. If you withdraw your motion and we'll just refer
this resolution-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: -to the GREAT Committee.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I can be supportive of that. And
perhaps, since in our current Rules it does say, "unless the Chair determines a different
order is appropriate", it might be the appropriate time for us to give you that discretion,
to support that discretion that is in the Rules for you to order the, the bills and things
so that it's clear for our next Council meeting. Because-
CHAIRLEE; The-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -our current Rules already give you that discretion.
CHAIR LEE: Gee, thanks. However, the thing is. I'll guarantee you whatever I come up with
is going to be insufficient. So, why don't we just move everything over to the GREAT
Committee. Everybody gets a chance to chime in and then, we can push it out. That'll
be more acceptable to not only us the Members, but the public.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, what I was saying-
CHAIR LEE: I might forget something. I might forget something, you know.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, what I was saying, Chair, and it's the Clerks
that do the, the agenda, is that we can do both. So, we can send this to the GREAT
Committee, because the GREAT Committee doesn't have enough work to do with the
Charter amendments and mass nominations. And we can, we can together say, you
know, Chair, you have that discretion under the Rules right now that if you want to
order it in this way, in the meantime, go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: When have you folks ever agreed with me totally, in total?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 126
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Plenty time.
CHAIR LEE: We don't have 100 percent agreement. Hardly ever. Hardly ever. So, I, I thank
you for trying to give me that, you kno\A/, responsibility. But I guarantee you I'm going
to miss something and then, then we’re going to open a whole new can of worms. So,
let's, why don't we just send it to the GREAT Committee. Cause what we’re talking
about is something interim, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. Yeah, because that's what we're getting
testimony on, that our, our agendas aren't clear. Even our Councilmembers are saying
our agendas aren't clear. And the, the more the numbers are different, the more
unclear it's going to be so.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Okay. Boy, I tell you,  Ican see why you're an attorney. You
just don't give up. So, anyway-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I don't have my license.
CHAIR LEE: -Members, do you want me to work with staff? Do you want me to work with
staff to come up with recommendations or changes, actual changes? Or-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: On the interim.
CHAIR LEE: In the interim. And then send this item to the GREAT Committee.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. Yes. We got two thumbs up.
CHAIR LEE: So, why don't you withdraw your motion to, to adopt the resolution. And instead
move to refer to the GREAT Committee.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
I, I WITHDRAW MY MOTION AND I'LL SUPPORT REFERRING
IT TO THE GREAT COMMITTEE.
It's not clear if the amendment that we just voted on would go. I think it wouldn't. So
it would go intact. And Pro Temp Kama, I think, may, was my second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 127
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, Members, you have no objections to that? And then, also, the staff
and I working on interim, on interim rules?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, just-
CHAIRLEE: Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can you, can you just, when you come up with, you know,
whatever your interim rules are going to be, or your interim format, could you just share
it with all of us? Because-
CHAIR LEE: . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think we're allowed to commu, you know, before the meeting,
because I think we're allowed to communicate when it comes to organization. It's not
a violation of Sunshine.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Will do. Will do. Okay, very good.
Madam Clerk, where are we? Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, Chair. We are on Bill 15, under M. Item M., ordinances.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, that would be Member Kama.
COUNTY CLERK: Entitled. I just need to read it real quick.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 15 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 13.04A.080, MAUI COUNTY
CODE. RELATING TO THE ALCOHOL PROHIBITION FOR CERTAIN PARKS
AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 128
CHAIR LEE; Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 15 (2022) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Second somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Kama, seconded by Member King, to pass Bill 15 on
second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Your Human Concerns and Parks Committee met
on January 6, 2022, and makes reference to the County Communication 21-549, from
the Director of Parks and Recreation, transmitting a proposed bill relating to alcohol
prohibition for certain parks and recreational facilities.
The purpose of the proposed bill is to align Section 13-04A.080 [sic], the Maui County
Code, v^ith Section 19.52.090 of the Maui County Code, relating to the alcohol
prohibition for certain parks and recreational facilities within the Historic Districts 1
and 2 in Lahaina.
Your Committee noted it is unlawful to consume intoxicating liquor in any public street,
park, or open space that is owned or maintained by a governmental agency, without
the express approval of the responsible government agency and the Cultural
Resources Commission.
Your Committee discussed further amending Subsection B of the bill to explicitly list
seven of the parks in the Historic Districts 1 and 2 that prohibit alcohol consumption. I
ask for the Members full support.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 129
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I, I appreciate the, the bill but I, I do not support it. I,
I understand the idea that it's illegal in the State to do that. But I don't agree with the
whole idea of financial punishments on, on homeless people and the folks who are
struggling. I don't think two wrongs make a right. So, just because the State makes it
okay, I don't want to support this just to, just because that's the reason.
Financial penalties on poor people and homeless people are more of a, of a penalty
than just your average Joe. So, I think it's over, it's too powerful. We should kind of
think of like giving them other, other ways to do it, such as community service and
other, other places. And public places are for everybody, so I don't want to deter
people because of, because of heavy fines on them.
And the last thing, I, I don't like it because it's a footloose bill. I don't believe we should
be doing that kind of thing. So, that's my two cents on it. Thank you, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Other Members, discussion? If not, roll call. Madam Clerk, roll call.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Mike Molina.
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
YES, WITH RESERVATIONS.COUNCILMEMBER KING;
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 130
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK;
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Council Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
COUNTY CLERK: That's seven "ayes", one "no' one "excused".
CHAIR LEE; Motion carries.
Okay, next.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Members. Thank you, Mr. Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with bills for referral. The, the following bills are
recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 131
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 27 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A. PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
PRIVATE DONATIONS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 27 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 27 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 136 through 140 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 28 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE;
COUNTYWIDE COSTS,
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM - GENERAL FUND,
PARK MAUI PROGRAM - GENERAL FUND
The recommended action is that Bill No. 28 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 28 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 140 through 145 for
discussion and action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 132
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 29 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL U\NGUAGE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
(ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM - GENERAL FUND)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 29 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 29 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 140 through 145 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 30 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND (KILOHANA MAKAI PROJECT
(WELA STREET EXTENSION))
The recommended action is that Bill No. 30 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 31 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS
(STATE OF HAWAII, EXECUTIVE OFFICE ON AGING - SENIOR CENTER SERVICES)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 133
The recommended action is that Bill No. 31 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 31 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 145 through 148 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 32 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022
BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX B, REVENUES - FEES, RATES, ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
POLYNESIAN VOYAGING SOCIETY COMMEMORATIVE LICENSE PLATES
The recommended action is that Bill No. 32 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 32 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 148 through 153 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 33 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE,
MOLOKAI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, GENERAL FUND,
MOLOKAI POLICE STATION ROOF REPLACEMENT;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 33 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 134
(BILL NO. 33 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 153 through 156 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 34 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE,
MOLOKAI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
MOLOKAI POLICE STATION ROOF REPLACEMENT
The recommended action is that Bill No. 34 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 34 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 153 through 156 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 35 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENT,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET BUILDING RENOVATIONS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 35 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 135
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 36 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENT - 60 SOUTH
CHURCH STREET BUILDING RENOVATIONS)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 36 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 37 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING THAT PART OF
THE PROCEEDS OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE
COUNTY OF MAUI HERETOFORE ISSUED IS IN EXCESS
OF THE AMOUNTS REQUIRED FOR THE PURPOSES FOR WHICH
SUCH BONDS WERE INITIALLY ISSUED, OR MAY OR SHOULD
NOT BE APPLIED TO THOSE PURPOSES, AND DIRECTING
SUCH PROCEEDS TO OTHER PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
OR AUTHORIZED PURPOSES OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Bill No. 37 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 38 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENT,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND,
60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET BUILDING RENOVATIONS;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 38 (2022) be referred to the Budget. Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 136
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 39 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A
NEW CHAPTER 5.30, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
ELECTRIC GUN DEALER LICENSING
The recommended action is that Bill No. 39 (2022) be referred to the Human Concerns and
Parks Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 40 (2022^
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022
BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX B, REVENUES - FEES, RATES, ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
ELECTRIC GUN DEALER LICENSE
The recommended action is that Bill No. 40 (2022) be referred to the Human Concerns and
Parks Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Are there any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 27 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. For Bill 27, a bill for an ordinance
amending the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget on Maui, Appendix A, Part I, grants and
restricted use revenues - schedule of grants and restricted use revenues, Department
of Public Works, Private Donations.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 27 (2022), IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 137
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bill 27.
Discussion? If not. all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
one "excused": motionCHAIR LEE: One. two. three, four, five, six, eight "ayes", zero "noes'
carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 27 ON FIRST READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. seconded by Member
Sinenci, to pass Bill 27 on first and, first reading.
Discussion. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 138
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, this bill would amend
Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix A, Part I, by increasing the appropriation under the
Department of Public Works, entitled "Private Donations", by $700,000.
Contributions from prior fiscal years were held in a Trust and Agency account for the
Department of Public Works. And this amendment would transfer the funds out of that
Trust and Agency account and appropriate the funds to Department for roadway
projects. We do have Budget Director Yoshimura on the line, and if anyone has
questions.
The private donations include funds that were received in prior fiscal years and placed
in the Trust and Agency account; 1) Mahana Estates $178,500; 2) East Waiko Road
improvements $393,650; 3) Spencer Homes $47,000; 4) the balance in the event there
were other private donations $80,850. And there would, and if there are any future
donations that would fall under that 80,000 buffer, the notification would be provided
to Council.
And I see Budget Director Yoshimura on the line. Aloha, Budget Director. Mahalo for
joining us.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We do have a question from Tamara, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. I guess my question would be, is the
donations from Mahana Estates going into the West Maui Road Fund, or is it going
into a Countywide pot?
CHAIR LEE: Member, I mean not Member, but Director Yoshimura.
Councilmember Paltin, it would be
designated for the stated purpose that the monies was donated toward, not donated,
but given to the County. It would be treated in similar fashion to the Kupuohi Traffic
Impact Fees. So, it will be designated for the West Maui area.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. And was there a specific project? Andean
you remind me what the donation amount was?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: That amount was $178,500 for the Mahana Estates. 1 don't know if
there was a specific project. So, these funds were received by the County back in
2016 and 2017. And we are just trying to recognize it so we can appropriate according,
appropriate the funding accordingly.
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 139
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess the follow-up question is, are you going to be fixing
Keawe Street with that money?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: It could go. I guess, to Keawe Street. I'll check with the Department
of Public Works. I don't think they have any specific projects that the funds will be
utilized for, but I will check with them. And if they do have a specific project, it'll come
out in the 2023 budget.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, but it's for sure in the West Maui account?
CHAIR LEE: You're allowed only one road question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: But it'll be, it's, it'll be kept similar to how we do the park assessments
where it's designated per district.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, cool. Thank you.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, this is the one where Ms. Mabbutt had asked about the source of the
funds. So, you explained it, right, Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Any more discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I did.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Okay, all those in favor, any more questions for the
Director while she's here? Okay. All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 140
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE; Okay, eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Madam Clerk. Michele, you're going to stay with us, yeah? We have several. Madam
Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, that’s me.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
BILL NOS. 28 (2022) AND 29 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Bill 28 and 29. Bill 28 is a bill for an
ordinance amending the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, General Fund, Park Maui Program.
Bill 29 is a bill for an ordinance amending the Fiscal Year Budget for Appendix D. So,
that's the Budget Bill and the Appendix D Bill.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 28 AND 29, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to waive
the Rule of the Council.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, as you see, there's a lot of budget
amendments. And I have given up my next BFED Committee, well, after my, both my
March BFED Committee meetings, so my budget meetings, so that we can do our
Charter amendments. That's our collective responsibility to get it done in that week,
on that first week of March. And so, I don't have  abudget meeting then. And then, I
also gave CARE Committee my second budget meeting in March. And so, in March,
I won't have any budget meetings. So, I won't be able to amend, make these budget
amendments, which is in the 2022 Budget.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 141
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We're just on the waiver right now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes' one "excused": motion carries.zero noes
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 28 AND 29 ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to move
Bills 28 and 29 on first reading.
Discussion. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, these bills would amend
the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget and Appendix D, by decreasing the appropriation for
Tourism management enforcement, and other related costs under the Department of
Finance by $680,000 and adding an appropriation under the Department of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 142
Transportation, General Fund, for the park and, for the Park Maui Program in the same
amount.
It would also add conditional language to increase equivalent personnel by 3.0 under
Department of Transportation, Administration Program and General Fund.
And as you heard in testimony this morning from Director Takamori, that these are
unfunded EPs, so that they can get started with the job description and advertising.
The amendments, and then we would put the funding in during budget session.
These amendments would support the launch of the new Park Maui program. And the
funds would be used for parking access controls,  amobile payment system, citation
and permit management, and signage. And we've been discussing this Park Maui
project in IT Committee and HCP Committee, as well as BFED Committee.
Representatives from the Administration, Budget Director Yoshimura, are available to
answer any questions the Members may have. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Members, do you have any questions?
Member Paltin. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I'm not sure if this is for Erin Wade or Director Yoshimura. I
just was wondering, cause she said that Maluuluolele wasn't in Phase 1. I was
wondering about Concession Agreement Ml 027, which is for the Maluuluolele parking
lot. It's on a month to month through June 30, 2022. And so, I was wondering, is that
going to be addressed during budget, of the new contract for M1027?
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Director.
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Councilmember Paltin, Director Takamori is available and he's on the
call, so I'll defer that to him. Thank you.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION; Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Hello, Director Takamori.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION; Hi. This is Marc Takamori, Transportation Director.
Thank you for your question. Member Paltin. I actually have to defer that specific
question to Erin Wade. In, in her initial testimony, I guess your question, she
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 143
mentioned that that wasn't one of the first areas being considered. So, I don't
sure if she has anymore to provide at this time, specifically to your question.
m not
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay-
CHAIRLEE; Erin.
MS. WADE: Did you want me to respond?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Erin.
MS. WADE: Sorry, folks. You know, we didn't look into Maiuuluolele before this meeting.
And I'm not aware of the specifics of that agreement. But we would be happy to go
back and look at that. It's doesn't, it's not included as part of what’s being asked for
today. But I'm happy to do the research and get back to you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I'll just give you the information. It’s M1027, and it's a
month-to-month contract with Diamond Parking. And I've received feedback from
some of, I think Lahaina Restoration Foundation that that’s not a good deal with
Diamond Parking and there's many other guys that would be a better deal. So, I mean,
if we can end it sooner than month to month. But the contract itself is up on June 30,
2022, even without the month to month. So, I don't know if you want to reach out to
Ms. Theo Morrison on who they use. But she was kind of critical of this contract. And
so, when you said Park Maui, I wasn't sure how to address it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So, this question 1 think is for Director
Takamori. Aloha Marc, nice to see. So, we had concerns. The money for this program
is coming out of Tourism management and enforcement, and other related costs. Can
you tell us how this, this Park Maui program, where this $680,000 is going to be used,
supports the goals of the Tourism management and enforcement?
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you, Member King, for that question. Yes, so
the funds are going to be coming out of the, I guess Department of Finance's allocation
of the tourism. I'm not quite sure exactly.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 144
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's called "Tourism management enforcement, and other related
costs".
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Okay, so part of the reason why the, the decision was
made to utilize those funds is because the Park Maui program, when it does move
forward, is going to be managing parking that essentially in County-owned parking lots
where we would be able to charge for parking in those areas but allow different fares
or rates for residents. And so, by managing parking in terms of having different fees
for different times of the day, for different seasons, you can kind of control utilization of
the parking lots. And so, most, most of the fees would be paid by visitors in the parking
lots.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And what is the goal to just increase revenue, or is the
goal to actually reduce the amount of people using that parking lot, or the amount of
tourists using the parking lot, I guess?
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: I guess the, part of the goal is to get revenues from
people parking, as well as I guess having the ability for maintenance of the parking lot,
as well as trying to, I guess, save, not really save but to limit the overrun of the park.
So, I guess one of the ways to do so is by controlling parking in that area. If, if people,
like visitors, if they're not willing to pay for parking in those areas, they can always use,
then use transit as well, to gain access to those parks. So, I mean, I guess there's
different ways of trying to manage visitors, as well as potentially rental cars and, you
know, by limiting those.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay, thanks for that explanation. I think that's an
important point that was brought up earlier, because, you know, that, that was ... have
a specific, you know, use for them. So, I'm glad we're able to do, relate that to tourism
management. So, thank you. Director Takamori.
(Councilmember Sugimura returned to the meeting at 3:01 p.m.)
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Welcome back. Member Sugimura.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. When Ms. Wade presented with the
consultant, 1 remember the areas that they were going to start in were areas that were
heavily impacted by tourism. Ms., Ms. Wade?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 145
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Wade?
MS. WADE: Thank you. Yes, the round one is in areas of heavy tourism. So, we're looking
at South Maui beach parks and Lahaina Town with the intention of ensuring access for
locals and managing demand of. . .
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry, Ms. Wade. Your last sentence like cut off. I
don't, it went silent. I saw your lips moving though.
MS. WADE: Just to repeat, the goal is to start in the heavily utilized, heavily tourism areas,
including South Maui beach parks and Lahaina Town. And to ensure access for locals
and manage access for tourists, visitors.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Wade. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? No more questions? Okay. Members, all those in favor of the
motion, please, please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you.
DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Mahalo, Director. Mahalo, Ms. Wade.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 31 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Bills 31. oh okay, Bill 31. It's a bill for an ordinance
amending the Fiscal Year Budget for the County, Appendix A, schedule of grants for,
it’s a State of Hawaii grant. Executive Office on Aging - Senior Center Services.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 31 (2022), IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 146
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Kama, to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bill 31.
If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and sayAny discussion?
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 31 ON FIRST READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Kama, to pass Bill 31 on second and final, on first reading. First reading.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; First reading.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 147
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. This bill would amend the Fiscal Year
2022 Budget, Appendix A, Part I, by adding a new grant entitled "State of Hawaii,
Executive Office on Aging - Senior Services Center", or "Senior Center Services", in
the amount of $175,500.
These grant funds will be used to support the Department of Housing and Human
Concerns, Office of Aging's Molokai Rural Health Association with their on-going
kupuna services program.
And we have Budget Director Yoshimura here to answer any questions.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions for Budget Director Yoshimura? Did you want to add something?
Go ahead. Director.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes. I know in our transmittal letter we indicated that it was, the grant
funding was going to the Molokai Rural Health Association. And I just wanted to make
a correction, and it'll be issued to the State Rural Health Association for the Molokai
services. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members? None?
One. Vice, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, sorry, just real quickly. Director. Where was the money
coming from? The grant?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: The grant. Chair, if I may?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, go ahead.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Councilmember King, it's coming from the executive, the State
Executive Office on Aging to the County, and then back to the State Rural Health
Association.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Part of the circular economy, I guess.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 148
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 32 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This is for Bill 32. And this is to
amend Fiscal Year 2022, a bill for an ordinance to amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget,
Appendix B, Revenues - Fees, Rates, regarding the Polynesian Voyaging Society
Commemorative License Plates.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 32, IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to waive
the Rules of the Council.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Same discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Ail those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
CHAIR LEE.
AND
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 149
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 32 ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to
move, pass Bill 32 on first reading.
Any discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. Members. Act 11 (2021), effective
July 1, 2021, authorizes an issue, the issuance of special number license plates to
commemorate and support the Polynesian Voyaging Society.
This bill would amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix B, Revenues - Fees,
Rates, and Assessments and Taxes for the Department of Finance by adding a special
number plate fee and a fundraising fee for the Polynesian Voyaging Society.
And I don't know if Members have seen the commemorative plates, but they're
gorgeous, and was designed by Molokai boy Todd Yamashita. And I can't wait to get
my own.
And I have one question for Budget Director Yoshimura. When do these plates
become available on Molokai?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I'm not sure. But I know they become available as soon as we can
get this budget amendment passed and the fee established in Appendix B. So. I would
assume after February 18.
CHAIR LEE: Phew, pressure huh?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I believe they have the plates. I'm not sure when they're sending it to
the outside districts. I can check on that for you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 150
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more questions?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Budget Director.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well, they're going to be available not just on Molokai, but
throughout Maui County?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: They'll be available at all of our DMV offices.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, we can, maybe cause  Ijust know when they’re
available at, at around the islands then we can help you promote them. But you don't
happen to have a picture of them do you, Member Rawlins-Fernandez?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, she has everything.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, Tamara's got it on her phone, but I can't really see it. It's
kind of small. But I, I guess I can look it up. Nobody's got a larger picture.
CHAIR LEE: Are you going to screen share, Vice-Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, yeah, screen share.
CHAIR LEE: Oh no.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, I see Director Teruya. Maybe he has a picture.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, I see it. We see it now. Wow.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 151
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE; The plates came in today, and they'll be made probably available
to the district offices, maybe like Molokai, maybe next week at the earliest. We still
need to do inventory. They just came in today.
CHAIR LEE: And how much are they?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE; I believe it's 15. i’ll defer to Budget Office.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: How much are they? And is it a, is it a one-time fee or is it an
annual fee?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: It's an initial fee of $15 and a annual renewal fee of $5. And there's
a fundraising fee of $20. So, you'll end up paying $35 initially.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And the fundraising in one-time, one-time fee or every year?
BUDGET DIRECTOR; No, there's a annual fee-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Annual.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: -for the fundraising as well. It's $20 annually.
CHAIR LEE; But is this for Director Teruya's salary? Fundraising?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's for the Polynesian Voyaging Society.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; PVS.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more questions?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, there are only 18,000 plates available. So,
that's why I was asking. I want to get mine before they sell out. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 152
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Question for Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez. So, could
we get ours autographed?
CHAIR LEE: By, by who?
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Do you want an autograph by, by the artist?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah. Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I. I-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I mean-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That may, that may be a violation of traffic laws.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: That's why I'm asking.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're not supposed to write on your license plate.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Well, you know, you put your tag on it and they split it up. But
no, I mean, you know, at some point in time you're going to retire it or you're going to
keep it, or maybe just buy it for the sake of just having it and not even putting it on your
car maybe. I don't know, that's just.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I will ask him. Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And that's another $20.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Well, it’s worth it. It's like having our own commemorative stamp
coming.
CHAIR LEE: You're right. Shall we vote on it, or you want to talk about it some more?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, let's vote on it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 153
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Let's get it out of DMV and on our cars.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
CHAIR LEE.
AND
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Are you going to do more?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
BILL NOS. 33 (2022) AND 34 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. This is for Bills 33 and 34.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
(Councilmember Johnson was excused from the meeting at 3:13 p.m.)
It's, this is for the Molokai Police Station roofVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
replacement.
AND I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT WITH, COMMITTEE REFERRAL
AND REPORT FOR BILL 33 AND BILL 34, IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 154
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Kama, to waive the Rule, Rules of the Council regarding Bill 33 and 34.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Chair. I will explain more in
the main motion. But basically, the contractor is holding the bid for us, so the sooner
we can get this done the sooner we can get that lower bid than what we allocated for.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye'
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes" [sic], zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 33 AND BILL 34 ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That might have been eight "ayes" on the waiver.
CHAIR LEE: -to pass Bills 33 and 34.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Sorry, what?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 155
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; The, there's a, Member Paltin had a point of order. I
think she wanted to vote "no". So, we, we would need to do roll call. Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, so you wanted to vote "no" on Bills 33 and 34?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, Member Johnson's not there. Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Correct.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
So, it was eight "ayes", one "excused". MemberVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, on the Rules of the Council.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, on the waiver. On the waiver.
CHAIR LEE: Now, to pass this on first reading. Raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aye.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Is this the waiver?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. Just the waiver.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we're voting on that again? We're voting on that again.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Reading, first reading.
CHAIR LEE: We're voting on that. Because we, it was, it would've been okay to vote without
a, we voted with him. We can just say he was excused.
(Councilmember Johnson returned to the meeting at 3:14 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER KING: He’s on the screen.
CHAIR LEE: That's okay. That's okay. Let's, let's move it fonward. Again, Vice-
Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 156
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay, so that was the vote on the
waiver, and it was eight "ayes", one "excused"; Member Johnson. And then, I made
the motion to pass the bill. Bill 33 and 34 on first reading and Pro Temp Kama seconded
it. And now. I'm going to do my discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Members, these bills would amend the Fiscal Year
2022 Budget and Appendix C, by increasing estimated revenues for Carryover/Savings
from the General Fund by $400,000, reappropriating the funds to the Department of
Police for the Molokai Police Station Roof Replacement. And adding a project and
project description for the Molokai Police Station Roof Replacement in the amount of
$400,000.
These funds would be used for the roof replacement at the Molokai Police Station and
other repairs and maintenance if funding is available. Bids were open for the project
on November 17, 2021, but the Department was unable to execute a contract prior to
the lapse of funds at the end of the calendar year.
And the understanding was that, in the transition of different police chiefs, it, that was
something that the contract didn't get executed before the end of the year. Thankfully,
though, the low bid by, that is Certified Construction Inc. for $249,700 is being held.
And so, that's why I'm asking the Members if we can expedite this, these bills. Because
we already approved of it being in the budget to the prior year. And that way, they can
execute the contract and finally fix the, the roof and additional repairs and maintenance
needed at the very old Molokai Police Station. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Phew. Okay, all those, any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion,
raise your hand, say "aye".
Member Sugimura?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 157
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there's no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Are you sure we didn’t miss anything?
COUNTY CLERK: Let me check real quick.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, do you have anything exciting coming up this weekend?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: What time's your tee time?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: 9:00.
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: All the other bills that I didn't ask for Members to
consider here on the floor are being referred to BFED, and we'll figure out how to get
those scheduled before we go to budget session.
And then, Bills 39 and 40 would have been scheduled to be referred to the BFED
Committee, but I wanted to thank Pro Temp Kama for taking those to her Committee,
because I gave up my March BFED meetings. So, thank you, Pro Temp Kama for, for
taking those two bills into your Committee. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: You're welcome, Vice-Chair. It's my pleasure. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Teamwork. Okay, any, anything else, Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Just for the record, if there's any objections to the referrals as read by the
Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. No objections, so, so ordered.
Question by Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 158
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh. I just wanted to double-check. So, that's Bill 30, 35, 36
37, and 38.
CHAIR LEE: To be referred?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: To BFED.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. And the last two to HCP.
Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to thank Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez for giving up her, her afternoon BFED meeting so that we could complete
the business of CARE before budget starts. So, I really appreciate that and it's going
to help out a lot, since we, we're, we lost the first meeting of the month. So, thank you
for that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Teamwork.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. And you can look forward to some really interest, really
interesting March 16 CARE Committee meeting. And if you don't have anything to do
in the afternoon, Vice-Chair, you're welcome to join us.
CHAIR LEE: Members, anything else?
Member Johnson. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Just a reminder to everybody in the
public and watching, as well as the other Councilmembers, 4:00 the Mayor is going to
have a panel discussion on the COVID pandemic. So, that's shortly after this meeting.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thanks. Thank you for that announcement.
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 159
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so I just wanted to thank Keani Rawiins-Fernandez,
talking about teamwork, we're going to take up the FAA issue on, in my Committee on
March the 14. And we're going to work towards that. I know many of you maybe have
heard from the community. So, thank you. We're working on resos. Please show up.
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else? I would like to; I have an announcement. I would like to
congratulate Kathy Kaohu with, on her son being appointed Director of Public Works.
Wow, look at all the solemn faces. Woo hoo. Yeah, I, you probably know that, that
Rowena's leaving, yeah? She's, she's going to Housing.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: She's going to Office on Aging.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, Housing. Department of Housing and Human Concerns, Office on Aging.
But but his appointment is for, what, eight months. I think she's leaving in March.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: March.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. See, I don't know if that was public, but I know Jordan's, Jordan's
appointment was public today at 3:00. So, congratulations, Kathy. And how do I know
that? Because Gary Ambrose, my son, was appointed Deputy Director.
COUNTY CLERK: Ah, awesome.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Congratulations.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Wow.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, just to let-
CHAIR LEE: For eight months. For eight months.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Good job, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ... is only eight months?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 160
CHAIR LEE: It's only eight months. Till the end of the term.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Director have to come to the Council .. . appointments?
CHAIR LEE: I don't, I don't think so. It's eight months, so I don't think so. And so, so I'll just,
so you know that, as a good mom, I'm, I'm making  aspecial dinner for him tonight.
Hamburger Helper. Yeah, so anyway, congratulations, Kathy.
COUNTY CLERK: Congratulations to you too.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Jordan does such a good job in, for our departmental
meetings. I mean, he is, I can't express how grateful I am with what you've done to
raise him, as well as the amount of knowledge he has and the work he does. So, i
really look forward to seeing him rise to that position.
And then, Gary, congratulations to Gary.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: He's a hard worker too.
CHAIR LEE: We'll see how two Portuguese work together. Okay. Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: When is that going to happen?
CHAIR LEE: Well, it happened at 3:00 today.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I'm just sort of surprised because we've been in
discussions with Rowena about some important stuff for South Maui and I never heard
anything about her leaving.
CHAIR LEE: That's why I'm, I'm probably wasn't supposed to say anything about Rowena.
But obviously, you know, if somebody is being appointed to her position today, the
normal question is, well where is Rowena going, right? So, I, I know that she's going
to Office on Aging, so.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 161
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Point of clarification. So, the, this
will not take effect until March 1. And Member King is correct, that the new nominated
or Director of Public Works would need to come to Council for confirmation.
CHAIR LEE; Oh. I didn't, I didn't check into that. But I know my son won't have to, thank
god.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, not Deputy. Not Deputy. Just Directors.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, I know.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Make sure, Ms. Kaohu, make sure that Mr. Molina is
ready for us. And . . . sharpen our swords.
CHAIR LEE: He might change his mind.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: He had two years of practice already, thank god. He get urn.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, everybody, this was a great meeting.
Mr. Sinenci. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, thank you, Chair. Just  areminder, next week is an off
week. However, Maui Metropolitan Organization meeting was postponed last, from
last week Friday to this Wednesday, February 9 at 1:30 p.m.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anything else? Well, my usual parting words, please be safe. Don't be going
by any big crowds of any kind. 1 hope, yeah, self, social distance at the funeral.
Member Paltin. And i mean, this Omicron is just unbelievable. It's so easy to catch.
So, everybody take care and we'll see you next time. Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good meeting. Thank you, everybody.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Have a good two weeks off, everybody. Study hard.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Who's going NACo, by the way?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
February 4, 2022
Page 162
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha, everyone.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of February 4, 2022 was adjourned by the Chair at 3:26 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF HAWAII
220204/lks:jm
F\ r..X ! \'" n
EARTHJUSTICE 20?! FEB -3 All 8: 57
nr:TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF RESOLLTTION NO. 22-47
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT IN HAWAII WILDLIFE FUND. ET AL. V. COUNTY OF MAUI;
CI\1L NO. 12-00198 SOM BMK, U.S. SUPREME COURT CASE NO. 18-260
t V > -r
I n I:
Council of the Couiitv of Maui Meeting
Februan- 4, 2022
9:00 a.m.
Good morning Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Ra^vlins-Femandez, and members of the Council:
My name is Da\*id Lane Henkin. I am an attorney \vith Earthjustice and serv e as lead counsel
for plaintiffs in Hawai i Wildlife Fund, et al. zk Countif of Maui, Civil No. 12-0198 (D. Haw.).
Earthjustice urges the Council to adopt Resolution No. 22-47, which would authorize the
construction phase of the Ka'anapali Resort Expaiision Project. Tlie Council has previously
autliorized tlie design phase for tliis project.
As discussed l>elow, approving the Ka'anapali Resort Expansion Project will (1) allow tlie
Countv to satisfy its obligations under paragraph  9of the settlement regarding remedies in
Hazcai'i Wildlife Fund, et al.. v. Countif of Maui, (2) help the Comity come into compliance with the
Clean Water Act for oj^ration of the injection wells at the Laliaina Wastewater Reclamation
Facility ("LWRF"), (3) reduce harm to tlie reef at Ha'enanui off Kaliekili Beach Park, and (4)
help meet existing demand for freshwater in West Maui without tapping native streams or
pumping gromidwater. It's a win-win-win-win.
Paragraph 9 of tlie November 17, 2013 Settlement Agreement and Order Re: Remedies in
Ha-wai'i Wildlife Fund, et al.. v. Count}/ ofAlaui (Exliibit A to the resolution) requires the County to
"fmid and implement one or more projects located in West Maui, to be valued at a minimum of
[S2.5 million], the purpose of wliich is to divert treated water from the LWT^F injection wells for
reuse, with preference given to projects that meet existing demand for freshwater in West
Maui." Design and construction of Ka'anapali Resort Expansion Project would satisfy this
settlement obligation, and the plaintiffs in Hazuai'i Wildlife Fund, et al.. r. Counfi/ of Maui are in
strong support of tliis project.
Tlie Ka'anapali Resort Expansion Project would permit the re-use of an additional 180,000 to
nearh' 360,000 gallons of recv’cled R-1 water from the LWRF ever\’ day, furthering the CoiuiW's
stated goal to achieve 100°b re-use of treated wastewater from the LWRF.* By diverting treated
* Tlie Department of the Corporation Comisel provided the 180,000 gallons per day
figure. According to the Count's West Maui Recycled Water Verification Study (Januaiy^ 2012)
(attached; see Option 2 on page 11), this project would increase re-use of LWRF rec\'cled water
by nearly 360,000 gallons per day.
MIO-PACIFIC HONOLUlU, HI 96813850 RICHARDS STREET, SUITE 400
WWW.EARTHJUSTICE.ORGMPOFF 1C E§)EART HJUSTICE.ORGF: 808.521.6841T: 808.599.2436
Earthjustice Testimony Re: Resolution No. 22-47
February 4, 2022 County Council Meeting
Page 2
wastewater from the LWRF injection wells, this project would reduce harm to the fragile reef at
Ha'enanui due to injected wastewater. It would also help meet demand for irrigation water in
West Maui, reducing reliance on pumping groundwater and diverting native streams.
Constructing this project is entirely consistent with the FY 2022 Council Approved Budget,
which lists the Ka'anapali Resort Expansion Project (CBS-1952) among the CIP projects to be
completed by 2027. Moreover, the County will have to complete this project to comply with the
terms of a lawful Clean Water Act permit for the LWRF injection wells, which will require the
County to increase substantially the amount of treated wastewater diverted from the injection
wells.
Earthjustice encourages the Council to approve this project. I will be available at the Council
meeting to answer any questions you may have. I can also be reached via email at
dhenkin@earthjustice.org or via telephone at 808-599-2436.
West Maui Recycled Water
Verification Study
M
Prepared for:
County of Maui, County Council
Prepared by;
Departnnent of Environmental Management,
Wastewater Reclamation Division
January, 2012
West Maui Recycled Water Verification Study
Table of Contents
CHAPTER 1 - INTRODUCTION
Background
Objectives 
Report Outline
CHAPTER 2 - RECYCLED WATER QUALITY
CHAPTER 3 - R-1 WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM OPTIONS
3
3
5
6
7
9
Option 1- Construct R-1 Water Storage and Additional Ultra Violet
Disinfection Capacity
Option 2 - Extend System from Honoapiilani Highway to Kaanapali Resort
Option 3 - Extend System from Honoapiilani Highway to Honokowai
Option 4 - Extend System from Honoapiilani Highway to Upper Kaanapali
Condominiums
Option 5 - Extend System from Lahaina WWRF to Department of Hawaiian
Homelands Commercial/!ndustrial Developments
Option 6 - Use Existing System to Deliver R-1 Water to Private Reservoir for
Agricultural Irrigation
9
11
11
12
12
13
14Potential Project
CHAPTER 4 - SUMMARY OF R-1 WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
OPPORTUNITIES
APPENDIX “A” - COST ESTIMATES
Option 1 Cost Estimate
Option 2 Cost Estimate
Option 3 Cost Estimate
Option 4 Cost Estimate
Option 5 Cost Estimate
16
18
18
18
18
18
19
List OF Figures
Figure 1-1: Lahaina WWRF Location And Service Area
Figure 3-1: West Maui Potential R-1 Recycled Water Expansion Options
4
15
List of Tables
3Table 1-1; Recycled Water Consumer Classes And Rates
Table 3-1: Option 1 - Properties Served
Table 3-2: Option 2 - Properties Served
Table 3-3: Option 3 - Properties Served
Table 3-4: Option 4 - Properties Served
Table 3-5: Option 5 - Properties Served
Table 3-6: Option 6 - Property Served
Table 4-1: Option Summary Of R-1 Water Use And Potable Water Displacement
10
11
11
12
13
13
17
2
CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION
The West Maui Recycled Water Verification Study, is the third and final in a series of
verification studies that identify options for increasing the use of recycled water from the
County of Maui’s Wastewater Reclamation Facilities (WWRFs) on the island of Maui. The
South Maui R-1 Recycled Water Verification Study identified expansion opportunities with
estimated costs and prospective recycled water customers in the South Maui area. That
study was completed and transmitted to the County Council in December, 2009. The Central
Maui Recycled Water Verification Study identified the components and estimated costs
required for both an R-1 upgrade to the Kahului WWRF as well as options for developing a
recycled water distribution system in Central Maui and the prospective customers that could
be served. That study was completed and transmitted to the County Council in December,
2010. Both of the previous studies were required by budget provisions as required by the
County Council. This study was prepared as plans are underway to expand R-1 water
production at the Lahaina WWRF.
Background
The Lahaina WWRF serves the West Maui area from Kapalua to Puamana (Figure
1-1). The current dry weather treatment capacity is 9.0 million gallons per day (mgd). The
current average dry weather flow is 4.2 mgd however only a portion of the facility’s effluent
is treated to R-1 water quality. R-1 water is the highest quality of recycled water identified by
the State of Hawaii’s Department of Health. It can be used for a multitude of purposes with
very few restrictions. During the peak summer demand period, up to 40% of the current
wastewater flow or 1.7 mgd of R-1 water, is reused from the Lahaina WWRF. The two
reasons preventing more R-1 water from being produced and reused from the facility are 1)
not enough R-1 disinfection capacity and 2) the lack of a fully pressurized distribution
system.
The production of R-1 water is currently limited to 2.0 mgd because there is only a
single ultra violet (UV) disinfection channel at the Lahaina WWRF. At present, however,
design and construction projects are underway to upgrade the existing UV channel to be
more efficient and to add additional channel(s) so the facility’s R-1 capacity will be increased
to 7.5 mgd.
Ultraviolet (UV) system improvements are currently in the design phase with
onstruction scheduled in FY 2013. Funding for the design and construction of 2.5 mgd of
V capacity will be provided by the Wastewater Reclamation Division (WWRD). Funding for
\.\e design and construction of 5.0 mgd of UV capacity, as well as, the design of an elevated
1.0 million gallon (MG) R-1 water storage tank and related components, is being contributed
by Intrawest, the developer of the Honua Kai Resort. In exchange for this contribution, the
County of Maui has agreed to make 185,000 gallons per day of R-1 water available for use
by the Honua Kai Resort for irrigation of the resort’s landscaping. The Honua Kai Resort has
tapped into the 16" R-1 water line that is in place along Honoapiilani Highway and has been
utilizing the R-1 water since June, 2009. Due to the current absence of a fully pressurized R-
1 water distribution system, R-1 water can only be provided to the Honua Kai Resort when
the Lahaina WWRF is pumping R-1 water to the Kaanapali Resort's golf course R-1 water
reservoir.
3
FIGURE 1-1: LAHAINA WWRF LOCATION AND SERVICE AREA
LAHAINA WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
' IWilH-4WIWl
N6JWW*«
UAHMMA.CMimI V .
I
LAHAINA
WWRF U.’tttfu N04MM 0.
Ufi«n4 H0.1 iVPift
. H lVUA»H».2WWn
^ Kft»n4»Mi Wn*H
Hefiiu W RflOM EMM W«^S
tiMUnVWVft
LEC£\D
C
Pui»p £ajpo«i
o«r>crtrK
Zm0*t 4^0mj
SewrIiAe
CwwmPacific Ocean
sUrfW^v
MAUI
o*nstnc
Facility Location and S«rvice Area
FiQurt t-l
PAO*-i
IIWOiSniH
I mai - j.ijs l»»
4
Two separate R-1 water distribution systems are served by the Lahaina WWRF.
The original system was built in the 1970’s and was used to deliver recycled water to an
open reservoir at the 700 foot elevation for Pioneer Mill’s sugar cane fields. In 2002 this
system was modified to deliver water to an open reservoir at the 300 foot elevation for
Maui Land and Pineapple Company’s pineapple fields. The existing 20 inch R-1 water
force main that fills these two reservoirs is still available and in good condition but is not
being used at this time since both Pioneer Mill and Maui Pineapple Company no longer
farm in the area. The other R-1 water distribution system delivers up to 1.3 mgd of R-1
water through a 16 inch pipeline that is in place along Honoapiilani Highway to the
Kaanapali Resort golf course reservoir. This pipe line is only pressurized when R-1
water pumps at the Lahaina WWRF are operating to fill the reservoir. The 20 inch line
and the 16 inch lines are adjacent to each other at the Lahaina WWRF. The County
WWRD is currently developing a plan to connect these two pipe lines to create one fully
pressurized distribution system.
The County of Maui’s WWRD developed its water reuse program to proactively
supplement Maui’s limited water supplies and to reduce the use of injection wells for
effluent disposal. To support this program, the County established an ordinance
(Chapter 20.30 of the Maui County Code) that requires commercial properties to utilize
recycled water for irrigation purposes if it is available.
The water reuse program Is currently funded through a combination of recycled
water fees and sewer user fees. To make the R-1 water competitive with other
conventional water sources, sewer user fees pay for approximately 75% of program
costs while recycled water user fees account for the remaining 25%. These costs include
debt service and operation/maintenance expenses. Any new infrastructure is paid for by
increases in sewer user fees,
Fees for recycled water service are set in the County’s annual budget. The
recycled water consumer classes with respective rates for fiscal year 2012 are shown in
Table 1-1.
Table 1-1
Recycled Water Consumer Classes and Rates
Rate ($ per 1,000 gallons)Consumer Class
$0.15Major Agriculture
$0.33Agriculture
$ 1.28All Others
Chapter 20.30 also has included an “Avoided Cost” clause that allows the
consumers to pay the same rate that they pay for their respective non-potable water
sources if that rate is less than the County’s current consumer class recycled water rate.
Objectives
The main purpose of this report is to identify and evaluate options for expanding
the County of Maui’s R-1 water distribution system in the West Maui area. Such action
would replace current or projected future potable water use at commercial properties
and reduce the use of injection wells for effluent disposal.
5
Report Outline
The remainder of this report includes the following chapters:
Chapter 2 addresses the issue of recycled water quality with regard to the
ongoing challenge of excessive salinity in the recycled water originating from the
Lahaina WWRF.
Chapter 3 identifies options for expanding the Lahaina WWRF’s R-1 water
distribution system. Each option that is identified lists commercial properties that
could be served, the peak volume of R-1 water that each property requires and
the estimated cost for developing the required infrastructure to deliver the R-1
water to these properties.
Chapter 4 provides a summary of the expansion opportunities.
6
CHAPTER 2 RECYCLED WATER QUALITY
An ongoing challenge with regards to utilizing R-1 water from the Lahaina
WWRF for landscape and agricultural irrigation is excessive salinity. Excessive salinity in
irrigation water will result in sodium accumulating in soils. This condition will restrict
osmotic uptake of water to the irrigated plants and could cause burning, yellowing or
wilting of plant leaves and vegetation. Salinity begins with the source water for the West
Maui area, as the water has a higher salinity than other island sources. This base value
is then increased by ground water intrusion into the County’s wastewater collection
system. Ground water near the coast is heavily impacted by sea water. The Front Street
area in particular has been identified as the main location of ground water intrusion. This
sewer line was installed in the 1940’s. Since the sewer line is generally below sea level,
salt water leaks into failed pipe joints and cracks in the pipe that have developed over
the years. Beyond the County sewer system, private sewer laterals are also contributing
salty ground water to the collection system.
The County's Wastewater Reclamation Division (WWRD) has made efforts to
reduce ground water intrusion into the Front Street Collection system. Intrusion points
have been identified by conducting sampling and performing total chloride tests as well
as by performing closed circuit television inspections of the sewer line. In the 1990’s,
defective pipe joints were grouted to reduce the salt water leaking into the collection
system. This effort resulted in a reduction in chloride levels in the Lahaina WWRF’s R-1
water from approximately 800 mg/L to 600 mg/L. Another project completed in 2009
involved the relining of select portions of the Front Street sewer line with cured in place
pipe (CIPP). This project resulted in a chloride reduction from approximately 600 mg/L to
550 mg/L. Additional areas of the collection system along Front Street are scheduled to
be repaired or replaced in the near future.
As a comparison, chloride levels in the recycled water from the Kihei WWRF are
typically in the 190-200 mg/L range. Monsanto utilizes R-1 water from the Kihei WWRF
for seed corn irrigation but is unable to utilize R-1 water from the Lahaina WWRF due to
its excessive salinity.
Once the Lahaina WWRF’s R-1 water distribution system is fully pressurized,
commercial properties within 100 feet of the system must connect and utilize R-1 water
for landscape irrigation as required by Chapter 20.30 of the Maui County Code. A
concern is that landscapes at these properties, which have been irrigated for years with
low saline potable water, may suffer when irrigation commences with much higher saline
R-1 water. The best approach to reduce salinity levels is to locate areas of salt water
intrusion into the wastewater collection system and repair them. This approach however,
will take time and financial resources and still does not address the issue of private
sewer laterals that are defective and allowing salt water to enter the County’s
wastewater collection system. A method that is being successfully employed by the
Honua Kai Resort is to install a “fertigation” system. Such a system injects gypsum into
the R-1 water before it enters the resort’s irrigation system. Gypsum contains calcium
which improves soil percolation rates. Improved percolation rates allow sodium to more
readily drain from the root zone areas of the landscape plants. This added step for users
will require investment by the property owners. Commercial properties that are required
to use the R-1 water from the Lahaina WWRF per MCC 20.30 may elect to exercise
7
Section 20.30.080C that allows recycled water customers to recover their cost to retrofit
their irrigation systems to accommodate recycled water. This section reduces the
recycled water rate by one-half until all retrofit costs have been recovered by the
consumer. This places the more of the cost to produce and distribute R-1 water back on
to the general sewer users. Other methods utilized to flush sodium from the root zones
include excessive irrigation rates, occasional use of potable water for irrigation and
blending potable or stream water with the R-1 water. Seasonal heavy rain fall events
also are helpful in flushing accumulated sodium from soils.
8
CHAPTER 3 R-1 WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM OPTIONS
The WWRD has explored several options for expanding the Lahaina WWRF's
existing R-1 water distribution system. Each option identifies the commercial properties
that could be served, the estimated peak volume of R-1 water that each property
requires and the estimated cost for developing the required infrastructure to deliver the
R-1 water to these properties. The estimated peak R-1 water demands were obtained
either from each project’s landscape architect, from previous reports prepared by
consultants or by using the standard irrigation requirement of 6,315 gallons per acre per
day. Cost estimates were based on previous engineering cost estimates from planning
studies that were conducted by consultant engineering firms. Components of the cost
estimates included linear feet of pipe, service laterals, R-1 storage tanks, ultra-violet
disinfection system upgrades, and R-1 water pumping station installations or upgrades.
Appendix “A” provides a detailed explanation on how the cost estimates for each
option were determined. Figure 3-1 shows the locations for the potential R-1 distribution
system expansions and the projects that they would serve.
Option 1 - Construct R-1 Water Storage and Additional Ultra
Violet Disinfection Capacity
Storage is a critical component of water distribution systems. The Lahaina
WWRF currently has very little storage capacity at the facility and no County-owned
offsite elevated storage. The expansion of recycled water use will require several
components to be constructed. These facilities include: (1) An elevated 1.0 MG
reservoir at approximately the 200 foot elevation  .(2) a tie into the existing 20 inch R-1
water line that previously served the two higher elevation reservoirs. (3) an
interconnection of the existing two R-1 water force mains at the Lahaina WWRF, (4) a
2.0 MG R-1 storage reservoir at the Lahaina WWRF. (5) new pumps to deliver R-1 water
to the storage tank, and (6) the installation of  apressure sustaining valve at the
Kaanapali Golf Course reservoir. These components along with expanded UV
disinfection will result in a fully pressurized R-1 water distribution system.
The 1.0 MG R-1 storage tank will be located on land owned by the Department of
Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL). A tentative agreement has been drafted between the
County and DHHL that will allow the County to utilize two acres of land for the location of
the storage tank. Enough land area is available for an additional 1.0 million gallon tank if
future R-1 water demand increases. In exchange for use of the 2 acre parcel of land,
DHHL will require that the County reserve R-1 water capacity for their planned future
commercial and industrial developments (see Option 5).
A pressurized distribution system will allow commercial properties that are in the
vicinity of the existing 16” R-1 water pipe line along Honoapiilani Highway to connect to
the system and have access to the water. Currently this pipe is only pressurized when
water is being pumped to the Kaanapali golf course R-1 water reservoir. This severely
limits the availability of R-1 water to commercial properties that are adjacent to the R-1
water pipe line. Thus, the construction of the improvements listed above must be
9
completed in order to increase the volume of recycled water produced and distribute it to
prospective customers.
All or partial funding for the construction of the elevated 1.0 MG reservoir and its
related components or the storage reservoir at the Lahaina WWRF could possibly come
from Starwood, the developer of North Beach Lot #3 (as well as lots 1 & 2) and to a
lesser extent, the Hyatt Regency Resort. Both developments were required as a
condition of development to contribute their “fair share” to recycled water system
improvements. A concern is that the development of Starwood’s North Beach Lot #3
may take longer than the WWRD's timetable for creating its elevated R-1 water storage
reservoir. The County may have to utilize is own funding mechanisms such as an SRF
loan or a government bond to pay for the construction of R-1 water storage. Another
possible source of funds is a federal grant from the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR). The
grant was offered to the County in 2009 but had to be declined because projects were
not designed and the County was not prepared to come up with the required 75%
matching funds. Since that time, the BOR had decided that it will allow contributions from
developers to be counted as part of the County’s required matching funds. The storage
reservoir at the Lahaina WWRF is important from an operational cost perspective as it
would allow the facility to store recycled water during the day when most of the
wastewater is processed and then pump the R-1 water to the higher elevation reservoir
during the later evening and early morning hours when electricity rates are lower. An
existing unused 1.35 MG filter backwash basin at the Lahaina WWRF could be
potentially converted to R-1 water storage. The basin needs to be evaluated by a
qualified engineering firm to determine if it would be suitable for R-1 water storage. If
suitable, it represents a potential cost effective option to increase R-1 water storage
capacity at the facility.
The addition of more UV disinfection capacity and the development of a fully
pressurized distribution system must be completed before any of the other options
discussed in this study can be implemented. Projects that could be provided with R-1
water once the UV production capability is increased and additional storage capacity and
its related components are constructed are listed in Table 3-1. Peak R-1 water demands
for each property and a cost estimate for the required improvements are also included.
Table 3-1
Option 1 - Properties Served
Estimated CostEstimated Peak R-1Property
illDemand (GPP)
2,000Maui Kaanapali Villas
Royal Lahaina Resort
International Colony Club
Outrigger Maui Eldorado
Kaanapali Ocean Resort (N. Beach Lot#1)
Kaanapali Ocean Resort (N. Beach Lot #2)
Starwood (N. Beach Lot #3)
56,000
5,200
16,100
45,000
35,000
43,000
185,000Honua Kai (N. Beach Lot #4)
County of Maui, Parks. Dept. Shoreline
Access
1,300
14,100,000388.6002Total Option 1
10
Option 2 - Extend System from Honoapiilani Highway to Kaanapaii
Resort
The R-1 water line along the Honoapiilani Highway could be extended to the
Kaanapaii Resort where the R-1 water would be used to irrigate the landscaping at the
various resots, hotels and other commercial properties. Potable water is used for
virtually all of the landscaped areas at these properties thus approximately 340,000
gallons per day could be displaced by implementation of this option.
Required improvements for this option include approximately 10,500 linear feet of
transmission line and eight service laterals. Table 3-2 provides estimated R-1 water
usage and cost information for this option.
Table 3-2
Option 2 - Properties Served
Estimated Peak R-1 Estimated CostProperty
illDemand (GPP)
93,000Hyatt Regency
Kaanapaii Ali i 60,000
Kaanapaii Beach Hotel 36,000
36,000Maui Marriott
60,000Westin Maui
5,000Whaler’s Village
Whaler 20,000
19,200Kaanapaii Royale
Sheraton 30,000
6,020,000359,200Total Option 2
Option 3 - Extend System from Honoapiilani Highway to Honokowai
Option 3 involves extending the R-1 water line along Honoapiilani Highway to
Honokowai where R-1 water could be used to irrigate landscapes at condominiums and
a shopping center. Required improvements include approximately 3,600 linear feet of
transmission line and six service laterals. Table 3-3 provides estimated R-1 water usage
and cost information.
Table 3-3
Option 3 - Properties Served
Estimated Peak R-1 Estimated CostProperty
Demand (GPP)
Papakea Resort
Resort Quest Kaanapaii Shores
30,000
20,000
25,000Kaanapaii Beach Vacation Resort
Maui Kai 5,000
10,000Mahana
4,000Honokowai Shopping Center
Total Option 3 2,180,00094.000i
11
Option 4 - Extend System from Honoapiilani Highway to Upper
Kaanapali Condominiums
An extension of the existing R-1 water distribution system to upper Kaanapali
area along Kaka'alaneo Road would allow existing and planned future condominium
complexes as well as a tentatively planned hospital to utilize R-1 water for landscape
irrigation. Required infrastructure includes approximately 3,000 linear feet of additional
transmission line and five service laterals. Due to the fact that these projects are at a
higher elevation, each property will need to install a booster pumping system to increase
the R-1 water pressure so that their respective irrigation systems would function
properly. This system, if extended further mauka, could ultimately provide R-1 water
service to projects planned by Kaanapali Land Development Company as part of the
Kaanapali 2020 plan although it is uncertain at this time when the various phases of the
plan will be implemented. The cost of this mauka extension is not included in this study
due to the uncertainty associated with the Kaanapali 2020 development. The extended
system could also potentially provide R-1 water to the Kaanapali Coffee plantation.
Coffee however, is very susceptible to salinity thus it is unlikely that the R-1 water from
the Lahaina WWRF would be suitable for this type of agricultural crop unless it is
significantly diluted with low saline ditch water. The plantation also is situated between
the 200 and 500 foot elevation thus much of it is higher than this proposed option is
capable of delivering R-1 water to without additional pumping and storage. Table 3-4
provides estimated R-1 water use and cost information.
Table 3-4
Option 4 - Properties Served
Estimated CostEstimated Peak R-1
Demand (GPP)
Property
63,000Kaanapali Plantation
16,000Kaanapali Hillside
50,000The Vintage at Kaanapali*
The Summit at Kaanapali* 15,000
40,000West Maui Hospital*
3,100,000184,000Total Option 4
’Future developments
Option 5- Extend System from Lahaina WWRF to Department
of Hawaiian Home Lands Commercial/Industrial
Deveiopments
As explained in the Option 1 discussion, the County of Maui is planning to utilize
two acres of land owned by DHHL that is adjacent to the existing 20 inch R-1 water line
for the location of an R-1 recycled water storage tank. This tank would be located at
approximately the 200 foot elevation and provide water pressure for recycled water
projects at lower elevations. A tentative agreement has been reached between the
County and DHHL for the use of this land. As part of this agreement, the County Is
obligated to reserve future R-1 water capacity for DHHL’s planned commercial/industrial
12
developments that will be in close proximity to the Lahaina WWRF. This agreement will
be finalized once the actual location of the storage tank(s) are determined by a
geotechnical analysis that is currently being performed by the consultant firm that is also
designing the UV disinfection system improvements and the R-1 water storage and
delivery system. Table 3-5 provides estimated R-1 water use and cost information for
this option.
Table 3-5
Option 5 - Properties Served
Estimated Peak R-1
Demand (GPP)
Estimated CostProperty
151110,000DHHL Commercial
25,000DHHL Industrial
510,000135,000Total Option 5
Option 6 - Use Existing System to Deliver R-1 Water to Private
Reservoir for Agricultural Irrigation
The existing R-1 water pipe line that was previously used to deliver R-1 water to
Maui Pineapple Company's 300 foot elevation reservoir could be used again to provide
irrigation water to an agricultural operation. A company by the name of UTS Bioenergy
has met with County officials in April. 2011 and expressed an interest in using R-1 water
for the growth of a biofuel crop such as corn for the production of alternative energy. Due
to the salinity of the R-1 water, it will need to be blended with stream water from the
Honolua Ditch to a 25% R-1 content to lower the salinity to a level that will not damage
the crop. UTS Bioenergy will need to gain DHHL’s permission to use the land around the
reservoir as well as land owned by Maui Land & Pineapple Company above the West
Maui Airport. Approximately 800 acres of land is required by UTS Bioenergy for their
operation. The peak daily irrigation demand for 800 acres is approximately 3.43 mgd but
since the R-1 water would need to be diluted by 75% with ditch water, the peak R-1
water demand would be reduced to approximately 0.86 mgd.
This option could be exercised independently of the previous five options
discussed in this report and existing pumps at the Lahaina WWRF could be used to
deliver water to the existing 300 foot reservoir. However, once the 1.0 MG reservoir at
the 200 foot elevation is constructed and placed into service, It will be relied upon to
provide pressure to projects at lower elevations. This will require that another pumping
system be in place to pump R-1 water from the proposed 200 foot storage tank to the
existing 300 foot reservoir. The installation of the auxiliary pumping system as well as
the costs to operate and maintain it would be the responsibility of UTS Bioenergy. Table
3-6 provides the estimated R-1 water use for this proposed project.
Table 3-6
Property Served
Estimated CostEstimated Peak R-1Property
1*1Demand (GPP)
860,000UTS Bioenergy (Proposed)
Total Option 6 0860,000
13
Potential Project
The Hawaii Housing Finance and Development Corporation’s Villages of Leiali’i
Affordable Housing project is in the process of evaluating whether it will develop its own
wastewater reclamation facility and recycled water system or install a sewer system to
the County’s Lahaina WWRF as well as a recycled water line back to the project. The
Villages of Leiali’i would generate 1.02 to 1.25 mgd of wastewater and would be required
to accept the same volumes of recycled water from the Lahaina WWRF. The cost, which
is the responsibility of the developer, of constructing the recycled water distribution
system would cost $51 to $60 million depending on the concept selected. Improvements
to the Lahaina WWRF would also be required since the facility would need to add
wastewater treatment capacity to accommodate the wastewater from this project. The
WWRD has recommended that it would be more cost effective for the Villages of Leiali’i
to build its own wastewater facility and reuse the recycled water from the facility within its
boundaries for landscape irrigation. Thus, this potential project is not included in this
report as an option to be considered for recycled water system expansion.
14
FIGURE 3-1: WEST MAUI POTENTIAL R-1 RECYCLED WATER EXPANSION OPTIONS
WEST MAUI POTENTIAL R-1 RECYCLED WATER EXPANSION OPTIONS
a u
15i  * ● tu
15
CHAPTER 4 SUMMARY OF R-1 WATER DISTRIBUTION
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES
The objectives of the County of Maui's water reuse program are to displace
current or projected future potable water that is used for irrigation at commercial
properties and reduce the use of injection wells for effluent disposal. The increase in
peak volume of R-1 water that could be used from the Lahaina WWRF if the first five
options discussed in this report were implemented would be approximately 1.2 mgd.
Adding this volume to the existing 1.7 mgd peak demand of R-1 water currently being
used would mean the total peak R-1 water demand could be 2.9 mgd. Adding the
additional volume of 0.86 mgd of the proposed biofuel project would increase the total
peak R-1 water demand to approximately 3.8 mgd.
The lack of large water users {agriculture, golf course etc.) nearby the Lahaina
WWRF limits the volume of R-1 water that can be reused from the facility. Pumping R-1
water to the 300 foot elevation reservoir where the water could be used for some type of
agricultural operation is possible but does not seem likely at his point in time. The land
is owned by DHHL and any agricultural endeavor will need to obtain an agreement to
use the land in the area. Additionally, due to the salinity of the R-1 water, it would most
likely need to be blended with stream water from the Honolua Ditch as a means to lower
the salinity so make it usable. Blending water sources would reduce the volume of R-1
water that could be used by any agricultural operation.
Elevated storage as discussed in the Option 1 segment of this report is
necessary to create the appropriate pressure that will allow even distribution of recycled
water throughout the nearby community. In-plant storage also must be increased to
allow the Lahaina WWRF to store R-1 water during the day and economically pump it
during the evening hours when electrical power costs are less. Thus, Option 1 must be
constructed and in operation before Options 2, 3,  4and 5 can be considered for
implementation.
As pointed out in the South and Central Maui Recycled Water Verification
Studies, irrigation demands decrease significantly during the cooler, winter months. This
fact will result in excess recycled water being available during these cooler, wetter
periods. This means that while the use of injection wells at the Lahaina WWRF will be
reduced during the peak R-1 water use summer and fall seasons, there will always be
more recycled water that will need to be disposed of to the injection wells during the
cooler, wetter winter season. It is not uncommon for R-1 usage to be cut in half during
the winter and spring season.
Table 4-1 summarizes the options discussed in this report. Included is the cost,
gallons of potable water displaced, cost per gallon displaced and general comments
about each option.
16
Table 4-1
Option Summary of R-1 Water Use and Potable Water Displacement
Gallons of
Potable Water
Displaced/Day
Cost/Gallon
Potable Water
DIsplaced/Day
Estimated
CostOption Description Comments
Total R-1
Gallons/Day
Cost/Total R-1
Gallons/Day
Construct R-1
Water Storage &
Additional UV
Disinfection
Capacity
● Impacts nine (9) projects (5 laterals installed).
● includes core production & distribution system components
that must be constructed before Options 2, 3.4 &  5are
feasible.
407,800 $34.58
$14,100,0001
407,800 $34.58
Impacts nine (9) projects.
Option 1 must be constructed before this option is feasible.
340,000 $17.71Extend System to
Kaanapali Resort $6,020,0002
$17.71340,000
$23.1994.000Extend System to
Honokowai
Impacts six (6) projects.
Option 1 must be constructed before this option is feasible.
3 $2,180,000
94,000 $23.19
Impacts five (5) projects.
Requires booster pumping by projects
Option 1 must be constructed before this option is feasible.
$16.85184,000Extend System to
Upper Kaanapali
Condominiums
$3,100,0004
$16.85184,000
Extend System to
DHHL
Developments
Impacts two (2) projects.
Option 1 must be constructed before this option is feasible.
135,000 $3.78
5 $510,000
$3.78135,000
Deliver R-1 Water
to Proposed Biofuel
Agriculture
0 n/a Impacts one (1) project.
Requires additional pumping of R-1 water
$06
$0.00860,000
Notes: a. Costs are for CIP construction only. No operational/maintenance/finance costs are included,
b. Detailed estimates can be found in Appendix “A”.
17
Appendix A - Cost Estimates
Option 1 Cost Estimate
Construct R-1 Water Storage and Additional Ultra Violet Disinfection Capacity
item Quantity Cost/Unit CostUnitDescription
No.
3 $1,400,000 $4,200,0001 UV 2.5 mgd Additions
1 MG Storage
R-1 lateral/meter
ea.
$2,650,000 $7,950,00032 ea.
$180,0006 $30,0003 ea.
$150,000$150,00014 Force Mains Connection ea.
$50,000 $50,00015 Pressure Sustain Valve ea.
$300,0001 $300,0006 Pump Station Upgrade ea.
$1,300,0001 $1,300,0007 Design ea.
$14,130,000TOTAL OPTiON 1 COST
Option 2 Cost Estimate
Extend System from Honoapiilani Highway to Kaanapa
' Quantity Unititem Description
Resort
Cost/Unit Cost
No.
10,500 $500 $5,250,000LF1 Pipe
$240,0008 $30,0002 R-1 lateral/meter ea.
$500,0001 $500,0003  I Design
TOTAL OPTION 2 COST
ea.
$5,990,000
Option 3 Cost Estimate
Extend System from Honoapiilani Highway to Honokowai
Quantity Unit Cost/Unit CostItem Description
No.
$1,800,0003,600 LF $500Pipe
R-1 lateral/meter
1
$180,0006 $30,0002 ea.
$200,0001 $200,0003  I Design
TOTAL OPTION 3 COST
ea.
$2,180,000
Option 4 Cost Estimate
Extend System from Honoapiilani Highway to Upper Kaanapali Condominiums
Item Unit CostQuantity Cost/UnitDescription
No.
$2,750,0005,500 LF $5001 Pipe
$150,0005 $30,0002 R-1 lateral/meter ea.
$200,0001 $200,0003  I Design
TOTAL OPTION 4 COST
ea.
$3,100,000
18
Option 5 Cost Estimate
Extend System from Lahaina WWRF to Department of Hawaiian Home Lands
Commercial/Industrial Developments
Item Description Quantity Unit Cost/Unit Cost
No.
1 Pipe 500 LF $500 $250,0002 R-1 lateral/meter 2 $30,000 360,000ea.
3 Design 1 $200,000 $200,000ea.
TOTAL OPTION 5 COST $510,000
19