MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Public Hearing | 2022-04-14
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1068,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUTES
of the
PUBLIC HEARING HELD ON
APRIL 14, 2022
THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII ,CONVENED A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THURSDAY, APRIL 14, AT 6:00 P.M., VIA BLUEJEANS, WITH CHAIR ALICE
L LEE PRESIDING, FOR THE PURPOSE OF RECEIVING TESTIMONY ON THE
PROPOSED OPERATING BUDGET AND CAPITAL PROGRAM FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
JULY 1, 2022 TO JUNE 30, 2023.
CHAIR LEE: Will the public hearing on the proposed FY '23 Budget please come to order.
Roll call, tonight everyone, the greeting is dumela from South Africa.
Madam Clerk, roll call.
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Chair, proceeding with roll call. Members participating
from non-public locations should state who if anyone is present with them as part of
the roll call.
ROLL CALL
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Dumela, Chair and fellow Councilmembers and aloha ahiahi
kakou. Currently I'm at home by myself, happy to be with you all this evening. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and dumela, Madam Chair and my colleagues and
everyone else joining us for this public hearing. For the record. I'm transmitting from
my residence here in Makawao and there is no one at home with me except for my pet
dog Koji. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 2
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha and dumela, Chair and colleagues. I am also in my
residence with nobody home at the moment, although my husband, airport pickup. And
the report from the, we have our District Office open in case we had testifiers. We don’t
have any as yet. And I've basically instructed the staff there since Daniel is on vacation
to wait 15 minutes before they close up and go home if there's no one there.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I was in the wrong meeting.
CHAIR LEE: You were in the budget meeting, huh?
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Hello. I am home alone in my office space, I’m sorry i didn't
catch the greeting.
CHAIR LEE: It's, it's dumela.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Dumela to all. Beg your pardon.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha ahiahi and dumela kakou, broadcasting live and direct
from my house in Napili and I am home alone except for my pocket pit and his name
is King.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Dumela everyone. I'm in the Council Chambers and
looking forward to hearing from the public. So thank you. Chair, for having this public
hearing.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Dumela and aloha kakou and aloha ahiahi everyone. I’m home
in my workstation and Lena is with me. So good evening, everyone. Hope to have a
wonderful, wonderful evening. Thank you.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 3
COUNTY CLERK; Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha auinala/ahiahi, it's right on that borderline. I'm
at the Molokai District Office alone on my side of the office. And we have community
outreach specialist Zhantell Lindo on the other side of the office. We have no testifiers
here, but welcome any that would like to join us.
And don't feel bad, Member Johnson, I went to that same meeting link too and
contacted our Deputy Clerk and hopefully he was able to get all of the individuals that
signed on there here, so that they are able to testify at the right meeting. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice, Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Here, and I am here in my work space at home and dumela to everyone, to my
colleagues and to all those who are listening and watching tonight. Welcome to our
public hearing.
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, KELLY T. KING, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA,
VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
EXCUSED: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are three, there are eight Members present, zero Members
absent, and zero Members excused. A quorum is present to conduct the business of
the Council.
For the record, I'm County Clerk Kathy Kaohu. And also present from the Office of the
County Clerk are Deputy County Clerk James Krueger and Legislative Division staff
Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida. And-
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 4
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: There are nine of us present. And could you speak a little bit louder, please?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: A little bit. Okay, thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Correction, nine Members present.
Joining us from the Department of Corporation Counsel is Deputy Corporation Counsel
Kristina Toshikiyo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the purpose of this public hearing is to receive testimony on the
proposed Operating Budget for Fiscal Year July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023 and Capital
Program as submitted by the Mayor.
CHAIR LEE: And so before we proceed with testimony, may 1 please request that everyone
keep their microphones muted unless it is your turn to speak. Decorum shall be
maintained at all times.
Madam Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony. Members of the
public may testify in the Council Chamber, at courtesy testimony sites, or remotely
through the information listed on the public hearing notice.
Individuals in the chamber may sign up to testify with the staff member located at the
desk in the 8th floor lobby. Individuals at courtesy testimony sites may sign up with
the staff member at the site. Individuals participating remotely may sign up in the
meeting chat. If you are connected to the meeting by phone, you will automatically be
added to the testifier list. Individuals connect by phone are currently on mute and will
be unmuted when it's their time to testify, individuals connected by videoconference
should keep both their video and microphones off, and should turn them on only when
it's their time to testify.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 5
Individuals may testify for three minutes, and when testifying, please state your name
and the name of any organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will
be testifying. Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
Once your testimony has concluded, if you are participating remotely, please
disconnect from BlueJeans. The remainder of the public hearing can be viewed on
Akaku Maui Community Media Channel 53 or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals
may also be disconnected from the public hearing at any time for breaking decorum.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, how many people do we have signed up?
COUNTY CLERK: The last I checked we had 12 signed up, but I've been corrected 25 are
currently signed up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, okay, let's have the first one.
COUNTY CLERK: And our, first person to testify is Kawika Gonzales. To be followed by
Patty Ann Ellis.
PRESENTATION OF TESTIMONY
MR. KAWIKA GONZALES:
Aloha, can everyone hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. GONZALES: Okay, my name is Kawika Gonzales, I am a teacher at Kaunakakai School
on the Island of Molokai, and I am also a STEM and computer science leader for our
school. Today I'm here to speak in support of the Maui Economic Development Board.
For the past 13 years I have been teaching science, technology, engineering, and
math, STEM, and computer science in the classroom. In addition to numerous school-
level fundraising efforts, funds from the Maui Economic Development Board or MEDB
have supported my teaching of STEM programs not only financially, but also by
providing professional development, resources and materials for STEM projects.
One of the newest programs that I was able to implement into my classroom was
Minecraft in education. The MEDB purchased Minecraft licenses for our school and
sought the help of Microsoft to assist our school in implementing this program.
Students already love Minecraft, so integrating it into subjects such as social studies,
science, or language arts further engages them in learning.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 6
For example my students explored the responsibilities needed to establish the
Jamestown Colony in American History. My students then were divided into teams
and chose areas of responsibilities to establish  anew colony known as the Gonzales
Colony. They chose the site, wrote up the plan and designed this colony in Minecraft.
Not only did they learn about historical facts, but they understood community, while
building skills for collaborating together.
Another STEM program that was sponsored by MEDB was piloting a biomedical project
called the NeuroMaker. In this project students researched the function of the brain
and the nervous system. Then with the five prosthetic hand kits that were given to our
school, students were able to learn about assistive technology and biomedical
engineering. Imagine that, fifth graders learning about biomedical engineering? Some
students even continued with this biomedical engineering tract researching physical
challenges, reviewing past and current technologies, then creating a solution for people
with back problems.
The types of support and resources provided by MEDB helped to keep our students
and teachers up to date with the latest technologies available and also helps to excite
and engage our students in learning. As an educator, it makes my job a lot easier
when my students are enthusiastic about their learning and when I have the tools and
resources available to teach STEM and computer science. Thank you, County Council
for your many years of support to our island through the funding of MEDB. I respectfully
ask that you continue your funding of the Maui Economic Development Board as it has
truly made a world of difference for our keiki. Aloha and mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo, Mr. Gonzales. Are there any questions. Members? If not, thank you
very much. Bye.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Patty Ann Ellis. To be followed by Havilah Mills.
CHAIR LEE: Hello, Ms. Ellis.
MS. PATTY ANN ELLIS:
Good evening. Thank you to the County of Maui Councilmembers and Mayor for
continuing the funding for MEO Head Start. My name is Patty Ann Ellis, and I am
testifying on behalf of MEO Head Start of Molokai. This program is very important to
me and my ohana, because I am able to work while my child attends school. My
daughter really enjoys school every day and being able to make new friends, learn to
read and write,
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 7
Funding would help extend the school day, which would usually end at 12, but with the
funding this program would be able to stay open longer until 3. Funding for their
summer program would give the opportunity for children to attend summer school while
their parents work. For me, 1 work year-round, so it would be, help a lot as a parent to
have a program to send their child to and make a huge difference in my life for both
programs, because I am a single parent working household and it is hard to find
childcare or a program to send my four-year-old to. Thank you for your time, and have
a great evening.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you very much
Ms. Ellis.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Havilah Mills. To be followed by Rosa McAllister
MS. HAVILAH MILLS:
Aloha. I had requested that Rosa speak first on a broader organizational context. Is
it okay if she goes first and then I follow?
CHAIR LEE: Is she in line with you, she's right behind you.
MS. MILLS: She is, yes.
CHAIR LEE: Is the next testifier, okay.
MS. MILLS: She, yeah she was listed originally as number six, and I was three and we were
going to change spots because of our testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, is she ready? Where is she?
MS. MILLS: She should be just right here. Let me, i'll mute and then she can take my place
and I will go after.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. ROSA MCALLISTER:
Hi everyone.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 8
CHAIR LEE; Hello, can you state your name for the record.
MS. MCALLISTER: Can you hear me okay? Hi, and yes, I am Rosa McAllister, I live on the
west side of Maui in Honokowai and I'm the board president of Grow Some Good and
I'm here to testify on our behalf. Thank you so much County Councilmembers for
allowing us to speak. There was written testimony that was provided by Scott Lacasse,
who is our executive director, and Havilah, who is our program manager and myself,
the board president are here to also speak about Grow Some Good, who I'm hoping
you're very familiar with.
So our mission and our vision, we, Grow Some Good cultivates a healthy community
by strengthening local agriculture and improving access to nutritious affordable food
and our vision is that we envision a food source community where everyone grows,
shares and prepares healthy, local food. I have to say that over the last two years, this
vision and this mission really played a very important part in not just our organization,
but for all of Maui. We are most known for our school gardens and Havilah will talk
much more about that having been a garden coordinator in some of our schools
previously. We're mostly known for that, we're mostly known for our education that
goes well beyond just gardens and healthy eating, but math and Hawaiian studies and
all kinds of wonderful stuff.
But the other part of our mission that we really got to play into and really got to embrace
over these past two very tumultuous years was our community support and our belief
in Maui as a possibility for local food source. So we have done many, many different
things. One of, one of our proud programs was a zero-waste program that was initiated
through Grow Some Good at Lahaina Intermediate School and that now through the
County's support has grown into West Maui Green Cycle and spun off on its own. We
had collaborations and connections that are growing and abounding and through the
pandemic, even more so.
We are very active in the State Hui around garden education. The Department of
Education certainly, because we are in most of the schools in Maui County, in terms of
having gardens there and having garden coordinators that were working alongside of
teachers and students every day. We're in Kamehameha Schools, we're connected
with them, University of Hawaii.
Havilah will talk more over the last two years our reach really broadened very deeply
into the community of Maui through the YMCA and Big Brothers and Big Sisters. But
we've also been aligned with South Maui volunteers and Napili Community Gardens.
We are, sustain them as a fiscal sponsor to them. Our students, we, we were started
very, in a very small way at Kihei Elementary School in 2008. But some of our students
now, because it's 14 years later, are seniors, and going on into other future careers.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 9
Some of our students are part of Future Farmers of America and are interested in
becoming chefs and nutritionists and scientists and many, many other things
connected. And for the very first time Gro\Ar Some Good is also offering a scholarship
to some of our garden babies as we call them, some of our graduates of our school
gardens who now are pursuing careers and college education, university education in
some of these connected fields to bring back to Maui, even more good.
We thank you, Maui County for your support, and we hope that it continues. The Office
of Economic Development has continued to advocate for and support Grow Some
Good in our efforts, and we look, and we hope for more, so that we can continue
together to continue to shape our keiki to healthier lifestyles but more than that to help
our communities, our Maui County to really live and learn a much healthier and
sustainable way with good foods that we grow ourselves.
We have partnered with farmers, and many, many others, and we continue to look for
opportunities to do that. And I thank you very, very much. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Ms. McAllister, how much are you asking for in the budget?
MS. MCALLISTER: The budget $100,000 has been provided for us, and we're hoping that
that would continue. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: We have questions.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I was wondering is that program fall under the
Agricultural Education and Apprenticeship Fund or the Promotion and Technology
Fund? And do you.
MS.MCALLISTER: I'm not sure if I can answer that, Tamara. My apologies.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. And then is the program countywide in all the
schools, in all of the districts?
MS. MCALLSTER: As many as we can get into. And some of them we, and Havilah can talk
a little bit more about this directly. We have in some situations we have garden
coordinators that are out there in the garden, making the garden happen and working
as, almost as teachers. We have some that are part-time DOE teachers. We have in
some schools we are just there to partner with them and to add kind of ancillary
support. So it varies school to school. But at last count, I think we're in 37 of the
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 10
45 schools in Maui County. I believe that's it. I might be a little off on the numbers
but I believe that's it in one way or another.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; You don't know what the cost breakdown is per school? It
varies, the cost is for the overall program.
MS/ MCALLISTER: It, it really varies because some of it is Department of Ed, DOE, some of
it is supported partly through them. We have some contracts, we have some shared
agreements so it, it really varies. And again, that's just the school program. Then
there's all of this other community stuff that we're doing with particularly with the YMCA
and Big Brothers, Big Sisters. We have a number of different other projects,
community projects that are really growing. That's a whole other kind of part of our
organization that's growing in a huge way.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think, clarification on the program book 430 which has
all of this type of grants. It looks like they're, the Maui School Garden Network for
100,000. So there's no specific Grow Some Good.
MS. MCALLISTER: Grow some, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MS. MCALLISTER: Thanks, Yuki. So-
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, you've answered our questions.
MS. MCALLISTER: Okay, Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. We have to move on. You're only the second person.
MS. MCALLISTER: Got yah.
CHAIR LEE: Next.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You can't see me Chair, I guess.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 11
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Member King, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just wanted to ascertain, you guys are still, because Grow Some
Good and School Garden Network went together so that's your, your organization's
actually doing the work of both of those.
MS. MCALLISTER: That is correct. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, thank you very much, Ms. McAllister.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Havilah Mills. To be follow by Peter Cannon.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Mills.
MS. HAVIU\H MILLS:
Thank you so much. So as Rosa had mentioned, the broader organizational overview,
my name is Havilah Mills. I'm the program manager for Grow Some Good and I live in
Haiku on Maui. Our farm-to-school program where we're connecting children directly
at schools to school garden education has been, as Rosa mentioned, sort of the
foundation of our organization. We have served over 8,000 students across 30 Maui
County schools. Seventy-five percent in Title 1, so of those 8,000 students
approximately 5,000 exist below poverty level.
This year we have 21 garden coordinators that have engaged 4,200 students,
186 teachers across 30 schools in-person in outdoor classrooms. And County funding
has been critical in helping us subsidize getting these garden coordinators into these
schools. We cannot thank you enough for the funding you've supplied.
These programs help provide keiki the tools needed to create a food secure future that
is less resilient on imported and highly processed foods. It connects them to the natural
world and teaches them to learn more about themselves, the aina, and our community.
It helps prepare them for future pathways in agricultural careers, which is also
something we're working on is to pilot a P-20 Program in collaboration with a number
of different stakeholders to help move these keiki that enter into garden programing in
their elementary, middle school years into pathways into agriculture later on.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 12
Part of our pivot during COVID was to create our Kumu Kits, which provided hybrid
garden learning through take home garden kits supplemented with online educational
videos and curriculum to match standards. This year, we supplied 3,892 kits to
115 teachers across 17 schools, and part of the program is that once the children grow
out their plants, they are given the opportunity to donate back food, which then gets
redistributed through the YMCA, Hungry Homeless Heroes, and the Maui Farm to be
grown out to supply food to those in need. And those students by the end of this year
will have returned 8,571 plants to that program, which is incredible.
A portion of the allocated funds would be leveraged with other funding sources, and
used to continue this important meaningful work. We'd also use the funds to continue
developing and implementing that P-20 pilot agricultural educational pathways
program, as well as the community food systems program, which Rosa had briefly
touched on, where we are creating long term sustainable solutions to address food
insecurity in Maui by providing healthy, organic local food through the development of
community food gardens.
Just continued support from the County will assist in helping us continue our work in
school gardens, and to increase and build our capacity to take on more schools and
do more important work in building a strong, resilient and food secure Maui. So with
that I thank you so much and I really appreciate the opportunity to speak today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Mills.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama, you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, thank you. Thank you for being here. So my question is,
you know of all the children that have gone home with these kits, and you know, you're
teaching them how to be future farmers and be able to have their own food security
and sustainability. How much food has actually been given to them to take home for
consumption, or are you not there yet?
MS. MILLS: Yes, so that's a great question. Thank you. Of the plants that have been
returned, as we expect, 8,571 plants have been returned to the community. So there
will be at least that number or more that the children have decided to keep and take
home for their own ohanas. Many of these students are provided anywhere between
six and ten plants to grow out, and they only give us the abundance, or the extra plants.
And all of these students are encouraged to take as many plants home with them as
they'd like. So the plants that are being returned are the extras.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 13
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; What kind of plants are they taking home or bringing back?
MS. MILLS: It ranges in grade level but we're growing things such as snap pea, chard, kale.
This year we're doing sweet potato as part of the Hawaiiana kit as well as beans. It
really depends on the, on the kit. But it's a variety of different foods, and the students
learn about the nutrition component of the food, how to grow them out, then also we've
implemented things such as how to continue to grow out those plants to feed their own
ohana and their own communities.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Is there any potential for growing Native Hawaiian foods?
MS. MILLS: We have just now talked about, the Native Hawaiian foods, we're talking more
about canoe plants in one of our Hawaiiana lessons, which is where we have been
giving out lala slips for them to grow. And that's going out with, that has gone out with
our Quarter 4 kits for this most recent distribution.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry, Chair, this isn't a question for Ms. Mills. It's just a
disclosure that I'm not alone any more.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. No questions. So thank you very much, Ms. Mills.
MS. MILLS; Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Chair, our next testifier is Peter Cannon. To be followed by Noelani
Ahia.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
MR. PETER CANNON:
Good evening. I can't, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can hear you.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 14
MR. CANNON; I don't know how to turn the, trying to turn the video, but I'm sorry for that.
My name is Peter Cannon, I'm a board member of the Maalaea Village Association
and I'm president of a board for the Honokai Condominium all in Maalaea. I want to
testify in support of Councilmember King's budget amendment to build a wastewater
plant in Maalaea. She's put out some very good information on what and why. I'd like
to talk a little bit of history of injection wells in Maui.
And you may or may not know the concept of condominium ownership was literally
invented here and passed on to the rest of the world. You may remember our Mayor
Elmer Cravalho in the 1970's. He was famous for forcing developers to pay for
infrastructure in order to secure permits to build. For example, if you want to build a
hotel in Wailea, then you have to bring the freshwater pipes from the source to your
property. You want to build your hotel, then you also need to build wastewater on your
property.
You'll remember that the Kihei condominiums all had individual injection wells, and the,
Kihei was full of cesspools once upon a time. All of this was taken out by the regional
plant for Kihei. The original Maalaea community consisted of about ten homes and a
store, and we were all connected to individual cesspools. The 1970 Maui Island Plan
changed the zoning in Maalaea from residential to hotel/resort. My parents and the
other homeowners in Maalaea were all charged property taxes on their home as if they
had a hotel on the property.
County of Maui through this zoning change forced the homeowners to either sell their
homes or develop condominiums. Those who built condominiums in Maalaea were
required to build a wastewater plant that used 1970's injection well technology to
accept their effluent and pump it into the water table. This proved to be a big mistake.
The nutrients from these permanent plants being pumped into the ocean fed algae that
killed the reef, the limu, the shells, the opae, and the fish spawning corals. These
nutrients and also sedimentation from up mauka in 50 years has literally ruined the
environment of Maalaea Bay.
Today the reef is near dead, Maalaea Bay is designated a 303(d) impaired body of
water by the EPA. Entire island has suffered a major ecological loss. Maalaea Bay is
an economic engine for all of Maui. This isn't just about the Maalaea community.
County of Maui created this problem in the first place. County of Maui permitted the
condos and the, and the wastewater plants. I feel the County of Maui has an obligation
to fix this problem for all of the citizens of Maui. This is just like, just like shutting down
600 cesspools. It's just like shutting down the injection wells in Kihei.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 15
1 feel government has a duty to provide fresh water and wastewater infrastructure.
Building a regional plant in Maalaea is the right thing do and please, we need to shut
down the injection wells and rebuild the health of Maalaea Bay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Peter. Did you send the, the, your
testimony in writing? That's a lot of real important information on the, the.
MR. CANNON: I, I did, Kelly and it went to county.clerk@mauicounty.us.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great. Thank you for that information. Really appreciate
the background.
MR. CANNON: It's amazing that condos were literally invented here, we have one of the best
laws in the world.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We have another question from Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, sir. So how long
have the condos been out there in Maalaea?
MR. CANNON: The very first ones were in the early 1970's, during Elmer Cravalho's time.
I’m going to guess that they were all built in the '70's. I don't think they were, I think
they were all there by the 1980's.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Does that answer your question. Member Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, it does. Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any other questions, Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Cannon.
MR. CANNON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Noelani Ahia. To be followed by John Janikowski.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 16
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Ahia?
MS. NOELANI AHIA:
Aloha ahiahi, Councilmembers, and Chair. Thank you so much fortaking ourtestimony
this evening. I wanted to first testify on the Councilmember King's proposal for
$600,000 for wetland restoration. There's some amazing grassroots folks working
down in South Maui, like the aina ... folks and the Save the Maui Wetlands and I think
this is money that would be very, very well-spent to protect our wetlands. If you don't
know the science and ecology of wetlands. I'm not going to explain it to you tonight but
I, hopefully by now you all understand the necessity of our wetlands in our ecosystem
and how very very important they are.
The second thing I want to testify about is also from Councilmember King for $200,000
for Department of Housing and Human Concerns for  asafe space, like a parking lot or
something like that for houseless folks. I think this is super important, but I have some
cautions and reservations.
Department of Health and Department of Housing and Human Concerns being the
agency that also is the agency that does the sweeps. And there's a huge conflict here
for me when you have an agency that's supposed to be taking care of, and providing
resource for folks to be the same agency that is going to try to criminalize, and further
marginalize the houseless residents of Maui, especially our kanaka maoli folks.
It's absolutely needed, but I'm concerned about
So if that, if there was a way for the County to stipulate who that, who that, which
agency would be responsible for facilitating that, maybe Project Vision? There's some
agencies that I would not want doing this, such as Family Life Center. 1 have had even
more experiences of late with them and I'm very unhappy with the way that they treat
residents. I was actually trying to help advocate for a family and the Family Life Center
called the police on us outside of their office. And 1 can give you more details if you
want. I won't go into it. But there's a lot of abuse going on inside that agency towards
our houseless folks who are, are really struggling, and just trying to get some, some
help. And their policies and their interactions with houseless folks and with advocates
is really shameful.
So I would hope that if this does get passed, this $200,000 that there's some, some
stipulations and some guidelines, so that the, the agency that facilitates it is really pono,
and really trauma-informed and well-educated about evidence-based practices when
working with houseless communities. Thank you so much for your time, I appreciate
it. Aloha.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 17
CHAIR LEE: Let's see, we do, we have questions. Yes, we ha e quite a few questions.
Member Johnson, first.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good evening, Ms. Ahia. Will you, will you contact me
offline, we can talk about that incident you had at Family Life Center.
MS. AHIA: Absolutely, 1 sure will.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair, thank you. Ms. Ahia I was wondering if you
could clarify that DHHC does the sweeps? Like they initiate it, or they, how does, what,
what, I didn't understand.
MS. AHIA: So hang on, let me pull up I can, I can read something to you. One second. So
the Human Concerns Program, goals and objectives, by coordinating and collaborating
with partner agencies and departments to deploy the County of Maui's compassionate
action plan, that's what they call sweeps, in, in parenthesis (cleaning performed with a
strong emphasis on offering social services to individuals that are being displaced to
clear illegal homeless encampments, the division's involvement will increase the
utilization of these public spaces while ensuring that the displaced will be offered
shelter options and other homeless supportive services). So, they are very, sorry what
is that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That, that's on the website you're reading that from?
MS. AHIA: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And the compassionate action plan is the, the professional
name for sweeps?
MS. AHIA: Evidently.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Okay, thank you.
MS. AHIA: That's my understanding from reading that.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 18
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha, Noe, thank you so much for being here. So I just wanted
to see if you had a suggestion on the safe zone. Because that was meant to be like
an RFP to have our community organization apply for that.
MS. AHIA: Yeah. Absolutely. It could be somebody,  agroup like Share Your Mana or Project
Vision. There are several more grassroots organizations that I think could have the
capacity to do that work and have the, the skills and background to do it in a good and
safe way.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, great. Thank you. Maybe  Icould connect with you offline
about Project Vision.
MS. AHIA; Absolutely, absolutely. Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Alright, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. Aloha, Ms. Ahia. In testimony you
mentioned that there's some, I guess abuses involving Family Life Center and the
unsheltered, can you just briefly cite specifically what are those abuses?
MS. AHIA; Okay, I'll give you one quick example. At the, at the pallet houses, the pallet
shelters which are, are run by Family Life Center, they have a policy of kicking people
out for infractions that are not posted in advance that people would know is an
infraction. So for example, they were doing a clean-up, they brought in an outside
agency to clean up what they considered rubbish. There was no Family Life Center
staff on-site. There was a gentleman who wanted to save his bike, another Auntie
went to go get his bike, and they had put it in the trash already. So she took a
photograph of it, and she was cited for taking an inappropriate photograph.
And she was kicked out of the shelter. So now she's house, even more houseless.
And then she was kicked out for 24 hours, but they told her she couldn't come back till
she had a meeting with them, and they couldn't meet with her till three days later. And
then they cancelled that meeting and pushed it back. And they finally set up another
date and she brought advocates with her, and they wouldn't meet with her with, with
an advocate, which is her right. And then they called the police on us.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 19
So that's one example and there, there's several others like that where they kick people
out, they don't give them the information that they need. There's another situation,
when they were trying to house people, and they have the residents, the houseless
residents fill out paperwork and, well they don't fill it out, they sign it and they tell folks
we'll fill out the rest for you, but they never provide a copy of the paperwork to these
houseless folks for their housing. They never give them any sort of paper trail and
documentation and when folks don't get the housing, they have no answers for them
about what happened.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
MS. AHIA; Sometimes they wait, they're promised and they wait months. So that's just a little
snippet from my experience. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay, okay. Thank you, appreciate it. Thank you. Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you again, Ms. Ahia.
MS. AHIA; Thank you so much, aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is John Janikowski. To be followed by Lisa Darcy.
DR. JOHN JANIKOWSKI:
Aloha, County Chair and County Councilmembers. I'm Dr. John Janikowski from here
on Lanai and I'm testifying on behalf of Gabe Johnson, Councilmember Gabe
Johnson's proposal for $250,000 for a Phase 1 adult daycare program here on Lanai.
I'm currently affiliated with the Straub Lanai Family Medical Center, and I've been there
for just shy of fourteen years now. And in my practice, I see plenty of kupuna, many
of which could benefit from an adult daycare program. There is currently no adult
daycare program on Lanai at all.
Families try to do their best, but a lot of families have appropriate members working
and have to leave kupuna at home with no one attending them, or with inadequate
people attending, children or other elderly people who just have no expertise. Other
family members can't work because they have to stay home with their people, kupuna
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 20
who could benefit from adult daycare. In addition the people that can't stay home, or
the kupuna that stay unattended, don't get the benefits that they would get from adult
daycare that has the appropriate staffing, appropriate knowledge and expertise, the
appropriate facilities, the appropriate supplies that actually have a program for the
kupuna as opposed to just having someone watch that they're not falling out of a chair
or assisting them to a bathroom when needed.
So an adult daycare program is, is really important as we as many places in the State
have an aging population, and again, cost of living is high where family members have
to work and don't have the ability to stay home and forego that extra income that is
needed in, in their daily life.
So I'm highly in favor of starting the daycare program. I think the program here at
Lana'i Kina'ole, the only licensed home healthcare facility on the island is vitally
necessary, and important for our kupuna. And thank you for allowing me to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Good evening, Dr. Janikowski. Good to
hear from you. Can you speak to the, you, you mentioned a little bit about, about the
people who are being, just being alone in their house for so long? Is there behavioral
health conditions that, such as depression and other things that you're finding our
kupuna are dealing with because there is no one around to help take, help them?
DR. JANIKOWSKI: Definitely. Definitely. And, and that's another thing that the adult daycare
provides. It's a little camaraderie with their peers and it is actually having programs
that keeps their mind occupied, and keeps them busy, and really has a positive impact
as opposed to someone sitting in a chair, staring at a blank wall or a television set that
they may not be able to see well or hear well.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you so much. Thank you, thank you. Chair. I have
no further questions.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here. Dr. Janikowski.
So you know when I think about an adult day-care center, I think about a site, a place,
I think about individuals, elders who come together for socialization purposes or
whatever these things. So do, do the clients come with an ISP or an individual support
plan that says what they're going to be doing and what their goals are, and you know.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 21
their hopes in terms of when they’re attending this particular program? And would, the
money that you're talking about, is it for site or is it for operations, or what is it for?
DR. JANIKOWSKl: Well, to speak to the money, I think I'll defer that to Councilmember Gabe
Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, I will do that.
DR. JANIKOWSKl: But those plans would be developed for each patient individually. And
these are, are usually the people who aren't capable of going to the senior center for
lunch, and, and those type of programs. These are people who need some more--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Home, it is in-home care?
DR. JANIKOWSKl: No, it would be an on-site care, not in their home.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair. And I'll talk to
Member Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Dr. Janikowski. Thank you
for what you're doing. I remember when you first testified, when it was pre-COVID and
you and your wife and the community came out strong for your work and you were
expanding the needs of Lanai. Actually, you answered my question. I wanted to know
how you were different from Hale Mahaolu project that's there already on Lanai? But
you're talking about different level of care, is that correct?
DR. JANIKOWSKl: Yes. These are, these would be people who really would need someone
looking after them at, at home, just for safety reasons, and adult daycare not only
provides that safety, but provides an ongoing interaction between staff and amongst
the individuals at the daycare center, gather the kupuna.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you very much, and thank you for your good
work.
DR. JANIKOWSKl: You're welcome. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? if not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 22
COUNTY CLERK: Chair our next testifier is Lisa Darcy. To be followed by Dawn Pfendler.
MS. LISA DARCY:
Good evening, everyone,
everybody. My name is Lisa Darcy and I'm with Share Your Mana, the founder. I'm
also a commissioner on Healing Solutions for Homelessness. And I wanted to testify
tonight on a proposal that Councilmember King has submitted on safe, a safe sleeping
project. And I believe it's for the 2023 budget. It's 914156a. 1 do share the same
concerns with the former testifier on where it will be. However, in the context of the
unhoused crisis, that is something I think we can sort out. What's really important is,
this is pretty much probably the only thing that's going fonward in the budget this year
that really is specific to changing the numbers and the fact there's been no increase in
shelter beds really in five years or any of these spots or anything that is safe.
Good evening, Chair and Council. It's nice to see
So even though it's only asking for maybe 20 people or ten spots, it's actually huge in
its, in its possible ramifications and reassessment and you know, works well then it can
be duplicated. So I just ask for your support in considering this and recognizing that
this, this could really change things in some really positive ways. And I just want to
remind you that Share Your Mana, not Share Your Mana, but me personally worked in
Councilmember King's office and did submit a report in 2020, December 2020 that
outlined 28 points, and this is one of the recommendations. And so this would be
wonderful if this could, could move forward.
Yeah, if anybody wants a refresher on that report, it's a little overwhelming, but it's got
some good ideas in it. So I thank you for your time tonight and I don't know where I'm
stuck, it's four or five weeks ago ... I'm still on that greeting so somehow, Chair Lee,
you have gotten into my brain, and so thank you for that. 1 don't know where that came
from today? I was like . . . But thank you so, thanks so much for tonight, and good
luck with all of your decisions.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Lisa. Members?
Member King has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, I think that was an afternoon greeting
or something. Yeah, thanks so much for being here, Lisa. And I just wanted to get
your, if, if this goes forward, because 1 hear your concerns and the concerns of
Ms. Ahia. And if this was going to go forward and we did put it under Share Your Mana,
would you, I know you're working with Faith Chase and some other folks, would you
be able to apply for that money? I promise I will help you, as much as i can.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 23
MS. DARCY: Yeah, you know I think we're, we're assembling a larger team of support. You
know, like I said, we did try to, to meet the grant requirements, and we kind of got
moved around a little bit. But yeah, absolutely, absolutely. And of course, this is not
something, you know, grants and writing this is not something I have a lot of experience
with. So if I can get help, absolutely, and get over that hurdle, that administrative part
of it. I just want to really focus on getting something moving in our, in our community
that’s going to be an upward spiral. And that's the steps, the really exciting part. So
yes, I will make that dedication and commitment.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Alright, mahalo. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more, any more questions. Members? If not, thanks again, Lisa. See you.
MS. DARCY: Good night.
CHAIR LEE: Good night.
MS. DARCY: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Dawn Pfendler. To be followed by Abrida Layne.
MS. DAWN PFENDLER:
Good evening. Aloha, Chairperson Lee and Councilmembers. Thank for giving me
the opportunity to testify on behalf of Hawaii Animal Rescue Foundation's Animal
Welfare and Public Relations Center in Waihee. My name Dawn Pfendler and I'm the
chief executive officer and co-founder for Hawaii Animal Rescue, also known as HARF.
Tonight I ask for your support for funding in the amount of $250,000 towards the
completion of our shovel-ready project. All permits are in hand and the project is
85 percent complete at this time. Over $1,200,000 has been raise and invested by
HARF into the center to date and there are no debts on the building. The final items
to complete the project and obtain occupancy are the final concrete pour, plumbing
fixture, cabinets and countertops, and the gravel driveway and parking.
Rising costs related to the pandemic have not only delayed the project, but have had
an added unexpected cost. We are hoping that you can fill the gap and bring this
project to completion. The center will allow us to expand services to the community in
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 24
many ways, such as increasing our life-saving capacity by over 70 percent. That
means everything from dogs in Lahaina to cows and horses in Haiku. We'll be able to
expand our existing humane education programs bringing children and animals
together, thus creating a kinder and more compassionate world. Continue to be the
safety net in the community for those most in need not only on Maui, but Molokai and
Lanai alike.
Currently there are no other organizations on Maui providing a comprehensive
program and service such as ours. Humane education is at the heart of HARF's
mission and serves as a life, a, excuse me, a long-term preventative strategy that will
bring about lasting and large-scale improvements in the quality of people and animal's
lives. With your help we can bring this project to completion, thus increasing much
needed services to the community. Thank you again for the time and consideration of
our request.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. Mahalo, Ms. Pfendler for your testimony
this evening. I was just curious, did HARF participate in any type of feed for horses or
cows during the pandemic when we did a shortage? Was there any farmers that
experienced that kind of shortage during the pandemic?
MS. PFENDLER: You know, we didn't have any requests for services during the pandemic.
However, I spent the entire day out feeding cows in Haiku that were starving along with
some of my associates. What we're finding is that with the continuing drought that
we're starting to get more and more calls regarding livestock in need, because there's
no food.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, I, thank you, Ms. Pfendler. I'm sure there's only several
places on the island of good grazing grounds. Thank you.
MS. PFENDLER: Yeah, and this is Haiku, which is the wettest spot we've got, besides Hana
right now, based on the current rainfall. And, yeah, I mean, it was heartbreaking, and
we were glad to bring them some food, but it's just a little finger in the dike for the
problem. So we're working with the cattlemen association, trying to figure out what
can be done for long-term addressing the situation.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. We have other questions?
Let's see, Member King, did you have your hand up?
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 25
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, l-
CHAIR LEE: Member King and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Hi Dawn. Nice to see you.
MS. PFENDLER: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you for.. . and your compassion you have for the, feeding
the animals. You, I think you said in your testimony that you raised over a million
dollars, the facility, would you--
MS. PFENDLER: We, yes. We have raised over $1,000,200 [sic] on our own, with based
from our own donors, grants, to get to the point where we're at, which is about
85 percent complete on the project with no, we, we did receive in Fiscal Year 2021
$50,000 from the County towards the project, which we have since submitted all
receipts, and filed our final report, and are in good standing with County for those funds.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, yeah, so that was, those are private donors and other-
MS. FENDLER: Yes, so we've raised the majority of all the funds for the project on our own.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well great job. Thank you.
MS. FENDLER: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Actually, Kelly King's question was what I was
going to ask on your $1.2 million and congratulations. I was going to, and the other
part of it, how much came from the County but just $50,000 and this is, this is the first
larger amount then, correct?
MS. FENDLER: That's correct. And this final, this request that we're proposing today, which
we actually proposed previously, will complete the building. So we are at the very
homestretch and once we can finalize the last few items that I mentioned, then we will
be able to close out our permit, and have it done, which will be a tremendous thing for
us, and the community.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 26
CHAIR LEE: Are there any other questions?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any other questions? If not, thank you very much.
MS. FENDLER: Oh, and by, by the way if you can see that, that's our building.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MS. FENDLER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Fendler.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Abrida Layne. To be followed by Andrew Martin.
MS. ABRIDA LAYNE:
Good evening, everyone. Aloha. My name is Abrida Layne and I am testifying on
behalf of the MEO Head Start program here on Maui. I'm a single working mom,
supporting my son, my little boy boy. He has a disability, and I can say within MEO
Head Start, this program and my son has found a certain peace within his disability.
He is growing within this Head Start program, and as a single working mom, it is very
crucial for me to be able to have my son in a very appropriate and safe community.
I'm a mom, so I'm excited when my son comes home, and he tells me he's happy, and
he loves his teachers, and they treat him well. That's the, that's the best thing for a
mom to hear. So sorry. He is also greeted with kindness and respect from directors
and from staff members that come in and see, or come in to look upon their, their
organization, and see if everything is okay. He always tells me how happy he is. MEO,
I wrote this in my testimony, but MEO is honestly by far the best program here on Maui
for kids, even with disabilities or without. They give so much to this classroom, and so
much to parents like me, who don't really have support sometimes, or counselors who
give us support when we don't even want it ourselves.
Even during COVID, when everything was really rough for everyone, there was hope,
and there was a certain respect given. Most of the kids were always asked if they were
healthy, if they . . . protocols, they did protocols correctly. I have nothing, but amazing,
good things to say about this. And with teachers, who really do help the students, and
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 21
directors, who made that crisis that we were in run so smoothly. That is a truthful
statement.
I humbly ask to continue MEO Head Start and their program, and maybe after-school
programs? Because MEO has really saved me personally from my, from my personal
experience, they have saved me and my son. They are really, really amazing when
they deal with children from all areas; even if a child has a disability or not, they are
there for them. And that's what I love about MEO Head Start. I honestly like to ask if
you can also give more support to us as parents to know about these programs. A lot
of parents that 1 have talked to, sometimes they just don't know how to apply, or how
to, how to, you know, get their child in, started into this MEO program.
I can tell you from firsthand experience, and my son's four, so maybe he can't tell you
properly, but this program has helped us tremendously, has helped me grow out of a
domestic violence situation. Myself and my son grow into a young scholar. I'm, I'm
excited to say that my son is a scholar, and MEO just has teachers.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Layne, Ms. Layne, can you please conclude your testimony?
MS. LAYNE: Yes, I'm so sorry. 1 would like to testify on behalf to open the doors of MEO,
keep it open. I would like to testify more after-school programs, if possible, more
funding for their programs. Please and thank you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much. You did
very well. Thank you.
MS. LAYNE: God bless.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier.
CHAIR LEE: Do we have any young people to testify, students signed up?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we have a few.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any objections to taking the students first?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's do that then. Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 28
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, and I will have to ask for some of them to identify themselves in the
chat. But right off the bat, we can start with Kaitlin Kitagawa. To be followed by Ekela
Jean Yatsushiro.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Kitagawa.
MS. KAITLIN KITAGAWA:
Hi. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. KITAGAWA: Okay. Good afternoon, my name is Kaitlin Kitagawa, and I am currently a
student at King Kekaulike High School. I ask for your support of the Maui Economic
Development Board. . . . STEM-Works program from  ayoung age. In elementary
school I participated in after-school hour of class that allowed me to learn more about
coding and encrypted messages, which sparked my interest in science. During my
secondary school years, I continued to pursue science, but at a higher, more in-depth
level.
In the Fall of 2021 I participated in the NeuroMaker Creative Challenge from STEM-
Works which allowed me to learn about prosthetics and amputations. My team was
challenged to prototype our own device to enhance the life of an amputee. We created
our own digit prosthetic band using 3D printed materials designed by one of our
teammates. We were given the chance to enter our design into the International
NeuroMaker Challenge where we amazingly placed first. My time spent dedicated to
this challenge opened my eyes to the world of biomedical engineering, artificial
intelligence, and programing which all together showed me that 1 want to work in
biomedical engineering in the future.
Earlier this year I participated in another STEM-Works challenge, which was
co-sponsored by Mahi Pono. We were tasked to create eco-friendly solutions to
pressing issues in the Mahi Pono fields such as mitigating dust clouds and keeping
citrus trees upright. My team and I spent days dedicated to researching the company
and its goals. This challenge allowed me to discover the agricultural world of STEM
and gave me a greater appreciation for local farming companies such as Mahi Pono.
These programs have sparked my love for science and has since led me to achieve
many honors for my work in STEM. I believe that this program is beneficial... to keep
it alive for the younger generations. I ask again for your support for the MEDB program.
Thank you for your time and consideration this evening.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 29
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, Member King.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here, Kaitlin and your
testimony. Did I hear you say that you were helping Mahi Pono try to figure out how
to mitigate their dust clouds?
MS. KITAGAWA: Yes, that is correct. That was the most recent challenge we competed in.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay and were you able to help them?
MS. KITAGAWA: Yes, to a certain extent. My group and I actually placed second in the
challenge. So, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I'd like to talk to you about that sometime. Thank you.
Thanks for being here. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you Ms. Kitagawa, good luck to
you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Ekela Jean Yatsushiro. To be followed by
Brayden Kitagawa. To be followed by Lexie Nellis.
MS. EKELA JEAN YATSUSHIRO:
Hello, my name is Ekela Jean Yatsushiro and I am in the STEM-Works after-school
program for iDesign Junior for STEM-Works. STEM-Works is a very fun and
educational after-school program that can develop  achild's skills in the areas of
construction, and engineering. My name is Ekela Jean Yatsushiro and I'm one of those
fortunate kids that gets to do just that in Pukalani Elementary School's Junior iDesign
for second graders.
Because of the Maui Economic Development Board, and my teacher, Ms. Suzuki, my
classmates and I get to use cool software like Tinkercad to design 3D models. My
favorite thing to create was a toy car. All of this work has helped to extend what I learn
in the classroom and introduced me to new skills and ideas. Even through the
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 30
pandemic, they found ways to keep us connected to our learning. Please continue to
fund the Maui Economic Development Board and their work with us. Mahalo nui loa.
CHAIR LEE; Ekela, is your mom's name Noelani.
MS. YATSUSHIRO: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; And your dad is Rylan?
MS. YATSUSHIRO; Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Please give them our best wishes, okay.
MS. YATSUSHIRO; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions, questions? If not, thank you so much. Bye.
MS. YATSUSHIRO; Bye.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Brayden Kitagawa. To be followed by Lexie
Nellis. To be followed by Sierra Kosaka.
MR. BRAYDEN KITAGAWA;
Good evening, my name is Brayden Kitagawa and I am currently a 7th grade student
at Kalama Intermediate School. I am speaking today to ask for your support for Maui
Economic Development Board. With their support, I have been able to experience
STEM-based activities for the past six years, beginning with the annual MEDB STEM
.  . . and STEM classes at Pukalani Elementary School, and now at Kalama
Intermediate, my interest in science has expanded significantly.
At Pukalani, I first learned robotics and coding followed by my joining of the Pukalani
Imaginary STEM team. In my fourth grade year, our team, our research team
presented an aquaponics project which ended up winning the national championship.
In my fifth grade year, our team qualified for Worlds, but our travel plans were sidelined
due, by COVID. I was also able to learn about 3D printing. The various STEM
programs have helped me to develop problem solving and public speaking skills.
This year we decided to present a project on biomimicry, replicating a natural
occurrence. Did you know that elephants do not get cancer? Our robotics and
research team once again qualified for Worlds. Funding from MEDB provided
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 31
resources for us to compete at a higher-level. Separately we learned what it costs to
get us to States and Nationals. I am thankful of our teachers, families and community
members for participating in our travel fundraising efforts. Without their support we
would not have been able to pay for our travel to showcase what MEDB has helped us
to achieve. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Kitagawa. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
I think he left the call. Mr. Kitagawa, are you still there? Oh, he's still here.
MR. KITAGAWA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. So you're going to World's, is that what
you said,
MR. KITAGAWA: Yes. We qualified and are headed for World's.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And when is it?
MR. KITAGAWA; It is.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And when is that?
MR. KITAGAWA: We are going to be leave . . . May 4, and I believe it is coming up the
following day.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Terrific, we're waiting for you to win World's. Thank you
for winning States. And then the Council would like to recognize your team. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you Mr. Kitagawa.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifiers are Lexie Nellis. To be followed by Sierra Kosaka.
To be followed by Lindsey Kosaka. To be followed by Hilina'i Han.
CHAIR LEE: Good evening, Ms. Nellis.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 32
MS. LEXIE NELLIS:
Hi, thank you for having me. County Councilmembers and others, my name is Lexie
Nellis, and I am testifying for BFED-1, support of Maui Economic Development Board's
economic development grant under the Maui County Office of Economic Development.
I'm an 8th grader at Lokelani Intermediate, and I'm a part of STEM-Works after-school
program. I learned so much from joining this club. It has given me many opportunities
and new skills that I would never have seen myself doing in the future. I made jewelry,
learned how to create a business and podcast. I really enjoy all these things because
we have freedom and can be as creative as we want.
When I'm older I want to focus on being a SPED teacher, but because of this club I'm
inspired to start a small business. This program has taught me how to price, make,
and enjoy having a business. But most of all I have learned how to show off my
creativity no matter how crazy it is. Please continue to approve the budget for MEDB
so that we can have opportunities of a lifetime and help others like me be more creative.
Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Sierra Kosaka. To be followed by Lindsey Kosaka.
CHAIR LEE: Hello? Ms. Kosaka, you can start.
MS. SIERRA KOSAKA:
My name is Sierra Kosaka, and I am a 4th grader at Pukalani Elementary School. I
am testifying for MEDB. Educationally the STEM program has taught me many things.
One was these things is how to code, which is useful if I want to be a computer engineer
one day. iDesign, which is part of the STEM program and the after-school STEM class
I'm currently in has taught be about the dimensions of 3D objects using a website called
Tinkercad. On Tinkercad, I can build 3D objects and use my creativity to make
whatever I want as well as doing class assignments.
Socially the STEM program has benefitted me in many ways, one of which is teamwork
and good collaboration. Oftentimes, in STEM we work in groups to figure out what to
do next or how to solve a problem. We figure it out by cooperating and contributing to
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 33
the conversation. By putting in our ideas and questions, we solve the problem and are
onto the next step.
Another way the STEM program has benefitted me socially is by teaching me to learn
from my mistakes. When I'm coding in ... or building in Tinkercad, I often make
mistakes. Maybe I coded the . . . to go the wrong direction in ... or added a que, put
the wrong dimensions in Tinkercad. STEM has taught me to figure out what I did
wrong, fix it, and try again. What I like about STEM is it gives students the opportunity
to use their creativity that we all have. Whether building your dreamhouse or coding a
custom . . . there is no question . . . Thank you. Bye.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions for Ms. Kosaka?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Lindsey [sic] for your testimony tonight. Have you
ever thought of solving the housing crisis? That's your next challenge.
MS. KOSAKA: I don't get it.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: You don't get it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you will. Wait till you're old enough to buy a house. You will. Okay, and
then your sister, is your sister going to testify? Hi, are you going to, hi.
MS. LINDSEY KOSAKA:
My name is Lindsey, my name is Lindsey Kosaka. I'm in second grade and, and STEM
has taught me a lot, teaching, and to learning science, technology, engineering, and
math. Everyone has been so kind to me and, and trying again and learning through
my mistakes is one of the best things that, that STEM has taught me. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, do you have any questions?
is your grandpa Glen Kosaka? Is your grandpa Glen Kosaka? Yeah? Tell him we
said hi. Okay. Glen Kosaka used to be the Corporation Counsel for the County of
Maui. Thank you very much, girls.
Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 34
COUNTY CLERK: Chair our next testifier is Hilinal Han. To be followed by Laakea Weils.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Han.
MS. HILINA‘l HAN:
Aloha, Council Chair Lee, and Councilmembers. My name is Hilina'i Han, and I am
speaking in support of Big Brothers, Big Sisters of Maui. I joined the program this
school year because I went to their Halloween event, which was in my neighborhood
and thought the people were nice. 1 also thought if I joined, I could have fun. And now
that I'm in the program it is very fun. I love getting to work in the garden and going on
fieldtrips to places like the Surf and Goat Dairy, i also like that I can get help with my
math homework, because it is sometimes very hard.
My mentor is Ms. ... we both love the color blue and we both have crazy hair. I enjoy
hanging out with her each week after school because we both like doing art and she's
a kind person. I like to see her whenever i can.  Ihumbly ask that you continue to
support Big Brothers, Big Sisters of Maui, so I can, I can have fun, a fun place to go
after school. Thank you for allowing me to speak tonight.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Han. Are there any questions, Members? If not, thank you.
Thank you for your testimony.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Laakea Wells. To be followed by Andrew Martin. And
if there are any more students in the wait list, please identify yourself in the chat.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Wells, you may begin.
MR. LAAKEA WELLS:
Good evening, Councilmembers. My name is Laakea Wells.
CHAIR LEE: Sorry, Mr. Wells.
MR. WELLS: --and I'm 15, and I'm 15 years old. I have been attended MEO Youth Services
program for about four years now. MEO has played an important role in my life
because of the many things I've learned and the opportunities I have been able to
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 35
have. This past summer, MEO partnered with Justin Yanagida of Yanagida Fitness.
He taught us about health and wellness. In February I was invited to join his fitness
program that has not only kept me healthy, but has also given me a new set of skills.
As a member of MEO's youth prevention taskforce I have developed my leadership
skills to facilitate team-building activities and teach my peers the dangers of abusing
drugs and alcohol. As a freshman at Maui High School, returning to in person learning,
I am grateful for the support I have received from the MEO staff to help me, to help
prepare me both physically and mentally. I would like to thank you, Councilmembers
for your continued support of MEO Youth Services and the work we do in the
community. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Wells. Questions, Members? If not, thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Josie Vierra-Naleieha. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Andrew
Martin and then Josie Vierra-Naleieha.
MR. ANDREW MARTIN: Please, Chair, if you'd like to take the student before me, please
feel free to do so. I think Josie is a student, she said.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, let's check if that person is a student.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, she, she indicated she was a student in the chat just now.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Can you call her up?
COUNTY CLERK: So Josie Vierra-Naleieha, it's your turn to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we're having a hard time hearing you, Josie. Do you want to turn off your
video, maybe that, that's taking up a lot of the, the bandwidth? Try again, Josie.
MS. JOSIE VIERRA-NALEIEHA:
Okay. Is now okay?
CHAIR LEE: Sounds better.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 36
MS. VIERRA-NALEIEHA: Okay, thank you. Sorry. So aloha mai kakou. This is in support
of MEDB. My name is Josie Vierra-Naleieha and I'm  afreshman at Kamehameha
Schools. I've . . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we're losing your voice again. Can you just turn off the video? That
probably will help.
MS. VIERRA-NALEIEHA: ... in the programs in 4th and 5th grade and came back later to
mentor. In total the whole six years. MEDB has granted me the many opportunities to
learn and, about what I truly enjoy, STEM. To begin my time in STEM-Works has given
me so many chances to explore myself and the world. ! was able to travel all across
the United States and even to Japan. I have spent so many different, I have met so
many different people and built my skills in communication and collaboration. These
programs have allowed me to grow my knowledge in  awide variety of subjects like
math, science, etc.
MEDB has given me knowledge that I could have never learned by myself.
Additionally, MEDB has . . . several people other than me. My younger brother and
cousins have all gone through the same programs and have grown exponentially. I
have seen the growth of the STEM-Works program for Pukalani since the beginning.
You can say that they are helping so many kids find what they are passionate about.
MEDB has truly helped me and countless others in everything STEM. Mahalo for your
time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you, Josie.
Madam Clerk.
MS. VIERRA-NALEIEHA: Mahalo.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Andrew Martin. To be followed by Jackie Tateyama
MR. ANDREW MARTIN:
Good evening, Chair, Rawlins-Fernandez, and Pro Temp Kama. I'm here testifying
before you this evening as a private citizen, and in support of funding for MEDB. And,
although I guarantee you not quite as wonderfully as your previous testifiers. I, I can't
think of a better way to testify in support of MEDB than to talking, than talking to you
tonight about my wife, who you'll hear from in a little bit. My wife Tiare is a proud and
strong Native Hawaiian woman, a proud graduate of the Kamehameha Schools. She
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 37
is the Executive Director of the Vanguard High Performance Computing Center, and
the Vice-Chair of the Maui Economic Development Board.
When she \A/as just a little bit older than many of the testifiers you just heard from in
the 8th grade at Kamehameha Schools, she heard from a presenter who talked to her
about being an engineer. She left that presentation, went home and told her parents
that that is what she was going do for a career and, in fact, that is what she has done.
She attended the University of San Diego's Electrical Engineering Program where she
met a dashing, slightly annoying, but thoroughly irresistible future prosecuting attorney,
that, that's me if you guys didn't pick up on that.
And after graduating from the University of San Diego, you know, the one thing that
she talked to me about when we first met was that she was always going to come
home, she was always going to come home to Hawaii. But she wasn't able to do that
right out of school. She ended up taking a job at Raytheon in Los Angeles, California
and then several years later found her way home to here, on Maui at the Maui High
Tech Park. She has excelled in an industry where there are very few women, even
fewer Pacific Island, people of Pacific Island ethnicity and of Hawaiian ancestry.
She has benefited in so many ways from those who have taken the time to encourage
her, and be there for her, her teachers and others. And what MEDB does in their
support of STEM learning is they cultivate talent, and they cultivate talent right here at
home. Look what you just heard from so many of these students. I couldn't dream of
accomplishing what they've already accomplished as, as elementary and middle
school students.
Providing that funding for that level of education gives our, our local students skills that
lead to higher-paying jobs and advanced industries. They are your future
entrepreneurs; they are your future leaders in tech and they're going to be your future
leaders right here on Maui. And so I can't think of a better way to talk about supporting
funding for MEDB than what you just heard from those students.
I'm very excited for you to hear from my wife in  alittle bit. And let's face it, I had so
much fun yesterday I just had to come back this evening and see you all again.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, glutton for punishment. We have  aquestion from Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Nice seeing you here, Mr. Martin. I'm glad you had so
much fun that you want to come back. I, I want to just comment on, on your testimony,
and clarify that your wife has first good taste, please confirm that?
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 38
MR. MARTIN: Well, you all be the judge of that. I think she has excellent taste.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Anyway, I think, just, just so you know, what you just
described is Senator Inouye's, U.S. Senator former, you know, deceased and former
Senator's vision of why he did the tech park. I just can't believe it, I wish he was here
to hear your wife's story. Thank you very much for sharing it.
MR. MARTIN: Absolutely.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions. Members? If not, thank you, Andrew.
MR. MARTIN: Thank you. Good evening.
CHAIR LEE: Hope to see you again.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Jackie Tateyama. To be followed by Tiare
Martin.
MS. JACKIE TATEYAMA:
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can, Ms. Tateyama.
MS. TATEYAMA: Tateyama, yes. Aloha and thank you for your time. I also wanted to
highlight Abrida, that is a very good friend of mine. My name is Jackie Tateyama, I'm
here to testify in support of MEO Head Start as a whole. But tonight we are focusing
on the summer program. My daughter currently attends the UH MEO Head Start.
Aside from academics I want to highlight additional benefits we receive . . .
CHAIR LEE: We can’t hear you. Could you speak a little louder?
MS. TATEYAMA: How about now?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, better, much better.
MS. TATEYAMA: Okay. So my daughter attends the UH MEO Head Start. I wanted, aside
from academics, I wanted to highlight the additional benefits she receives from the
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 39
program. She developed, she has developed healthy habits, her routines, washing
hands, meal times, art and reading times. She also developed emotional maturity by
guiding her to express and understand her feelings, and making healthy choices and
howto express herself when she needs to for anything, both good and bad.
The summer program will benefit our family by keeping her in her loving and learning
habitat while I am able to hold a full-time job to support us. I am the only parent in the
home, and it would be a major setback if the MEO summer program was not available.
I appreciate your time, and we would appreciate all funding and love from Maui County.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Tiare Martin. To be followed by David Dorn.
MS. TIARE MARTIN:
Good evening, aloha ahiahi.
CHAIR LEE; Good evening.
MS. MARTIN: Can you hear me? Good evening.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. MARTIN: Good evening. County Councilmembers. My name is Tiare Martin, and I am
the executive director for the Maui High Performance Computing Center and I'm here
to testify in support of the Maui Economic Development Board. MEDB is critical to
success of the technology industry in Hawaii, and  Ibelieve in creating a thriving
economy for our community. I lead a team of 40 STEM professionals here in Maui
County, and over 75 percent of them are local, born and raised here. And all of my
team members have benefited from MEDB, whether it was through STEM-Works or
robotics programs in school, or professionally through networking events, funding
opportunities, workshops and/or conferences. We have ail benefited from MEDB's
dedication to our community.
And I personally know how important these programs are for our community, My
husband touched upon my past and just, just to mention I was born and raised here. I
didn't know anything about engineering, or the tech industry and it wasn't until the
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14. 2022
Page 40
eighth grade that an engineer came to school at Kamehameha, introduced us to the
engineering field. And that, that one moment, that one talk changed my life forever.
From there I went to college in the mainland, I received my electrical engineering
degree. And I, I was the first person in my family to graduate from college.
When I was ready to come home, I was able to find  ajob here on Maui through MEDB's
Kamaaina Come Home program and I was able to find  aposition with a local small
business called Oceanit. I have supported MEDB as  avolunteer since I returned home
17 years ago because I know how important their programs are and how they change
lives for the better. And I know they are key to building a better future for our
community.
As executive director for MHPCC I am working hard to build our portfolio of projects to
bring more funding home to our community to create more jobs and to attract more
businesses. Right now. I'm only limited by the number of people I can hire to support
these projects. This is why I need MEDB and the workforce they have built and trained.
As an engineer, MEDB inspires me every day to work hard for our community and as
a Native Hawaiian, this has reinforced my purpose as a caretaker of this place. The
tech industry that MEDB works hard to build is not only an industry that diversifies our
economy and provides good jobs. This is an industry of problem-solvers, critical
thinkers and innovators. This, I humbly request that you continue to support MEDB as
they are critical to building a thriving economy for the people of Maui County.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Your, your husband gave you a glowing
introduction.
MS. MARTIN: He did.
CHAIR LEE: No questions, well, thank you very much, Ms. Martin. Thank you.
MS. MARTIN: Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Members at this time we need to give our hard-working staff a break so we will
reconvene in roughly ten minutes, so 7:45, right. Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, this meeting is in, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, sorry, Madam Chair, before we break, how many more
testifiers do we have left?
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14. 2022
Page 41
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, how many more?
COUNTY CLERK: We have approximately 15 more signed up right now.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, this meeting is in recess until 7:45.
(THE PUBLIC HEARING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 7:31 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 7:48 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony. Our next testifier is David Dorn. To be
followed by Robin Knox.
MR. DAVID DORN:
Hello, can you hear me? Aloha, Councilmembers. My name is David Dorn, not a paid
lobbyist. On a quick note, I hope that remote testifying like this will be maintained in
the future. This has been very helpful for working people to be able to participate in
meetings and the keikis. This saves resources for activity and helps keep us off the
roads and keep us out of the County's often overcrowded parking lot.
Today, I'm speaking on behalf of Sierra Club Maui and in support of Maui's wetland
huis. In particular the South Maui Wetlands Hui which has been involved in an
extensive study of South Maui wetlands because the wetlands are one of the fastest
disappearing resources in our natural environment. Up to 80 percent of Hawaii's
wetlands have already been lost. The studies already identified many of the last
remaining wetlands and watershed resources in the region. And the hui has also
begun a long process of restoring several key wetlands. This created an ongoing
public education and outreach program. This includes education and community days
and involved many citizens of our community, young and old.
This work is not only essential to the preservation of the natural environment, it also
helps us maintain our connection to the land and provide cultural connections to these
special places. As most of you know wetlands play  akey role in managing flood water
and regulating our watershed. We've all seen Kihei's storms and tremendous damage
that uncontrolled floodwaters can do both on the land and the ocean has after effects
that exist for months, for many months afterward.
Sadly our environment, open spaces, and watershed has been mostly overlooked in
the race towards development and unmanaged urban sprawl. However, the Maui
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 42
Island Plan, various island community plans call for the protection of open spaces and
the preservation of natural areas such as streams, wetlands, and beaches.
Our County is also federally mandated to keep our oceanwaters clean and free from
pollution. And the best way to stop this deterioration of our watersheds and minimize
the damage caused by flooding is to continue this kind of work in researching,
protecting and restoring wetlands and bringing our wetlands and watershed back to a
healthy fully functioning condition. We ask you to continue to provide the budget
resources necessary for the South Maui Save the Wetlands Hui and the other groups
who are doing this important work and helping to continue to protect our wetlands for
the sake of our environment and for the future generations to enjoy. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Excuse me. No questions. Thank you, Mr. Dorn.
Madam Clerk.
MR. DORN; Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Robin Knox. To be followed by Lynda Barry
MS. ROBIN KNOX:
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha, Councilmembers. Thank you for having this public hearing.
My name is Robin Knox and I'm testifying on behalf of Save the Wetlands Hui. We are
requesting that the Mayor's budget be amended to continue funding for Save the
Wetlands Hui, ‘Ainakuko'a O Waohuli, and Rooted Kekahi Me Ka Aina projects. All
three of these projects and I have personally worked on all three of these projects, they
take care of important natural resources including sites that are public lands and
County parks and the government beach reserve. These projects offer healthy
community activities in nature for families and visitors. Volunteer participants in these
programs access an exceptional opportunity to learn about native plants and Hawaiian
culture ... as well.
With our FY 2021 grant the hui provided hands-on learning opportunity through eight
work days, three Hawaiian kilo events, and two cooperative events with Learning
Endeavors nonprofit at our demonstration wetland restoration site at Lai'e-Mauka.
These events provided experiential education to more than 100 community members,
including individuals who came from all over the island, 'ohana with people and ages
from keiki to kupuna, and Girl Scouts. The workday volunteers uprooted 12,000 cubic
feet of invasive plants, uncovered and restored dozens of native plants that were
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 43
already there, and installed 157 additional native plants including six species not
previously present. We also removed 1,500 pounds of rubbish.
Our cultural advisor led kilo events that explored the cultural history and significance
of the ‘aina pulu and created a very popular coloring book and calendar to teach about
native plants and kilo in ‘olelo Hawaii. The inventory and mapping identified 44 wetland
features and 116 individual tax map keys of properties which are in the wetlands.
Our outreach through nine public presentations and online platforms reached hundreds
of community members. Our website and, and Save the Wetlands group on Facebook
has more than 400 members. Our, we, as you know, we had educational outreach to
County and State Legislators, and to the Planning Commissions to inform efforts to
protect wetlands.
And the Kona Storm on December 5 really brought together the community's interest
in wetlands. We began to work more closely with Kihei Community Association and
Maui Nui Marine Resource Council to formulate nature-based solutions to the flooding.
We are requesting FY 2023 funds to continue these efforts. We want to expand our
restoration area, double it. We want to have work days every week, instead of just
once a month. We want to increase the wetland ecology hydrology and water quality
monitoring and also offer internships opportunities for keiki to learn STEM subjects in
our monitoring program. We want to offer workshops to train volunteers and other hui
groups, you know groups, that are working on wetland projects about wetland soils,
hydrology, flora and fauna. And we also want to do more mapping, and work with HILT
and Dr. Scott Fisher at HILT on palaeoecological and other scientific investigations.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Members, questions? If not, thank you, Ms. Knox.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Lynda Barry. To be followed by the testifier calling in
on last four digits 1120.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Barry
MS. LYNDA BARRY:
Yes, good evening, Madam Chair and Councilmembers. Thank you very much for the
opportunity to speak to you this evening at this important meeting. I'm testifying this
evening in support of Maui Economic Opportunity, human services transportation
program, as part of the transportation project. I have been using the human service
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 44
transportation program since last year when I was able to serve a three month
internship with Aloha House to complete my certification as a Hawaii certified peer
specialist. I had previously been using the paratransit service, which do other sort of
stuff, but the transportation for work is provided by the human service division.
This is a very critically important program and I do encourage you all to support, as
much as possible the funding for this transportation service and other related services.
Without these services I would not have been able to complete my internship. And at
the end of the internship I was offered employment and now work as a peer services
provider in the LCRS facility at Aloha House. Without the transportation to get to work,
I would be denying the support and service to clients who critically need it in times of
extreme crisis. Thank you for your consideration, and good evening.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Barry.
Madam Clerk.
MS. BARRY: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is calling in on the last four digits of the number 1120
1120. And 1120 will be followed by Travis Liggett.
ANONYMOUS:
Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. You may begin your testimony.
ANONYMOUS: Thank you. I appreciate that very much. I'm . . . I'm calling from Maalaea
and I'm standing out on the seawall looking over the moonlight on the bay here. And I
really enjoyed listening to your meeting tonight.  I. . . any longer live on Maui. . . And
it has been such a pleasure to ... so respectful, wonderful kids, I tell you, the future is
in good hands with those teenagers who called in.  Iappreciate your time tonight.
I'm calling in, in support of the community septic system here in Maalaea. My family
bought land here in 1966, I'm standing where I, looking out on the ocean where we
surfed when we were kids. And not living here anymore, you know, coming back every
year, generally in January/February, this year I haven't been back for three years
because of COVID. The water quality is definitely not what it used to be. In fact I felt
like I could taste the difference in the water..  .Maalaea Bay water. It's so sad ... and
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 45
clearly standing ... water quality ... different, the color is different and it's just a shame
to be, how degrading the golden egg. I'm so sorry about that.
So I encourage Councilperson King's proposal to include money for the long overdue,
appropriate . . . septic . . . needed ... So we're good for some time in the future, but.
. . hoping that new to the 'aina, into the earth, and having it seep out into the ocean
and into our aquifers, boy. that's a bad solution. ... I encourage that we invest in our
future, so that we don't destroy our beautiful, our beautiful land here. So, thank you so
much for all the time to be able to share my thoughts with you tonight. I thank you all
for your patience in sitting through this long meeting. And again, I just love listening to
the keiki and their wonderful testimony. Thank you so much. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are, do you have any questions? If not, thank you very
much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier.
ANONYMOUS: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Travis Liggett. To be followed by Jason Schwartz
MR. TRAVIS LIGGETT:
Aloha, Councilmembers. Good evening.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. LIGGETT: Thank you for holding testimony again. I really appreciate it. My name is
Travis Liggett and I have a Maui small business called Reef Power, LLC. You know it
was great seeing the kids tonight. I am a nerd too, I studied engineering and worked
at NASA for ten years. But my whole career started from getting sick from wastewater
when I was a kid and it's wound me up in Maui through a series of very fortunate
events.
And one of the recent projects I've worked on is called flushaware.com, which educates
Maui island users on the treatment level and destination of their wastewater disposal
method and provides actions for activism and improving life downstream. And what
I'm testifying tonight are for two projects that support wastewater improvements that I
discovered through my work on flush aware. And the first is I want to strongly support
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 46
the investment in the Maalaea regional wastewater reclamation system. It is a great
idea to use the membrane bioreactor treatment technology to be coupled with irrigation
reuse for natural regenerative disposal method for that wastewater.
The second issue that came up through my flush aware research was the fact that
most of the municipal wastewater in Maui is not being disinfected before injection into
nearshore recreation areas. So what we find is Lahaina has had disinfection since
2015. Kihei is getting it this summer, they're working on installing it for the injection
wells. The Kahului doesn't have any near-term plans to install disinfection for the
injection wells.
So what I would implore you to do is also make an investment in the injection well
disinfection issue in Kahului. We really shouldn't have, you know, these keikis who are
working so hard for their careers to be swimming in infected wastewater. So if you're
not able to invest in the entire six million that has been cited by DEM, as needed for
this disinfection, you might invest in a preliminary engineering report which will help
the Department of Environmental Management actually understand how much the
disinfection upgrades will cost. So those are the two big issues that are important for
protecting our keiki from infected wastewater, the Maalaea Regional Wastewater
Reclamation System and disinfection in Kahului. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you Mr. Liggett. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jason Schwartz. To be followed by Diana Papini
Warren.
MR. JASON SCHWARTZ:
Aloha. Everybody hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Yes.
MR. SCHWARTZ: Aloha, Council. Thank you for having me. My name is Jason Schwartz.
Some of you I know personally, and I haven't been on this forum with you in this way
in years. But I hope to see you offline, at Maui neutral zone as you choose. I'm here
because as budget is happening, ! commend you for the, the tremendous energy and
effort to be fair and loving in your decisions. And, you know, trying to squeeze out
115 cents out of.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 47
But I want to also specifically call and, and applaud Tasha for her passion. I've seen
persona! issues where I've called her and I really appreciate it, but I see that Council
has only so much power and maybe a change in things as someone that does have
the power to make some of this happen along with the guidance. Thank you for your
hard work.
The housing issue, that safe sleeping thing is really significant to me. I think it would
really be something powerful and, and necessary so I wanted to give a second and a
third to them.
And the wastewater idea, Travis, I agree about Kahului and understanding about
Maalaea, obviously, great things.
Shane, you mentioned about whether the kids had a housing solution? Big kids have
housing solutions, you know, the old thing about you have to get asked, someone has
to ... So maybe offline we'll talk about some of these things. And this isn't the forum.
But I really am many of you know I've been an environmental advocate. Green Party
when I ran 30 years ago and am still Green. This is the year we have Green running
for Governor and I'm a Green. And I really want to support environmental projects.
And I really am very excited about the potential for the future. But as leaders, I want
to put a lot of weight on this environmental thing, and speed up our, what do we call it
development of these new technologies, and I have, again thoughts off line about how
the private sector might enhance and unburden the County in some of that need to
provide. So those are things we'll talk about.
But I, I really just wanted to really put my two cents about the housing thing with safe
sleeping. It's unbelievable to me some of the situations that I run into, people I know,
sadly, personally, that are challenged in new ways. And thank you for all it takes to do
this. I want to know what Mahi Pono solutions ...  Ireally want to know that one about
the dust and so many things that are coming along. And I appreciate all of you. I just
wanted to come and add my two cents. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Jason. Members, questions? If not, thank you so much. Good
night.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Diana Papini Warren. To be followed by Courtney
Ikawa.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 48
MS. DIANA PAPINI WARREN:
Aloha, I'm Diana Papini Warren. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. WARREN; Okay, thank you. I am the executive director of Learning Endeavors, a
nonprofit organization dedicated to inspiring the next generation of leaders in Hawaii
and beyond by developing and managing innovative education programs. And one of
the programs that we offer for keiki on Maui are after-school programs and camps over
breaks.
And over the last year, we've developed a new wetlands camp to get our keiki familiar
with the native birds and plants, and the very important ecosystem that we have in our
wetlands. And I just want to speak in favor of Councilmember King's South Maui
wetlands funding proposal. We benefited greatly by partnering with the Save the
Wetlands Hui and bringing our keiki in two of our camps down to the Laie wetlands.
And they got to help water the native plants that had been planted there and learned
about the cultural, you know, the history and cultural perspectives of our fragile
wetlands. And I, I just really think that we, we should not be ignoring our wetlands.
So sort of separate from my work, well it's not separate, but another initiative that our
organization has is called champions for coastal resilience. And so it's a statewide
initiative, where we're trying to empower youth grade 4 through 12 to really understand
the importance of coastal ecosystems in the face of climate change and rising sea-
level, and intensified storms and storm erosion. And so it's a priority for our
organization to really educate our keiki, and the next generation on wetlands. And I
just think it's really important that we keep funding protection of our wetland's
restoration, and partnerships that really build more educational opportunities for our
communities statewide but here in Maui Nui. So again, Diana from Learning
Endeavors, just wanted to state my support of continued funding for wetlands if at all
possible. Happy to take any questions.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you, Ms. Warren.
MS. WARREN: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 49
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Courtney Ikawa. To be followed by Lucienne de Naie.
MS. COURTNEY IKAWA:
Hi, good evening.
CHAIR LEE: Hello, Ms. Ikawa.
MS. IKAWA: Hi, Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers. My name is Courtney Ikawa and
I'm the regional director for Big Brothers, Big Sisters of Maui. I want to thank you for
your continued support of our agency. Over the past year we've served over 150
participants, we conducted over 300 meetings with our youth, guardians, and mentors
to provide support to their one-to-one mentoring relationships and connect them to
various resources on island.
We maintain partnerships with organizations like Grow Some Good to bring garden
education to our after-school program. And we have plans to expand that in the next
year. And we continue to host numerous activities and events for our participants and
hired an additional enrollment and matching coordinator to help manage the increased
interest in our programs.
One in three young people don't have a positive sustained mentor in their life. And for
the past two years, youth experienced record levels of isolation, emotional trauma, and
anxiety. Facing these barriers together with their mentor build confidence and
resilience through a positive relationship.
Last year 100 percent of our youth reported the improved or maintain emotional
regulation, depressive symptoms, and risky behaviors. So we just humbly ask for your
support of our line item grant allocation of $195,000 and we, with the increased funding
will be able to serve more youth in need and help build the next generation of
competent, confident, and caring individuals. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members questions? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Ikawa.
MS. IKAWA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Lucienne de Naie. To be followed by the caller,
testifiers calling in on the last four digits 0376.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 50
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE:
Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Hello, Ms. de Naie.
MS. DENAIE: Aloha. Good evening and thank you all for these long, these long meetings
and dedicated to listening to our communities. I'd like to testify on behalf of the Sierra
Club Maui Group, just like David Dorn as well, and also as a private citizen on several
matters.
The Sierra Club Maui is in very, very strong support of the proposal for the $600,000
for the funding for our continued wetlands restoration projects. If we care for these
lands, they are going to be there in the clutch for us. And so much damage has been
done in the past that it's just wonderful to see the next\ generations start going out and
caring for these places. And I have visited several of the projects, and they are just
wonderful places for the schools to come, for youth groups, and for folks to, you know,
get, get their hands in, in the 'aina, and learn, learn about the, the modern and ancient
lore of the land.
We're also in very, very strong support of the $9.5 million to finally, finally, finally set
things right at Maalaea. Expecting a small group of condominium owners to solve a
problem that should have been solved when those ten condos were built, but weren't,
sort of swept under the table, it's just not practical, would take too many years. It's
better to have a proper functioning plant. They've done all the research, they've really
done due diligence, and the water can be used right there on the 'aina. So it won't be
injected in the ocean and the amazing variety of Maalaea Bay that has been written
about in so many studies from the 1970's and 1980's can slowly return.
And lastly as a private citizen, I would like to very strongly support the proposal by
Councilmember King to have this project on safe places to sleep. We heard a very
moving presentation by Share Your Mana last night at the Haiku Community
Association meeting, people trying to live in their cars and work and have connections
with their family and have the dignity that a human being deserves. You know, we
need some places that have showers and electrical hook-ups for, for charging,
charging your phones, and some places where people can wash their clothes and just
feel like they have a safe shelter as they get back on their feet.
So thank you for your consideration of all of these important things, and all of the
wonderful youth programs that came tonight. This is just inspiring to see all these
young ladies, our future scientists and young gentlemen. But we're doing all these
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 51
things for them. These investments are in the resources that these generations will
inherit. So thank you for being very farsighted and making these investments in
treating our sewage correctly, in caring for our wetlands and in caring for our people.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. de Naie. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you very
much. Good night.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is calling in on the last four digits of the phone
0376. 0376 will be followed by Leslee Matthews.
CHAIR LEE; Let's move onto Leslee Matthews, please.
MS. LESLEE MATTHEWS;
Good evening, Council Chair Lee, and Councilmembers. Thank you all for hosting this
public hearing today. I'm here to testify in support of Councilmember King's proposal
to allocate funds for a safe place, make sure I get it right, establishing, a grant to
establish safe zone for persons that are homeless for sleeping spaces. Sleep
deprivation for person's that are homeless is a real thing. They oftentimes are worried
about where their belongings are, if they are safe. Some, sometimes folks have
families, so it's, you know, are their families safe? Not having a safe space to stay also
contributes to, to sleep, also contributes to a lot of really poor health. And so I just
want to mahalo Councilmember King, because it's, it’s like thank you for listening to
what advocates like myself have been coming to this Council to talk about. Especially
for those folks that I just want to kind of echo what some previous testifiers have said.
I personally would not trust this grant to Family Life Center, and I say that with a lot of
love, because people I love and that have helped raise me work there.
But recently we lost somebody, Kevin, Uncle Kevin, he was 73 years old. And he was
a person that was homeless. He's been, was homeless for a long time, and one of the
times that I had to leave outreach with Maui Rescue Mission to come testify, I said,
okay, what do you want me to share with the Council? And he said, tell them we're
dying, and they don't even know our names. So I want to say his name and honor him.
Maybe if he had a safe place to stay, he would still be with us today. I did try to get
him into housing with Family Life Center and their question to me was, well do you
want housing for him, or does he want housing for himself? That shouldn't be a
question that we're asking people in their time of need. And 1 know that there are
issues that can be solved if we work together. But I just wouldn't trust the grant to
them.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 52
Organizations like Project Vision, Hawaii, they do incredible work throughout the State
of Hawaii to serve and help people. And I think that there needs to be a bifurcation of
housing from human concerns, because they're two really big issues that need a lot of
support to solve their separate issues. And somebody spoke about this earlier, but it's
literally one of their grant, one of their goals is community members that use or frequent
areas that was cleared, express a greater sense of safety and overall satisfactions with
the division's efforts. So we're talking about that's one of the homeless program goals
is that other people that didn't have to seek shelter there feel okay about being there.
Rather than what is the goal of the people that need shelter and that need safe spaces.
So I would just ask the Council to look at that goal, it's a terrible goal, I don't like it. But
it's one that's been met like 100 percent, 90 percent, when we're talking about
displacing people from their homes. They don't have safe places to stay. They don't
have safe spaces to, so I would ask to have ... in the amount of $200,000 and in
closing, again, thank you Councilmember King. I'm going to be sad that you are not
on the Council anymore, but I hope that there's bigger and brighter things in your future.
And thank you for listening, and again, I just want to say Uncle Kevin's name. We, we
honor you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Matthews. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair our next testifier is Cody Nemet Tuivaiti. To be followed by Faith
Chase
MR. CODY NEMET TUIVAITI:
Aloha mai kakou. My name is Cody Nemet Tuivaiti.  Iam the current project manager
of ‘Ainakuko'u o Waiohuli Kai. Waiohuli, ‘Ainakuko'u o Waiohuli Kai is a restoration
program in the area of Waiohuli or. . . And my testimony today is in support of Kelly
King's proposal to the Mayor's proposed budget to kokua our overall efforts in the
restoration and rehabilitation of our wetlands and uplands. I truly believe that in the
past couple years, we have been onto something big here in South Maui. And that we
can really do a lot for the betterment of our island home.
Our traditions and practices have been put it, have been put to the test, proving that
through kilo aina and stewardship we can create a working management plan that will
mitigate our run-off and storm surge issues. This budget will allow us to properly
facilitate the work that needs to be done. Active soil and water testing gives us the, an
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 53
opportunity to examine our environment and efforts while understanding what has
been lacking or missing.
The truth is, I feel South Maui has suffered a lot. Our shorelines and waterways have
been neglected and the result is the bigger floods, loss of our native plants and limu,
less fish, coral bleaching, erosion, and the undermining of our streams. So the impact
of development and ranching have clearly taken its toll, and mitigation efforts need to
be taken to help create balance, I feel. So I support all our combined efforts to address
these issues, connecting Kula to mauka, connecting Kula Mauka to Kula Kai. And
hopefully we have the continued support of our community and officials to malama our
aina. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Faith Chase. To be followed by Mike Moran.
MS. FAITH CHASE:
Good evening, Chair. Good evening, Council. You know, how many years into this
watching budget and I'm still learning. So I actually thought, I realized that your
meeting this morning is going to be, you, you wrapped up your CIP projects and so
you were able to move some items to the 18th, I believe. So I have things to share on
the 18th, but I'm going to just go down some of the things that are in the Mayor's budget
and then share expanded thoughts, because now that I have the chance to review all
of your different CIP's, I see some cross-pollinating that will strengthen some of my
suggestions that 1 was alluding to. That Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez had
asked me about so . . . budget ... I'm going to speak to a lot of things but. ... in
there, I understand that the grant-writing is a real, is a real push or an extension of that.
I'd really like to see that. I think that there's some bridging that can strengthen the new
department.
I'm really pleased to see that the police knows that it needs more investigators. They
are. I'm not sure if the new Chief of the Police is aware of, he must be seeing this
backlog of investigations. He might actually need to, if you get a chance, he might
need two.
I, I echo Travis Liggett's testimony. There's a gofundme for $6 million to take care of
the UV in Kahului. If you guys can find $6 million to do the Kahului, as well as the
Maalaea, please try. The . . . her CIP . . .
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 54
CHAIR LEE: Faith, Faith, you're, we're losing you every so many sentences. Faith, could
you turn off your, your video? That might help the audio.
MS. CHASE: Let’s try that. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: So far, it's working.
MS. CHASE: Okay, kala mai. Councilmember Kama. I really do appreciate the DHHL liaison
position that you were talking about, but you need to include the SCHHA, the Sovereign
Council of Hawaiian Affairs Association. They are actually equal if not more in power
than DHHL. They represent 44 Hawaiian homesteads, so please try to include that in
your, when you, morph or refine that proposal.
No. 3 on my, on my mind is safe parking, of course, that's a great, that's a great
footprint, a starting point ... I predict is other people are going to find, other people in
need are going to find that parking lot and you're going to be able to see for yourself.
So maybe every district have a little puka emergency money for when that happens.
The wetlands, of course, excellent, continue that. I'm not sure, I'm very concerned
about this is what I believe that the watershed partnerships, there's a missing piece
and it's leeward Haleakala. And what I believe is because leeward Haleakala
restoration watershed partnership, because they failed in their deliverables the year
before last, now it looks like maybe in the budget that it's not needed, but quite frankly,
that's all I work on. I've been in Kahikinui, been helping the Hawaiian Homelands, they
have had no water for 30 years, used to come all the way from Waikamoi, I know I told
you about this in a different conversation. You need to try to include that. I'm working
on grants, I'm, CWRM is aware of them. And so the grant window compared to your
budget schedule is not meshing. So please include the watershed, leeward Haleakala,
even though . . . whatever their acronym, even though they failed in the deliverables,
there's flares that are around the corner.
The transportation, as far as like overall, in the budget. My last item, I'm not sure where
the visitor education went awry? That was also part of my East Maui's family's hard
work, the first time it got hijacked, the second time it went to another vehicle and Maui
Visitors Bureau, it's back in there. We asked them to like, kind of come down on their
budget give it to visitor education somehow, and it ended up back in their lap and still
now it's a problem. So if you can find a way to carve that back into the budget, please
do. And have a good evening and I'll have more to share next week. Thank you so
much.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 55
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Faith. Members, questions?
Member Kama,
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. It's not a question, but I just wanted to
respond to Faith's question. So Faith, when the issue first came out, I did contact the
SCHHA and the chair of the SCHHA did welcome this particular position and she did
ask that I continue to include them in the decision-making process. When the issue
comes up, and it actually gets passed, then we'll have more dialogue with the
homesteaders. Thank you.
MS. CHASE: May I make one comment about that?
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
MS. CHASE: DHHL, it's a, it's a sticky conversation between them because they are realizing
yeah, that the SCHHA has been busy. So it is a, it is little bit of a tap dance, but I do
feel like the position you're talking about gets to be that bridge and that liaison to help
both of those departments or both of those agencies. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any comments, questions. Members? If not, thank you, Faith. And may we
have the next testifier.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Mr. Moran has dropped from the call. So our next testifier is Carol
Lee Kamekona. To be followed by Misty Vierra.
CHAIR LEE: And how many more?
COUNTY CLERK: A total of five more.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Hello, Ms. Kamekona. We can't hear you. Uh oh.
Madam Clerk, can you unmute her? Or is it on her side?
COUNTY CLERK: She is, she is unmuted.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 56
MS. CAROL LEE KAMEKONA:
Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, yes, we can.
MS. KAMEKONA: Mahalo. Aloha ahiahi, Chair, Vice-Chair and Members of our Council. My
name is Carol Lee Kamekona. I am not a paid lobbyist. I would like to preface my
testimony by saying mahalo for allowing our working community an opportunity to voice
their opinion. I am also so appreciative of our future generations coming forward and
taking hold of their civic engagement at such a young age.
I am testifying in strong support of Councilmember King’s wetlands funding proposal.
Coastal wetlands serve as storm surge protectors for hurricanes and tropical storms
that may come ashore. The coastal landscaping can also provide a significant and
sustainable buffer from wind wave action. For these reasons and others, I support this
proposal. Although an amendment I would support to this proposal would be for
purchasing wetlands around our County to insure protection in perpetuity.
On another note, again, from Councilmember King's office with regard to a proposal of
200,000 for a safe sleeping parking lot for our houseless community. You and I have
a warm, comfortable bed, where we can get four, six or even eight hours of restful
sleep. Our housing community have no warm, comfortable beds. No opportunity for
a restful sleep. They don't have to sleep with one eye open for fear of their personal
property being stolen. Although I appreciate the intent of this proposal, I caution this
Council to do a deep-dive and add conditions to who would be overseeing the
disbursement of these funds. My recommendations of nonprofits for oversight could
possibly be Project Vision. Maui Rescue Mission, or perhaps Share Your Mana. We
need trauma-informed social workers, not outreach workers to facilitate services to our
houseless community. Their lives should matter too. Mahalo for hearing my testimony.
. . . a hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Carol Lee. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Misty Vierra. To be followed by Debbie Hisashima
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 57
MS. MISTY VIERRA:
Can everybody hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. VIERRA: My name is Misty Vierra, and I am a parent, a teacher, and a coach, Pukalani
School, after school STEM-Works program. And I'm testifying today in support of
MEDB. What's amazing is that the kids that called in tonight, a lot of them are our
current students or they're the siblings of our past students, and one of them was my
child. And this program itself has brought so much opportunity to these kids, and what
they can become in the future.
I didn't have that program growing up, and somehow, I got involved and became one
of the coaches in this, I do advanced robotics. And yes, we won a space to World's
and we're going to go compete and the kids have been pushing. This is what we do.
We push them, they do what they do, and we just teach them as they go along. And I
think I want you guys to know that the biggest thing we teach them is how to support
each other, how to work together as a team.
And watching the testimonies tonight is, has brought on like so many emotions, I think,
because I would like to actually like be supportive of everyone that testified for
something. It's kind of amazing. You guys do an amazing job. So I just wanted to
speak out tonight to let you guys know that for anything that you guys are budgeting,
this, I think what you do for Maui is amazing. So  Ijust want to thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you also. Members, questions?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Ms. Vierra. How
many students are in the STEM program?
MS. VIERRA: A lot. A lot, in like every school. Personally for Pukalani School we do all
grades. We started here.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Somebody's mic is live. Chair.
MS. VIERRA: . .
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 58
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. I'm sorry, go ahead.
MS. VIERRA: So we start from kindergarten and then each grade we teach, we move on with
programming. We give them many opportunities for math, technology, engineering, I
have no degree in any of this. You just learn with your kids, and then you move on
with them, and they teach you. And that's what they all did, they taught me. So I'm
really proud of this. Thank you for asking.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Vierra.
MS. VIERRA: Thank you. Have a good night.
CHAIR LEE: You. too.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Debbie Hisashima. To be followed by Cara Flores.
MS. DEBBIE HISASHIMA:
Hi there. I'm trying to, there I go, okay. Aloha, Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers.
My name is Debbie Hisashima. I'm a teacher, as well as the STEM-Works coordinator
at Pukalani School. Tonight I had actually planned to submit written testimony instead
of oral. But seeing all of our brave young students speak up for MEDB inspired me to
be bold as well.
Over the years through STEM-Works hundreds, or, you know, close to even a
thousand or beyond of our students have taken after-school STEM classes at Pukalani
School. Even during this challenging school year, we had about 85 students taking
STEM classes in the first semester of this year. And right now, about 100 students are
taking classes this semester. And I, you know 1 have to tell you that students really
look forward to their STEM classes during the day. The little ones constantly run up to
me during the day to tell me how happy they are, they have STEM today, STEM today.
They ask me lots of questions about STEM. It's really, really cute.
You know, earlier tonight you have heard from many of our successful students who
are part of the STEM-Works program, either here at Pukalani or moved up to Kaiama
or at King Kekaulike and undoubtedly, they will be the next-generation of our engineers
and our health professionals. So it may look, may seem like only top students are in
our STEM-Works, but that is not true. Our STEM-Works program reaches out to all
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 59
students. All students have a chance to register for classes and our program will adjust
to their needs.
With this pandemic, many of our students were struggling to maintain their grade-level
skills as you know. Most especially hit is our second graders this year. They came
into the school year at a pretty severe deficit. So I spoke to our STEM-Works manager
Jaime Kahoohanohano about this problem, and together we created a new class that
I teach, and we're focusing on strengthening reading and writing skills needed for the
STEM skills, I'm sorry, STEM fields. So basically what it is, it's a tutoring class, but we
use science materials to develop communication skills and to build scientific
knowledge so, and also students will be tasked, tasked with problems and they have
to use engineering design process to solve those problems. So what they're doing is
applying reading and writing skills and, and acting like real engineers.
So at Pukalani School, one of the habits we live by is ... in mind and we are ... the
architects . . . together, with MEDB, we are building students who possess the
communication, thinking, and technical skills needed for productive lives. So we thank
you Maui Council for helping us to keep that partnership alive.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Debbie H. Question?
Member Sinenci?
MS. HISASHIMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: We have a question for you. Wait, hold on.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo Ms. Hisashima and thank you for
all you, mahalo for all you do. Earlier in the week, we did have some students from
the Maui High robotics team, some of the students that were working on some circuitry.
My question was do you feel in the curriculum does it build on the lower ages up to
high school? There's a sequence of building upon STEM, enough STEM classes
within, within a continuous curriculum.
MS. HISASHIMA: Well right now our youngest learners, kindergarten students have a class,
and they started this semester. We don't start them right away because it's really hard
to start little five years olds in our STEM program, right away. So we wait till the second
semester, so we have 16 kindergarteners in our STEM program and just today they
were programming little robot cars. They have a task, you know, get the robot car from
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 60
here to there. And so, they have to figure out how to program it using code to get their
robot car to that destination.
So definitely we start them young in coding, and you know, build them up to get to that
level. If they, if they choose to go that level. But in the meantime, what we're working
on, as well as the technical skills of coding is that perseverance, we're working on
communication skills as Misty said. They do a lot of teamwork, so they need to be able
to communicate, they need to perverse.
Two of our, the sisters, they were talking about, both of them did talk about making
mistakes, both of those girls are pretty brilliant girls, they're really smart. And so they’re
not used to making mistakes. So I remember them in their STEM classes years back,
where they would, you know, get upset if they make a mistake. They would cry if they
made a mistake, so we had to get them to the point, where we say mistakes, I
remember telling one of the little ones that mistakes are your friends, because it helps
you to better yourself. So don't be afraid of mistakes. In fact, expect to make mistakes
and be thankful for them. So definitely there's lots and lots of skills that we teach to
get them to that level of high school and beyond.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo for that. I was always a fan of the home science
projects. Thank you.
MS. HISASHIMA; Yes. thank you,
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you Debbie for your enthusiasm, and your
dedication. Thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Cara Flores. To be followed by Keisa Liu.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Flores.
MS. CARA FLORES:
Aloha, can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can. Awesome. I feel the budget is probably one of the most important
things our Council does and when you choose how to spend the budget, you're really
speaking to the priorities of the Council for that year. So I appreciate that you guys are
putting forth your priorities, and, you know, really advocating for our community.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 61
I do support the restoration of the wetlands. I think that's really important for flood
control and our environment, and our watersheds. Obviously, the Maalaea wastewater
is very needed. So I definitely support that as well. Protects our reefs and as, you
know, the sea-level rises, we have to do something, and Maalaea is right in the hitting
zone of our sea-level going up. Those cesspools will be underwater in no time. So
that's urgent.
Big Brother Big Sister, PALS, STEM-Works, I think that's all awesome. I just wanted
to point out that not everything the kids do with education is through our DOE, and a
lot of it happens after-school and a lot of that's provided by the County. So to prioritize
those things really prioritizes kids' education and what the County has control over.
And same thing when you fix up a park or put money into capital improvements, you're
investing in children's safety. If you look at, you know, right there at Wells Park is right
behind lao School, and if you put shaded areas in that, the kids use it every day for
recess and for all kinds of activities. So 1 just think it's really important to invest in
public infrastructure.
The affordable housing fund being proposed with $37 million from the Mayor, I think is
good. I think if you doubled that, that would be great, because we have a housing
crisis, and it's probably our biggest crisis right now with climate change and the effects
of that being the second biggest crisis that we're facing.
And that is where I'm kind of wondering with the April 8 letter that came out from
Tommy Waters about ARPA funds. If our County Council knows where our ARPA
funds are going and how they are being spent? Because from looking at the budget
breakdown, i couldn't figure it out. I don't know if that's included in the budget or if
that's a whole separate budget. But I do think as the public, we have a right to
understand that and know. And I hope that it's very transparent with the public.
Also knowing that we have these crisis, 1 am a little troubled to see that there's
carryover savings at all, because we have so many things to fix. So I hope you guys
can redistribute our budget in a way that does put our highest priorities first, and takes
care of the things we need to take care of most urgently.
And I highly encourage you to invest in capital improvement projects around the new
Kihei High School, so to work with the State on that. I'm very concerned about kids
walking over there, and how they are going to get to and from that school. And schools
are always a huge capital improvement project, and it's a great way to invest in
community. They are normally an anchor, especially something as large as a high
school. So it's worth putting the infrastructure around that development. Thank you.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 62
CHAIRLEE: Thankyou. Members, do you have any questions? Ifnot, thank you, Ms. Flores.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair our next testifier is Keisa Liu. To be followed by Kaniloa Kamaunu.
MS. KEISA LIU:
Aloha, my name is Keisa Liu, and I would like to provide my thoughts and concerns as
it relates to houseless programs in the FY '23 proposed budget. I'm concerned that
we are funding toxic behaviors that negatively affect us as a community. Housing and
Human Concerns leadership hides behind tightly controlled and contorted data,
algorithms, and authority while allowing toxic human behavior to dictate how our money
is spent.
For instance, Director Tsuhako had asked for additional money to put together a
proposal for a medical mobile medical unit. The MPD is already doing that, and instead
of working with the MPD or at least asking how they created their working model of
collaboration and compassionate response to our houseless crisis, she took the
opportunity to disparage them in front of the body tasked to, with approving their funds.
That is toxic competitive behavior.
Instead of building a loving sense of community and righteousness we have ... of
organizations who do not play nice with each other. In that type of environment people
will always slip through the cracks. For a long time, the narrative of our houseless has
been that if they don't follow the narrow dimly light path out of houselessness, they
don't matter. It is one of the many lies I have heard from leadership that has forced
me to lose trust in their word and knowledge.
It is the Housing and Human Concerns Department goal to educate the public about
houselessness on Maui County and yet they been lying to us. And I would not trust
them to give me accurate data when they conduct the point-in-time count right after a
large clean-up. I do not trust their, that their contractors like Family Life Center
compassionately do outreach, or when they do, they admit in a public meeting that
they asked potential clients if they are ready to accept Jesus.
Housing and Human Concerns and their contractor's cherry pick data so that they are
seen in the best light and not the most honest light. And I do not trust that they are
building collaboration. When after I ask about the relationships, people shift in their
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 63
chairs, clam up, look down, become overly defensive, leave, or are afraid to speak.
How can I trust them to be fiscally responsible with my money?
The taxpayers are funding County sanctioned inhumane and civil rights violating clean
ups under the County of Maui's compassionate action plan. As a private, as a private
citizen I do not want to fund this clean-ups. They are not effective at solving our
houseless crisis that pulls police away from critical calls for help and it makes it difficult
to build the trust needed to empower people out of houselessness. Defund the budget
items that are used for these clean-ups. Use the money to fund safe sleeping lots,
encampments, garbage pickup, hygiene stations, water stations.
You know you may be thinking that my statements and concerns are not about the
budget, but they most certainly are. I have seen how favoritism, lying, posturing,
malicious jockeying, talks of competition, grudge holding, and revenge feed into who
gets money, when they get money, and how they get money here in Maui County. I
have seen money used as a tool to continue this behavior instead of fix it. Our County
budget process is not immune, and we deserve better. The people of Maui County
have intrinsic value regardless of their socio-economic status. The budget should
reflect this truth.
One last thing, before I go, which has nothing to do with the houseless stuff. I did not
get a chance to see the testimonies before and I'm just looking through and seeing all
of the testimony for the STEM-Works program, and  Ihave to say, as a mother of a
4-year-old soon to be scientist, engineer, or astronaut. I'm in full support of anything
we can do to bring that into our County. Our children love it and need it and I am very
appreciative for everyone who has been participating in that, and of course please fund
that. Mahalo for your time and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you, Keisa.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kaniloa Kamaunu. To be followed by Roxanne Morita.
And Roxanne is currently the last testifier signed up.
MR. KANILOA KAMAUNU:
Aloha Council. Kaniloa Kamaunu from Waihee Valley. So, aloha. So I'm in support
of Councilmember King's proposal for wetlands. I think it's very important as we can
see through the pandemic and even what's happening now, we, we go to the stores,
and there's a lot of limited items, especially in the grocery stores. So these wetlands.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 64
what they're significant for is not only because of the sea rise, the sea-levels, but the
most important thing is that muliwai's feed, you know, that they are the ones that bring
down the fish to the ocean that go into the ocean and goes back up later on. So the
circle of life continues.
if we don’t provide the, the necessary funding to make sure that these muliwai's, these
waterways make their normal, or, yeah their natural occurrence, it interferes with not
only what's, you know, on land, but also in the ocean. They are all connected and
that's what our people understood, and that's why they always made sure that you
malama 'aina. You going to realize what that really means, it's a frame of thought.
Malama means to make sure that all things work in accordance. Because if one breaks
down, then eventually other things would be affected. It's the same thing if, if your car,
if you let things go, you don't put oil, sooner or later it's going to affect the engine itself.
Same thing with the, with the wetlands they are there for a purpose.
And with all these developments that come out through the years, especially areas like
South Kihei, where many wetlands, Kanaha, these areas, we can see the devastation
that occurs. And not only on land, but in the ocean, things change. You look around,
where is ail the limu that used to grow frequently in all these areas? Where is the,
where is the fish that used to be on the reefs? What's happening to the conditions of
the reef? We put blame on other things, but really, it's the interference of man with
nature. And our people understood that all things were living, and all things had an
important part to play and that’s why they malama from mauka to makai cause all
things had to function and everything. And when we look at our water resource, that
also, that's a recharge to our aquifers, to our aquifer and with, and with all the
interference of these developments and everything that's come throughout the years,
our water resource is diminishing.
And the USGA was already talking about that in 2010, about the lens of our aquifers.
And so all these things are natural recharges, which we keep losing. And with the
development of the plantation lands, who took the waters from their natural areas of,
of, you know, to recharge. Those artificial recharges are disappearing, too, now,
because of the developments. And so we have to look at overall, not just one area.
Not that it's only because of sea-level, but because people not maa to who we are and
what our culture is and what we did to be able to have such an ecosystem. And the
thing is it's broken because we . . . is that, can I make another comment on another
item? Or am I done?
CHAIR LEE: We'll give you one more minute.
MR. KAMAUNU: Sorry, and then as far as the homelessness, I think what has to be done,
this is just my opinion working in the jail and with these people, a lot of them are from
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 65
out-of-state. We need to find funding from the States that keep dumping them here.
You know, a lot of them have a lot of mental issues, that's why people don't realize
those that are here it's different from the local homeless and from those that not from
here. You have all of these different parties interacting, and they cannot be treated the
same way because they have different needs, and different situations that need to be
looked at instead of just throwing money out there blindly. We need to understand who
you dealing and see if we can get funding from the States that keep dumping people
here because they don't want to deal with them. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Kaniloa.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here tonight, Kaniloa.
So, you know, my question to you is you know you're right, we have to take care of all
of the wetlands. So are there wetlands in the, in the Waiehu, Waihee area?
MR. KAMAUNU: Yes, there is. Waiehu, pretty much if you drive along the Lower Beach
Road, you know, all that area where you have the hau trees, you know, that's right
across from like Waiehu Heights, Waiehu Terrace-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
MR. KAMAUNU: -that's all wetlands. And that's also being impacted, too. I know one of the
things that concernment was the run-off that is coming off Waiehu Heights as well as
from the main road. But that area is also wetlands also.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: And is anything being done to mitigate those things, do you
know?
MR. KAMAUNU; We tried to. I remember when I went there as part of the aha moku to check
the situation and my concern was that when they were digging to make the platform
that they did, that had kick one of the springs. And so, they were trying to mitigate by
pumping it out, but it kept surfacing because they kick, and they were telling us they
weren't in, in the wetlands, but I have pictures that show that they actually in the
wetlands and that run-off that's coming down there is going right into that water. That
means it's going right out to the ocean, eventually it's going to reach. And I, when I
talked to the engineer that was there, and I said is that water going to enter the ocean,
he said pretty much yes. So as far as mitigation, you know, we tried to tell them not
to, you know, they got to change it, but that was the job they had. So.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14. 2022
Page 66
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay, well thank you. Thank you for sharing that information.
Thank you, Chair.
MR. KAMAUNU: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any, any other questions. Members? If not, thank you, Kaniloa.
MR. KAMAUNU: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our last testifier signed up to testify is Roxanne Morita.
MS. ROXANNE MORITA:
Good evening. Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. MORITA: Okay, so I'll try to make this quick so that way. I'll be the last one and we can
go home. My name is Roxanne Morita, and I am actually testifying in support of the
Lana'i Kina'ole expansion. In order for them to continue to do the work they do on
Lanai, they definitely need more space, it's a very small building and the $250,000 will
help them build a building. But I think even more than that, they will help strengthen
our community actually.
I work, full disclosure, I work in Member Johnson's office over on Lanai and over this
last week, we've heard just really great supportive stories about the work that they do
here on Lanai. And a lot of it is more from their family members and the peace of mind
that it gives them knowing that they can go to work, and they can leave their loved
ones at home, and someone will take care of them.
So when Dr. Janikowski was speaking on the negative effects of individuals left at
home by themselves. I had a grandmother that kind of had the same thing. So my
grandmother had homestead land in Hoolehua, Molokai, and she was on Farrington.
And so she started developing dementia, and so of course they never tell you this. And
so someone would run to the store, the post office or whatevers and they'd come back
and she would somehow turn on the stove and had burnt herself, or she would put a
spoon in the microwave to heat up her tea, and, and the microwave on fire, you know,
or things like that. And so it was very apparent that somebody need to be there with
her, but somebody needed to go to work. So Molokai luckily has a kupuna program
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 67
and so she started going to this program and it was life altering for her. She had two
things that she knew she had to do every week, she went to church, and she went to
go see her friends. And so having that support system for her was again such a peace
of mind for my family, to know that she was safe, that you know, if the Fire Department
got, you know, sent out to a house it wasn't going to be her because that did a few
times you know. And so just knowing that and having that support for her was great.
So to be able to offer that to people here on Lanai would be amazing. And, and that
would be a really great start for us to be able to, to provide that here and it's, it was
definitely life affirming. And I know that a lot of the discussions regarding Lana'i
Kina'ole was, was, was funding-wise. But I think family supportive-wise is kind of the
bigger difference that this would be for Phase 1. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Members, any questions?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Ms. Morita. So,
you know when you talk about family support, what does that mean? What does that
look like?
MS. MORITA: Well, I've, I've seen them go to people's houses here. And I've, and I've, and
I've had several people tell me, you know, because they came and checked on my
husband, or because they came and checked on my dad, my brother could go to work,
or my mom could go to the store. And, and if they got hurt, there was somebody who
could actually treat them correctly and know that, you know. I'm going to. I'm going to
take care of their wounds correctly: or and to be able to monitor that because
sometimes they get bedsores, or you know, and they, and things like that, like injuries
that, you know, because you get frail, you don't quite know how to take care of it. And
so, a lot of that was those types of stories that was very, like I said it was just very from
their families more than anybody else.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Okay. I get that. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MS. MORITA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? Are you saying goodbye, or are you?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I just want to, thank you. Chair. 1 just want to clarify for the
record that Roxanne is on her own time. I don't work her until 9:00. Just to let-
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 68
MS. MORITA: Oh, how nice of you.
CHAIR LEE; I was just thinking you're such a slave driver.
MS. MORITA; No, this, this was me, this was me. Like the other testifier said, if a second
grader can testify, why can't I?
CHAIR LEE; Boy these kids provided a lot of inspiration tonight. Any more questions
Members? Thank you. Thank you, Roxanne.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted and at this time we’ll ask
if any individual connected to the meeting that has not testified but would like to do so,
please unmute and identify yourself now in the chat. This is last call for testifiers.
CHAIR LEE; Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the record
and to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS PUBLIC HEARING;
1. Travis Liggett, Reef Power;
Keisa Liu;
George & Linda Alfonso;
Elaine Owen Baker;
Yayoshi & Aperto Ohana;
Barbara Berry;
Bruce M. Bernhardt;
Lynn Britton;
Kahiau, Donna & Harry Brown;
Brandy Cajudoy;
Tracey Cannon;
Michael Carothers;
Shellie Colegrove;
Lorry Cornish;
Brandi Corpuz;
Thomas Daya;
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 69
17. Margie Dela Cruz;
Richard & Elizabeth Dobbin;
Melanie Feliciano;
Joanne L. Foxxe;
Trinette Furtado;
Cindy Greenup;
Lora Harbo, David Liebersbach, & Gayle Harbo;
Skippy Hau;
Ivan Ho;
houselessonmaui@yahoo.com;
Karen Alohilani Hue Sing;
Monique R. Ibarra, Ka Hale A Ke Ola;
Lyndon Ibele;
Bianca Isaki;
Kristin Kahihikolo;
Anne Keck;
Josefina Malacas-Kinoshita;
Chris Lamb;
Rainelle Lushina;
Andrea Marino;
Marco Martella;
Sharon Martinez;
Kimberly Masse;
MEO Business Development Center (BDC) testimonial;
MEO Community Services (Rental Assistance) testimonial;
MEO Head Start After School and Summer testimonials;
MEO Human Services Transportation and Paratransit Services
testimonials;
MEO Kahi Kamali'i Infant and Toddler Center testimonials;
Buster Medeiros;
Laury & John Miller;
Megan Nakashima, Pukalani Superette;
Kili Namauu;
Grace Quidilla;
Pat Reilly;
Sabrina Lynne Samonte;
Shirley A. Samonte;
Gregory Sheehan;
Tara & Rob Smith;
Kathy Suzuki-Kitagawa;
Dan Sythe;
Margaret Szabo;
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
Public Hearing of the Council of the County of Maui
April 14, 2022
Page 70
58. Pam Thompson:
Theresa Thompson;
Kirstin Weeks;
Alfred Wolf;
James Yang; and
Petition in support of Lana'i Kina‘ole.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
COUNTY CLERK: There is no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. This brings us to the end of the agenda. Any parting remarks, Members?
Okay, have a great weekend. And we'll see you back in the old budget meetings next
week. Okay?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Happy Easter!
CHAIR LEE: This meeting is adjourned. This public hearing is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The public hearing of APRIL 14, 2022, was adjourned by the Chair at 9:03 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
220414ph;jm:lks
3^U
Reef Power LLC IV'j
r» .j^i
^a Maui small business, presents: "AT>●
Rationale for investment in ultraviolet light disinfection of injection well
wastewater discharges from the Kahutui Wastewater Reclamation Facility.
(Related to Bill 52 - a proposed Maui County law that requires all municipal
wastewater discharges meet state R-1 reuse standards for fecal coliform.)
II
II
6:00 p.m. April 14, 2022
MauKs reefs are in trouble!
:v
Maui Island Underground Injection Control Program Permittee Summary
Injected coliform
cell counts
(MPN/lOOmL)
Injected TN
concentration
injected TP
concentration
Total injected
nutrients / year
injection Well
UiC Permiteee Injected flow/day
(mg/L)
0.216
(Ibs/year)
58,295
77,215
(gallons/day)
2,948,000
1,817,000
(mg/L)
lahaina WWRF
Kihei WWRF
< 16.28
248.911.55 2.41
Kahului WWRF 201,686 > 2419.65,692,000 10.47 1.17
Mono Kai
Island Sands
Ka NaiANalu
Lauloa
Ma'alaea Banyans
Ma'alaea Kai
Ma'alaea Mermaid
Ma'alaea Triangle
Ma'alaea Yacht
Makani A Kai
624 ^ 16007,500
11,000
18,000
10,000
7,485
6,500
4,200
15,000
9,500
6,000
24.4 2.95
12.9 4.9 596 2
4.58 1,599 < 224.6
1721.6 3.98 779
5.28 701 <2025.5
1.82 271 1600011.9
< 226.9 3.7 391
796 < 116.5 0.925
1,107 434.5 3.78
10.59 219 ^ 16001.4
Milowai 9.75 1,308 178,500 40.8
345,588TOTAL: 10,560,685
Lahaina has enjoyed 100% UV disinfection of injection well and reuse discharges since 2015
Maui County DEM states 100% UV for Kihei injection well and reuse discharges finished Summer 2022
$9.5 mil for Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation System eliminates 79% of UIC permitees
$6 mil for UV disinfection of 5+ MGD discharging in Kahului would bring Maui County to 100% disinfection
^C'^R-^L-KEf-FMawai'i
Status of Maui’s Coral ReefsDnnston Of Aquolic lfc$ounxi
Case Study: Total System Collapse at Maalaea
The end result of reef degradation is evident at Maalaea
Bay. In 1972, Maalaea coral reefs were described as being
‘striking in their diversity and in the presence of rare corals
species’. As late as 1993, estimated coral cover was 50-
75% close to the site where cover is now 8%. Therefore, in
just a few decades, the Maalaea reef has transformed from
a healthy and diverse ecosystem into a badly degraded
habitat overgrown by algae and with little surviving coral.
One consequence of severe loss of living coral is that
degrading reefs change from being actively-growing and
structurally-complex habitats, into eroding and relatively flat
areas which do not support abundant marine life. That
process is well advanced at Maalaea, where fish stocks are
now in very poor condition, being dominated by small
wrasse, triggerfish and puffers. Given that the Maalaea reef
is now a poor habitat for most grazing fishes, and that
existing blooms of algae will continue to inhibit new coral
growth, even in the best of circumstances (without water
quality or fishing impacts), recovery of Maalaea would likely
take many years.
DLNR report linkTrends in coral cover at 9 long-term monitoring stations. Red indicates >5% decline over monitoring period, green
indicates >5% increase, black = no change (<5%)
Three municipal wastewater reclamation facilities in Maui Inject 10+ miliions of gallons per day.
156-?; -●iriff -1*'
jr
2fl*ac-
2D'*e
BiMVvnt.S GMifr^alSii-fCvafitil dia 120341 r ‘ J4ilE s:M.LtM.(fit>e4. SA3S3 saiun
This Green Dye Shows Path of Sewage Into Coral Reef at Kahekili Beach in Maui
Video Link
Scroll for details
y  ►! 0:12/2:57 V
OCTOBER TERM, 2019 1(Slip Opinion)
Syllabus
NOTE: Where it is feasible, a syOabus (headnote) will be released, as is
being done in connection with this case, at the time the opinion is issued.
The syUabus constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court but has been
prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader.
See United States^. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 337.
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
Syllabus
COUNTY OF MAUI, HAWAII u. HAWAII WILDLIFE
FUND ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 18-260. Argued November 6, 2019—Decided April 23. 2020
The Clean Water Act forbids “any addition” of any pollutant from “any
point source” to “navigable waters” without an appropriate permit
from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). §§ 301(a), 502(12),
86 Stat. 844, 886. The Act defines “pollutant” broadly, §502(6); defines
a “point source” as ‘“any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance
. . . from which pollutants are or may be discharged,’ ” including, e.g.,
any “‘container,’” “‘pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit,’” or “‘well,’”
§502(14); and defines the term “discharge of a pollutant” as “‘any ad
dition of any pollutant to navigable waters [including navigable
streams, rivers, the ocean, or coastal waters] from any point source,’”
§502(12). It then uses those terms in making “unlawful” “‘the dis
charge of any pollutant by any person’ ” without an appropriate permit.
§301.
Petitioner County of Maui’s wastewater reclamation fecility collects
sewage from the surrounding area, partially treats it, and each day
pumps around 4 million gallons of treated water into the ground
through four wells. This effluent then travels about a half mile,
through groundwater, to the Pacific Ocean. Respondent environmen
tal groups brought a citizens’ Clean Water Act suit, alleging that Maui
was “discharg[ing]” a “pollutant” to “navigable waters” without the re
quired permit. The District Court found that the discharge from
Maui’s wells into the nearby groundwater was “functionally one into
navigable water,” 24 F. Supp. 3d 980, 998, and granted summary judg
ment to the environmental groups. The Ninth Circuit affirmed, stat
ing that a permit is required when “pollutants are fairly traceable from
the point source to a navigable water.” 886 F. 3d 737, 749.
■I't
●fc
Do you know what happens to the water that goes
LIST OF PATHOGENIC (ILLNESS-CAUSING) LIFE FORMS COMMONLY FOUND IN
INFECTED WASTEWATER, SUCH AS R-3 INJECTED IN KIHEI AND KAHULUl
The list of pathogenic microbial species commonly found in non-disinfected wastewater is long and alarming,
shown in the U.S. NIH list below.
Respiratory infections such as COVID-19 and skin infections can be caused by water borne pathogens.
The major pathogens of concern in municipal wastewater and diseases or illness associated with them:
Name of pathogen
Bacteria
Campylobacter jejuni
Escherichia coli
Salmonella spp.
Shigella spp.
Staphylococcus
Streptococcus
Vibrio cholerae
Yersinia spp.
Major disease or symptoms
Gastroenteritis
Gastroenteritis
Salmonellosis, typhoid, paratyphoid
Bacillary dysentery
Skin Infections, bacteremia, toxic shock syndrome, septic arthritis
Cellulitis, Pink eye, meningitis, pneumonia, endocarditis, necrotizing fasciitis
Cholera
Gastroenteritis
Viruses
Adenovirus
Astrovirus
Coxsackie virus
Echovirus
Hepatitis virus
Human calicivirus
Polio virus
Reovirus
Rotavirus
TT hepatitis
COVID-19
Upper respiratory infection and gastroenteritis
Gastroenteritis
Meningitis, pneumonia, fever
Meningitis, paralysis, encephalitis, fever
Infectious hepatitis, miscarriage, and death
Epidemic gastroenteritis with severe diarrhea
Poliomyelitis
Respiratory infections, gastroenteritis
Acute gastroenteritis with severe diarrhea
Hepatitis
Acute respiratory illness
Protozoa
Balantidium coli
Cryptosporidium spp.
Entamoeba histolytica
Giardia duodenalis
Toxoplasma gondii
Balantidiasis
Cryptosporidiosis
Acute amoebic dysentery
Giardiasis
Toxoplasmosis
> Hawaii J Med Public Health. 2012 Aug;71(8);218-23.
Risk factors for community-associated
Staphylococcus aureus skin infection in children of
Maui
Gayle J Early ^, Steven E Seifried
Affiliations + expand
PMID: 22900237 PMCID: PMC3419822
Free PMC article
Article linkAbstract
The prevalence of community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA)
infection, and Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) infection overall, has dramatically increased in
the past 10 years. Children and Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders (NHPI) are
disproportionately affected by CA-MRSA infection. The purpose of this case-control study was to
identify risk factors for CA-S. aureus skin infections in children of Maui, Hawaii, as a foundation for
reducing the transmission of these infections. Survey data were obtained from patients in pediatric
Kahului WWRF injected coliform
fMPN/lOOmL) 1999 - 2021
3000
Kahului WWRF Injection Wells
2500 Chlorine disinfection until 2018
No disinfection since 20182000
Frequent nneasurements of
>2419.6 MPN CFU/lOOmLfeca
coliform
1500
1000 Occasional Beach Action Value
exceedances for enterococcus
at Kanaha Beach Park and
Kahului Flarbor
500
A0 cDO^rsim^Ln^£)r^ooo^o^(Nro^Lnu)r^ooa>oO OOOOOOOOOTHTHTH^THrH^rHrHr—irM
0^000000000000000000000THrN!fM(NfMrM(N(N(NrMrMrMrMrMrMrM(N(NrM(NfM(N
CENTRAL SEWER SERVICE AREA
Kahului P. I -.
Puunene
N LEGEND
Gravity Sewer Force Main
County of Maui ● County of Maui
Private
DHHL
Private
DHHL
Pump Stations
m County of Maui PH WailuKu/Kahului WWRF
S Private
WWRFs
SewerService Area I
1:75,000 Miles
-156.4684 -156.4594 -156.4504 -156.4414
CO
oa>
oCM
CO
C7>
CO
O
CM
-156.
Meters
High bacteria count posted at Kanaha Beach
High levels of bacteria have been detected at Kanaha Beach, the state Department of Health announced
Friday morning.
LOCAL NEWS
NOV 9, 2019
During routine beach monitoring, the department’s Clean Water Branch detected enterococci levels of
364 per 100 milliliters, indicating that potentially harmful microorganism such as bacteria, viruses,
protozoa or parasites may be present in the water.
The Maui News
f SHARE TWEET
The advisory will remain in effect until water sample results no longer exceed the threshold level of 130
enterococci per 100 ml.F71
Swimming at beaches with pollution in the water may lead to illness, the department said.#
Children, the elderly and people with weakened immune systems are the most likely to develop illnesses
or infections after coming into contact with polluted water, usually while swimming. The department
said that while swimming-related illnesses can be unpleasant, they are usually not very serious,
requiring little or no treatment or improving quickly upon treatment, and they have no long-term health
effects.
The most common illness associated with swimming in water polluted by fecal pathogens is
gastroenteritis. It occurs in a variety of forms that can have one or more of the following symptoms:
nausea, vomiting, stomachache, diarrhea, headache or fever. Other minor illnesses associated with
swimming include ear, eye, nose and throat infections. In highly polluted water, swimmers may
occasionallv be exposed to more serious diseases.Article link
Maui News
High Bacteria Count Notification East
of Hoaloha Park in Kahului, Maui
December 4, 2020, 5:00 AM HST
Article link
The Hawai'i State Department of Health has issued  ahigh bacteria count notification and is
retesting water at Kahului Harbor east of Hoaloha Park.
The department reports that bacteria levels of 1625 per 100 mL were detected during routine
beach monitoring, but is uncertain about the representativeness of the first sample.
“This beach has historically met the acceptable beach threshold level, and there is no known
source of fecal contamination. Therefore, DOH has collected another sample and is retesting the
site,” according to a department notification.
Sewage spill closes Southern California
beaches
Jan. 2, 2022, 6:09 PM HST / Updated Jan. 2, 2022, 7:17 PM HST
By Dennis Romero
A seCTion of the Los Angeles County-run system "collapsed." sending untreated wastewater to
already overwhelmed storm drains that lead to sea, officials said.
Southern California beaches from Orange to Los Angeles counties
were closed over the holiday weekend after as many as 7 million
gallons of untreated wastewater spilled into the Pacific Ocean,
officials said Sunday.
The spill happened after a series of late December storms brought
heavy rainfall to the area, A section of Los Angeles County-run
sewage system "collapsed," sending untreated wastewater to already
overwhelmed storm drains that lead to sea, some blocked by debris,
the Los Angeles County Sanitation Districts said in a series of
statements.
’at' -
The collapse was reported Friday night in the city of Carson, and an
emergency contractor quickly set up pumps to bypass the problem,
but sewage continued to make it to sea the next day, according to the
districts.
The release of millioos ofgaUons of untreated sewage into the Dominguez Channel in Carson. CalLf.. dosed some beaches Friday
/ *P
Article link By New Year's Day additional bypass pumps and the last drops of
rain had combined to help end the spill overnight, the sanitation
officials said.
County of Maui not planning to invest in disinfection of injected effluent in Kahului
until FY2026. Estimated cost of UV disinfection install in Kahului $6M
Wailuku-Kahului Wastewater Reclamation Facility (WWRF) Upgrade to R-1 (CBS-1169)
The plan to upgrade the Kahului/Wailuku WWRF to R-1 is only in the preliminary planning stages. We
do not have any preliminary plans, or formal cost estimates at this time. The preliminary estimate in the
six year CIP was based on the one channel expansion in Lahaina that cost approximately $6 million. An
actual cost estimate will be prepared once we get closer to design contracts.
We have listed it as a potential project on our six year Capital Improvement Program. At this point in
time it is not required until the recycled water force main (CBS-1171) and pump station (CBS-5034)
projects are constructed to transfer water to the central valley and the water could be used by
customers. These other projects are also on the six year schedule and have design contracts issued and
the EIS is in process. The current time line is our best estimate, it is not required to be completed by
FY2028. It is dependent on other projects as well as other approvals (mayor's office. County Council,
etc.) Note that funding for projects is only approved on a year to year basis during the County Budget
process.
County of Maui
Fiscal Year 2022-2027 Capital Improvement ProgramCBS No: CBS-1169
Project Name: Wailuku-Kahului Wastewater Reclamation Facility (WWRF)
Upgrade to R-1
Department: Department of Environmental Management
District: Wailuku-Kahului
Project Type: Sewer
Anticipated Life: 30 years
Prior Years Appr
FY2021
Ensuing Subsequent Years
FY2024 FY2025 FY2026 FY 2027
0  1,800,0000
Total
Expend/Encb FY 2022 FY 2023 6-Year
0 0 0 0 0 1,800,000
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The primary objective for this project is to modify the Wailuku-Kahului Wastewater Reclamation Facility to produce a R-1 quality reclaimed water for the
Wailuku-Kahului service area. This includes construction of ultraviolet disinfection basins, on-site storage, a pump station and all related piping and electrical
to connect to the proposed force main.
PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Use of reclaimed water will result in the conservation of potable water resources, preservation of brackish water resources and reduction of treated effluent
discharged into injection wells.
STRATEGIC PLAN ALIGNMENT
Department's Strategic Plan Countywide Priority Results
Sustain Reliable Wastewater Infrastructure
Ensure Facilities Meet Future Needs
Provide Reliable Wastewater Service
A Suitable Public Infrastmcture
A Strong, Diversified Economy
A Prepared, Safe, and Liveable County
A Healthy and Sustainable Community
Operating Impact Narrative
Addition of this treatment capability will require an additional position to manage the system, and extra costs for electricity and materials to operate the
disinfection system and pumps.
Wailuku-Kahului WWRF
R-1 Recycled Water Study
Prepared for
County of Maui, Wastewater Reclamation Division, Wailuku, HI
August 2015
2015 Reuse study #2 link2015 Reuse study #1 link
Table 5-6. DOH Reuse Guidelines - Disinfection Requirements
item Requirement
General Disinfection
Inactivation of F-specific bacteriophage MS2 or poliovirus5-log or 99.99% removal
<2.2 colony forming units (CFU)/100 mL 7-day median, and
>23 CFU/100 mL in no more than one sample in 30 days, and
<200 CFU/mL at all times
Fecal conform bacteria concentration
Disinfection via UV
100,000 pWs/cm2 (for non-membrane filtration)UVdose
Minimum UV transmittance 55 percent
Automatic diversion from reuse if >2 NTUPost-filtration turbidity
Measurements forflow rate, UV intensity, UV
transmittance, turbidity, operational UV dose Continuous
Required such that PWWF can be handled when one bank of
lamps (in each channel) is offlineUV System Redundancy
Table 6-3. UV Disinfection Design Criteria
ValueDescription
Filtered water UV transmittance55 percent minimum ^
Minimum UVdose 100,000 pWs/cm2
Trojan UV3000+UV technology
Lamp type Low pressure high output, in quartz sleeves
End of lamp life factor 0.98
Lamp fouling factor 0.95
Lamp cleaning system Automatic
Number of channels 3
Number of banks per channel 5 (1 redundant bank per channel)
Total number of banks 15 (12 duty, 3 redundant)
Number of modules per bank 18 a
Number of lamps per module 8
Total number of UV lamps 2,160 a
Lamp power draw 254 watts/lamp
Maximum power draw 540 kW a
Water level control Fixed weirs
Continuous UV intensity monitoring
Continuous UV transmissivity monitoring
Instrumentation
Automatic lamp dimmingEnergy conservation
UV costs for parts & power in the $100K's per year
Estimated
FY2022
Estimated
FY2023FY2021
(per2MGD)POWER COST:
$112,958.36 $137,875.65 $ 144,037.99Lahaina WWRF UV System
$  140,608.51$ $Kihei WWRF UV System 68,107.25 85,134.06
$ $ $Electrical Cost per KWH HECO 0.31 0.31 0.32
$ $S POWER (PV)
Estimated Annual UV Power Cost
$0.21 0.21 0.21
$ 181,065.61 $ 223,009.71 $ 284,646.50
MATERIALS/SUPPLIES:
Lahaina WWRF UV lamps, sleeves, modules, parts $  127,217 $ 132,340 $ 135,000
Kihei WWRF UV lamps, replacement modules, parts $ 51,538 $ 121,400 $ 128,000
Estimated Annual UV Equipment Cost $  178,756 $ 253,741 $ 263,000
Anticipated Bill 52 CDl language:5*5K
Municipal wastewater effluent discharged or reused
by the County must meet Hawaii state R-1 reuse
standards for fecal collform bacteria; the County must
allocate sufficient funding for the implementation of
this subsection so that its implementation does not
cause any increases in sewage rates for residents.
n
If
REUSE GUIDELINES
Volume 1: Recycled Water Facilities
Prepared by
Hawaii State Department of Health
Wastewater Branch
January 2016
(Replaces May 15,2002 Version)
R-1 Recycled Water
Fecal Conform4.
In order to be classified as R-1 recycled water, wastewater must be oxidized, filtered and disinfected
as follows:
The median density measured in the disinfected effluent shall not exceed
2.2/100 milliliters using the bacteriological results of the last seven days for
which analyses have been completed;
a.Disinfection3.
The disinfection process, when combined with filtration, must have demonstrated
inactivation and/or removal of 99.999 percent of the plaque-forming units of F-specific
bacteriophage MS2, or polio virus in the wastewater. A virus that is at least resistant to
disinfection as the oollo virus mav be used for ourooses of demonstration.
UV Disinfection
The density shall not exceed 23/100 milliliters in more than one sample in any 30-
day period; and
b.
b.
No sample shall exceed 200/100 milliliters.c.
1) When using media filtration:
Frequency of sampling and analysis:d.
The design UV dose shall be 100 mJ/cm^or greater under maximum
daily flow; and
a)
Sampling and analysis shall be done daily for fecal coliform when R-1 is being
used as allowed (I.e. not directly disposed).
1)
b) The filtered UV transmittance shall be 55 percent or greater at 254
nanometers (nm).
If approved by the Director, sampling frequency may be reduced to weekly
sampling based on:
2)
2) When using membrane filtration:
Use of R-1 when a lower class of recycled water is allowed;
Volume of R-1 used;
Disinfection or filtration method used;
Demonstrated disinfection quality and reliability;
Sampling location; and
Other factors as determined by the DOH.
a)The design UVdose shall be 80 mJ/cm^or greater under maximum
daily flow; and
a)
b)
c)
d)b) The filtered UV transmittance shall be 65 percent or greater at 254
nanometers (nm). e)
f)
3) The minimum acceptable design requirements and commissioning of new UV
disinfection systems shall comply with the NWRI UV Guidelines.
Hawaii DOH 2016 Reuse Guidelines link4) A UV system that is Title 22 certified by California is acceptable to the DOH.
Maui Island Underground Injection Control Program Permittee Summary
Injection Well
UlC Permiteee
Injected TN
concentration
Injected TP
concentration
Total injected
nutrients/year
Injected coliform
cell counts
(MPN/lOOmL)
Reef Power LLC
Travis Liggett
President
Injected flow/day
(gallons/day)
2,948,000
1,817,000
(mg/L) (mg/L)
0.216
(Ibs/year)
58,295
77,215
Lahaina WWRF
Kihei WWRF
6.28 < 1
travis@reefpowermaui.com
voice / text (808) 757 - 5984
fax (808) 442 - 9006
120 Baldwin Avenue #790484
Paia, Hawai'i 96779
reefpowermaui.com
@reefpowermaui
@flushaware
11.55 2.41 248.9
Kahulut WWRF 5,692,000 201,686 > 2419.61.1710.47
Hono Kai
Island Sands
Ka Nai A Nalu
Lauloa
Ma'alaea Banyans
Ma'alaea Kai
Ma'alaea Mermaid
Ma'alaea Triangle
Ma'alaea Yacht
Makani A Kai
7,500
11,000
18,000
10,000
7,485
6,500
4,200
15,000
9,500
6,000
24.4 2.95 624 g 1600
12.9 4.9 596 2
24.6 4.58 1,599 < 2
1721.6 3.98 779
25.5 5.28 701 < 20
11.9 1.82 271 16000
< 226.9 3.7 391
16.5 0.925 796 < 1
434.5 3.78 1,107
219 ^ 160010.59 1.4
Mllowal 8,500 40.8 1,308 179.75
TOTAL: 10,560,685 345,588
Lahaina has enjoyed 100% UV disinfection of injection well and reuse discharges since 2015
Maui County DEM states 100% UV for Kihei injection well and reuse discharges finished Summer 2022
$9.5 mil for Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation System eliminates 79% of UlC permitees
$6 mil for UV disinfection of 5+ MGD discharging in Kahului would bring Maui County to 100% disinfection
FlushAware.com
MAUI N U I
Marine Resource Council
Special Thanks
^  \ \vI
i
r.I
■1^4
1*
%
a  '' ●
I .ii
%
%
fti3w^.
% 'i?.
I ii'
s>yx
5W II Bom and Raised Earth
J<C>^
j
T
#
County Clerk
on pr st \ Ll OKeisa Liu <keisaliu@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 3:18 PM
County Clerk
Keisa Liu - 4.14.21 Budget Hearing Testimony
From:
Sent:
::U
To: im APR 14 PH 3^ 22Subject:
c OF I Mbr*' i o
COUNTY CLERKYou don’t often get email from keisaliu@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
My name is Keisa Liu and I would like to provide my thoughts and concerns as it relates to houseless programs in the
FY23 proposed budget. I am concerned that we are funding toxic behaviors that negatively affect us as a community.
It is time for us, as the people, to hold our public servants accountable for their actions. When it comes to Housing and
Human Concerns, it is your job to take appropriate action when policies, programs, procedures, and behaviors do not
enhance the social wellbeing of the citizens of Maui County.
Housing and Human Concerns leadership hides behind tightly controlled and contorted data, algorithms, and authority
while allowing toxic human behavior to dictate how our money is spent.
For instance. Director Tsuhako has asked for additional money to put together a proposal for a mobile medical unit.
The MPD is already doing that. Instead of working with the MPD or asking how they created their working model of
collaborative and compassionate response to our houseless crisis, she took the opportunity to disparage them in front
of the body tasked with approving the funds. That is toxic competitive behavior. This person leads by example and
attracts similar personalities. Being competitive is acceptable under this leadership; within the department and across
community partners, instead of building a loving sense of community and righteousness, we have silos of
organizations who don’t play nice with each other. In that type of environment, people will always slip through the
cracks.
That is what is happening now. Residents are constantly falling through the cracks because we don’t have enough of
anything. When you don’t have enough resources, you have to rely on each other. You have to build bonds through
trust and collaboration. Because, as humans, when we are overburdened, the last thing we need is to feel like we
don’t matter. For a long time, the narrative of our houseless people has been that if they don’t follow a narrow, dimly-lit
path out of houselessness, they don’t matter. It is one of many lies I have heard from leadership that has forced me to
lose trust in their word and knowledge.
It is the Housing and Human Concerns Department’s goal to educate the public about houselessness in Maui County
and, yet, they have been lying to us. They lied to us about why people are houseless here. They lied to us about what
is available for the houseless. They lied about how the houseless are treated. They lied about how many houseless
people there are. I would not trust them to give me accurate data when they conduct the Point in Time Count right
after a large cleanup like they did this year. I do not trust that their contractors compassionately do outreach (if they
even do it) or when they do, they admit in a public meeting that they ask potential clients if they are ready to accept
Jesus. Housing and Human Concerns and their contractors cherry pick data so that they are seen in the best light, not
the most honest light. I do not trust that they are building collaboration when after I ask about the relationships people
shift in their chairs, clam up, look down, become overly defensive, leave, or are afraid to speak. Something is wrong
with the relationships of Housing and Human Concerns and it affects the efficacy of their services. How can 1 trust
them to be fiscally responsible with my money?
The taxpayers are funding County-sanctioned, inhumane, and civil-rights violating cleanings under the County of
Maui’s Compassionate Action Plan. We are paying for you to hurt others.
As a private citizen, I do not want to fund cleanups. They are not effective at solving our houseless crisis, it pulls police
away from critical calls for help, and it makes it difficult to build the trust needed to empower people out of
houselessness.
Defund the budget items that are used for the cleanups. Use the money to fund safe sleeping lots,
encampments, garbage pickup, hygiene stations, water stations, etc.
You may be thinking that my statement and concerns are not about the budget but they most certainly are. I have
seen how favoritism, lying, posturing, malicious jockeying, toxic competition, grudge holding, and revenge feed into
who gets money, when they get money, and how they get money here in Maui County. I have seen money be used as
a tool to continue this behavior instead of fix it. Our county budget process is not immune.
1
We deserve better.
The people of Maui County have intrinsic value, regardless of their socio-economic status. The budget should reflect
this truth.
Mahalo for your time and consideration.
Keisa Liu
2
County Clerk
EDRE(Linda Alfonso <!indaa123@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 5:12 PM
County Clerk
Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater
From:
Sent:
!0?J APR !4 7: 45To:
Subject:
THhr r i C E CM
COUNTY CLERK[You don't often get email from lindaal23@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Maui County Council Members,
My husband and 1 support council member Kelly King's proposal to include funding of 9.5 million for Ma'alaea
Regional Wastewater Reclamation System in the Maui County fiscal year 2023 budget.
George and Linda Alfonso
280 Hauoli St. C-9
Wailuku HI 96793
1
Count^£letj<
REC
APR 13 PH 3^ 06
EDf V'Elaine Baker <1baker89703@sbcglobal.net>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 3:04 PM
County Clerk
April 14, 2022 Public Hearing
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OI-'FIC-E OF
C
T
OUNTY CLERK[You don't often get email from lbaker89703@sbcglobal.net. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
>
>
> County Commissioners:
>
> In reviewing the proposed budget, 1 see that funding for the Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility
has not been included. Kelley King has proposed an amendment to the budget that would fund the $9.5M cost of a
long time top priority infrastructure project. This project is one that would result in bettering the health of our
island. We have found that injection wells are concentrated in the Ma'alaea Bay area and are having a detrimental
affect on the marine ecosystems. The recent Supreme Court decision has emphasized the high priority of
eliminating these injection wells. The properties of Ma'alaea Bay have been trying to address this wastewater
concern for a number of years, realizing that it is bigger than anyone of the properties alone can handle. I ask you
to include the project in the 2023 budget not only for the benefit of Ma'alaea Bay and for the health of our island's
ecosystem, but also for all the Maui citizens and businesses that rely on the health of the waters we enjoy at the
parks and beaches in this area.
>
> Thank you for your consideration.
>
>
> Elaine Owen Baker
> lbaker89703@sbcglobal.net
>
1
County Clerk
Charlsie Yayoshi <lilinoemailani(a)gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 11:40 PM
County Clerk
Budget
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from lilinoemailani@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
To Whom I May Concern,
This might be late but I figure I still put in a letter. Myself & my Ghana are opposed to the county using tax payer
money for the Kekahua Affordable Housing Project. It is currently in litigation and there is a Title Dispute. There is no
telling how long the court process will take. Could be years. These lands belong to the kuleana heirs. As myself & my
ohana are Kanaka Maoli, no entity(businesses/company) have no right to claim any land in Hawaii, it belongs to the
Kanaka Maoli way before foreigners stole our lands. To give funding to these entities, who wants to build, when the
heirs of Pehuino is willing to take care of their lands & grow what their tutu man has done. Now, it's the Heirs of
Pehuino's Kuliana not the County of Maui/ other entity. It saddens me, when we see more trees being torn down &
more Iwi's of our ancestors digged up or destroyed because of greed to have more buildings built. Hawaii is known
for it's beauty & the people & you might give money to this entity that will destroy what the Heirs of Pehuino did in
short amount of time. They are growing Kalo, Ulu, Ti Leaves etc. Please, I ask that you do what is right, listen to your
Na'au, especially if your Kanaka Maoli & don't fund this Project. Mahalo for reading this.
Sincerely,
Yayoshi & Aperto Ohana
O 733=-
mZ CO onoo:  ‘71r
l il*;;vl71 z: O7; rn CK
1
County Clerk
Barbara Barry <begoniabarry@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 8:13 PM
County Clerk
Please fully fund the Dept of Agriculture
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from begoniabarry@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Chair Lee and esteemed County Council Members,
My name is Barbara Barry and I am an organic farmer in Ha’iku.
I also serve on the Kula Agricultural Park Board.  Iam not a lobb3dst.
I was waiting to testify tonight in person but as it was getting late, I wanted to shorten the list of testifiers
this evening.
I was honored to be a part of the citizen focus/task force that reviewed the Department of Agriculture
questionnaire answers from the Maui County citizens who took the time to fill it out.
There were many meeting to condense it into the form that was presented to you and I just want to let you
know that the process to fund the different needs was arduous and challenging so as not to ask for too much
the 1st year but to ensure that there was adequate staffing and support programs for this essential
Department to have a strong foundation to build on for the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th years of the program. We
believe our request was bare bones.
Since Maui County is detached from its land masses, the need to support the Department of Agriculture on
all islands and in the remote area of Hana will require adequate staffing to be successful.
The Department has a very big job ahead of it and we all eat, so we can see the value of giving this
Department the best chance of being successful by increasing the budget to $3 million which is a mere .3%
of the massive County budget you are working on. This is very reasonable considering the goal of increasing
food security in our Islands and supporting small to medium farmers and our younger farmers who are
challenged by lack of affordable land and housing. This will also support emergency food storage in all
Maui County Islands and remote locations like Hana, which is crucial for our food security because of our
remote location in the middle of the ocean.
I strongly support increasing the budget of the Department of Agriculture to support additional staff
positions and funding for professional services.
In order for the Department of Agriculture to be  asuccessful department, it must have sufficient staff to
start addressing the needs of the community efficiently.
In addition to the positions outlined in the bare-bones budget for the Department of Agriculture.
I strongly support including the addition of two Grant Writers (funded), two Food Access Coordinator
positions (funded) and a Waste and Resource Regeneration Specialist (unfunded) in the Department’s
Budget as additions to provide the bare-bones capacity to meet the needs of this Department.
I ask also that the Department of Agriculture budget is increased to allow for professional services that will
support the establishment of countywide emergency storage and food centers, emergency food banks in
Lanafi, Molokai and Hana, legal assessments of the current agricultural cross-sectors with Federal and
State Agencies to negotiate and address agricultural issues, and the development of a streamlined County
permitting process for the agricultural sector.
These actions are prudent to a successful start for the Department, will help build trust -with our ag sector
and help increase food security for our County.
Even with funding the additional positional and professional service, including making changes to fringe
benefits, equipment, travel and mileage to accommodate for the additional positions will still allow the total
funding for the Department to be less than $3 million dollars.
1
I respectfully ask that you support Councilmember Sinenci's Countywide budget priorities #i & 2 and
increase the budget of the Department of Agriculture to support the addition of these positions and
professional services. This funding will be crucial to the success of the Department of Agriculture. An
investment in this Department’s success is an investment in the success of Maui County’s farmers and
ranchers.
Please help us when we need it most. To build a successful Department of Agriculture, it needs a strong
foundation which we felt was reflected in the budget request.
Mahalo nui loa for your valuable support, Your hard work on this budget is much appreciated. Tonight's
testimony was heartwarming.
Sincerely,
Ms. Barbara Barry
Ha’iku
2
Count^CleHc
Bruce Bernhardt <brucebernhardt@icloud.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 4:56 PM
County Clerk
Support for the Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from brucebernhardt@icloud.com. Learn why this is important
Dear County Clerk of Maui County
1 am writing this letter in support of Kelly King's amendment to the County of Maui budget to include $9.5 million of
funding for a new Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility in the 2023 budget. The proposed centralized
waste treatment facility will bring the 640 condo units in Maalaea which currently use 10 different and old septic
systems with injection wells close to the ocean onto a modern state of the art sewage treatment plant.  Ihave owned
my condo in Ma'alaea for over 30 years and the sewage treatment plant in our complex and many along the street have
been marginally functional for years and all the while knowing that the injected treated sewage being pumped into he
injection wells leached into the ocean. Building this treatment plant will eliminate this environmental hazard and bring
the village of Ma'alaea a proper sewage system which is a huge positive for the island of Maui.
Sincerely,
Bruce M. Bernhardt
C5»
0(
X)-Xixs
o-4 m-< X:
oo -*C5x
ni “■!
s:
rn
■o
1
REC EVEDAloha Council Chair Lee, BFED Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Councilmembers:
APR 1^1 |: 17My name is Lynn Britton. I have lived on Maui for almost 50 years and have owned my
home in Ma'alaea since 1984.
;UNTYI was an officer and director of the former Ma'alaea Community Association ^mtharrf^a
founder and immediate past president of Ma'alaea Village Association, which now
represents over 210 dues paying members.
As the first South Maui councilmember ini993-94,  Iand other Ma'alaea residents was
concerned about growth on Maui and the need to protect the open space and natural
resources of Ma'alaea Bay. Over the years, sedimentation from above Ma'alaea as well
as nutrients from Ma'alaea’s injection wells, have reduced coral cover in Ma'alaea Bay
to less than 8% of what they once were. Ma'alaea Bay is currently classified as
‘impaired’ by the ERA, according to its “303D’ classification.
The Council in its wisdom committed Open Space funds to purchase Ma'alaea
Mauka/Pohakea Watershed lands. We were successful in obtaining $1 million from
state Legacy Lands funds last month. The purchase is almost complete, but with the
2022 appraisal at $8.2 million, additional funds are needed. I understand a budget
amendment will be introduced shortly to carry over the FY 22 funds plus increase funds
to finalize the purchase. Ownership by DLNR Div. of Forestry and Wildlife will allow the
entire 5,000 acre watershed to be managed for wildfires and erosion into Ma'alaea Bay.
That leaves Ma'alaea’s 24 outdated injection wells and their role in Ma'alaea Bay’s
impaired status. I ask you to please support South Maui Councilmember Kelly King’s
proposal to provide $9.5million for a Ma'alaea regional wastewater reclamation system.
The long term benefits go far beyond the Ma'alaea community to M residents and
visitors who enjoy Ma'alaea Bay and its amenities and three mile Ma'alaea beach for
recreational use. This Council’s goal of sustainability and the need to address
overtourism will be realized by attracting visitors who will contribute to the aina, and
come to enjoy our open spaces, scenic vistas, and healthy environment. This benefits
all of us who live here and will improve our quality of life.
I also support funding for the programs proposed by Maui Nui Marine Resource Council;
● $100,000 for Visitor Environmental Education Programs;
● $250,000 for Environmental Protection Programs-water quality monitoring, reef
friendly landscaping, and projects to address Pohakea Watershed runoff.
Mahalo for your consideration and support
Lynn Britton
4-14-2022
RE IVED
ZO?Z APR 14 PH 4: 53
OFT'ICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
MEO-MILC group has been so wonderful for our son Kahiau when we want to get
out to community and really solve some difficulties things like manage ourselves
in traffic, what kind of suggestion they have to keep us safe and also getting
together and have a great fun time. Also all the information we get from all the
agencies that can help us. The most advantageous time for us is when the Fire
Dept, came and gave us a presentation came over to our home and outfit our
home for some brand new and working fire alarms. They gave us a plan howto
escape from our home and change that will make it safe for us to escape if we
needed to. These are a few things that have been very helpful to get together as a
group to celebrate Christmas and other things that meant so much to us. It's so
nice to know that we are included and helped us to be a contributing part to
society and knowing our voices are heard and we have so much to offer.
Especially to Nani Watanabe for her care and her help for each of us.
Mahalo
Aloha
Kahiau Brown
Donna Brown
Harry Brown
County Clerk
W I,.— i x' L_ LJBrandy Cajudoy <cajudoy@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 1:26 PM
County Clerk
Fw: Mono Kai - URGENT Email from Board President
r>From:
Sent:
K
To:
h 111im APR 13 DMlit
Subject:
●iTY Clu vr\You don't often get email from cajudoy@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important ..
Aloha
Please read below...
Mahalo
Brandy Cajudoy, RME - BC-36111
808-276-3013 cell
Cajudoy Construction LLC - BC-36110
Cajudoy Enterprise
Cajudoy's Hale
caiudov.com
— Forwarded Message —
From: Brandy Cajudoy <cajudoy@yahoo.com>
To: Peter <peter@hawaiianresources.net>
Cc: Lysa Tracy <lysa@quamproperties.com>
Sent: Wednesday, April 13, 2022, 01:24:49 PM HST
Subject: Re: Mono Kai - URGENT Email from Board President
Aloha e Peter,
This helps me by sending something short and sweet of who to send to, helps me, which in return
can help you...
Mahalo
Brandy Cajudoy, RME - BC-36111
808-276-3013 cell
Cajudoy Construction LLC - BC-36110
Cajudoy Enterprise
Cajudoy's Hale
caiudov.com
On Wednesday, April 13, 2022, 01:21:27 PM HST, Peter <peter@hawaiianresources.net> wrote:
Hi Brandy,
Thanks for your message.
It doesn't help telling me.
1
An email this long with the same words to this address below helps.
county.clerk@mauicountv. us
Mahalo,
Peter
On Apr 13, 2022, at 13:14, Brandy Cajudoy <caiudov@vahoo.com> wrote:
Aloha e Peter,
I am sorry I am very busy today, but please know  Ido support what is best for this
community. Sorry I cannot drop everything today.
Mahalo,
Brandy Cajudoy, RME - BC-36111
808-276-3013 cell
Cajudoy Construction LLC - BC-36110
Cajudoy Enterprise
Cajudoy's Hale
caiudov.com
On Wednesday, April 13, 2022, 11:48:18 AM HST, Lysa Tracy <lvsa@auamproperties.com> wrote:
Dear Mono Kai owner, Please see the message below.
I need to ask you to make an urgent email today in time for a County Council meeting
tomorrow.
Then I need to ask you to do this again in time for the April 18th meeting.
The request is to approve 9.5 million dollars in the budget to build a new regional plant in
Maalaea. Please ask for this in your own words. Feel free to use anything from this email
below.
This is our immediate and best chance of having the County of Maui build a regional
wastewater treatment plain Maalaea that will allow us to shut down our Individual condo
plants, shut down their injection wells, and get us out of the wastewater business and its
liabilities.
2
This move would be a huge step in helping to rebuild the health of Maalaea Bay.
This move will help all Mono Kai owners in dealing with the replacement of our failing system.
This will save us all big bucks.
URGENT: Please stop everything and send an email now.
Thank you,
Peter Cannon
Mono Kai Board President
Begin forwarded message:
From: Maalaea Village Association <maalaeaviHaaeassociation@gmail.com>
Subject: Support funding for Ma'alaea Wastewater treating system!
Date: April 13, 2022 at 06:45:41 HST
To: <peter@hawaiianresources.net>
Reply-To: <maalaeaviilaaeassociation@amail.com>
Your Support is Needed
for Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater System
Testify on the Maui County Budget
April 14 and 18, 2022
3
Aloha MVA Ohana,
Your testimony is critically needed to support the proposal by Wlaul
County Council Member Kelly King to include funding of $9.5 million for a
Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation System in the Maui County
Fiscal Year 2023 Budget Click here to read the Aprii 6 press release.
WHY DOES MA’ALAEA NEED A REGIONAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM?
● The Ma’alaea community has no regional wastewater treatment plant
(WWTP). Condominiums and the commercial triangle operate their own
WWTPs and injection wells for effluent disposal.
● None of the existing facilities provides more than primary treatment,
resulting in high nutrient loads in injection well effluent and contributing
to the impaired status of Ma’alaea Bay.
● A community WWTP relieves properties of the costs and liabilities of
operating, maintaining, replacing and upgrading their individual systems.
● Effluent disposal through injection wells is drawing increased scrutiny
and is being phased out, statewide.
● A regional treatment plant can replace private wastewater treatment
systems, improve waste treatment, eliminate the use of injection wells
for disposal, provide recycled water for community landscaping needs
and/or agriculture, and thereby reduce consumption of Maui’s precious
fresh water supplies.
● Ma’alaea Bay is listed by the EPA as an impaired body of water and
suffering from severe coral loss. Improving Ma'alaea Bay’s water quality
is critical to restoring coral growth. Healthy Coral reefs are essential to
protect the community from shoreline erosion.
There are two opportunities to tell the Maui County Council why this is
important:
● On April 14 at 6pm, there is a public hearing to review of the Mayor's
proposed budget The Mayor’s budget does not include funding for the
Ma'alaea wastewater system. Your testimony can simply point out that
lack of funding and its need. The April 14 meeting agenda and
additional information on testifying can be found by clicking here, or by
using the button near the end of this message.
● On Aprii 18 at 9am the County Council will begin deliberations on the
FY2023 budget. At this meeting, Kelly King's proposal to include
funding for the Ma'alaea wastewater system will be discussed. Your
4
testimony at this meeting is needed to say that you support this
proposed budget addition. The April 18 meeting agenda and information
on testifying can be found by clicking here, or by using the button near
the end of this message.
Written testimony for either meeting may be submitted by e-mail
to county.c!erk@mauicountv.us or by "e-comment" on the council website
at http://mauicountv.us/aaendas/ and must be received 24 hours prior to the
meeting. All you need do is send an email asking to include $9.5 million
of funding for a new Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility
in the 2023 budget, referring to Kelly King's proposed amendment.
Individuals may also provide oral testimony by phone or video conference. To
provide oral testimony, see the appropriate meeting agenda for instructions.
Hawaii Congressman Kai Kahele joins South Maui Councilmember Kelly King
and Senator Roz Baker in offering his strong support for the Ma'alaea initiative
as follows: “Wastewater infrastructure has been a top priority of mine since the
start of my term in Congress. In Maui County, specifically in Ma‘alaea, long,
overdue upgrades are necessary to improve the aging wastewater
infrastructure that directly impacts the health of our communities, livelihoods,
economy, and importantly our coastal and marine ecosystems. ” Click here to
read Kahele’s April 6 letter of support.
X
Click the image above for additional information, including a map and concept
design.
Click here for the April 14 meeting agenda and additional
instructions on how to view, testify or participate
Click here for the April 18 meeting agenda and additional
Instructions on how to view, testify or participate
5
Background note; in September 2018, MVA organized and hosted a Town Hal!
public meeting on wastewater. The meeting featured the State Department of
Health Wastewater Supervisor, the State Deputy Attorney General, and a
private wastewater operator. As a result of the public interest demonstrated at
the meeting, MVA has proactively supported efforts to find a cost-effective,
community-wide, environmentaliy-friendly alternative to Individual wastewater
treating systems and the current practice of effluent disposal using injection
wells. With the recent Supreme Court decision which ruled against the County
of Maui, there is heightened uncertainty regarding the continued use of
injection wells for effluent disposal.
MVA supports efforts to restore the health of Ma'alaea Bay through improved
wastewater treating/disposal and watershed management. To stay informed
sign up for our newsletters at maalaeavillaqeassociation.org
Do you enjoy receiving news from Ma'alaea Village Association? Do
you support what MVA is doing in the community? Please show your
support by clicking the link below to donate or become an MVA
member.
Join MVA todayl
Copyright © 2022 Ma'alaea Village Association, All rights reserved.
You are receiving this email because you are a member of the Ma'alaea Village Association (MVA) or you
expressed an interest in the organization.
MVA is registered with the IRS as a 501 (c)(3) organization, EIN 82-2026085. Contributions to MVA are
tax deductible to the extent permitted by law.
Our mailing address is:
Ma'alaea Village Association
PO Box 2122
Wailuku, Hi 96793
6
MVA 2022 Board of Directors;
CLICK HERE FOR MVA 2022 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Our email address is:
maalaeavillaqeassociation@qmail.corn
Website:
www.maalaeavillaqeassociation.orq
Join us on Facebook at:
httDs://www.facebook.com/qrouDs/MaalaeaVillaqeAssociation/
Follow us on Twitter:
@mvassociation
Want to change how you receive these emails?
You can update vour preferences or unsubscribe from this list
This email was sent to peter@hawaiianresources.net
why did I aet this? unsubscribe from this list update subscription preferences
Ma'alaea Village Association ● P.O. Box 2122 ● Wailuku, Hi 96793 - USA
X
7
Count^Clerk
D» ^
R[ rTracey Cannon <tracey@hawaiianresources.net>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 12:12 PM
County Clerk
County Council Meeting April 14
From;
Sent:
I r
PH 1: mTo: mi !-."R Ij
Subject:
;r'r r;. ●t  I
TY OLEYou don't often get email from tracey@hawaiianresources.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha County Council,
It is vital that we take care of our oceans and get rid of injection wells!
Please approve the Regional Wastewater Plant in Maalaea. The wells In that area are some of the worst offenders
on the island. I am a condo owner in Maalaea, Maui resident and long time Hawaii resident. We desperately need
to shut down these aging systems and see Maalaea Bay restored to a clean and healthy environment for corals,
fish, and humans alike. It is the right thing to do! Why would we wait?? The right time to do the right thing Is
NOW.
Please vote to approve the $9.5m project.
Mahalo,
Tracey Cannon
280 Hauoli St A17
1
Count^^lerk
michael carothers <papercameras@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 2:04 PM
County Clerk
approve 9.5 million dollars in the budget to build a new regional plant in Maalaea.
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from papercameras@gmaii.com. Learn why this is important
This is my request is to approve 9.5 million dollars in the budget to build a new regional plant in Maalaea.
This is our immediate and best chance of having the County of Maui build a regional wastewater treatment plain
Maalaea that will allow us to shut down our Individual condo plants, shut down their injection wells, and get us
out of the wastewater business and its liabilities.
Michael Carothers
C=>O L.-■
O-r;
C
5-0^ m<
3>*
“T3 m!
4=: r
Co I :
m -! m
u.A
1
Countj^^leH<
Shellie Colegrove <saksalsa@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 5:58 AM
County Clerk
Public Comment
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from saksalsa@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Hello,
Please accept this public comment for consideration on the wastewater decision.! support the $9.5 million dollar
new regional wastewater plant for the Maalaea area. It has been needed fora long while and will improve the
quality of life and environment in which we live.
Respectfully,
Shellie Colegrove
280 Hauoli Street
Wailuku, Hi
907-232-3189
CS3
O -●
3ft-
m-r?7SO
j m JCZ
Oa- 33-
rn9.5 million doer a new regional wastSewater plant. asz
CN
1
REC ■VEDCountj^CleiJc
20?? APR ! 4 PH 4: 28Lorry Cornish <lorrycornish@hotmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 4:18 PM
County Clerk
Kina'ole request for funds to expand
From:
Sent:
To: '●■rlCE OF THE
OUNTY CLERKSubject:
[You don't often get email from lorrycornish(5)hotmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
My name is Lorry Cornish. I have lived on Lana'i for 44 years and during that time I've always wondered what will
happen when there are so many seniors living on their own and needing care; how they would maintain medical care
on a daily basis.
My daughter Chelsea has been caring for her father, Roger Welch in his home for a few years now and without the help
of Kina'ole this challenge would be too much for her.
I am testifying that the work Kina'ole supplies our seniors and the rest of the community with these essential services
and does so in a very professional and caring way. For those with medical problems short or long term ,that wish to stay
living in their homes.
I'm hoping if this funding is granted to Kina'ole it will give them the resources to expand their services to a point of
possibility having an assisted living operation,so that people getting to the point of not being able to stay in their homes
would have the option to live in a facility here on Lana'i and not have to leave friends and family at the most vulnerable
time of their lives.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Lorry Cornish
Lana'i City, Hawai'i
Sent from my iPad
1
Count^Cledc
REC El'./EDbrandi corpuz <brandicorpuz@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 4:26 PM
County Clerk
Mayors Proposed Budget for South Maui wetlands
From:
Sent:
im k?n \ PH 29To:
Subject:
●rnCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don't often get email from brandicorpuz@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha, my name is Brandi Corpuz. I am a homeowner, educator and community
advocate from the wetlands of Kihei. I am also the Executive Director of Rooted
Kekahi Me Ka Aina. We are a 501 c3 nonprofit who uses place based education
and cultural and traditional practices to support our communities of Maui, Molokai
and Kukaniloko. Each island and community ohana is different but our mission
remains the same. I would like to provide testimony in support of our Mayor Mike
Victorinios proposed budget, concerning South Maui Wetlands.
I have lived in Kihei for over 20 years and I have experienced the devastating
effects of flooding, land erosion and diversions of our natural waterways. We saw
a need for something to be done to help stop the devastation of these areas so
we stepped up to help.
We received funding for 21-22 through South Maui Councilmember Kelly King
and the County of Maui, which we are currently completing in the hopes that we
will be allowed to continue our work on the South Maui shores of Waiohuli Kai. It
has been a long road to get where we are today and we need your support to
continue the work that is so desperately needed in Kihei.
We have collaborated with the Save the Wetlands hui, educators, community
members and many cultural practitioners to accomplish our mission for the first
part of our restoration and preservation plan. We are gathering data and
community support throughout every step of this process.
We have already found that some of the damages that have already occurred will
take a huge effort on our part and many others, to slow down the effects of
building on and diverting our wetlands that once thrived here on the South side of
Maui.
These effects are visible by all at this point. Almost all shoreline trees are now
falling into the ocean, cluttering our beaches with debris and creating hazards for
all who dare to enter the area. Our shorelines are covered in silt and debris from
flooding and upland runoff. Our fish ponds and ocean are void offish and limu
that used to be abundant here and our remaining wetlands and freshwater
springs are now stagnant or dried up completely. Our sand dunes are just a
fraction of what they used to be because of foot traffic and the taking of the sand
to put it elsewhere.
In December 2021 we were able to see what happens when you try to wipe out a
wetlands system from existence. Mother nature, especially wetland waterways
will go where they want to go. Kihei had 30 plus inches of mud and debris in all
lower lying areas of our South shores. This mud still remains in many areas even
4 months later. The ocean takes the greatest hit when these events happen
because everything that is upland comes straight down to the ocean.
The Ahupua'a system that was created by Chief Ma’ilikkahi of Kukaniloko was
created with this knowledge at hand. Using this system and knowledge can help
us today. We must begin to heal the lands above us to protect and preserve the
land below. We also need our community ohana to take on this kuleana so our
wetlands can thrive again for future generations.
Our visitor industry is also greatly affected by the lack of care that has been given
to our Kihei beach/government reserve. If our beaches are gone and waters
polluted then we lose visitors to places with more pristine environments.
Our communities and future generations are affected by this lack of care at an
even greater rate. If we do nothing we run the risk of losing some of our most
precious natural resources and our culture and way of life may be lost forever.
Please help us save the Wetlands of Kihei.
We are asking for funding to begin to rebuild the sand dunes, plant native plants
and trees, remove invasives and debris, and revitalize the limu and fish ponds in
the areas of the Waipuilani Uluniu beach/government reserve.
These efforts are only the beginning and should be supported well into the future.
We want to malama this entire 20 mile beach reserve to thrive once again and
with your help it can be possible. These areas that are set aside for us, the
community, will serve as an environmental cultural education center and
gathering place for all.
We have several wonderful organizations who are working in these areas
alongside us. We all work together and learn from each other along the way. I
have spoken to many county and state officials who have indicated to me that
they don't have enough money or manpower to take care of our wetlands and
beaches in these areas. Therefore it's up to “us”, the community of Maui. This
funding is vital to all of our efforts and is greatly appreciated.
Sincerely, Brandi Corpuz
Rooted Kekahi Me Ka Aina
808-357-9170
3
The Boys & Girls Clubs of Maui is so grateful to work alongside MEO Transportation. There service is of great
value to our organization, the youth and families we serve. MEO bridges the gap of access to Clubs by not only
providing transportation to the Clubs from School but also transportation home at the end of the day as well
as on school out days. Without MEO, many youths would not be able to get to Clubs at all or even more so in
safe and in a timely manner. While we strive to make Clubs accessible to ALL youth 9-17 years old, MEO makes
this even more possible with their transportation services. Many families do not have transportation to get
their kids to Clubs or are working when youth get out of school, MEO operates in conjunction to our schedule
as well as the schools. On behalf of the Boys & Girls Clubs of Maui, the youth and families we serve, I would
like to thank MEO and you all for your ongoing support to both of our organizations as we provide safe, fun
and positive environments full of hope and opportunities for the youth we serve. Great futures start here.
Mahalo, Director of Operations for the Boys & Girls Clubs of Maui, Thomas Daya.
Thomas "TJ" Daya
Director of Operations
Boys & Girls Clubs of Maui
(808) 757-5244
thomasd@bgcmaui.org
www.bgcmaui.org/
MAUI ADULT
DAY CARE CENTERS
tuWng Since J974
TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT FOR MEO TRANSPORTATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
President
Kyle Sakamoto I am Margie Dda Cmz, Executive Director of Maui Adult Day Care Centers. I humbly
ask for your support to continue funding MEO Transportation for fiscal year 2023. We
are deeply grateful to MEO Transportation for the services they have been providing
Maui Adult Day Care Centers for over 45 years. Maui’s older adults and elderly are
living much longer, into their eighties, nineties, and over a hundred. Many of them are
living with physical frailties and cognitive challenges with dementia. Our older adults
would have been isolated at home preventing them from having the ability to continue
living and enjoying life with activity and friendship at whatever level they are
functioning. We all have had friendship and activity throughout our life...that should
not stop just because we are aging and may have lost the ability to drive...but without
resources in place like MEO Transportation to help our aging population, an eider
individual would just exist in isolation till they die. With the help of MEO
Transportation and the specialized transportation they provide, frail elderly and
individuals with disabilities are able to venture out of the home, to have fun. socialize
with others like themselves, and to enjoy activity and stimulation to continue living life.
Some of these clients are also transported to doctor’s appointments and /or dialysis.
Before the pandemic, MEO used to provide 2 excursions a month tor all our adult day
care centers including our Hana Senior Center. Excursions got our elder clients out into
the community to reminisce and enjoy seeing the places they use to venture. Without
MEO’s support, 30% of our clients would have been left isolated and unattended at
home. MEO’s support creates a positive domino effect, which supports caregivers and
allows them to continue working knowing MEO has their back with providing safe and
dependable transportation for their loved to meet their needs.
Please, please continue to support MEO Transportation’s funding request. Maui’s
elderly and older adults would not be able to thrive without them. We all need the
sendees tliey provide and are very grateful to MEO for the support and to you for
supporting them on behalf of Maui’s needs. The Maui Community is counting on your
support.
Vice President
Kathy Suzuki-Kitagawa
Treasurer
Kimberly Sagun
Secretary
Dawn Fujiwara
Members
Ted Anderson
Robert Carroll
Nancy Johnson
Dr. John Enriques
Kathy Kaohu
Roy Katsuda
Hideo Kawahara
William Kinaka
Karen Ogata
Audrey Rocha-Reed
Curtis Takaoka
Executive Director
Margie Dela Cruz
Main Office: 11 Mahaolu Street, Suite B* Kahului, HI 96732
Phone (808) 871-5804 - Fax (80S) 877-4082
Ocean View- Nisei Veterans Memorial Site:
Phone: (808) 243-9312
South Maui - Kihei
(808) 874-8338
West Maui - Lahaina
Phone: (808) 667-9252
Hale Hulu Mamo-Hana Senior Center
Phone: (808) 248-8833
To provide adult day care services to our clients in a family environment that is safe and filled with love, and
provide support to their families and caregivers.
UnitedJLWayMaui Oruted Way
Count^^lejJc
Richard Dobbin <dickdobbin@q.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 4:33 PM
County Clerk
Ma'alaea Regional Sewer Treatment Plant on Agenda for April 14,2022 - Council
Meeting - Our Letter of Support!
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from dickdobbin@q.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Council Members,
I am sorry that I can not be on Maui in person and to attend the Council meetings of April 14 and
April 18th, 2022 and am currently on the Mainland. I have owned developed property
condominiums ) in Ma'alaea for over 38 continuous years. I use to own three condo properties on
Hau'oli St. and now being retired and on fixed income my wife and I own two properties.
(
1 have seen the operations of and failings of Sewer Treatment Plants at the Kana'i A Nalu condos
where 1 use to own a unit for 28 years. The old injection well type of plants need to go and this
should have been done a long time ago. It is terrible that the condos on Hau'oli St. still have to
operate with these old style systems.
Our other condo is at Hono Kai Resort and it's STP has started to fail and the complex is in need
of a temporary above ground type plant to keep the property up and running.
Collectively, all the properties on Hau'oli St and some of the surrounding sub-divisions homes
would be better off and so would our environment to have a Regional Plant that all properties
could connect onto.
I request as a long time owner and a taxpayer who pays thousands of dollars each year to Maui
County, that the Council supports the investment,  1believe it is 9.5 million dollars and move
forward with the Regional Project for the Sewer Treatment Plant.
I own units at both Hono Kai Resort and at Island Sands and all of our district friends are also in
support of this project. Let's get this started now. Council Members, State Legislators and many
more support this concept and the Regional System. Hopefully our Mayor will also join in to
support the plans that are in place and the needed funding to get started.
Thank you for your time. You have two votes of support from my family and we will be listening in
to see that the council votes in the affirmative for this funding.
Respectfully
Richard and Elizabeth Dobbin
Owner's of Hono Kai and Island Sands condo properties in Ma'alaea, Wailuku, HI 96793
c
O 7333"
C “ “O
ZS3
m 1J3:
oo an-3Tl 2
ITi - !
73 X ot; fTi
1
Count^^CleHc
recesvedMelanie Feliciano <melanie.feliciano@gnnaiLcom>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 4:59 PM
County Clerk
2023 Maui Budget Request
From:
Sent:
ZOZ? ^,PR m AH 7= If 5To:
Subject:
Cr
COUNTY
Ti
You don’t often get email from melanie.feliciano@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Committee Members,
I am writing this email in support of Council Member King's proposed budget amendment to fund the Ma'alaea
Regional Wastewater Reclamation System. I am a homeowner of one of the condos at the Mono Kai complex in
Maalaea, and 1 am requesting that $9.5 million of funding be appropriated to the Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater
Reclamation Facility in the 2023 budget.
Ma'alaea Bay is in desperate need of a better wastewater infrastructure. The coral and wildlife in Ma'alaea is
suffering from the poor current wastewater system. This is also contributing to the increasing erosion happening at
the Ma’alaea Bay shoreline.
Maintaining the health of Ma'alaea Bay is not only important to sustain the shoreline and the wildlife, but it's also
important for the success of the tourism industry that relies on the Ma'alaea Harbor. As such, I ask the County of
Maui to support the Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation System through Council Member King's proposed
budgement amendment.
Regards,
iSfelanie Feliciano
Homeowner at 280 HauoU St, B3, Wailuku, HI 96793 and 190 Hauoli St, 419, Wailuku, HI 96793
650-218-0909
1
County Clerk
Joanne Foxxe <jofoxxe@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 7:27 AM
County Clerk
Property taxes
From:
Sent:
Cc:
Subject:
You don't often get email from jofoxxe@gmaiLcom. Learn whv this is important
PLEASE DO NOT RAISE THE OWNER OCCUPIED HOMEOWNER RATES FOR MAUI
WE HAVE SUCH INFLATED PRICES NOW IT ISNT FAIR FOR US OWNERS TO PAY MORE WHO HAVE LIVED HERE MOST
OF OUR ADULT LIFE.
You at the county voted to give yourselves raises
Don't take it out on the residents !!
O c,. 73O  'c
5-0m
m-o
Warmest alohas, 50
oJO
Joanne L . Foxxe,CRS, GRI, SRES, e-Pro, RSPS
Keller Williams Luxury International
Keller Williams Realty Maui
Kapalua
Lahaina, Hi. 96761
O 5=5o t )
mr'
rn OJO
7^ i'- CN
808-385-2918 cell and direct line
Search all Maui properties on my website
Www.JoanneFoxxe.com
Www.Kapaluaadvisor.com
RS 63115
Certified Residential Specialist since 1989Certified Negotiation Expert
Senior Real Estate Speciallist
Green Realtor
E-Pro
Resort Specialist
Quality isn't expensive, it is priceless.
Top 100 Hawaii Realtors 2017
Oh by the way, I am never too busy for your referrals.
1
County Clerk El t
From:
Sent:
Trinette Furtado <peles808grrl@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 4:10 PM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King;
Mike.Molina@mqauicounty.us; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M; Sineocq ViikHen^glmura
Testimony on Councilmember King's Proposed Budge pribHties; 4 Vi^eUancii^K
im m 14 PH 4: 22
To:
Subject:
[Some people who received this message don’t often get email from peles808grrl@gmaii.com. Learn why this is
important at http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Mai Kakou Chair Lee and esteemed Councilmembers,
My name is Trinette Furtado and I reside in the Moku of Kula. Though I serve as the Cultural Advisor for the Save the
Wetlands Hui in Kula Kai and this organization could be one of the possible recipients of continued funding to malama
our 'aina pulu, 1 am testifying as an individual; on my own behalf.
I support Member King's budget priorities for Kula Kai as regards wetlands and our attention to them and care for them.
I hope you support continuing and new community driven efforts to safeguard and protect them, as we all become more
attuned to our 'aina; the place we call home.
'Aina pulu (wetlands) are important, critical spaces that are often overlooked or neglected, because people don't
understand their functions or their connections/connectivity to the uplands, watersheds and community. Forfar too
long and with increasing frequency, they have been considered the "go-to"spaces for commercial and residential
expansion, at the detriment to the wetlands and the surrounding areas, which only becomes painfully apparent during
increasing flooding and specific weather events. We must curb this irrational and ill-thought out mindset. Development
in wetland areas may seem like a good idea right now but rarely ends up being a good idea down the line.
But it isn't just the physical, literal functions of a wetland that make it so special; its also its cultural importance and
significance; things that are woven not just into the landscape, but also into our collective and 'Ghana genealogies.
As a descendant of Pi'ilani with familial ties to the 'aina pulu I have the honor of working on, knowing that this particular
wetland was named La'ieloheiohe, after Ali'i Pi'ilani's niaupi'o wahine, has given me that much more aloha and
commitment to care for this place and to share with those who want to know ore about it so they will care for this place
as well. For me, it has strengthened my commitment to it. In that commitment and deep aloha, 1 share with and learn
from others who seek a deeper and strong connection and sense of place, because they've learned something they
never knew (about wetlands, wetlands in Kula Kai or its cultural significance) and it empowers them.
We talk about that: sense of place, without sometimes even having our own sense of the place (or places) we are
referring to. Yet it is so critical to have not only a sense of place, but to think beyond our understanding of the place to
prepare it for new stewards being birthed and being trained to malama 'aina.
What will our legacy for our future generations be? "Affordable housing" in flood-prone areas? Narratives and
justifications driven by those who have no koko or connection to 'aina? Will we merely be sorry for what we've done?
For what we've continued to allow to be done?
Funding of Member King's priorities with referent to wetlands assistance is important for the work of 'Ainakuko'a o
Waiohuli Kai, Rooted Kekahi Me Ka 'Aina, Save the Wetlands Hui and other community organizations whose missions
include wetlands Identification, data gathering, community connections, preservation and stronger legislation protecting
1
these vital areas. Together, vje rise. Together, we take on seemingly Herculean tasks and move forward with more 'ike,
mana'o and aloha.
As we emerge from this lengthy worldwide crisis, we must look towards our homes and backyards, so to speak, to
reconnect, re-establish, reaffirm and recommit. Because it really is going to require all of us; all of our collective skills
and aloha.
Mahalo nui for this opportunity to testify and I look forward to the remaining Council session on our fiscal budget.
Me ke aloha,
Trinette Furtado
Kahu Trinette Furtado
"Maui Me, Tree"
Hale 'Aina Pule
'Aina Ministries
2
Cindy Greenup <cagreenup@yahoo.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 11:40 AM
County Clerk
I support the $9.5MN New Regional Waste Wa
From:
Sent: RECEIVED
To:
Subject:
■ji-rlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from cagreenup@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Council Chair Rawlings-Femandez and Committee,
I am writing in Support of Council Member Kings proposed amendment to fund the
Maalaea Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant.
This is a very important issue and would be a huge step in helping rebuild the health and
improve the ecosystem of Maalaea Bay.
Thank you,
Cindy Greenup
Owner Hono Kai,C-10
1
RECEIVEDCount^CleH<
L Harbo <ioraharbo@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 4;26 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for April 14 Council meeting, Inclusion of $9.5 mjjlibn
Regional WWTP for Ma'alaea Village t
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha Honorable Mayor and Councilmembers,
Please include $9.5 million in the 2023 budget as funding for a Regional Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation facility
for the Ma'alaea community. This ecologically and economically sound project will enable Maui to rid itself of 24
injection wells for the salvation of Ma'alaea Bay. The Ma'alaea community and all of Maui will cheer this forward
thinking funding, and the environmental step forward toward bringing Ma'alaea Bay back to the jewel of  amarine
ecosystem it once was.
Thank you for your time!
Respectfully,
Lora Harbo
David Liebersbach
Gayle Harbo
1
Count^£leH«
Skippy Hau <shau@hawaiiante!.net>
Saturday, April 2, 2022 6:20 PM
County Clerk
SUPPORT INCREASED BUDGET FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF.AGRjCULTyKE
(918223A-5101 and 918223B-6132) nn'uNTY^Ci ERK
im APR AH 9- 04
i ri l;
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from shau@hawaiiantei.net. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Councilmembers,
I strongly support increasing the budget of the Department of Agriculture to support additional
staff
positions and funding for professional services. In order for the Department of Agriculture to be a
successful department it must have sufficient staff to start addressing the needs of the
community efficiently.
In addition to the positions outlined in the budget for the Department of Agriculture. I
support including the addition of two Grant Writers, two Food Access Coordinator positions and a
Waste
and Resource Regeneration Specialist in the Department's Budget as additions to meet the
needs of this Department.
I ask also that the Department of Agriculture budget is increased to allow for professional services
that
will support the establishment of countywide emergency storage and food centers, emergency
food
banks in Lana'i, Molokai and Hana, legal assessments of the current agricultural cross-sectors with
Federal and State Agencies to negotiate and address agricultural issues, and the development of a
streamlined County permitting process for the agricultural sector.
Even with funding the additional positional and professional service, including making changes to
fringe
benefits, equipment, travel and mileage to accommodate for the additional positions will still
allow the
total funding for the Department to be less than $3 million dollars.
Please increase the budget of the Department of Agriculture to support the addition
of these positions and professional services. This funding will be crucial to the success of the
Department
of Agriculture. An investment in this Department's success is an investment in Maui
County's farmers and ranchers.
1
MahalO;
Skippy Hau
Retired Aquatic Biologist
40 Kapi Lane #104
Wailuku, HI. 96793
Telephone# (808) 383-4149
2
My name is Ivan Ho, I am the parent of David, Jeffrey, Jordan and Christine Ho. All 4 of
my kids have benefited from the STEMworks program offered by Pukalani School, through
teamwork, problem solving, and creativity. They improved a lot in technology, coding, and
designing. I hope this program will continue for many more years. I totally believe the kids will
benefit. They are our future.
../ElV [-Dr
Rir-
Count^CleH<
im iii-H m PI1 »<■ zoFrom:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, April 14, 2022 4:18 PM
County Clerk
FW: Public Testimony for Public Hearing
CR89-37.pdf
OF TOE
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
Attachments:
From: houselessonmaui@yahoo.com <houselessonmaui@yahoo.com>
Sent: Thursday, April 14, 2022 4:13 PM
To: Alice L Lee <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>; Shane M. Sinenci <Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us>; Tasha A. Kama
<Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>; Gabe Johnson <Gabe.Johnson@mauicounty.us>; Keani N. Rawlins
<Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>; Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>; Mike J. Molina
<Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>; Kelly King <Kelly.King@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Public Testimony for Public Hearing
Please read the attached correspondence from the Budget Committee of 1989 with special attention
to paragraph 5 on page 2 which says;
"In a letter dated February 14, 1989, the Mayor noted that the Maui Community Arts and Cultural
Center would be located in the Maui Central Park. He briefly described the project, and noted that it
would be located near the Maui Community Theatre facility and the Maui Youth Theatre facility. THE
MAUI COMMUNITY ARTS AND CULTURAL CENTER WOULD BE SELF-SUFFICIENT  IN
OPERATION, and would be managed by a board of directors composed of representatives from
County and State governments, user groups and interested people from the community."
Please redistribute this money to help shelter the houseless here on Maui who are dying on the with
no place to sleep at night.
1
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
BUDGET COMMITTEECOMMITTEE
REPORT NO. 89-37
March 3, 1989
Honorable Chairman and Members
of the County Council
County of Maui
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Chairman and Members:
Your Budget Committee, having met on February 16, 1989,
makes reference to County Communication No. 88-291, from Mayor
Hannibal Tavares, transmitting the following:
A proposed resolution entitled “AUTHORIZING THE
ACCEPTANCE OF $7,000,000 FROM THE STATE OF HAWAII
FOR THE MAUI COMMUNITY ARTS AND CULTURAL
CENTER".
1.
The purpose of the resolution is to accept a
State grant of $7,000,000 for the Maui Community
Arts and Cultural Center.
A proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 1989 BUDGET, AS IT
PERTAINS TO AN APPROPRIATION OF $7,000,000 FOR
THE MAUI COMMUNITY CULTURAL AND ARTS CENTER",
2.
the bill is to reflect $7,000,000
to appropriate said
the Maui Community Cultural and Arts
The purpose of
of State grant revenues, and
revenues for
Center.
$7,000,000 of additional
from sources not anticipated in
A  certification of
revenues received
the Fiscal Year 1989 budget.
3.
The communication notes that the State funds were released
by the Governor, subject to the following conditions:
That interest earned from the funds would be used
for the project; and
1.
rather than the County,That a nonprofit group,
would operate the completed facility.
2.
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
BUDGET COMMITTEECOMMITTEE
REPORT NO. 89-37March 3, 1989
Page 2
The
condition,
$7,000,000 at this time.
communication notes some
but recommends that
concern about the second
the Council appropriate
Your Committee notes that on August 5, 1988, the Council
referred County Communication No. 88-291 to its Committee of
the Whole.
On January 6, 1989, the
Communication No. 88-291
Communication No. 89-1).
Council referred County
to your Budget Committee. (County
In a letter dated January 26, 1989, to the Mayor, the Chair
of your Budget Committee requested a written explanation of the
project.
In a letter dated February 14, 1989, the Mayor noted that
the Maui Community Arts and Cultural Center would be located in
the Maui Central Park. He briefly described the project, and
noted that it would be located near the Maui Community Theatre
facility and the Maui Youth Theatre facility. The Maui
Community Arts and Cultural Center would be self-sufficient in
operation, and would be managed by' a board of directors
composed of representatives from County and State governments,
user groups and interested people from the community.
At its February 16, 1989, meeting, your Committee received
testimony from the President and Executive Director of the Maui
Community Arts and Cultural Center. The President noted that
the State had provided $7,000,000 for the project, but that
$900,000 was immediately needed to finance the project design.
Previously, fundraising efforts had focused on businesses on
Oahu, however, fundraising within the County soon would begin
in earnest. He indicated that private management of the Center
would provide desirable flexibility, and encourage fundraising
from donors who might be reluctant to contribute toward a
government-operated facility,
be $300,000,
annually; however, government may be requested to
toward extraordinary maintenance or renovation costs.
Your Committee decided to revise the proposed resolution to
recognize that the monies would not be expended for land
acquisition costs.
Anticipated annual costs would
with a $100,000 subsidy to be received from donors
contribute
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
BUDGET COMMITTEECOMMITTEE
REPORT NO. 89-37
March 3, 1989
Page 3
Your Committee is in receipt of the following:
revised resolution entitledproposed
"AUTHORIZING THE ACCEPTANCE OF $7,000,000 FROM
THE STATE OF HAWAII FOR THE MAUI COMMUNITY ARTS
AND CULTURAL CENTER”. The resolution was revised
to clarify that monies would not be expended for
land acquisition costs.
A1.
A revised proposed bill entitled
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 1989 BUDGET,
AS IT PERTAINS TO AN APPROPRIATION OF $7,000,000
FOR THE MAUI COMMUNITY CULTURAL AND ARTS
CENTER". The bill was revised to reflect updated
appropriation amounts.
"A BILL FOR AN2.
Your Budget Committee RECOMMENDS the following:
as revised herein
"AUTHORIZING THE
That Resolution No.
and attached hereto,
ACCEPTANCE OF $7,000,000 FROM THE STATE OF HAWAII
FOR THE MAUI COMMUNITY ARTS AND CULTURAL CENTER",
be ADOPTED;
89-18
entitled
1.
revised herein
BILL FOR AN
That Bill No.
and attached hereto,
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 1989 BUDGET,
AS IT PERTAINS TO AN APPROPRIATION OF $7,000,000
FOR THE MAUI COMMUNITY CULTURAL AND ARTS CENTER",
PASS FIRST READING and BE ORDERED TO PRINT; and
(1989), as
entitled
6
"A
2.
That County Communication No. 88-291 be FILED.
Adoption of this report is respectfully requested.
3.
7:bcl:k
COUNCIL OFTHE COUNTY OF MAUI
BUDGET COMMIHEE COMMITTEE
REPORT NO. 89-37
March 3, 1989
Page 4
#
jar
Hd'^RO S. KIHUN^
\j
MsmberCbaIrpBrson j LICSU LEE
"> V.
MemberWAYNE K. WISHfKiJRIC^DO MEDINA VIce-CbaIrperton
MemberLINDA CROCKETT LINGLE VELMA M. SANTOSMember
^ORO HOKAMA MemberJOE S. TANAKAMember
Excused
PATRICKS. KAWANO Member
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
CERTIFICATION OF ADOPTION
h is HEREBY CERTIFIED lhal the foregoing COMMITTEE REPORT was adopted by the Council of the County of Maui, Stale of
Hawaii, on the 3rd Hay of rch ^ 19^ by the following vote:
Joes.
TANAKA
Patricks.
KAWANO
Howard S.
KIHUNE
Vice-
Cbalrperion
Wayne K.
NISHIKI
veima M.
SANTOS
Unda
CROCKETT
LINGLE
Qoro
HOKAMA
Chairperson
Alice L.
LEE
Ricardo
MEDINAMEMBERS
Excused Excused Aye Aye AyeAye Aye Aye AyeROLL CAU.
'£AjJI±UNTY CLERK
Evalina Nani Watanabe <evalina.watanabe@meoinc.org>
(no subject)
Nani W <noelaniw@gmail.com>
To: Evalina Nani Watanabe <evallna.watanabe@meoinc.org>
Aloha Nani I apologize for not being able to write out a formal letter but I hope that somebody can type this up to submit
on my behalf. Let me know what else I can do.
Aloha my name is Karen Alohilani Hue Sing and I am requesting continued funding for the Maui Independent Living
Center which provides a multitude of much needed services for Persons with Disabilities to thrive and be a part of our
Maui community. As a wheelchair user with physical challenges and a client of MILC, i can attest that they are a All
Encompassing Resource for helping people navigate through the various obstacles, hoops, and loops that make it
difficult to achieve self sufficiency and independence. MILC's Independent Living Specialist Nani Watanabe brings her
many years of wealth and knowledge to assist clients in achieving confidence and being their best self advocate. Mahalo
for your support.
Aloha,
Karen Alohilani Hue Sing
Thu, Apr 14. 2022 at 3:46PM
615 W. Poppa Ave., #2C03
Kahului. HI 96732
as
oo 73oc JJ
-oH
m“O
20
om rn<
Oo -o
mm j=
OT; IV
REC ■ED
Ka Hale A Ke Ola WESTSIDE
15 Ipu Au’makua Lane
CENTRAL
670 Waiale Road
Wailuku, HI 96793
(808) 242-7600
PH f|* 30Homeless Resource Centers, Inc. (808) 662-0076
-■,>r'RQ-E OF THE
COUNTY CLERKApril 13, 2022
Maui County council
Council Chamber
Kalana 0 Maui Building
8'^ Floor
200 South High Street
Wailuku HI 96793
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Monique R. Ibarra
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Lynn Rasmussen
Chairperson Re: Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee
Doug Wright
Vice Chairperson Testimony - Ka Hale A Ke Ola Homeless Resource Centers - Homeless Services
Central-West Operations and Step-up ProgramSteve Miller
Secretary
Dear County Council:
Alec McBarnet
Treasurer Please fund the entire amount request by KHAKO for the FY 23, FY 24 grant period.
Amber Barto
Cathy Bio
Father Gary Colton
Dr. John Decker
Rory Frampton
Kit Hart
J. Moana Kaho'ohanohano
Nicole Spalding
Alvin Tagomori
Michael Victorino
Jim Worley
KHAKO requested $815,000 to operate both of our homeless shelters, Wailuku and Lahaina.
To be able to do the work we do at the shelter and to cover the costs/expenses we
requested $815,000, however, the mayor proposed to fund only $671,000 annually. This is a
drastic $144,000 difference in much needed funding, This is a significant reduction in the
request which will have a very deep cut in services the agency provides. As the need for
utilities to be paid is ever present, we would be forced to consider to eliminate 4 key
employee positions to include the Food Services Manager, Disability Case Manager, and two
operation/security workers.
Breaking the
Cycle of
Homelessness
On Maul since
1986
The Disability Case Manager (DCM) is responsible to assess, coordinate and advocate for
appropriate care for participants with disabilities in shelter. The DCM ensures proper
documentation of disability and length of homelessness for chronically homeless
participants to assure Permanent Supportive Housing placements. The DCM splits their time
between the Central and Westside Shelter and the Ka La Hiki Ola Mobile Hygiene Unit to
ensure maximum services are offered.
www.khako.org
The Operations Team is familiar with KHAKO's programs, maintains close contact with
participants and conducts unit inspections to gauge progress and implementation of Step-
Up principles. These workers also work 24/7 to provide safety and security at the facilities.
United
Way
Maui OnUed Way
The Food Services Manager (FSM) is responsible forthe daily operation of the shelter's
cafeterias, ensuring that proper food handling procedures are followed and maintaining the
food services' budgetary specifications. The FSM also ensures that participants and
unsheltered individuals and families seeking KHAKO services have access to food, and three
(3) quality and nutritious meals a day, 365 days  ayear, with efforts to be respectful of
dietary needs for a diverse population in a mass feeding environment and to assure
satisfaction with dining experiences.
The agency has only had nominal increases in funding but it is not enough to keep up with the rising
costs of utilities and maintenance for the aging buildings. The participants in the shelters are asked to
pay program fee's that help to offset the expenses, however, their ability to pay is limited. This means
the agency must cover the bulk of the
It is crucial that the county's largest homeless provider, who has been assisting the homeless in Maui for
over 30 years get the funding it needs to fully operate and offer vital services.
Mahalo piha for the work that you do in our beloved community.
Sincerely,
Monique R. Ibarra
Executive Director
Count^^leH<
Lyndon Ibele <akibele75@gmaIt.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 7:20 AM
County Clerk
I support funding for the Ma'aiaea wastewater system!
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
1 have owned a condo in Ma'aiaea for over 20 years, and I am very interested in improving the health of Ma'aiaea
Bay. I therefore support the budget amendment proposed by South Maui Councilmember Kelly King to provide
funding of $9.5million for a Ma'aiaea regional wastewater reclamation system. This is something that the
community has needed for many years. Mayor Victorino is on record saying that it's the government's job to provide
infrastructure. Now is the time to make it happen!
The benefits of improved wastewater treating go far beyond the community of Ma'aiaea to aH of those who
use Ma'aiaea Bay for recreational use.
For that same reason, 1 also urge County Council to support funding for the programs proposed by Maui
Nui Marine Resource Council, including;
● $100,000 for Visitor Education Programs at the airport, on social media and online to educate visitors about
protecting coral reefs.
● $250,000 for Environmental Protection Program to fund ocean water quality monitoring, reef friendly
landscaping outreach, oyster bioremediation project, projects to prevent sediment runoff from Pohakea
Watershed.
Ail of Maui has an obligation to protect our ocean resources. Please fund the Ma'aiaea wastewater system and the
requestsy by Maui Nui Marine Resource Council.
Mahalo,
Lyndon Ibele
C3
mom-< -cr
QO 1']
rnr .n
ox=o-
1
LAW OFFICE OF BIANCA ISAKI
1720 Huna St. 4-01B, Honolulu, HI 96817
808.927.5606 bianca.isaki@gmail.coin
April 1 1, 2022
Clerk, County of Maui
county. clcrk@mauicounty. us
VIA EMAIL
Rc: Testimony in Support of Councilmcmber Tamara Paltin's Priority Proposal #61
To whom it may concern.
I am writing this in my personal capacity but have previously worked on behalf of Na Mamo Aloha
‘Aina o Honokohau, a nonprofit based in Honokohau, Maui, Their leadership and vision is unsurpassed
by any other group I‘ve worked with in Hawai'i. At tlie same time, the area that they live in and work
for is embattled with rising land prices and encroaching, inappropriate developments and enterprises.
Assisting them with their purchase of TMK (2) 4-1 -002:08 8 would go a long way towards their
ambitious vision of restoring Honokohau as a thriving community of aloha ‘^na. Please support this
proposal.
Very truly yours,
LAW OFFICE OF BIANCA ISAKI
1
Kristin Kahihikolo
P.O Box 630434
Lana'i City, HI. 96763
808-563-0795
lanaihomegirl@gmail.com
i''
oo t  I
53^ m-ocl: TO
JCO
-<
Maui County Budget, Finance and Economic Development Committee OO n rnr" ?o-Irr\ ORE: Lana’i Kina’ole 73 Crn o
Dear Committee Members,
I am writing to you as a concerned citizen as well as the Program Coordinator for the Lana’i
Senior Center.
1 would like to take this opportunity to ask for your support of the possible expansion of the
community based services of Lana’i Kina’ole. Due to the fact that our community is
geographically challenged, the services for aging adult population is extremely limited. Many
of our residents are forced to leave their homes to either relocate or temporarily stay in
nursing/rehabilitation facility to heal. The expansion of services requested would potentially
allow for an Adult Day Care or an Adult Day Health facility that would support the needs of
the participant as well as the family.
1 humbly ask that you would take into consideration the line item request made by
Councilmember Gabe Johnson in the amount of $250,000 for FY 2023.
Please feel free to contact me with any questions or concerns you may have.
I thank you for your time and attention to this request
Warm Regards,
Kristin (Kris) Kahihikolo
Count^CleH<
RECE \n'●;dFrom:
Sent;
Anne Keck <akeck@sonic.net>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 2:09 PM
County Clerk
Written Testimony for April 14 Proposed FY23 Budget Meeting
im APRTo: N PM 2= 27Subject;
r  Or THl:
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from akeck@sonic.net Learn whv this is important
Aloha County Clerk:
I would like to provide written testimony for the upcoming County Council public hearing on the Proposed FY23
budget on three issues, as follows:
1. Visitor Education Programs: I support the proposal to fund programs at the airport, on social media and
online to educate visitors about protecting coral reefs, to be conducted by Maui Nui Marine Resource
Council ($100,000). I am frequently on Kahekili Beach and see visitors using spray-on reef-killing sunscreen
every time. The reef at Kahekili further bleaches and degrades as a result.
Visitors love Maui and largely want to do the right thing and protect is environs. Educating them about how
they can do their part is perhaps the most effective method to obtain compliance with Maui's environmental
laws, including its new ban on chemical sunscreens (not yet in effect). The current signage installed at
beaches by Maui Nui Marine Council are insufficient in several respects, and do not convey a strong enough
message - particularly since visitors merely glance at them.
A significant campaign regarding which sunscreens to avoid - and a giveaway of mineral sunscreens
compliments of Maui County - may be the best way to teach the public about this important issue. Mineral
sunscreen stations don't go far enough, in my opinion, because people head to the beach and then use their
own. Installing better signage at beaches, declaring non-mineral sunscreens to be illegal on Maui (and
spelling out the consequences for illegal behavior), would be an important deterrent.
2. Environmental Protection Programs: 1 support the proposal to fund ocean water quality monitoring, reef
friendly landscaping outreach, oyster bioremediation project, projects to prevent sediment runoff from
Pohakea Watershed and more, conducted by Maui Nui Marine Resource Council ($250,000). These activities
are necessary to protect Maui's marine environment and human health, as the information will allow the
Council and scientists to make informed decisions in the future.
3. Installation of Ma'alaea Wastewater Reclamation System: I support amending the budget to include the
necessary funds to install a new wastewater reclamation system in Ma'alaea - which is necessary to prevent
further degradation of the environment and to protect human health.
Should you have any questions, please let me know. Mahalo,
Anne Keck
150 Puukolii Rd #18
Lahaina, HI 96761
Tel: 707-217-9792
Email: annekeck@sonic.net
1
- .a i^a-nk-i jLih^
- Cjh ^ (fV-ioWi-u ' /
1
\0C)O.
(T‘b't~'-\) iMiCfiC-tiai’" h^> sUa\~c^. -i-
1HoAU
'thj^ h i2~^iijtii 1^e^J- tA) ^ot/(t^
'7a 'tofl^ Mo-pW-
--TCP D f2.ia £x .
-(K<_
ropii
H
iVi
)
-f^-pr^o
f^ani J^d
3 ^ 2-61-
a><P 'U> , X
OWa.
'2^t> ( 0 . -L ^
^  ^A.^llc-(ty Q i
U- fo i)£, Aa*--
t\- (7
^ ji? i>“ OL^d~
IaJ‘"JA
I
£1- 4i.^ A-
c_a^^
'^ kMtrc- ' 3 l*-*ki-
■/Ao i*1 /^4
Z2itA/-
Arft (. _Z a-*L^ -P,C & ^-€- "/^o-'
^lALiS^ (xs -h> LrnMck ^ I
p (^P p^. j' 0.
/ IV ;x^4?
■roy- (7^
-f-fa V*^ \o*^j!^c.il- tv^ff
(Z-kbS^ 'kl\A-^i<l/^ .
JTa
looklA ^
* 11 'f'o ^ _3T^ pot>y^
J’ €-
Aofc
f
'pdh [i
CUr 4H^ tV^J" V^
W c^f S (j
;
p V'i^S f Ur c^ ^
j  -he^ t^t ix.
77 Iro c^ pt^d 7-'^
^ ● (1 Utr- Ji
6 O 0
^  Ct
;
O
/● <r
'Zo f ^7. 7^h^
l\si-v~- U<^
Y ^irc^hLu^i ^ iirh»-tpj
/ i- Aov- ^£-
A
y
y ^£>Uf / ^
e^ 7 ^ W^\-
o-
o/ ar.d pi^u* Cjuxcj-^.
t/\A-io ^olu-7ic>L^ Ip^S’ d~fiA> ~irkt^
D a.k^ a4-\^rn.
'hkc^
J~ 7\j2^
<0 c>t-t
7'i^CJ^ y^eux^-^ '7^0
/*-( U>-
7 ^ o/- ^ m>L^- Ixol'^
^^OX— 7^
K A. 5^A-ev-"
t/iif£»*T dlOodi^
IV 4^5
7 dCaro, .
i*P> ^ 7/dl /
Luio-u^
s^ks ^Pxl.cx^ «-*€.
/■^
t
 ''
Cfcjv-^
1  J- . '^(7
o
i-i^ K1 ^ [it-f
aX ’ M
li'V Cr^WC-l
6 Ah
'■^
t -\
st^
lo Le^ 0-3-^ ihJ A Y s ^
t(A-CJ" ^ C-A[
ip i
h i^fi-u ^ 7 ^ o
Av>*^ A-=- CA
~il\^ [.eUo 'f'Cs t A
^ ^/l*-/AC£_
o >tiL-
ij^^( dM' ‘i^y (f-'t/'u#tU'> ir ^( ■-■■Ci~cJr\
o\.c in^yh.^ ,l^e-p"f J\1 fX~ f
}
[W{i^ ■JCl^i-ei o
*Ul
H  ^ U‘jUw kcu,s^
t*^ ® *1
C'i^ i
t> y\. ^t>,fu^ yct-''c-< rfilC_fi.|3 j y\ ^ //
MojW' a^eif~- C-*c
)
icU- Ato-f^'-*^
(<_ _ TTu-to
i~«’v^oy t^V>t/ t
y «
Jc’Uv^Ali-y /"C? piTQ\rici^
■ft /^^ P^c^ il^
/A^ l4-tiYit, ^7
fkx^ Ar'
/ ««✓
0~yi
KfK^‘ t>l- /«
r?
Udti^c Jiu.c^(^
u^iik 7"^ ^€JL.h^
A->^i-^
O LU
«■ ^
;
-AA«-/
y’ £3/^ //
/cA A~ -i" t>ri ^ /
-P'
2- ^M_/
7^1-’r W‘H jH^
r
rr-r^
J /cv “/
iU^
 jk A-
-AAfi--D^
P,Aj^e^ de^Py
iCi^0 O Ll. ' i*
7/K£_I/tv ip lok-
-Ato A.ij-
■f^o
J\,o #1^ , -2-^ (^
“t'kjist-
( yfi- CJh-
iC^a_£-j*
7 &‘ C^k akTf-O I ^
-f
O y\^S
X O-jy G
10 e^
I M‘=fKi_-C?tA^
Av ^
t> W lA' A-y
^●kkouk
, ^(Y Uuo n
^-^^●&£U^CXL .
fi- S k ^ /ska \jL-
YU.^~h^ \j^i- /i /y
WoL (d Pvk\
J k \/jX^ I- 'il^i-c>
[  J- e- k
/
-pk. I P[ *4^1^
"Iro i^-<Jr Po'^ VH'^ck Pi .
J a.
C£Lt\ C4^
tv is^t^
ir
y' b
a-i^ pi
I U
 »*^
A-
lo ^ c-^c<.-s::X -4 U
JM-cJltiA
X^ t>A
loVEuf-k ft> f7^[c^ CJ^-e- LP
fk-o ^ ^ Ac- / (-4 A ^ (irkJ
po (f5_^-^Pir U>
[rtbU.s’^ ^TiSLU'e^
^  J— ■pfe pt^U^
prd-Pk tP^y CsL^^t.
7
U£rcf#4 GUja. L‘^^£^aJ'4-^
im-t_
7
piS-
lt> A.
(^t- i/
\M’^^ [c^e d-
p^
X Of} gt,
A"(o
t2 k r>^ A. ”7ki c
r
<?- p-O-n-^l /'
.  U)(^oc^ \AjlW^u>^ My Vaflv, p(isef-fY
/
, peace tkIIoi af af \kei/- ^L/
i 5 «/
-f" h_t-
<3-n ^
I  It ?oZO,dh K(^i^ lCdjyuCjKM/ieM[ D(=ty. SAe^/s i^y ^
'nwem'FriiEi Til A <i^ Y «'«'
^  IJ’ Tt>. H’A-u'E' - . ■
(;:Ai2-e Ffrc It_i ry,  A- (^EJ'iDewriA-L'
CountyClerk
RECE
MU m I (j
From:
Sent:
Chris Lamb <christinehiamb@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 2:01 PM
County Clerk
info@mauireefs.org
Mayor's Proposed Budget
VED
To:
PM 2-' 0^Cc:
Subject:
OP
COUNTY dlFiHE
You don't often get email from christinehlamb@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I support The Ma'alaea Wastewater Reclamation System,
and Visitor Education Programs To fund programs at the airport, on social media and online to
educate visitors about protecting coral reefs, conducted by Maui Nui Marine Resource Council
($100,000).
I wish to see an Environmental Protection Program To fund ocean water quality monitoring, reef
friendly landscaping outreach, oyster bioremediation project, projects to prevent sediment runoff
from Pohakea Watershed and more, conducted by Maui Nui Marine Resource Council ($250,000)
Thank you
Chris
1
4/10/2022
Testimony in Support of Maui Economic Opportunity
To whom it may concern:
Each summer for the past several years Camp Imua,  acamp for Maui County children with special needs,
has relied on MEO for transportation. A few of our participants require wheelchairs, and all of them have
physical or mental disabilities. We rely on the expertise and care of the MEO team to make sure they are
brought safely to and from camp, and on our camp excursions. Without MEO we would have a very
difficult time taking our 40 campers plus a large number of volunteer counselors to the beach and other
outings. In 2018 and 2019, when our Camp took place at Camp Keanae we needed to offer rides from
Central Maui out to Keanae. Without MEO, many of our participants would have been unable to attend
camp because of their lack of transportation. This week of summer camp is very special to the children
who participate. For one week they are granted the opportunity to make new friends and to try all sorts
of activities that are very challenging- that with the help of our community partners such as MEO are
made accessible.
In Gratitude,
Rainelle Lushina
Camp imua & Dream Imua Program Coordinator
161S. Wakea Ave., Kahului HI 96732
telephone 808.244.7467x410 | cell 808.264.3284
rlushina@imuafamilv.org | www.imuafamilv.org
Countj^lerk
From:
Sent:
mkulab(o>aol.com
Thursday, April 14, 2022 5:00 AM
County ClerkTo:
You don't often get email from mkulab@aol.com. Learn why this is important
1 support the waste project in Maalea
I am a homeowner and we are in dire need of this,
Andrea Marino
c:-: iV-' 3^C “
2: o
ni
“O
30
O
mJ3:
oo: T5
m —i
r
rnoX in CN
1
Count^Clerk
mkulab@aol.com
Thursday, April 14, 2022 2:11 PM
County Clerk
new wastewater facility,
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don’t often get email from mkulab@aol.com. Learn why this is important
We strongly support this initiative as a homeowner
in Maalea. It is desperatly needed
Thank you
Andrea Marino
cs»
o 73O "il mc
z: o j
—im
oo “O-nr* [11m ●1
—r-i ’'~r-
y:} ->-■ hO
1
Count^^Clerk
Mark MARTELLA <coachmarco@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 4:39 PM
County Clerk
The Ma’alaea Wastewater Reclamation System amendment to FY 23 budget
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from coachmarco@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Dear Council members and others,
Please take this opportunity to rectify the existing declining water quality issues facing Maalaea shorelines. The
proposed Maalaea wastewater reclamation system may be a historic opportunity to fix one of Maui's long overlooked
injection well legacy problem.
These existing and outdated shallow wells are not preventing wastewater from leaching into the coastal waters, and are
directly impacting the health of the local reefs in a catastrophic manner. In fact, if you choose to do nothing, our reefs
that have severely declining health issues, could become extinguished in the next decade. Over 50 years of systematic
pollution from the existing wells has almost killed the local reefs outright.
Please act now, approve the $9.5m amendment, and start the change that will make a permanent positive impact on ail
Maui's reefs. The proposed Membrane Bioreactors is technically viable, cost effective and is scalable as populations
increase.
Envision a cleaner future, act now, be the start of an incredible revolution in waste water treatment. The pro's are
overwhelmingly justified , and yourchildren will live in a better, safer environment.
Mahalo, )■v 1
o- -oMarco Martelta
Kihei, Maui
808 359-7880
-z. n"i m j
-< -  I
oo -o11r_
m —i«-i-
Sent from my iPad .'N T' ■ W
1
Count^£letJk
From:
Sent:
foursharon@aoi.com
Thursday, April 14, 2022 10:46 AM
County Clerk
Re: Support for Maalaea Wastewater treatment plant
im APR |ij ah li: 38To:
Subject: -i^rlCE OF Ti
COUNTY CLERK
r-
1 L-
You don't often get email from foursharon@aol.com. Learn why this is important
I support the 9.5 million dollar budget item for Maalaea Wastewater treatment plant.
Sharon Martinez
280 Hauoli Street
Wailuku, Maui
1
Count^CletJc
OV: EDKimberly Masse <shopofsmiles@yahoo.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 3:10 PM
County Clerk
Support for BFED-1
From:
Sent:
r- ‘ \
To: im APR 14 PH 3= 22Subject:
UrrICE OF THb
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from shopofsmi!es@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
My name is Kimberly Masse and I support BFED-1, Councilmember Johnson's priority proposal to include a
grant of $250,000 for Lana'i Kina'ole Adult Day Care/Adult Day Health Center. This money will pay for
Phase I -planning, design, and permitting.
Lana'i needs Adult Day Care and an Adult Day Health Center. We are very underserviced on our isaind and
Lana'i Kina'ole has been working tirelessly to keep our Kupuna on island and get the services they deserve.
Please approve this for our Lana'i Kupuna and community. It is so important that our Kupuna are not
forgotten because we are on a smaller island with little resources.
Respectfully,
Kimberly Masse
1
Office of the Mayor
Community Budget Request
PLEASE PRINT
Name;
Email Address: l^c Pho
Mailing Address: f ^^ jhlH l-tp City.
^Organization p/^UA Ar/m Ll. C
Request/Issue:
K'^0 P^\re/o^'T"-^w( (jeyr\\^l f^ipCQ (A^
fn)i!^OPr/\ . Q l96r\4f>lJe^
L^.(^‘U a^A,^'u^-Lr^ /\ <;o njt6e^
YTurJ- l^rp^r/i/inn.{Y^(.fO
a-^ZA
,
Ci>*nh^
fy\ACrii(7]r/y-fJ- fs gy^
\J
9' ~D_^i r?ri H>p ^^rAiW^j ^
^ W.sV
0  V^oUa^
'hi
gt^<h cAxir|~w^
‘
o^Crvz-^/h-fflvV ■ A
CatAS’i c^Ajh ov^ .
FOR STAFF
USE ONLY NO.jI-
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
II
I I●' u I
J
C ■>! ~a rnO oH m-< -Er ■]
oo “T3~r, =3SZr*
m —I rn\n
oPLSASSH«nt
Name; 9Vy\\\v
Email Address: V .
Mailing Address: y.- Q
X m o.
Phone: GS^^U/1X
CIty/ZIp; ^
torn
Syselfrganizatlon
Request/Issue: \ktti fmA
I Represent:
mi a ^dOfpr -.>6^
V
Vv(\t^ W> VtoaSt. V>^ a V^S9.
'03
siUxA 5vm<;^£ M.I .
W a Q£ol^^’ru rk^^yr/>N>L
fA~ <x<t fAf\i g\sig, ofe Wv;.-r.y.^
f.‘
■». V.W.
o  -■
, A-Ai.^Vi-V A
iili
'A^cwrs
\ hasjff
J
k4.J
^ anii
Funding Request (If known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of tiie Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South H^h Street, 9th floor, Waiiuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.offlce@co.maui.hl.u8
r>\:
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
o / ' V
L
MI APR ] 3 Pit●^3
- ; i k':E Or THE
^OJHTV C ■ irL.i: 1 s
PLEASE PRINT
Name: Q \ oA
Email Address: G i
P.O I era/*Mailing Address: lO^H
AVv
Phone:
Kf^kvA] I ^ lg~12>3LMtU/ Cfty/ZIp:
l^^rganization Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Aftsrschool and Summer
ysetfi Represent:
Request/Issue:' imporlo^ our
cCM
uj6 4remencioa£» tj ^
- o curllve^^ look
]o\vt\g4 lr\(M=^ \{ cJL
jui opptt^
CorVylv^ e6.peC4f:4l\j K)t-\U fjw ^u.11 dxx^
mC 4lur‘Ol»VL JS
Ties, Ko-VC'be
rOai I
UODYK.
.
en
cxy^(AJ-2r\n^
: -
'  '''
'
Funding Request (If knOwn):^
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Form maybe mailed to: County of Maul, Office of Bie Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Walluku, HI 96733
Or emailod: budget.office@co.maui.hl.us
( FOS SI XFf
USE OSIYI .V.’i
h I
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
f
L
G'nq Apom
: <cy>un(gtnd5)^rnQil .ccpn
~1\^ S kam. Ave.. Qpf &c
PLEASE PRINT
Name:
Email Address: Phone:
KabulMailing Address: City/Zip:
1 Represent: Qviyself
^Organization Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
-funjinjf IS helfinji in mokp. a Mem^.
■becgiuse my, 5cn a (Inanrp. \o \-eam
CT^t
IL
.durinj Surm^ Qwmn
0[ Onox\ui -b KY\(^be, bpis
in cSchcH
Request/Issue:
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department: Ho*Jsing and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office. 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Wailuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
-TX’
,-n;
i
Sis/●'
IS^S
 i—W. V
mm^ ’ K :
'x
1;
^.;VEIM%S»M. K '
M
4-iC21
-^r>w .,* M1i'SSOV-● m
^'  A’kI
h*-
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
I
r»\ t
1 SiL. ■  *● ● a*
ir r p* i
I
i
t
4* ^
/
I
I
etsmms: ft v«,tNiV>c’ra Co-«‘\'nName: ''   1 \ .J—
\, c^v4
vAoVciviO-^ c^vp"ivt
phone:
Email Address: i‘
City/Zip:
Mailing Address s.
W.
rj^self
0Organization Maui Economic Opportunity, InoHead Start Aftorachooi and Sum;^\ Represent: i
?. '
q\oS.\V^^
CociaV
da-V
C»c;Od%^c| ^bQ^^\0
Request/Issue: i
V
U-iiV'i
Adj as \s
OyyYgf
ua4Vi^ a*\c^ cC'e^ca). \c-0K;r^ 3-1
da\ f 'CV^v\V-& C\i VNg.V\(Vnd -tVUc/ y<rac/^^ 4^ >
■C^vced -V^ OrOM co-a^ c^ucorHaA-,
Aoy- ix\oKx\-£.<»c
Jlc,cV●¥*»«
^>Csfi&CX\\ \<lO^V\(\. X» gde^i^gfi,
tAscd Yw
‘.S'
V
r
£A^cA^\^va\ Q'tvA WgVMfes. ya’«^e^^Vs
Hfp,-cvi -Vo ^e\^cy V-gQVX . -f v2,d A<Xj c>^MoX\& . a^VcT-oV
Funding Request (if known):^ i
Housing and Human ConcernsResponsible County Department
Fonn may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office. 200 Soudi High SUeet, 9lh floor, Waliuku. HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maut.bi.us
I■'
h--
COUNTYOFMAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
I
I
EP DL
13 h^2
I r
I
V . V
PLEASE PRINT
Name: EdClYt
Email Address:
Mailing Address: 5^0 A/Ilh^
_Phone:
_City/Zip: Kdhului.
■oom
yself
rganization
I Represent: Maui Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
Reauest/lssue:*AIOM! QfVj Mmo !<■ ^OCM ftrtolte& tK/ ViOt/
pfflrttnt- Cftincital- tohA^lai A. X \xM<WQ
and 4bmUiO&. TD CXl<nd <^001
fflrmk ■U^’r iyjy^ not- bo ab\c/ -to yic»- up AmY on owdjyt^
noc/of -ii\ocf-> (X^axdr.dl fiiv dfviU oart'. XV baf\aPtH
^ ^mlltO€, boc^so lflr^gor educaffovi
hcad<stt^rV yioyhg^iivpwy4 0ood >/DW
1*“
.g tv\iird&. X gm
iF KonccH^ boet\ evpon'grior. -(nr (VW it^0|ctvx^^
)s (W^-Dc^ and JYV.A^y^^ V^avp
bcA.t~ ^\o fv\0fllc4^ -fty 6Qy\ thYCM0HO^K_
hf. X bavo ^^JibrniHed a 6vimircr ^od
X  lopy^n^ -to 1H/ €mmr yfOgrcyiK.
a
1
Funding Request (if known): ^
. Housing and Human ConcernsResponsible County Department:
of Maul, Office of the Mayor ● Budget Office. 200 South High Street. 9th floor. Wailuku. HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
Form may be mailed to: County
if 4  ' ● : ,; -iS',ii-i ■ ●‘●.7- ^ ■ ,i:>'r5;' <fw’ r^"-'
,Vl'* ●
J" ^ I *●●■'"”* “■
i N€5.' r tZi
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of fh© Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
—
t
Wl /ipf7 13 P|.» #■ -if
L
I
n
M1
NTV
fc:4-
Name:,narfl Camfrcr) 1“■' ●1
Email Address:
Mailing Address:^\0 gV
a Phone: m OM ^02^
chy/zip: mflVfflMao
pwBOrganfeatlon Maul Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
yseifI Represent:
Roquest/lssue:EQ;,^rirU^JflgntSfe| ft mC<M ftnri
b^^ingyv^ Urn
(
:
V M' on Ante .●m vuw\ \
If
XjSIj
f
I!
I
ij
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department: Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to; County of Maui. Office of tbe Mayor - Budget Office. 200 Sdiilh High Street, 9th floor. WaUuku, HI 96793
Or emailed'budgetoffice@co.maul.hi.us
!
I■—  ■■■
«CR S‘.\r.-
ij'jcOSLY
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
I
L
PLEASE PRINT
Name: OgQ C^TlL-l'O
Phone:
Mailing Address: IH j<AHU/Xf f Bg>VoH gP. APTP52feCity/Zip: f<^AHl/fLC4 / % 732-
Email Address
I Represent: F^yself
^Organization Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
Request/Issue: \^rrVWotAjt- ^,>/vcX ? Vx-o
'C\<-<A. cAu-V-f fNix-ynm-cv-- <a-)OtA ~Hvc5^ u^ouAot
ia
c<xw„*^p wvf, -Vo n-c<^ -Vt> : tirtr,
“n-5
S» '^l-e ■
j^Linj-C-ck a,v\,cK
i-€-5S H'V\-e«^
W< OL/rvz. Q.
$io-y
LOOV\ -eA re.
lOevAAot V^OT olV.Iovj
'll
“Vt) cur\VA-S
O V-“ U>0 V-
  4^ fLvv^iiv
yWAAjt
lA^Vv^Xg, 'T!
0^T
CltIccrvx
StEi m H
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department: housing and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maul, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Walluku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
‘■OH STAFF
L'S£a.<..y NO,
r—pT-:r\  i v’COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
D
I r~' r-
T1-?*  I i LZwr
TY Cl[
PLEASE PRINT
Name: fiivicA
Mailing Address: '^/
Email Address Phone: C^C^)T0D-'1'12^
City/Zip:
I Represent: f^yself
●□Organization Maui Economic Opportunity. Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
Request/Issue: Ty^ -Hnoc^ M&o g»ver^ ryit^
^  ^nor ^ -fif/l 0f^>eJiOOl . gert^-te a »-oM-/ingL..
'5(lV^ui-e^ -H^ -h> irAe^ae^ ctr^ coi-^~h
Ine^ UX>o^ he^eJH
^  rv^cj\r>e>^ bc-?nr>e^
"Ha ^ o -fc cC)C
jCP*-£.^/~^o tOlnilt^ loe^no <3
nnq oy\i id 1^6sj
^ e^urO^-Honol -H^cd' l V^ad Loonkii^
y:i^ah. OJrwxd dar\
ry^cpi n
/^nd <2^*n nomt^ \zqy'icU‘^ r^u-isir^f
loer- -VV
J-n^7frvirn€.rr^- 'W^<^ ^ro<^i-c\nn^ uOoutai
Qywidy'cr^'^ Uve^ ^h(c^ 4o ^^nHnUC'-
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui. Office of the Mayor - Budget Office. 200 South High Street. 9th floor. Wailuku,
Or emailed; budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
HI 96793
i
mr'-«criTw-
1  L-*iOiLY ><Q
■' y
t?r
-fipr— » :COUNTY OF MAUI
OfHce of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
I I
i ISs
:»LI£g_f^i p^.||c
T;■  ■ .
:
OFSicen/-:
'"''liNTY r;f
'  - C X
hi PLe&SBFfwr
Name: ^-l-cEWi(ttO
=  Vaw.^ q Iff P im ● e^'fvo
Mailing Address: 3^-1 k\ - PU
Email Address
1
(cal)Phone:
City/Zip qAO 4 s.l(.8-
V.
>«*
^Organization Maul Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Aftarschool and Summer
elfI Represent:
RequesVissue: ^UZn
\lrCAd— Sf&-rtr vn ^ (l-tfKjKvv—g~ ^ ^04,-1 A '
I-
cVUGL^S *2^ I,..J
qJ-MQ vin<Yv/>^\ V“v*-
^Wu/—
itjdWv—
T
■7M Ijear rruj .S^vt— /K, gw>
ef
(tf<ZtyxA4^ ^ kn^-t
^ aWA 6aGyk^^j uA~fi^ ^pegfg
<«
-F■
. ^ r.:■
.
■
Funding Request {if known); $
Responsible County Department: Concerns
Form may l>i Sa® to: County of Maul. Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th fi«^r„Wai)uicu, HI 96793
W  OreiTffllfed:budgetoffice@co.ma(ii.hl.us ; :
l>9
i.
/■ I'' K-
I >●: o
2mM 13
: >1.
imm
iisi ?Sii2iga<p: COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
2t
} I .
r  - .l‘ ■li u●* *-. ~'-
■ m
I <  t ●'■ V '
i  !
mi
^ 3^
P.LSAS£Pfim
Name;
Email Address: Phone; ''SS:iS.
CityfZip: \/VLjUi^^,
jST-ar ^'  I
Mailing Address: o l/Vt<a
*-*>ey
I Represent:6'J
iZfOrgantzation Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterscnooi and Summer
'ic.Request/Issue: [a:t
V
■f 4-t
c/ tyjeA.'
1i]Sj£V;>L>aciil=^ f—i
(●
Funding Request (If'known):^
Housing and Human Concerns
Responsible County Department:
- Budget Office, 2Q0 South High Street, 99i lloofv Walluku, HI 96793
Or emailed; bodgeLoffic0@cojnaul.hlus
Forni may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor
4' 1*;>f- ■>
■
- 'T
FOR S7i:'f
U32 OMIY
- -■Rm ■■
KO
h--
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L
‘-rP/CE
C-CUNTyOF THE
clerk
Ui\dPLEASE PRINT
Name:
‘?ri-
\U\UA ^ynt3^
Email Address: Phone:
Mailing Address: IMMm City/Zip:
Organization Maui Economic Opportunity. Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
yseifI Represent:
Mi.Wr ten a «n<p ptilviMitif) a
ftk(^W[\ pUce-fiy yy\j ^
M IwdvK- u^\ m Me/itis
U\Vm of \A% w(d -tD iM ^ ^'4^
 {MMi ws AY\ \0f A /iIdvia w/ cd^ 41f\e-
kgiilsViiy la AS w 4 Vhs j-mm
$k \\Vt ^ viii k ^
iMyyi'iyy^ yvp^Vityi.
Request/Issue:
V#vi\\)' ^yyjeti
Funding Request (If known): $
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street. 9th floor, Wailuku. HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
“■3£
h
~'T^T:C■-COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L:iVGD
L
”iCG OF I HE
WTY CLERK
/  ■
● ^ \ .
IhujPLEASE PRINT
Name: arci
: hdi)3oUimEmail Address:
Mailing Address: K^u'uo//-, Wn fSf ■
Phone:
City/ZIp: k'^k/o/ H7.9Cp73?
I Represent: yseif
rganization Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
Request/Issue: ^
iy\BO /Jc4^S4i^ S^M^ju^XxJ
ciKJL&^ afh-^ M&O c^l>fe^
Cpf /M£Q gXWjp>/^ Ar&^
<fefekisA |W-A^j!A.^
-V/^ ^L^Hy-x , (jA-grTV~^.EyA\
Funding Ret^est (if known); $
uu.&\ £L
c> ck^
SA
CkTf ^ Ckli^ <TVv^ C^ir'iA J^a/^—~u-v
ilO ^^^t^JjpJLsQ^■7
i:a^Ov
^1 
iKlfter^
;:6T^
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Fonti may be mailed to: County of Maui. Office of (he Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Wailuku. HI 96793
Of emailed: budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
o^\j^ K^
h0^<^-nMT,(frr^' er^npldvf^
Email Address: t4a-VrcVu_ n ^ yet-Vtoo.
Name:?
Phone:
Mailing Address: 2.S0 ^ MciVva. City/ZIp: o
H
rjA
0Organfeallon Maul Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
yselfI Represent:
Request/Issue:
AWA Wa C Uej^fg^
~VV<L*yxeKgt \ AA^j Ww^ -^<^3 ’Gr
o
W'
m
cIa
f a
3 A. Co y/ &■ ●
er*
ilkS Wo f'oa'ferv.
X
*~N
:jti^
. Vgrl w«.irv
C&r-x gv^xitck. "VW
/^cuV(j \Ue. VvkgW
4 0\JL\r
Ct>x\
V(tU a,4>vc
W 'S-
Wt art
\ cell's^ J yvvLCcAs.
v^s. H iojysA.
v^ra*\ £~^J^
'Hv^i^ :^k<so ^ ,
c-ee^^ svs^tVv
Cs
C*. r
a
OT
-
tr\■A£X
4av^ so^o=»1
^ yo#'> 'a.
lyvyfyo \/evwCiv'V o tAV\t v*x^vs. «-V 1
Funding Request (if known); $
Responsible County Department: ^o^sing and Human Concerns
Farm may be mailed to; County of Maui, Office of the^Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor. WaUuku, HISB793
Or emailed; budgetoffice@co.maui,hl.u9
5TifF
USS 3S1.Y Mf3.
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L
PLEASE PRINT .
Name: mfivlgpi
City/Zip:
Phone:Email Address:
Mailing Address: V\ll\1^vto fyyT 10 \
I Represent: I Ivivself
✓lOrganization ^3^' Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
Request/Issue: t>r iiPiJ\ iMrO-j KMAt3>yi4; CHlU?|gUij
ft- u^T- fitniMfa iv W)k(m
^  msx) M m' ft^ovit^NObi i>teu)
V  K MW ilw-r (yiy[ tiOwi
v^\i fc»K(nA))Ki^ ^ yg>mw(^ ygA/ ●thw^.'
Funding Request (If known): 
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui. Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street. 9th floor, Wailuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
✓ 5CR 3TA.-?
I HO
i-
RtCfciVEDCOUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request Vr;:iCE OF THE
-OUNTY CLERK
PLEASE PRINT
\rujLName:
Mailing Address: Lolna^<=.
Email Address:
City/Zip: Tukcdo^ru
Phone:
Organization Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
yseifI Represent:
Request/Issue: ct/M .the. W /WEO l-lfia
HJuJji-Mr) j, l^/dLXjn^ ^
 ^6} .thSL
thC\ &OA ●t/
jL^UUTy
p4py/?^>^ aXi&iucd
jrr-M^O^Mu^?kllAj^ ,h h4Mt.C{ ,£IA^. A^^I^UUL _^tu
£AX/iU/yy^ cUi^ <AykLhL
■ifcKltife J^i ASi oJalSi_ Jnh !A T<yJt.^ uAjU'k) .AlltiijiSO
.hud JY\/e^ k/>n ^ /j^i
.iX) CXrHXj.^u-iz.. F.n kYlCO , kQa />~f^ ^●kAaihx/
’\JUU
in
/
.MAjO/i
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to; County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Wailuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budgetoffice@co.maui.hi.us
fo'i.sr.vr-
IY'il'i
h-
TJ,  Xf
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
J L_ I
I
OFFICE CF THE
COUNTY I  r: r 1 ui ^
PLEASE PRINT
\6jO'\ ^V^ /Q ifvxtsn. CofA
Mailing Address: 90 'b'b>03'^^
Name:
Email Address: ^osisijsnsPhone:
City/Zip: V'rvbolul <=f
I Represent: I Mvself
^ Organization Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Aflerschool and Summer
Request/Issue: H EO The j Wyt.
bgsV ^o^2£xm.-  oy^ancx'a u3\¥n ah\\dpen
C\rA u^nA[ -VVy>. besV edooaV^^on.X <yri
H yjQg ol<ji andOi iA:>oQVjn^ <Y\rjrhgq
yve us^The -^he rncslr
Ca\3c\cx\ -h\Y\e Xa aoz Vwe^. UAb
a
Vv.lp the, sVvxjk:nfa» \n fttl- oaeexs. ^ sVe^ mm\bejzs
a<\d dl
i.g&k i^exxC c\ cfe\sv<^ roc\ So ) X o.m
ri:>r\\Aacp:c5t -WyA HEO aosooea. xo peaupg
'TV\n^ p&gqg£vm hos dnonoegdi \doVVx m\nc. and mtjr -tocyb
,.r\ ^ I rVo %^OT0,v X^ead
\As„nu3co ben^gvte so ToudnX.'^homwC 'ite d
lOho ^we c
Open Atxaa
Funding Request (if iiiT
Responsible County Department: i~*Q^s'rig and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street. 9th floor, Wailuku. HI 96793
Or emailed: budget,office@co.maui.hi.us
r^ymfAFp'use ONLY
m c
I NO.
■’ct D-'COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of th« Mayor
Fiscal Year 202S
Community Budget Request OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK●r
fifiMfi/mr
Name;  Whi'^lijn Luu(e>^
Malting Address:
Email Address
I Represent: □«!»●» , , . ,
Phone:
CKyfflp:
Request/leeue:
Fitvj-aff-^ 2ii -h> ^^jTJianh£-HiU +h-€^
 h^J>^X ^ifaeafey htjp
ffives -ht^- <3^
i
<14-. rf -A«5●/A/ fi
<3£> Much f^^s^hs^.s wJ H^/ngs
Cfifyi-FurfefhF, . 7h€4J t~£attu h-Mp
gnu yi:s<n/’rs/'<s ,
Funding Request (If known):
Responsible County Department:
fQR STAf;-
’jS£0\:,y HO.
t-
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
* V {1^ Dr\ c i-y.
I r\ —
'—t' r ■ 1  I I
( TV CLFMK
PLEASE PRINT
^^^14 /h ^
City/Zip: ^ ^
Phone:
Name:
Email Address:
Mailing Address:
I Represent; F^self
►^Organization Maui Economic Opportunity. Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
Request/Issue:
My son has a late birthday which is in September and couldn't attend Kindergarten
this school year (2021-2022). And because of this I'm truly grateful that he had the
opportunity to participate in the MEO Head start program in Kihei. I liked the fact
that It was so close to home and right next to his older sister's school which madeIt very convenient for morning drop-offs and afternoon pick-ups. Especially
because the program finishes at 2 p.m. which will help my son to get ready for
kindygarten this coming school year in August with having a regular school
schedule and daily routines. Having my son enrolled in MEO Head start had made
such difference in my son's life helping +him with his fine motor skills as far as ,
cutting coloring and gluing. Also helped him with his social/ emotional skills to trust
his teachers and being able to express his words when he's feeling uncomfortable
and many more, I can't thank the staff and this program enough in helping my songrow in so many ways in such a short time!
Funding Request (if known):  $
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui. Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street. 9th floor, Wailuku. HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office(§co.mau{.hi. us
'"OR ST if?
I'Ss OVLY ^0.
I  rrr
:  f"\ h:COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
munity Budget Request
L®.
OF THE
i-OUNTY CLERK
Name: tfAe/^
Email Address: ^7^ycyApp^Cs/n
Mailing Address: 3/0/} <Jql//4 <f)^.
Phone: CS0}t)Z^S‘-^9v
City/Zip: A^yAty/u//f& Z3Z
I Represent: [""Mvseif
●^Organization Maui Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
Request/Issue; T^e Aar /
yfat/ Me Zb/^e/ 9 V>7
Ar/-y>^ 0'/,</ aOTiSnfc/ /v/M ZXey Apj,/
/>?fyajidiL
Qy?o/ (nr/t />> £y (yr-AiDd/ A///6 yZ^// y^/r
rA/Mtr* <yye ?(, j>e/- ^y fiyaeryf-j^r^ gy^ ^Aey7^<ytAoo/
^/// Jc //^ y&Asy> y^^ey or/iy?yy^ /'/y>oA;ry>y>hn.
/r y^y,ijyyAy^/ ^eop-use /A &//c^ riA^/a/ycy? 76
^y/7?fyAn O' ^^ao/ <fcAcQi^^  a?yfyyhyj//i^ /exry-y>^ (ygy^tr>^A^
y}e^</ fij^jyo/ty
//fe
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office. 200 South High Street, 9th floor. Waiiuku,
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
HI 96793
fCf;5T4rF
US'OSLY -VO.
h-
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L
PLEASE PRtNT
Email Address: \f\ .
Mailing Address:
Name:
Phone:
City/Zip:
I Represent: QVIyself
^Organization Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
Request/Issue:
1a^ \om\ lA£4.prn^ Dyl-^ IniArid
6ocaiaI^. SiU( AH. €>^pg>5e -to
,^tw( e^^eA-T-€M.ub \/arfou<^
Ab Vifj lA^er -fhsHr cojne. sys-h^.
'Ht dtn\f hA,y^ l<lids Mho rJhse- Y<S> a^p
dif'-i^\dAhj ifE.mt4^tiou5iy beJie-frAs Ulhn
jo sh"nu<Liff^ kh sen^e/b d.&U'elopHiei^rf-.
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department: ^^ouslng and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui. Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street. 9th floor, Waiiuku. HI 96793
Or emailed; budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
=ORST«-f
l/Sc QNlV MO
h  .I  * ^ i— w i cDCOUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L-MJ3J1j^llh2
"'"rlCE OF
COONTY CI
■ r
I—
i ri
K i
PLEASE PRINT
Name:
g.k^^ra^.r)^n tv\a.j I - C/W^ Phone: 2^ 5/4b
City/Zip; t-kLI-i<0
Email Address:
Mailing Address: p- q ■ feQic Sl ^
Syselfrganization Economic Opportunity. Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
I Represent:
Request/lssuerX (L»V\ gy\ SV--Hvgy
S0lry\hr{g,K tvA&O j?ro//<k^ .
so 1>^V8P>^ 0Vv»iCH)-P h\^l (^OuJgUer \S b|^S^e()
Kira ^(Mk' sy-(rVx/ M6D .sUhannp^
l>3ttrk'ao\r tVi L( t^ir>gr<Mv^ T1 uooolc) hot? aJ,lc
Ctr-frl^ gy1 JT tMnn
to Uc gjg'l-t/ -Ico vPU^igr>c
JS
to kiu^t' 4ri (v\e- 4-0 Vi>Y' <x^
»v (JO-
Jiyccocx-cK- NA&Q tov>mer r-egOWr .g^ool prd^r/^f^p
op aJcoVt' gnJ -lojoh cA^itj m -tVMLir
oJ<3v\j 4M ^o^porJ- 4Ke
AiMVMt’t'to- TI Wysvy) ■4--
t:W^ Obport^rvi^e^ IT o?-r>
OYto-c- So to"*^ iiVt (L- FkFunding Request (if known): $
iOprort
4<51
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Form may b© mailed to: County of Maui, Office of ffie Mayor - Budget Office. 200 South High Street, 9ffi floor, Wailuku, HI 96793
Or emailed; budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
.'■●05 STAff
U3'0!<UY NO.
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
RECEIVED1t
. :TiCE OF Ti !E
■'CUNTY CLERK
<g<^jftYL\\rq^hone:
City/Zip:
IVV3LVft>Cot0
PLEASE PRINT
Name:
Email Address:
Mailing Address: VCi=*r\igArA^'(^\x)^
Syselfrganlzatlon Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschoot and Summer
1 Represent:
:  (V\v^<vuivv£. \S» &yyi'n. am CL%\nf^Vg_
VAf to . tWjQ~5
'pCfttgjTtxm Has /^Wqja hvmi \W ojpxW^^-Vn irLAlAvwi}.
_CQM\t:) ●fa>f ’^q(L\\\ i
HsV fe<" VvYVJ^QmAl\^^W^\Va\%fl
ondl <^vi^A(iLr\rg ui^W\\£
\e/^^^kns W 0QM\t^ (XS> CK.'^-V cor V\<ig-S.X am (x&-joosj'Ay\n t'OeA cajnA \ou
'^vRva\i OUT r6K.ftLV}(v.x
’^ci^cuMV %rS>(iUooAnaJri '\y\ 0LAA.v\tAn \o
j\‘rt(7e}}o\ii QolV oA *^cVYnol 'tV\on-^
y
W C(\E6 vNeoLc^gW^ <ms(\
CAvAo \vc\a
Request/Issue
)ai
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
(koa Vp V\^vs\tv a  c^Ac^ccjOg. AV ava^ *IV^ Vif A >*OOV^ WWryLsfC-S^ v>ie.\V. CtrTovVForm may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Strli^t, 9th floor, Wailuku, HI 9679
oy\A Aai&^Or emailed; budget.office@co.mauf.hi.us. _r\ .«  ITn\ _ I -
't«ca.\3SC. W^VxcS. Oov' Cxi\jrvV(^ tti fVvcuj’i
W\rou(^ <K VtlV, WV \>:r\\V-i vsrv^''^ Wo^roJt^
\\twe> W>ie Wen \Xi\WveO^
4^\\4s»<an(i Av3fW-\W5>ffww',
' \<& ’!\.<u^V©Cs'U '^'V KovxiSj vo'bs, <Mvdi''^OVTg,.
^o-WvAo
^J^ckiLu-
I
L?®i5lI3.WL.Liii.
r ICE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
rt- f.%’
ICOUNTY OF MAUI
Offlca of thd Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Naiw;
BnallAddma: K<^'^ H 20) k iPatT^-r- ■ / Cw
Atainng Addmig; RP.goy
Phono:
cj^z^: Ki<iLML2lZ^I.
'w*
I
inlnSoii W«ul
Request/luim: J"^OOilpg -fer■ ■■ ' <^ Uf
v?j??/>yy 7>-^co/ A/W :/●' <w
17D'
JuPftT r rMi-y?n-7^ n^ec>JVt»^ -tfig ^£?.
^'^x>o j hiAv£ —
"o <■D_!r^y I
J
^ tx\ Ict ^ilic
f'-j fi* -f -e?/^11,id be. £1^I  vs<
Responsible County Department: HouB&ig and Human Ocaicame
■ Mi.y ,«C.
t-
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
/- r-
Dr\c
L.-_
mi m \ 3 ?l\ \: ii2
iI  . . \
PLeASEPfilNT w / ,
Name: S
tpjril, Cam
Email Address: B1 j
Mailing Address: f(^2> Place
Phone:
lu>^ fjfCity/Zip:
I Represent: yself
rganizatlon Economic Opportunity, Inc Head Start Afterschool and Summer
Request/Issue: Mtp Shu-f iC^i/tCeS t>ur ^ ^ aaJ
f, Qu^ C(>U>tyt-€ei£ ff\r^<e. hei'O4cU j  school arc dtdlc^iesj itAchkS tolxn ii 7
JrtfUiflrx, Oi^f>
(J l^W w 'from
SPCi'ixl ^yyci (KCAdtWK\C i/er
A
4K'jrv #’i-
\aA
H \^§ ohc 0/ H^U-
j school
A 6’^re. -jo 5'Ui=Wt4' wk&vt
Med
4'
.jffiu-''rf<i+4 pn>y/\ct{,m●■Srv>
.j
\y\aiA lA^d \x>
A ^rtu>o| C^Acc1
4 \.r
6s£.i0 i£tf,rn‘u''j CA^cci
-^vtsUies V^v\
VJoiWA ^0 /T
dMWu,'i 'V
ofi.\s awd ev^u 4^^,$uct^ \eA-rk^*ikv
\j
Funding Request {if known): $  ■
Responsible County Department: Housing and Human Concerns
Form may be mailed to: County of Maul, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor. Wailuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budg0t.offlce@co.maui.hl.us
I  jia - -
(
: i
--
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2025
Community Budget Request
'j..
f<! I /h
Pf! 13 PH 1:112i
f I
r-lor* .
Oh ffiL*
clerka
*
\
m\Ham:
Phone:
ManinflAdd««: P-D . M %\ Clfy/Zfp
IRepreeenfiOftlyesrf
QOi^enizatronteo
1\) irrNRequestffseue; i,
^ vmj W ivvouW
Qfid te vi. ftANj^Ti^ cm
QMi . MPD ^velpc (M-l- Q]'o\ \?eca^ ^'Vh Q ^)t^b
M-„ IdW-p -iirK|qrx/ wh) w\4 v?^ q\)t& -te
a
qpQ Vindn^ ^dvcr ha'b atvj~cb(>N&.
Funding Requeal (If known):
Rfttponelblo County Department:
f. .
r"
■ yiMlWIMWf ^
EDr*
RE(
mi APR 13 PH i 7
M-iCE OF THE
OU^4TY CLERK
-J i
●..y
April 12, 2022
To Whom It May Concern:
I am writing to let you know that the MEO Head Start Summer Program is very
important to my daughter. During the summer, my daughter will get care while her
dad and myself are at work. This is the first time she will participate in the program
and 1 am looking forward to it. There are many reasons why this program will
benefit her:
She will still get to eat a well-balanced meal with a variety of options daily
(breakfast and lunch).
Throughout the year, I have seen so much growth...and with more time in
school, she will improve even more.
She will be able to maintain a routine similar to the regular school year.
She will continue to learn Reading, Writing, and Math skills.
SITe will benefit with more social and emotional learning.
She will gain more sociolization skills with other peers and teachers.
She will get more exposure and practice with communication with other
peers to help with her speech development/delay.
She will maintain academic knowledge and skills.
Thank you very much for taking the time to read why this Summer Program is
important to my family and I.
Sincerely,
POR iTARf
U6E OMLT INO.
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
as
0-0 730”i >- jU-.'
o O1 m-<o ~oV, > "n 3::
fTl!T= VP Or'N *.
CN
PL£ASEPRINT
Name:
Phone:
city/zip: JlAmwaba fU/U'C’
Email Address:
Mailing Address: H
lyself
rganizatlon
i Represent:
.  M
Wi: V?cA^ <s C4^uiV^Request/lssue:
X'. ^ 4-
'h crhci^pl^^
1
iLr , 4ULn^ i n. 4i /rv-<flnc
Wv".\iV?^t^v7' l-^ if ha>r-<d^(^ lA\fi- -fo
irij^ d7Wc2_v-
Vn.D^i- c3vvi
/dive, r
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor ● Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Wailuku, Hi 96793
Or emailed; budgeLoffice@co.maul.hl,u8
FOR ?TAFF
U8F ONLY NO.
I-
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
u-r r>>t
So*r: -~o mOm !T]O/ -I i
fnU1
DPLEASE PRINT
Name; 1/1
Phone: FO?
Clty/zip: ^//rncb
Email Address: ie- .
Mailing Address: p/ Ji2oi
ti.C
Oorganizatlon
I Represent:
Request/Issue: Tln/°. \ig(XJ r-W4-i. \xT \V\/^ pO y4&t<\Aci-
't^> me. X- hoV /-inu-- X-'j-
Imt- -b u^ovU-i’h Ab Pi/mir^ l(\ ir^
i-?qj :~C
^£>im -r
-fo
1^0-4- V'4,4l _.' L--^
z / 1-^ >.tCd.
FY ^1/ -fl-n~fW'-'<x aY<_ jJt£6p/
g iTJ C-: n -K o< L k7uc/~/' ngli/cT^
L.o> i-1
,^‘ (a
-VKf- lo L^f. r |V\
ykLp
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Waiiulai, Hi 96793
Or emailed; budget.office@co.meul.ht.us
FOR STAFF
use OHLY NO.
I-
COUNTY OF lyiAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
ess
L o.aC'n
c j2
H
■ X)' ■ ■5a»
-o3D
m -1Oo -o- 11 3:r
5 111 ii
t
:: oPLEASE PRINT
Name:£
% Jr.Email Address: / Vi Phone: Jm
pV^‘ O
Mailing Address: V( > ||
/
af^elfOrganization
I Represent:
01/1 Z^AJiC^●1Request/Issue;.. T
-  i bfV' J
Vo('4ni/AUft/y}—Oj A/zAvta
ign
/
V
C-v
r
r -^0
 n—n-(yc-iQ/ra^^xlM ~-H)t- I'W^i'U y/t:i
-^cX. ■uj Y'OpiLZ
(
ecl4 i
(/^O)
T
.  B|fVqTtg^I/1
y.i
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maul. Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Walluloj, Hi 96793
Or emailed; budg8Loffice@ca.maul.hl.us
FOR STAFF
USE ONLY NO.
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
u- C9
0-!■
73 I
c -n 3:-
“O
mo O—{ m
Oo ●n <
f:l -HPLEASEPRINT ’
Name: |r\'pT'lgvn
Email Address:
rn
Cm<\ , y /x-v^ r
fe jfSKt Phone: t / Y ^ j- CSV
%ity/zip:Mailing Address: P.o t)ot y^^'T
ayself
rganization
I Represent:
TtAi'^ [bu^ v=>fg(y^'^Request/Issue: W£.-
iX 'Ck(CK
1C/^() U ^rk r\
tO'xt o a nd
j^cK.' .>■
utep(fL
riv« ^CXf\3 f.1
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsibie County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maul, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9^ floor, WaQuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget,offl<^(gtco.maul.hl.us
FOR STAFF
USF ONLY NO
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
o i I
3r»-■^1 “O
m:x3O O:T1-< ■ JC=
Oo 15"31
m
Wov\
~To7BoX~\T^
PLEASEPRINT
Name: ao.
CIty/Zip:
Phone:Email Address:
Mailing Address:
/
rjiiS
lysetf
Tganizatlon
I Represent:
o  f ch/?pL
<{ct>/ 0^6 illRequest/Issue:
J
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 0th floor, Walluku, Hi 96793
Or emailed: budget.off1ce@co.maui.hi.us
r  FORSTAFF
I  USB ONLY
!  0-1
NO.
CS9
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
JJ
rn“O
-c j:::
oo*n
rnm —: \n73 ~S.
X ni Oo-
PLEASE PRINT
Name:
/S'/ f^f-3Phone:Email Address:
:  /f/ fC^TTAClty/ZIp:Mailing Address:
ysetf
rganizatlon
I Represent:
Request/Issue:
J■i/' ^
<71 A-/- ai^ -f/iar-//i/<i^
7^ ^ u>/?e^r<7 ^
    7~
>7^4/0
c/y/'&oZ/^ ^a=(
£>a/7£/>7f
-
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui. Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9ft floor Wail^ HI 6679^^ ^
Or emailed: budget.offlc8@co.maul.hl.us fw^'^
.
d>^
/I
Funding Request (if known):^
Responsible County Department:
FOR STAFF
USE ONLY ^(0
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L;' — e=3
o 73OI *11 -Xi i I1X3
oa1.
. JH m rS=:<
co -rj
mPLEA^PmHT
Nanfw: TOVNf\-5.-Vt^ - /V<Qc^
Email Address: ^ ir\r^\A^fCiVY^
Mailing Address: (70
m -i vn:?jx Or o-
Phone: ^?09.-U^' <^WO
CIty/zip: <^0.1^?)
lyself
irganization
I Represent:
Request/lesue: L/se -for <5cV\oo\ .
^  /YS^<^^ vs^-jC^ >v-n ^.V\0&\ )
t). (^\U) V)\J^ -sjCK.Mi’^ mp ^.v^c^n \ ar^A
VN-e\y't) fAg, t^O -Vo 'T<Ar>C)0\ <5<3t€VV^ , -AV\f cxj
■
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to; County of Maui, Office of the Mayor ■ Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Walluku, HI 96793
Or emailed; budget.ofnce{g}co.maul.hi.u8
I  FOP 8TAFP
I  USE ONLY NO.
}I-
COUNTY OF IWAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
II
!o os
w
c 2]Zn
m“T5
o—im fT]X:-<
o T3V J Ti 2;r-
mm
zo LJe
PLEASEPfVNI r
Name: ^
o*
Phone:Email Address:
Clty/Zlp:Mailing Address
yself
rganization
I Represent:
Request/Issue: XT'ia:^ Afep /
/<^/c^JCi>r\S^ ha.9^
  ^ i—y——/-y _-  /
-Po 7^ tynsl^ ■y i
7 /
mrjQ ^ ^
(i^9^ c^r/iyyi c(P)
' 51Jl7
- SiPP
MM/::/? , / -7%: ;^6cifer :-{=35
/
£/
Funding Request (If known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form maybe mailed to: County of Maul, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Walluku, Hi 96793
Orenfuiiled: budget.offlce@co.maui.hl.us
FCWSTAFF
USE ONLY INO.
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
I
Ii
.osa.'I mu '
Q
mc "O
7XS
-O ')■H m s=
or\ *XJ^ ^ -n 35
mrn \nPLEASE PRINT
Name: f
Oi A)!
o
Email Address:
cMailing Address: Clty/Zlp:|,1t
V
^Myself
^Organization
I Represent:
Request/Issue:
-Pt {?: K^0p^11 in \
\
"S^
rjf\^ Arfi r I £>
[(A \n, cJ
/
V
Funding Request (if known): ^
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maul, Office of the Meyor - Bucket Office, 200 South High Street 9th floor, Wailuku, HI 96793
Or ensiled: budget.offica@co.maui.hi.U8
FOR STAFF
USB ONLY NO.
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
css
oo
C"T1 m-^3-j*
Cj
'i m< Xz
oo -o11 rac
rnm --I
oy*->
PLEASE PRINT
Name: 6t
Email Address: ^ p ^^A/io 3^
Y n\ df-
Mailing Address: v
7; n
ou) CN
{fs / Co>r^ Phone:
City/ZIp: ?L7^
-syself
rganizatlon
I Represent:
'■fh ~.e-r-<Lj,Request/issue: /?■ ;p_ff se v- -1.^^ (^ ^/>'L L
7 ■//
y● ■'
r/')/ ,  4-1
T
rzlafvJ ■  'j I uJi£jd.
Funding Request (if known): ^
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maul, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 6th floor, Walluku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maul.hl.U8
F0R8TWF
USE ONLYI NO.
I-
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
I
I
L’
ess
oo0*T1 5=»
m-o50
“ini ri-K.
OO- -onPLEASE PRINT _
Name: r~mU
d VPU ^/} f O73
tShiJM
CIty/ZIp: %mi)
Phone:Email Address:
Mailing Address: JUd ^ ^
Syselfrganizatlon
I Represent:
Request/Issue: Q-f ^W ^  hfrmg./
!:'/r ■ 7'/i ( km ^^A,\y:Uj
iimiAmimr
(jrW'l \
iiLMmiiiuif/-j i/Yi C\l /'W-'.,
/7/V / Lm k)! UMi ^YoctdH'vJ
f  ./^y /miu lAhd ri /Jffi’S
1
yr
fud
/●'f- /XT/bhiirld
m [hit'mm i^pu!
i\ m '■r
'J
U'UW.j
Funding Request {If known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maul. Office of the Mayor ● Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Walluku, HI 96793
Or emailed; budgeLofficeig|co.mau!.h!.u8
F0fiS7M=F
USE ONLY NO.
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
oL.ui;
m-o
^ L }
~i m
OO -X3- “n
rr; \n
OPLEASE PRINT /<>
cs
Email Address: Phone:
City/ZIp:Mailing Address: PqBo. h H/
I Represent: Mvi^elf
^Organization
Mtd 3u'^ ^treeCf Jd Pe £>/>/€Request/Issue: 'i A.
■SkUUJ ff-er<.0A/^icLhfg.j Hs
eSCp<M*jC.Uct
\j€>tiy
\t ^
tf
tAJS t\-c,rea
f/f /p/jLfiJ i>vc\/t€/£ Sllc
%i.i aKr€
-Itpf MehkpLii
j
f
●C t su^
r cW c/V/^
// 4t kewc ^uci^
^  'I It
Ah.€.Ah My
Q
/'>
i^t fuC ''f h/N*J ^PUi
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department:
Fonn may be mailed to: County of Maul, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor. Walluku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maul.hl.us
FORSTAFF
USE ONLY NO.
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L
Oco- XI35»I i
'■o
iO■u:-
—J
; rn■<
PLEASE PRINT
Name:
Oo^:.1hec ~n TO
m -r
\-C0i)l(gi rirtia
Mailing Address: (jiftiypft.l koa^
Email Address: Phone:
U7
iKiCIty/Zip:3  ■ '0
I
IfI Represent:
rganization
Vln'DV'\~iua.Request/Issue:
A  i,')Kgn Vm f^^D\ \fnL<iVgrvo0
1  -laW. Mw bu<? o>
kViUtlHi kAVft'
Ul-\/g..A .1 you
-frpiYi.
\ ' ■,
LV on^lViS (sbod 4o )~tqop ^ii iS ^efoir./g-^
^'WqQi^ P.DTv\vm>iP ^Vi\^ q.pruiCf°
-\p oW^&rS uSho fn v>€,erL
O/Oin
HaViftlo L
Funding Request (If known):^
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maul, Office of the Mayor - Budget Olfice, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Walluku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.offlce@co.maul.hl.us
I
t
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L
Name: Jessica Lee Bal-Feliciano
Email Address: Jessicalee808@live.com Phone: 808-866-9621
City/zip: Wailuku, 96793Mailing Address:
I Represent: (✓Myself
Zlorganization
Reg uest/iss ue: l am a currant reopient of me grant that aids in the tuition assistance for my toddler to attend Kahi Kamtf I’i Infant and Toddler Daycare Center
I am aainflie parent to six (6) children wlh no support from th^r father I cany three posrtion Cfles with my name telle being the Housing & HUD Contracte Adm nlatretor tor
Lokahi Pacific and s«ond being a Subslance Abuse Counsfllor and Women's Group Fadlilalorto another private non profit agency. Allhough I am weli educated and have su&slant'al
career(s). it apfwars to still not be sufficient to be able to comfortably afford the cost of living and other expenses that children incur.
I am writing on behalf of myself and all the other parents who depend on this type of resources in order to build a better life and future for our keiki.
VWhout this asatstance. there Is no way that 1 could afford to have my ch cont-nua to receive the excellent eervioeatfirough Kahl Kamatfi and therefore lose my employment and
and all atablllty that ccimes with it. Wth the dlsoontinuarice of auch programs/ granta there wil ba a rise In the homeless community with school-aged children. Without such atahlllty,
we then create addicts, homelessness, criminals, etc. Please consider my request/ pled to continue such assistance and resources for our communil
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form may b© mailed to; County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Wailuku. HI 96793
Or emailed. budgetoffic8@co.maui.hi.us
FOR STAFF
use ONLY NO,
I-
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L
PLEASE PRINT
Email Address: 0>.(Xr<LoC .
Mailing Address: 1^0.'Hyy' 6?02~
Name:
Phone: C^t) 5756
City/Zip: kjhe'f . f4jT %153,
I Represent; l~Mvself
^Organization
Request/Issue: ^ /mjA^.Jbc jj-Aih Jyy) CA^JUlO^■
hAi^ j/yn
JtJ^ A^jaJ oW Lch^JJeAhtAj dij>d ^
o^iJuAoJAj'JLA/iii/i^. .Jia
1m gXWx^ Maa^ &AJJlA^^kA^a(y^i.
U(}U) jin j^iA
■juAM ilonUMO m \A)PljnAi ^.Mjr[/I ,
CmcMuAuj^. 'fllA>Qc C/ndjjiujj. Ih^MdA^
jkiisM/H/f, KAki j(rumMA
l^oJfij KamaJ^ Aym
rmjL
tvn .hi£i\ J*upcuu-f(/t^^
a/JL
,j/yi
hjHbbu.
3
^y\ AlvLA
a
Funding Request (if known); $
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office. 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Wailuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.ofrice@co.maui.hi.us
FOR STAFF
USE ONLY NO.
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L
PLEASE PRINT
Name: Maxim Koporski
Phone: 808-276-8770Email Address: koporski@hawaii.edu
City/Zip: KlheiMailin9 Address; 113 Nokahsa PI. ^204
ayselfrganization MEQ Kahi Kamali'i Infant and Toddler Center
I Represent:
Request/Issue: Aloha, I am a single father of 4 kids. My youngest child goes to
Kahi Kamali'i since he was 1 yo. He's almost 3 yo now. Our family is very happy we
found that amazing daycare. This is one of the best daycares I've seen on Maui.
My son loves all the aunties there and wants to stay more when I pick him up.
But, we wouldn't be so happy if there was no MEO Kahi Kamali'i! They've been
helping us with scholarship for the whole time. I wish there were more organizations
like this on Maui so more people in need get helped OR County could provide
more fundings to them so they keep doing their awesome job and taking care of
more issues while helping more people.
Big Mahalos to all MEO Kahi Kamali'i!!!
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department: DHHC
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Wailuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maul.hi.us
I NO.U3EONLT
h
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
I j
I
L
PLEASE PRINT^ , O f \ /
^ 0>ik.UpmDCv-\ifwHW.-
MS (\m(u S ,G-ev\A~
|)0
V4-€D ^ckiNAAJx'l
Phone:
:City/Zip:
lyself
rganization
Nam
-
 ^(elbY
Email Address:
Mailing Address:
I Represent:
Requesyissue: iaIh, : V
U1
^ 4od Ji 10^^ hg rxJtJjL c>^prcK
ai4v\ clarjey^.fAaJfxkl(x/^ fhr\-
OUi-lfA Ca/.e^ \)J^nc> ^/jpr)jk / l^or
id '~fp V4.\:^,^.4HA.g
Z2zi
L
VjU'
±D
Ota IMYUn]
Funding Request (if known): $
Responsible County Department:
Form may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street, 9th floor, Wailuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.office@co.maui.hi.us
FOR STAFF
use ONLY NO.
J-
COUNTY OF MAUI
Office of the Mayor
Fiscal Year 2023
Community Budget Request
L
PLEASEPWNT
Name: Naphin Sonis
Email Address: naphinsonis@gmail.eom Phone: 8082509369
Mailing Address: *121 Waimaluhia Lane ^202 City/Zip: Wailuku 96793
Ortyself
^Organization MEO Kahi Kamali’i Infant and Toddler Center
I Represent:
Request/Issue: Aloha. We are a family of 8 that are current recipients for this funding. Because of this funding, we
are able to afford childcare services from MEO Kahi Kamali'l. My spouse and I are able to work Full Time jobs while
our baby is in daycare. This funding has actually helped us with 3 of our children since 2017 and I don't know how
we would be able to do it without this funding. We are able to reward our children when they get good grades
by taking them out to dinner, fun factory, trampoline park, etc because of this funding that helps us save a little
on the side. In the near future, i am planning to go back to UHMC and this funding will help my family tremendously
if I do decide to focus only on school. Thank you very much for this continued funding and I hope it will continue so
that other families may be blessed as well. Also, mahalo to MEO staff for your hardwork and care for our children.
Mahalo,
Sonis Family
Funding Request (If known): $
Responsible County Department: DHHC
Foim may be mailed to: County of Maui, Office of the Mayor - Budget Office, 200 South High Street. 9th floor, Wailuku, HI 96793
Or emailed: budget.offlce@co.maui.hi.us
RE !VED
mi APR jii PH i{: 53
April 14, 2022, OFFiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing this in an effort to help convince you to continue funding for
MEO’s Maui Independent Living Center (MILC) which plays such a
valuable roie in making it possible for persons with disabilities on Maui to
live as independently as possible. As a quadriplegic, I have a first-hand
understanding of how important it is in having an on-island program
coordinator available and accessible to direct persons like myself in finding
the appropriate agency or program to contact in order to receive the
information or services that we require in a timely manner. In addition, the
MILC coordinator keeps us informed of various upcoming events that may
be of interest to us, as well as helping in the organizing of events for the
community at large that create awareness of the obstacles to independent
living that persons with disabilities face every day. For these reasons and
more I ask that you continue to support MILC with the funding it needs for
the next fiscal year.
Mahalo and Aloha,
Buster Medeiros
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
laury miller <laurymiller@outlook.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 3:32 AM
County Clerk
Maalaea Waster Water Treatment
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from laurymil(er@outlook.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am an owner at the Hono Kai condo complex and have been for over 20 years. I am writing to request that you
approve the 9.5 million dollars to build a new regional waste water plant in Maalaea. A regional wastewater
treatment plant will
be a huge step in helping to rebuild the health of Maalaea Bay replacing the old individual treatment facilities that
are not properly ensuring the health of our beautiful bay and resources.
Mahalo,
Laury and John Miller
Hono Kai B8
O *T 3s>-C" “O mroO OH Am ;T1
o2 5=-
r- ■
rn111
DXT
Ov
1
Count^£lerk
Megan Nakashima <megannakashima@pukalanisuperette.net>
Saturday, April 2, 2022 10:32 AM
County Clerk
SUPPORT INCREASED BUDGET FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
(918223A-5101 and 918223B-6132)
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from megannakashima@pukalanisuperette.net. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Councilmembers,
On behalf of Pukalani Superette, I strongly support increasing the budget of the Department of Agriculture to support
additional staff positions and funding for professional services. In order for the Department of Agriculture to be a
successful department, it must have sufficient staff to start addressing the needs of the community efficiently.
In addition to the positions outlined in the bare-bones budget for the Department of Agriculture. I support including the
addition of two Grant Writers, two Food Access Coordinator positions and a Waste and Resource Regeneration Specialist
in the Department's Budget as additions to provide the bare-bones capacity to meet the needs of this Department.
I ask also that the Department of Agriculture budget is increased to allow for professional services that will support the
establishment of countywide emergency storage and food centers, emergency food banks in Lana'i, Molokai and Hana,
legal assessments of the current agricultural cross-sectors with Federal and State Agencies to negotiate and address
agricultural issues, and the development of a streamlined County permitting process for the agricultural sector.
Even with funding the additional positional and professional service, including making changes to fringe benefits,
equipment, travel and mileage to accommodate for the additional positions will still allow the total funding for the
Department to be less than $3 million dollars. Which is .3% of the overall County budget and a very reasonable ask to
support increasing food security and help our local agricultural sector.
I respectfully ask that you increase the budget of the Department of Agriculture to support the addition of these
positions and professional services. This funding will be crucial to the success of the Department of Agriculture. An
investment in this Department's success is an investment in the success of Maui County's farmers and ranchers. Please
help us when we need it most.
Thank you,
Megan Nakashima | President
^PUKALAniSUPERETTEIMAUI
15 Makawao Avenue, Pukalani, HI 96768 | www.PukalaniSuperette.com
Phone: (808) 572-7616 | Fax:(808)572-7733 | E-mail: megannakashima@pukalanlsuperette.net
1
April 12, 2022
Aloha
It is my extreme pleasure to share that the workers for MEO Transportation is an excellent and
organized team. I organized a four week summer program for children in June 2021 called Kukuna o
Ka La. The target group was made up of children who had suffered much learning loss due to the
pandemic. Many of these keiki resided in low economic populations and did not have any
opportunities to participate in any structured summer program. Fortunately, MEO Transportation
under the direction of Patty Copperfield, were primary partners in our endeavor. Patty provided
transportation for these children and bussed them round trip from Luana Gardens, Flarbor Lights,
Flale Makana, Kahekili Terrace, Paukukalo and Waihe'e. in addition, MEO Transportation provided
bussing for our field trips at least 2-3 times a week as the keiki had ‘aina based learning opportunities
at Nohoana Farm, Maui Nui Botanical Gardens, ‘Tao Valley, Kaehu and Waihe'e Refuge. It was a joy
to see these children being exposed to Na Wai ‘Eha and discovering Maui's famous rivers in their
own backyard. Our program could not have survived without the partnership of MEO Transportation.
Patty and her team always accommodated any schedule changes and made sure the children were
delivered safely on our excursions as well as to and from our base operations at the Old Wailuku
Gym. Without MEO Transportation our youngsters would be unable to participate in a variety of
programs. Please continue to support MEO Transportation, they are a vital entity in our Maui
Community.
O wau me ka ‘oia ‘i‘o.
Kili Namau'u
Kahu Punana Leo o Maui
BOE Representative Maui County
April 13, 2022
Ml APR Aff 7-- 45
'-'■^'riCE OF
COU NT Y CL
Subject: Support to expand the services of Lana'i Kina'ole, Inc TH
ERK
My name is Grace Quidilla. I am a call-in registered nurse for Lana'i Kina'ole, Inc and I am submitting this
\A/ritten testimony to support the request for funding to maintain and expand the services that Lana'i
Kina'ole Inc. provide. I actually live and work on the island of Oahu but travel to Lana'i at least monthly
to help provide skilled services to individuals on the island. This is my way of trying to give back to the
community i love. I still consider Lana'i as my home and hope to live there again in the future.
i am the daughter of and primary caregiver for my mother, who will be 88 years old this year. Due to the
challenges of elder care options available on Lana'i, she has been living with me for the most part, and
we travel back and forth as much as we can. I cannot help but think that if there were more services
such as Adult Day Health or Day Support that could help provide a means to help my mother "age in
place" and allow me to continue to work full time, our situation might be very different. There are many
kupuna on the island that do not have the benefit of having family members help them in their twilight
years. A lot of these individuals hold a special place in my heart because they make up the village that
helped raise me to be the person I am today. They, along with my mother, deserve quality programs
that honor them, preserve their dignity and independence, and allow them to live safely in their homes.
Kupuna are likely the largest vulnerable group on the island. There are also medically fragile individuals
on the island that contribute to the workforce and community that benefit from the services of Lana'i
Kinaole Inc. The client that I see most often requires skilled administration of medication for several
days each month that helps to stave off the effects of a potentially devastating autoimmune condition.
Were it not for home health services, she would have to travel to Oahu for an entire week every month
to get her treatments. Home services are helping her to stay on the island to be with her family
(including her elderly mother) and be productive at work and in the community.
Although I work with Lana'i Kina'ole Inc only several days a month, I can see that their services are in
high demand -1 only wish 1 could do more. With additional funding and support, I hope to lend my
experience in clinical care, nursing professional development and leadership to help mentor and
develop more staff to support the island's growing need for services.
Thank you so much for your time and consideration. It is an honor to testify on behalf of Lana'i Kina'ole
Inc.
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Pat Reilly <kimchi745@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 12:15 PM
County Clerk
LANA'I KINA 'OLE REQUEST
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from kimchi745@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
<http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
SUPPORT
ADULT DAY CARE AND LIVING CRITICAL ON LANA'I
Pat Reilly, resident and Senior Citizen Mahalo
O Vv
O'T, 73C IT]~o
O nm-<
Co
mm -1 hO
a4=
4S
1
Sabrina Lynn Samonte <sabrinalynn.samonte@gmail.com>r’vC ^ ^\/pQ
Thursday, April 14, 2022 11:29 AM
County Clerk; Valerie Janikowski
Adult Day Care / Adult Health Care for Lana'i
nU 4Pfi |i| /SH ||: £(
From:
Sent:
2To:
Subject:
●-FFICE OF THE
County clerk
Good morning Chair and Council Members. My name is Sabrina Lynn Samonte and I was born
and raised on the island of Lana'i. I currently reside on Maui and work as a per diem for Lana'i
Kina'oie.l whole-heartedly Support the request for funding to maintain and
expand services provided by Lana'i Kinaole and the Adult Day
Care/Adult Health Center for the island of Lanai.
You don't often get email from sabrinalynn.samonte@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
As an employee of Lana'i Kina'ole, I can attest to the invaluable services
they provide, especially to the patients who need care in their homes.
Also, some of my family members are recipients of services from Lana'i
Kina'ole and I know without their services, it would be even more
difficult for the patients and their caregivers. We are blessed to have
Lana'i Kina'ole as service providers in our community.
Services for the elderly and for people with disabilities are very limited
on the island of Lana'i. For many people who are not able to care for
themselves, their family members would have to stop work and be the
caregiver. For others who do not have family members on island, their
only option is to move off island to be with their family or go to an
unfamiliar facility that can provide the services they need. An Adult Day
Care / Adult Health Center would help take care of our residents' needs on
Island. Our kupunas would be able to age in place and stay in the community they are in and
familiar with.
Thank you for your time and consideration. Please support the request for funding for
the expansion of Lana'i Kina'ole and Lana'i's first Adult Day Care / Adult Health Care.
Sincerely,
Sabrina Lynn Samonte
131 Hoowaiwai Loop, #2205
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
1
April 13,2022
mim 14 AHIh38
Good morning Chair and Council members. My name is Shirley Samonte and bpnrapdjj \[-
raised on the island of Lana‘i. Tve been back on Lana'i for more than 30 years.no5y.j^a^n(j^re;tQK
testify to support the request for funding to maintain and expand services provided by Lana‘i
Kinaole and the first ever Adult Day Care or Adult Health Center on the island of Lana’i.
I am a patient of Lana‘i Kinaole. I have been receiving home health services from Lana‘i
Kinaole for more than a year and a half. They provide care at my home five consecutive days
every four weeks for about 3 to 4 hours per treatment. I am very grateful for their services
because prior to receiving services from Laiiad Kinaole, I have had to travel to 0‘ahu 5
consecutive days every 4 weeks for treatment which took a lot of time away from my family and
work. It was also very stressful, exhausting and costly. All of the staff at Lana‘i Kinaole are very
kind, caring, empathetic, and flexible to my schedule. They are not only my health care team, but
also have become to be my ohana.
1 support Lana‘i Kinaole’s request for funding to continue the valuable work they are doing for
the community and also to have the first Adult Day Care or Adult Health Center on island. In my
opinion, one of the major care gaps on Lana‘i is  aplace where our kupunas or disabled love ones
can go to when there is no one to care for them. When our kupunas or residents are faced with
this situation, many of them hesitantly need to move away from what they’ve called “home” for
possibly over 50 years due to no elderly or disability care options on island.
When I think about how I want my future to look like, Td like to be able to retain my
independence and age in place, as well as be close to my family and remain in the community
that I know and love. Currently, the residents of Lana’i does not have much options for elder and
disability care. An Adult Day Care or/and an Adult Health Center would tremendously help our
vulnerable residents, their family members or caregivers, and the employers so that their
employees (the caregivers) are able to go to work.
I am also an insurance agent and many residents have expressed their interest and need in an
Adult Day Care/Adult Health Center through purchasing short term care policies for themselves
and their family members. Residents are hoping that there will be a facility on island someday so
they will not need to move off island.
Thank you very much for your time and consideration. I sincerely ask that you thoroughly
review what is currently available to our community for elders and people with disability and
help us with solutions that will be a win for everyone.
Sincerely,
Shirley A. Samonte
P.O. Box 631089
Lanai City, Hawaii 96763
Phone: (808) 559-6186
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Greg Sheehan <gregsheehanlOO@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 5:28 PM
County Clerk
Please support the Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Plant
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from gregsheehan100@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Mayor and County Commission,
The Ma'alaea community was masterplanned by Maui in 1970 and developed in accordance with that plan. The
County required injection wells at the time and that is what was built by the various buildings. That has proven to be
a disaster and is completely killing the coral reef, and adversely impacting the fishery, sea turtles and even the
whales.
The County now recognizes that the only option available is the development of a county wastewater treatment
plant. The owners of the various buildings and complexes are happy to pay whatever monthly fees are necessary to
operate the facility. But is it critical that the County fund the development of the project as the community will
never be able to afford the initial capitol outlay.
Please save Maui's natural ecosystems. The Coral Reef, the Sea Turtles, the fishes and the whales cannot come
testify on their behalf. Please use your good grace and and resources to help them by approving the funding of the
new regional wastewater treatment planti! Thank you in advance.
CS9
o c rw
73Gregory Sheehan
Ma'alaea resident m-T3
ZX3
n2:0
'1. rn 4=
oo -n
m-jm O4=
TKV.-\
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Tara Crawford <taracrawf@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 5;42 PM
County Clerk
New waste water treatment plant needed in Maalaea
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from taracrawf@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha County of Maui,
Maalaea urgently needs its own waste water treatment plant. Thousands of people visit and live in Maalaea.
With Condominiums and the commercial triangle operating their own WWTPs and injection wells for effluent
disposal, with no primary treatment, Ma’alaea Bay is being negatively impacted.
Effluent disposal through injection wells is no longer viable or acceptable and is drawing increased scrutiny.
It is being phased out. statewide.
We as a community can do better. By improving waste area treatment, we can eliminate the use of injection
wells for disposal, provide recycled water for community landscaping needs and/or agriculture, and thereby
reduce consumption of Maui’s precious fresh water supplies.
Ma’alaea Bay, a place where humpback whales come to have their babies, is listed by the EPA as an
impaired body of water and suffering from severe coral loss. Improving Ma'alaea Bay’s water quality is
critical to restoring coral growth. Healthy Coral reefs are essential to protect the community from shoreline
erosion.
Please consider this important project to improve Maalaea and the health of the bay. ess»t—J
●“tn
mC
O
-o
Mahalo,
Tara & Rob Snnith
Owner of units at Hono Kai & Island Sands
50
O
j=
r\
a T1
r" [T1■\
1  ■
axn un
X
Tara Crawford
doTERRA Diamond Leader, Certified Aromatouch Instructor,
Home Detox Expert, Health Coach, World Traveller
Phone 250-818-8567
Email taracrawf@gmaii.com
Website TaraCrawford.com
X X X
1
Countj^lerk
kathy suzuki <ksuzuk@hotmail.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 1:12 PM
County Clerk .
Support for Funding for Maui Economic Developrnerit lofcrd'fdr ^Iv?' 0^
ED\ l,_ V.-
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Fl- ICtz OF THL
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from ksuzuk@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha--My name is Kathy Suzuki-Kitagawa, and today I am providing written testimony in strong support of
funding for the Maui Economic Development Board (MEDB). This organization provides much-needed
STEM education and resources for Maui's children, which vastly improves their education and future
career options. MEDB's programs do so much more than just robotics-they expose students to a wide
array of science, math, and engineering opportunities. Both my son and daughter grew up interested in
science and math, but I could not find many affordable programs for them to join when they were in
elementary and intermediate schools. Those that were available, such as science camps, were over $1000
week. 1 was so grateful when I found out that the MEDB's Stemworks program was being offered as an
afterschool program at Pukalani Elementary School and Kalama Intermediate School, free of charge!
My daughter started off joining the coding classes in elementary school, which supported her interest in
science, computers and math. This support encouraged her to join her school's Math Matter's and Science
Olympiad Teams. Today my daughter is a junior in high school, and she still participates in the Science
Olympiad team (they won place in the Maui regional tournament), is an active member of her STEM
club, takes STEM classes where she and her team enters MEDB-supported contests in Ag-Science and bio
medical development, and is planning a future in engineering.
My son joined the Stemworks afterschool program six years ago, in the first grade. Every semester that
Stemworks was offered, he asked to join (many of his friends do, too). He started with game coding
classes, then moved on to 3D printing, and then Robotics. However, instead of working with the robotic
models, he joined the STEM project team, which conducted research and developed prototypes to solve
real-world problems. My son loved every one of his STEM classes. Because of the support MEDB gave to
his school and his team, he was able to meet real scientists, conduct research at schools, tour engineering
facilities, and compete with students from other counties, states, and countries in STEM research. He also
plans to pursue a career in engineering or computer science.
I strongly believe my children's participation in MEDB's Stemworks programs are what sparked their
interest in science and gave them the opportunity to explore it further. They both have confidence in
knowingthat even though they live on a small island in the middle of the Pacific, they have the drive and
skills to work, play, and succeed among their peers in the world. 1 urge you to continue to support MEDB
and their programs so that our children can access more opportunities to learn and succeed. Thank you.
Kathy Suzuki-Kitagawa
1
Count^^leH<
Dan Sythe <dan.sythe@icloud.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 10:50 PM
County Clerk
Letter in Support of the Ma’alaea Wastewater Treatment Plant
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from dan.sythe@icloud.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification.]
Dear Maui County Council,
I am writing this email in support of funding the Ma'alaea WastewaterTreatment facility.
In the year 2000 a group of friends and i launched the Whalesong boat into Ma'alaea Bay and outfitted it with a
hydrophone, solar panel and radio transmitter to bring the songs of the Kohola (Hawai'is Humpback Whales) to the
NOAA Whale Sanctuary Visitor's Center. It generated so much excitement that we began webcasting the songs on
the internet and before very long thousands of people across the globe were listening, including many classrooms
and the whale research community. We developed a buoy, "Hokumoanalani," and webcast the songs for most of 14
whale seasons. Emails poured in from young people who were inspired to become marine biologists and many
listeners came to visit Hawai'i to see our whales for themselves. While giving a voice in the world to the Kohola we
tried to also convey the Hawaiian concepts of stewardship of the oceans and land resources. Our theme was
"Malama I ke Kai," take care of the oceans. I like to think, and there is evidence to support this, that people were
inspired by our Ma'alaea Bay whales and carried some of the Hawaiian values home with them, wherever they live
on the planet. As we know well now the things people do in other places affect us greatly in our fragile island
environment so it is important for us to model good behavior and respect for the environment to our visitors and
our fans across the globe.
Developing a wastewater solution for the Ma'alaea Community will improve the health of the ocean in Ma'alaea
Bay, which will improve the health of the local community who fish and swim in these waters, and improve the
health of the reefs and wildlife, and improve the experience of the Malihini who bring jobs and contribute to the
economy on Maui. I hope you will approve this important project.
!SS>
Respectfully, O 7^< \ ma
Dan Sythe
Executive Director
The Whalesong Project
4=:
ooi"
rnm -'
Or,--^ s
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Margot <kasifmom@aoi.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 5:08 PM
County Clerk
Wastewater Plant
RECE! vEDTo:
im APR |i} Af1 7: i|5Subject:
Oi'FlOB OF THE
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from kasilmom@aol.com. Learn why this is important
I support the building of a wastewater plant in Maalea. Save our ocean!
Margaret Szabo
Mono Kai Condominiums
1
Delfin Yoshida
From:
Sent:
Pam Thompson <pamathompson(S)comcastnet>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 12:28 PM
County Clerk
Maalaea WastewaterTreatment System proposal
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from pamathompson@comcast.net. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
To who it may concern,
As a property owner in Maalaea, 250 Hauoli Street, I support the proposed addition to the FY2023 Budget from Kelly
King to fund a wastewater treatment system for Maalaea.
We need to protect Maalaea Bay our ocean and livability of the area. Please consider this proposal and add it to the
budget.
Thank you,
Pam Thompson
Kanai A Nalu
250 Hauoli Street #301
Wailuku, HI 96753
Sent from my iPad
CSD
73o 33-
C
2.0
mZS3
o-Hm
Oo -oT1
mm -i
a73 3*
7^ P":
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
ranchgirl808@aol.com
Saturday, April 2, 2022 4:58 PM
County Clerk
mi APR "4 m 9:04
To:
Subject: SUPPORT INCREASED BUDGET FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICUFUJ^E-
(918223A-5101 and 918223B-6132) COUNTY W L-U. ( \
IYou don't often get email from ranchgirl808@aol.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha
1 strongly support increasing the budget of the Department of Agriculture to support
additional staff positions and funding for professional services. In order
for the Department of Agriculture to be a successful department, it
must have sufficient staff to start addressing the needs of
the community efficiently.
In addition to the positions outlined in the bare-bones budget for the Department of
Agriculture. I support including the addition of two Grant Writers, two
Food Access Coordinator positions and a Waste and Resource
Regeneration Specialist in the Department’s Budget as additions to
provide the bare-bones capacity to meet the needs of this
Department.
I ask also that the Department of Agriculture budget is increased to allow for professional
services that will Support the establishment of countywide emergency
storage and food centers, emergency food banks in Lana'i, Molokai
and Hana, legal assessments of the current agricultural cross
sectors with Federal and State Agencies to negotiate and address
agricultural issues, and the development of a streamlined County
permitting process for the agricultural sector.
Even with funding the additional positional and professional service, including making
changes to fringe benefits, equipment, travel and mileage to
accommodate for the additional positions will still allow the total
dnding for the Department to be less than $3 million dollars. Which
is .003% of the overall County budget and a very reasonable ask to
support increasing food security and help our local
agricultural sector.
I respectfully ask that you increase the budget of the Department of Agriculture to support
the addition of these positions and professional services. This funding
will be crucial to the success of the Department of Agriculture.
An investment in this Department’s success is an investment in the
success of Maui County’s farmers and ranchers.
Please help us when we need it most.
Mahalo,
Theresa Thompson
Thompson Ranch
Kula, Maui
2
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Kirstin Weeks <kirstinweeks@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 9:53 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for Reef Protection
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from kirstinweeks@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha -
[ am writing to support reef protection and education measures both in and amended to the Mayor's Proposed
Budget.
I support funding the Ma'aiaea Wastewater Reclamation System (as an amendment to the
proposed budget).
I also support the proposed budget allocations for the Maui Nui Marine Resource Council's Visitor
Education Programs and Environmental Protection Programs to fund ocean water quality
monitoring, reef friendly landscaping outreach, oyster bioremediation project, projects to prevent
sediment runoff from Pohakea Watershed and more.
Mahalo nui loa,
Kirstin Weeks
-11
XI1; ~o5 m0o—‘
Os
riooI— '' 5^
ma
1
Count^^leH<
From:
Sent:
Alfred Wolf <awilliewolf@gmai!.com>
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 7:37 PM
County Clerk
Upgrade for waste water at maalaiea.
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from awilliewolf@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Please move forward with update grading the waste water treatment. It will make our world better.
Alfred Wolf
sssi
oo 733>*ri -T3V.
■)C‘) 'k.3 m 1●<
C3
ma—I
X:
VA
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
James yang <Jamesyangura@yahoo.com>
Thursday, April 14, 2022 6:33 PM
County Clerk
Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email fromJamesyangura@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
HI
I am asking to include $9.5 million of funding for a new Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater
Reclamation Facility in the 2023 budget, in regards to Kelly King's proposed amendment.
Thank You,
James Yang
1
Please sign to support - Lana'i Kina'ole Inc. Home Health, Home and
Community Based Services and possible expansion with an Adult Day Care
(ADC) or Adult Day Health (ADH)
Printed Name Contact Info-email
or phone number
Signature
8-
(
tope 2
7.F0 ns^
KaK/m m>5q-uo5 r^if
ac-  j
VvVA'4 N\t:inwe
.Si\s<AA uh^^'ni ("S0S)b6'5
KA
\ 18ni^- St-tut yZbO VHuiviM- '^(XXidj3\
/
H10 -jz%
\ Q
c
^S-"b4q-0Dla-y\
7^
birfUiY
j>tfh 4i()tjpW^ ^(^6£<?-02^l^'^5 >Thank you for your support ~ our future depends on it!
Please sign to support - Lana'i Kina'ole Inc. Home Health, Home and
Community Based Services and possible expansion with an Adult Day Care
(ADC) or Adult Day Health (ADH)
Contact Info - email
or phone number
Printed Name Signature
'U\Me
Jet
f' reelM/flpO XT'
\]m(^ WW
/vMiAi CcrmhK-r
V
IZ
AaiaIu
5U3'W
3  K.-4/^K\on
- i3! ZP-ar,4PiJi'n
//.
<
^t^rroll ffne^l
Thank you for your support ~ our future depends on it!
Please sign to support - Lana'i Kina'ole Inc. Home Health, Home and
Community Based Services and possible expansion with an Adult Day Care
(ADC) or Adult Day Health (ADH)
Printed Name Contact Info-email
or phone number
Signature
0^
.^2.-
clD
Wr\S ~uK ^^0 ■ t4?ki Ki ^^0 € KI. U.6
C^A,\
D<^/‘ I S'C 40
I - d<7vuiC&i
chib Icsw^>W^r«7i5
I  V
^  vvxjk^.A .JCiA.K.-V^-Obnsd.) I
ha/I.C^
/\llKh
/
^ mufvdo n o34m/
IL^tonOndprsco
XlVfbMwk I  C^YW, TV
Ajs^vM ^VV, -
?rv--V\c / - f!Zim
55^'O^n ectJULC<aS-V»Uo
uCl
Thank you for your support ~ our future depends on it!
Please sign to support - Lana'i Kina'ole Inc. Home Health, Home and
Community Based Services and possible expansion with an Adult Day Care
(ADC) or Adult Day Health (ADH)
Contact Info-email
or phone number
Printed Name Signature
&JM6S /MEML/l£,
rs:
dC'-^DShi
.V u.y
d'l. 'lacu-LL&i. c
Thank you for your support ~ our future depends on it!