MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-11-18
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=2673,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
November 18, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD IN THE COUNCIL CHAMBER. KALANA O MAUI BUILDING.
WAILUKU, HAWAII AND ONLINE VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 18. 2022,
BEGINNING AT 9:02 A.M.. WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Willthe Councilmeeting of November 18. please come to
order. Itis approximately 9:02 a.m. Members, we have, I believe seven people to
start.Our greetingtoday isfrom Kenya, Africa.And itishujambo, hujambo. And as
you probably know, Kenya is,the equator runs rightthrough Kenya.
Mr. Clerk, rollcall.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES L.KRUEGER: Chair,proceedingwith rollcall.Members
participatingfrom non-publiclocationsshould statewho, ifanyone, except minors, is
present with them as partof rollcall.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Hujambo and aloha kakahiaka kakou my Maui hikinaand lono
i ka makahiki. (Spoke in Hawaiian.) I'm happy to jointhismorning from the Hana
CulturalCenter with my districtstaffMavis Medeiros. And currently,there are no
testifiers. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mika Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and hujambo. Madam Chair. I'mtransmittinghere from
the Councilchambers inWailuku and hujambo to you and everyone elsejoiningus for
our Council meeting today. Currently,there are no testifiersat the Paia DistrictOffice.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 2
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Aloha, Chair and good morning, Councilmembers and
community members. I'm inthe chambers today, so hujambo to you. And there are
no testifiers at the Lanai District Office. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha kakahiaka kakou and hujambo and lono ika makahiki.
What a lightshow lastnight. No testifiersatthe Lahaina DistrictOffice. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki LeiSugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Hujambo, everybody. I'minKula and lookingforward to a
productivemeeting.
CHAIR LEE: Good to see you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: PresidingOfficerPro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair, and hujambo to my colleagues this
morning. Iam here in my workspace, and Iam alone looking forward to a wonderful
Council meeting today. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair, my Moloka'i nui ahina. I'm
at the Moloka'i DistrictOffice,alone on my side of the office. And we have our
community outreach specialistZhantell Lindo on the other side of the office. And I
believe there are stillno testifiers,but that could change. Lono ika makahiki. Mahalo,
Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 3
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Morning, everyone. Hujambo. Looking forward to a wonderful, efficientshort
meeting. Thank you.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCl, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN,
YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA, VICE-CHAIR
KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L.
LEE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KELLY T. KING.
(Councilmember King was not present when the rollwas called;however, she arrived
at 9:38 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are eightMembers present, one Member excused
A quorum ispresent to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record,Iam Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are LegislativeDivisionstaffJoyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana,
and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and FirstDeputy Corporation Counsel RichelleThomson.
CHAIR LEE: Opening remarks willbe provided by Councilmember Johnson.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offeredby Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, Member Johnson.
And now, please joinme in recitingthe Pledge of Allegiance.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 4
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recitedthe Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. Oh, before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request
that everyone keep theirmicrophones muted unless it'syour turn to speak. Decorum
shall be maintained at all times.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on ceremonial resolution.
Members of the publicmay testifyinthe Council chamber, at courtesy testimony sites,
or remotely through the informationlistedon the meeting agenda. Individualsin the
Council chamber may sign up to testifywiththe staffmember located at the desk inthe
eighth-floorlobby.
Individualsat courtesytestimony sitesmay sign up with the staffatthe site.Individuals
participatingremotely may sign up in the meeting chat. Ifyou're connected to the
meeting by phone, we willbe unmuting you at the end of every testimony period to
verifywhether or not you wish to testify.Individualsconnected by phone are currently
on mute and will be unmuted when itis their time to testify.Individualsconnected by
videoconference should keep both theirvideo and microphones offand should turn
them on only when itistheirtime to testify.
Testimony islimitedto the items listedon the agenda. Individualsmay testifyforthree
minutes with up to one minute to conclude per item. When testifying,please stateyour
name and the name of any organizationyou represent,as well as the items on which
you willbe testifying.Please also identifyto the Council ifyou are a paid lobbyist.
Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at any time for breaking
decorum.
At this time, individualsmay testifyon ceremonial resolutions,
currentlyno individualssigned up to testifyon thisitem.
Chair, there are
CHAIR LEE: I see one.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 5
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MR. JASEE L^W:
Aloha kakahiaka, everybody.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning.
MR. LAW: Ihope everybody's having a good Friday. I'llmake itshort. Iwas, resolution,oh
my name is Jasee Law from Kula uka. The resolution,firstthing I noticed was the
William McGerrow was a chiefaccount forHawaiian Sugar. And Iwasn't going to say
it.Iwas justgoing to kindofskipover thisthing,but I'm very interestedinthe religious
organizationshere on Maui. Ihaven'tvisitedthisplace yet,but Iwill.And he was the
chiefaccounting officer.
And coincidentally,the wahine that'sgetting paid to be secretary for Kula Roman
CatholicParish used to work inthe accounting officebefore she had a job up there.
And since,and was stillnot going to say anything,but then when Isaw thatmy Council,
Councilor Yuki Lei Sugimura signed the resolution,and Ihad to say something. And I
would likeher to pay attentionand tryto help me out up there in Kula, maybe talkto
those guys. They won't help me with an address, and they keep sending my ballot
back to Kathy's officeand James. So, yeah. I'm going to go down there and check it
out. And maybe Mr. McGerrow can make a littlespot for me down there beside him.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any questions,Members?
MR LAW: Ho'omaika'i Buddha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members, forthe testifier?ifnot,thank you very
much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testifyon this
item,so we'lldo lastcall.Ifthere isanybody else who would liketo testifyon thisitem,
please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat, lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, are there any objectionsto closing public testimony and
accepting writtentestimony for ceremonial resolutions?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 6
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with ceremonial resolutions.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-256
CONGRATULATING PUUNENE NICHIREN
MISSION ON ITS 10QTH anniversary
CHAIR LEE: PresidingOfficerPro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair, Iwould liketo ask ifMember Yuki LeiSugimura would like
to do the resolution? Yuki, are . . .you want to.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Tasha, ifyou would proceed, Iwould appreciate it.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair.
SO, CHAIR, I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-256.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Pro Tern Kama, to adopt Resolution 22-256, seconded by Member
Sugimura.
Member Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 7
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. May Iplease request the Clerk to read the
resolutionin itsentirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
(The resolutionwas read initsentirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern Kama. Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Clerk,for reading the resolution.
Members, I'm pleased to have the opportunityto recognize the Puunene Nichiren
Mission on its100th anniversary. I'dalso liketo support the effortsof Ms. Hester Honda
in helpingto preserve the historyand significanceof the only NichirenShu Temple on
Maui and one offourremaining temples inHawaii. Irespectfullyask thatthe members
to joinme incongratulatingPuunene NichirenMission by supporting my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sugimura, did you have any comments?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you fordoing this resolution. Ihave to
commend Hester Honda, who worked with our office. Ithink we heard from her likesix
months ago tryingto ensure thatthisgets done. So, appreciate Members forhonoring
this church. And Ithink in the audience, there's Yaeko Yamamoto, who's the president
of the NichirenShoshu Church. And at the appropriatetime, ifyou would allow her to
say a few words. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any more comments or discussion? Ifnot,allthose in
favor of the motion, please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: All"ayes' zero"noes". We have one "excused". Do we now have eight people?
Okay, eight,eight"ayes",one "excused": Member King. Motion carries.
And now. Members, do we have the guest? Come up and say a few words.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 8
MS. YAEKO YAMAMOTO: Good morning, everybody. My name Yaeko Yamamoto.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. YAMAMOTO: I'm Puunene Nichiren Mission board president and we are very honored
to have thisresolutionforour church 100-year. And Iappreciateyou alltake time and
considerto give us thisresolution.Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much forallyou do forour community. Members? Oh, could
you wait? We have someone who willgive you the resolution.Members, you can also
walk up and congratulatethe president.
Mr. Clerk, where are we?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on remaining agenda items.
At thistime individualsmay testifyon any remaining item on the agenda. The first
person we have signed up to testifyis Gina Chamberlain. To be followed by
Keeaumoku Kapu. Irepeat,Gina Chamberlain.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. GINA CHAMBERLAIN (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-119):
Yes, can you--
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we can hear you.
MS. CHAMBERLAIN: Okay, great. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. CHAMBERLAIN: Thank you forallowingme to speak to theCouncil.My name isGina
Chamberlain and I'm the homeownership program manager for Rural Community
Assistance Corporation. We're a regionalnonprofitservingthe 13 western states.I
also had a chance to speak to the AffordableHousing Committee on CR 22-119 on
November 3; and also had the chance to hear allof the discussionfrom the Committee
Members and other testifiers.
Iwant to speak tothe importance ofthisbilland theimportanceofextendingtheperiod
of affordabilitythrough the resale restrictionsand want to encourage the Councilto
extend these, the resale restrictionsfor as long as possible,ideallyfor 30 or more
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 9
years. This isa key component to buildinga homeownership market not only forthe
immediate future,but also forthe long-term success. Iguess Iwant to step back from,
you know, examples of other communities, and data, and justsay that I have been
working inthisfieldforover 30 years.
And what is surprisingfrom my perspective isthat some of these discussions that I
was a partof reallyearlyon, whether something should be for 10 years or 20 years,
the common theme isthat we, the longer the better. When Ifirststarted,we were
looking at restrictionsthatwere just 10 years old,Imean just10 years long and itwas
very,that 10 years passed reallyquickly,and we saw the negative impact of losingall
of thataffordablehousing to a community thatwas stillinsignificantneed.
In addition,Iwant tojustsay thatinworking inthe 13 States,we are receivingregular
requests on lookingat other communities, figuringout ways to buildthe market that I
thinkthese resalerestrictionsare designed to help build. Buildthatmarket forpeople
who are livingand working and raisingtheirfamiliesin communities thathave really
high-costhousing markets. And then, those markets that are also realtycompeting
with tourism, and second homes, and Airbnb's, and that the, keeping these homes in
that market foras long as possible,because you're not going to be able to solve that
problem injustone year. That the work thatyou do today isgoing to stillbe needed
the 20 years or 30 years from now, cause the,you're going to graduallybuildon that
market and you don'twant to lose any of that investment as the resale restrictions
expire. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Member Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Chamberlain. So, justto
clarifywhat you're saying is that a 30-year deed restrictionwon't hamper the
homeowner from getting refinanced,or things likethat,iftheirkids need to go to
college?
MS. CHAMBERLAIN: Actually,that'sa great.I'msorry,do you want me to respond?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes, please.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please.
MS. CHAMBERLAIN: I'm sorry. That's a great question, and no. Typicallymortgage
financing,you're still,with the resale restrictionsthatyou have inplace,and the deed
restrictionsyou have in place, the owner is stillgaining equity,both through the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 10
payment of theirmortgage, and then also the resale calculation. And so, that’sthe
equity that a homeowner can use to,to refinance or get another loan forthose other
lifeexpenses. So, it'snot limitingthat. The normal market works the same way. This
isjustmaking sure thatthose homes don'tappreciate beyond the affordabilityforfuture
homeowners.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Cool. Thank you so much foryour testimony and thank
you foranswering my question.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyisKe'eaumoku Kapu. To
be followed by Noelani Ahia.
MR. KE’EAUMOKU KAPU (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-120):
Hi. Aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Aloha.
MR. KAPU: Aloha kakahiaka, Councilmembers. Good morning. Lono ika makahiki. Iwant
to testifyon CR 22-120, Bill154. It'svery disturbingforme to again go through the
gamut pertainingto my issues and concerns about this very issue of the cultural
overlay. Ifeelit'sreally,reallyimportantatthismoment toget thisthinggoing. I'vesat
on the Cultural Resources Commission from 2004. I also sat on the Burial Council for
an eightyear term. And the reason why Idid that is because somebody needed to
advocate fora lotofthe historicpropertiesand resources thatare very abundant inthe
County of Maui. And it'sevident thatwe in Lahaina are facingissuespertainingtothis
very subject.
When itcomes to company that did archaeological inventory survey that didn't
complete it,and that'sthe reason why we have three open trenches stillyet to be
determined by the Maui-Lanai IslandBurialCouncil,which basicallytellsme thatthe
State isinadequate fordoing any type of assessment pertainingto how they need to
protectthe resources thatwe have inplace.
These burialshave been exposed from early 2000. I'veadvocated from 2001 on this
very area known as Wainee. And the amount of cultural,historicproperties,as wellas
burials that is abundant in this area. And I feel that ifthe State isinadequate to make
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 11
sure thatthey protectthe resources for our kanaka maoli, especially for burialsthat is
evident inthese so-calledareas where culturaloverlayisvery well needed, very well
needed.
And that'swhy Ireallysupport this,to make sure thatthe County also has a say when
itcomes to the protectionand preservationof historicproperties and burials now that
the County has adopted, you know, these so-called policiesand has a certified
archaeologistinplace. Itgives us hope, our kanaka maoli hope thatthere isan overlay
to make sure thatthese, any type of development before they even develop inthese
areas they would know forthemselves thatthe area would be potentialor not potential.
This area that Ispeak of rightnow isred hot zone areas. Very, very disturbingas to
how allof a sudden these companies can get exemptions to put in waterlines over
existingproperties,and do zigzags knowing that ifthey know of where these burials
are to just miss the burialsand worry about those later. That's, that'shighly totally
inadequate forme.
Imahalo thisCouncil,inclosing,forallof the greatwork thatyou guys been doing this
past year. And Ireallyencourage thisCouncil to look intomaking sure thatwe have
thisprotectionforour kupuna, our iwikupuna that is in place, especiallythe historic
property. And don't lay intoallthese recommendations on changing these so-called
recommendations forthe culturaloverlay. Ithinkyou guys did a wonderful job. And I
thinkyou guys should adopt everythingthatisbefore you and get thisthingpassed, so
we, the kanaka maoli community, can feelsafe thatwe have people thatwatchdogs
such as yourselves are doing a very wonderful job forus. So, mahalo, forallowingme
to testify.I'mglad to answer any questions,ifyou have any. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Mr. Kapu, foryour testimony this
morning. Just a clarifyingquestion. You mentioned the inadequacies at the State
level.Can you, inyour experience upon these burialcouncils,how long has some of
these, have we waited forthe State to kind of opine on some of these projects?
MR. KAPU: Mahalo forthatquestion. And you know, itgets even reallycomplicated when
you are dealingwith the State HistoricPreservation Division,especiallywiththe Burial
Council. Itdepends on what isdesignated. Now, ifit'san inadvertentfind,then that
... is under the discretionof the State. Now, ifit'spreviouslyfound then the Burial
Council is the one that makes the determination.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 12
But what makes things even more complicated is the kanaka maoli that has a
relationshipthrough these areas has to filea culturalor linealdescendancy claim.And
once that isdone, thatcan take way, way amount of times to make sure thatwe have
people at the forefrontthatare there to ask the adequate questionswhen itcomes to
the preservationand protectionof these historicproperties.
So, with the culturaloverlay,it'simportant that before we go intothose areas and
before they hitburials,we'llknow forsure by the determinationby the culturaloverlay,
so we don'thave togo through the politicswiththe StateHistoricPreservationDivision,
which basicallya lotburialsthatthey've found previously,we've been dealingwith
burialsthatare over 30-year-oldsinSHPD to tryto make sure we can get preservation
areas set for them so we can do reinterments such as Puamana Park is what I'm
dealingwith rightnow. Those burialshave been inthatlockupsince2017, and only
today we're able to put itback. The culturaloverlay would be the most important
opportunityforallof us to see what isthere before any approvalisgivenforany type
of potentialdevelopment. Ihope Ianswered your question.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Yeah. Mahalo, Mr. Kapu. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
MR. KAPU: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MR. KAPU: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisNoelani Ahia. To
be followed by Randy Wagner.
MS. NOELANI AHIA (testifyingon Committee Report No. 120):
Aloha kakahiaka kakou. Lono ika makahiki. I am testifyingthismorning on my own
behalf. I'mNoelani Ahia and I'mtestifyinginsupport of Bill154. Reading some posted
testimony thismorning, I saw that itsaid,itsuggested thatthisbillis replicatinga
process thatSHPD already has in place. And letme make itclear,SHPD does not
preventdesecration.SHPD has basicallybeen set up tofail,and has been, has been
derelictintheirdutiesto protectour iwikupuna.
For example, as Uncle Ke'eaumoku Kapu mentioned, iwikupuna have been sittingon
the shelves at SHPD. These are our ancestors, sittingon shelves forsome 30-plus
years. And inthe lastyear and a half,the community has taken initiativeto beginto
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 13
reinterthese iwikupuna. But we shouldn'thave to do thatbecause they never should
have been dug up inthe firstplace. And that'swhat we're aiming to do withthisbillis
prevent the desecration.
When we lookatWaiko LightIndustrial,there'sbeen 17 boxes ofbones thathave been
dug up since the beginning ofthe pandemic justinthe lastthreeyears. This ishorrific.
Itputs a strainon us as kanaka maoli on our time,our energy, our spiritualconnection
to our iwikupuna, and thisisculturalgenocide. When we look at Maui Lani Phase 6,
there are 189 find sites. And that's 184 found after the archeologic inventory survey.
And this is because of reallybad archaeology work that SHPD signs offon. SHPD
does not prevent desecration,but thisbillcan.
This isabout respectingthe humanity of the kanaka moai people, the firstpeople of
thisland,and protectingwhat issacred. The people in Hawaii who have come here
don'tthinkthatdigging up Hawaiian burials,or thinkthatdigging up Hawaiian burials
is acceptable, they reallydon't belong in Hawaii and they should leave. This isour
aina. These are our kupuna. This isour nurishment. This isour mana. This our life
force. This is what makes us who we are and itmust be protected.
This isa proactivebillwhich willprevent our aunties and tutusfrom having tojump in
frontof bulldozers,and itwillcut down on lawsuits. The only ones who lose out really
are the attorneyswho represent the developers in these lengthylawsuits.Similar
legislationwas proposed in the 90's,but itwas shot down by big business interest.
And itcould have prevented so much tragedy and harm.
But today,you folkshave the opportunitytodo the pono thing.We've spent two years,
and thisversion before you today issomething thateveryone has agreed on, including
allofthe departments. The care and protectionofiwikupuna isconnected tothe health
and well-beingof kanaka maoli. And Ican tellyou unequivocallythatour people are
hurting. Our people have suffered. Our people have been harmed. And our people
ma'i because of thisdesecration. But you folks have an opportunityto change thatand
upliftour people and protectour aina and our kupuna. Mahalo nuiforyour time today.
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MS. AHIA: Mahalo.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Randy Wagner inthe
chamber. To be followed by Ernest Rezents.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 14
MS. RANDY WAGNER (testifying on Resolution No. 22-258):
Aloha. Good morning. Thank you forbeing here and forhearing my testimony. I'm
testifyinginsupport of Resolution 22-258, which refersto landscape planting.The first
part isin regards to Title12.24A.040, which islandscape plantingand beautification,
the purpose of which is to protect,preserve, and encourage plantingof trees in the
County.
And itrefersto the Maui County PlantingPlan, which was years indeveloping,which
describes very specificallywhich trees thrivewhere, how to planttrees,howto maintain
trees. And at thispointintime,itisonly advisory. And as we allknow, advice can be
ignored. And our intentionisto make thisa standard requirement foralldepartments.
That they adhere to the knowledge inthe Maui County PlantingPlan,and notjusthave
itbe advisory.
The second part of this resolutionis referringto Title 19.36B.080, which is the
landscape plantinginparking lots.This isparticularlyimportantbecause thatneeds to
be tightenedup. Itnow says it'sforshade, but we want the language to read "maximum
shade over hardscape,"because atthistime,withglobalwarming, itrequiresone tree
for every fivespaces. But itdoesn't requirethatthe trees be allowed to grow to full
canopy heightto provide shade. And we allknow thattrees are the best airfilterthere
is. They take in carbon. They give out oxygen. They cool the environment. They
increase propertyvalues. They uptake water. Parking lotscan be designed so that
they drain intotreewells,so thatthe water can be filtered.
And across the country, there are ordinances in many, many areas that require
50 percent shade coverage. We would likeour ordinance in Maui County to require
50 percent shade over hardscape.
(Councilmember King arrivedto the meeting at 9:38 p.m.)
MS. WAGNER; Iknow thatifyou look around you'llsee parkinglotswhere trees have been
allowed to grow that are fabulous and beautiful.And then,you've seen parking lots
that cut theirtrees,top theirtrees every two to threeyears,Imean, two to threetimes
a year and turnthem intolittlelollipoptreesthatdon'tprovideshade atall.As a matter
of fact,they graduallyare killingthe trees by doing that.Trees should be onlytrimmed
once a year, 20 percent maximum, to remove the dead wood. And they should be
allowed to grow intothe intentionof the law,which was to provideshade.
Ifanyone wants to ask me about the Planning Department's not supportingthis,why
Iwould be happy to respond.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 15
CHAIR LEE; Members, any questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yes. I'dliketo hear your response.
MS. WAGNER; The Planning Department suggests thatthe Maui County Planting Plan is
already required in the parking lotordinance, 19.36. And I don't see that anywhere.
So, Idon'tunderstand. Irequested to them where isitshown thatthat'srequired? And
it's,their,Ihaven't had a response to that.
The second objectionthey had isthatthe departments have differentrequirements to
supervise and administer the trees in differentdivisions. Like Parks has some, and
Public Works has some, and Planning has some. And we're not suggesting that any
of that should change. We're suggesting that the Maui County Planting Plan be the
standard requirement foralldepartments, as itisnow advisory foralldepartments. So,
ifpeople want more clarificationof this,Iwould recommend we send itto the CARE
Committee. However, we did request that itbe sent to the commissions.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk,letthe record show thatMember KellyKing has joined us. Good morning.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Good morning. Konnichiwa. I don't know ifit'smorning over
here. It's4;30 a.m., 9;40 your time, 4;40 my time. But happy to be here. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Thank you very much, Ms. Wagner.
MS. WAGNER; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; May we have the next testifierplease.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testifyis Ernest Rezents in the
chamber. To be followed by Kimberly Willenbrink.
MR. ERNEST REZENTS (testifying on Resolution No. 22-258);
Good morning. My name isErnest Rezents. It'sbeen a longtime since I'vebeen here.
And Icome today to speak about trees and Maui County PlantingPlan,which Iam the
author of,thisisthe thirdedition,and parking lotshade, primarily.And trees are very
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 16
important because they take in the carbon dioxide which is one of the gases that
produces our globalwarming. And thisbook here has a chapter on parking lottrees;
and therefore,ifyou plantthem properlyand take care of them, you're going to have
good parking lotshade. And that issuper important.
And 1was toldthatthe County isadhering to this. But yet,the enforcement, Idon’t
think is there. And the trees take in carbon dioxide to make theirkau kau, theirCostco
supply. And ifyou over-prune them, they'restarving,they don'thave the abilityto make
food. So, and to make theirkau kau they take in the carbon dioxide and therefore,
that'sa global warming gas. So, ifyou have good parking lotshade, you're going to
have less C02, you're going to help the globalwarming problem thatwe're faced with.
Now, a well-shaded parking lot.Dr. Wolfe did research. People travelfurther,stay
longer, and spend more money. Therefore, there's more taxes coming in for
government. And thatisa god’s fact.You yourselves,when you go shopping, do you
park inthe sun, or do you go fora shade tree? So, it'sa matter of fact.So, thisMaui
County PlantingPlan,the chapter on parking lotshade is recommended, because we
don't have any ordinance to enforce it. And we were told,oh, but we adhere to it.
Yeah, maybe it'sorally.
But ifyou put an ordinance in thisparking lotchapter be followed and adhered to, I
thinkyou'redoing benefitforMaui County by puttingitup, by having the treestake in
the carbon dioxide. And people travelfurther.They spend more money, so you're
going to have more revenue coming in. So, it'sa plus. It'sa win-win situation.So
Maui County PlantingPlan parking lottree chapter should be mandatory and not just
recommended. Do you have any questions? Where do you park when you go
shopping?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, do you have questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Ernie. It'sso good to see you. Ihaven't
seen you for a while. Well, since the lastArboristmeeting. But you are Mr. Trees
here in Maui County. Could you give us a littlemore clarityon what you mean by the
Maui PlantingPlan isnot being enforced?
MR. REZENTS: Well, Idon't have proof per se. But justthatthe way Isee things going in
places, itcould have been done better. And parking lotshade, you see, people bolo
head theirtrees in parking lotsbecause they feel thisisgoing to make itcheaper for
them. And we darn well know that shaded parking lotsisvery advantageous.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 17
So, somehow, maybe even ifwe give them a littletax break to encourage them to
maintain the canopy because they'reon privateproperty,see? So, some kind of an
incentivethat they don't over-prune theirtrees. Because some people have a tree
without branches. I got a tree,but itdoesn't do any benefit,because the tree is in
photosynthesis taking in carbon dioxide, likeI said, and that willhelp the global
warming issue. And when you have a well-shaded parking lot,they willtravelfurther,
stay longer,and spend more money. And therefore,everybody wins. This is proven
scientifically,as Ijustsaid.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right,but. Right but,you have, can you give us some insight
intowhether we're followingthese, the plantingplan in the, inthe County parking lots,
as faras the number of trees and the canopy of the trees? Because that was one of
the concerns, I had heard that the number of trees that were supposed to?
MR. REZENTS: Ithinkparking lotsingeneral,not justCounty parking lots.Iknow you have
jurisdictionover those, but the publicparking lots.Maybe some kind of a tax incentive
to maintain the shade, because they don't know about Dr. Wolfe's research. They'll
make more money, and you'llget reimbursed by taxes, likeIjust said, ifyou have a
well-shaded parking lot. But parking lotsare important, and we need to have them
shaded better,because the carbon dioxide,globalwarming issues we're faced with. It
is amazing when you read about the droughts even on the mainland. Lake Mead is
drying up, which isgoing to supply the water for-
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yeah, no.
MR. REZENTS: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Itotallyagree with you, Ijust,we've been talking
about trees at COP 27 as well and the global,in relationto the global warming issue.
Ijustwanted to get your insightintowhether we were, you were seeing the number of
treesthatwere inthe plantingplan. But that'sokay. Ifyou don'thave thatinformation,
that'salright.
MR. REZENTS: But, yeah. And they had to keep the canopy. You can have a tree there
without any leaves, I'vegot my tree.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Rezents.
MR. REZENTS: Okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 18
CHAIR LEE: Appreciate it.Okay. Very good. And then,we have the next testifier.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, i believe we have one, 1 just was told we have one
anonymous testifieragain at the South Maui DistrictOffice.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. okay. Alright.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyisKimberly
Willenbrink,inthe chambers. To be followed by Rochelle Kapu.
MS. KIMBERLY WILLENBRINK (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-122):
Good morning, Chair Lee, Members of the Council. My name isKimberly Willenbrink
and I'm here to testifyjustbrieflyon Committee Report 22-122. Just wanted to say
thank you fortaking thismatter up. It'svery important to me and others,and largely
it'simportantto allpeople inthe workplace, particularlywomen. 1don'thave anything
else to say about that. Iknow thatthisisn'tcomplete yet,and thatyou'llbe traveling
next week. So, safe travelsand I'llsee you there.
But 1alsojustwanted to say thank you foryour servicemoving intothe next two years.
Thank you forthose thatare leaving,those thatare staying,and the newcomers. And
Ijust,justthismorning opened my completion paperwork for my retirementfrom the
County of Maui. So, thank you forallof the years that I'vebeen able to work with all
of you. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Willenbrink.Any questions?
Member King has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank, thank you. Chair. And aloha, Kimberly. Good luck on
your retirement, I'm happy for you. Maybe I'llsee you in my retirementfrom the
Council. But I,no, the question Iwanted to ask you isyou said I'llsee you over there.
So, does thatmean thatallof the testifiersare requiredto be there in-person?
MS. WILLENBRINK: Thank you forthe question,Councilmember King. No, Ithinksome of
us are justgoing to be there,and to see thisthingthrough to itscompletion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. Alright.Thank you. Thank you forthatclarification.
Thank you, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 19
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. Seeya.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisRochelle Kapu. To
be followed by Janet Six. Rochelle Kapu, itisyour time to testify.Chair we'llmove
onto the next testifier.
MR. ROCHELLE KAPU (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-120):
Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh. Hi.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. KAPU: Hi. Aloha. Mahalo for allowing me to testifytoday. I'm sorry,tryingto finda
quietspace here. Alright.I'mtestifyingon Bill154. It'ssomething thatwe've worked
on so very hard. We need to,I'm infavor of thisbillso deeply. It'ssomething that
needs to be done. We're tiredof having to go in frontof Council or go in frontof
commissions to testifyon behalf of sacred areas. Areas thathave iwikupuna. Areas
that have historicalsites. So, this billis very important to us, everyone in Hawaii.
Everyone thathas put theirheads to thisaina,thathave been here foryears and have
made this their home. It'sbecause of what the culture isabout. It'sabout, it'sbecause
of the people itself,notjustkanaka maoli. Everyone.
And, you know, as a kapa maker, as a iwiprotector,as a, justsomeone thatdoes
education on historicalsites,our Moku'ula. You know, it's,it'snot easy going infront
of people and having to share your mana'o about areas thatpeople say, you know
what, it'snot important,we need to move forward. We need development. We need
thisand that. No. They came before us, and we have to remember that.There'sso
much significanceinwhat Hawaii isabout. It'sa specialplace. And thisbillwillhelp
us to protectthatspecialplace. So, Imahalo forthistime. And a lonomakahiki hou.
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the
next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyisJanet Six.To be followed
by Jason Economou.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 20
DR. JANET SIX (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-120):
Aloha. I'm Dr.Janet Six,the principalarcheologistforthe County of Maui. Obviously,
I’m insupport of thisbill.Ijustwanted to make some clarifications.Iread some of the
onlinetestimony thatwas submitted,and thisisnot meant to slow anything down. This
is actuallymeant to facilitatepermitting,it'smeant to be informationthat people can
make decisions about.
I deal with lotsof people in the publicthat buy lotsand then want to know why they
have to do an AIS and why they have to spend allthismoney and then they can'tbuild
theirhouse. So what we want to do isprovide as much information as we know that is
availableto put out there for people to make informed decisions, instead of sending
every singlethingto SHPD thatinvolvesground altering.The idea isas Iam permitted
by the State of Hawaii since 2004 as a licensedarchaeologist,Iwould work with SHPD
enable to streamlinethe process. And I'vebeen doing thisforthe County a number of
projectsalready.
So, thisissomething, the idea thatthisisa duplicateprocess, it'snot. It'smeant to
save time. It'smeant to save money. But the most important,it'smeant to protect
sites,culturalsites,whether they'reiwikupuna in burialcomplexes, or heiau, or even
plantationinfrastructure.Itsidea to identifywhat's on a parcel inan area so that people
can make informed decisions.
But justreallywant to emphasize, Idon't have the power to stop things. I'm not going
to be stopping things. What I'm going to be doing, which I'vebeen doing forMayor's
Office,isprovidingpeople informationso thatthey can make informed decisions. It's
not pejorative.It'sinformative. It'sdata and that data isvery powerful. And Ithink
once we get the culturaloverlay billpassed and we get the culturaloverlay database
started,that people willsee thatthiswillspeed up the process of permitting,not slow
itdown. That'swhat Ihave to say.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. In the interestof time, ifthere are no
objections,Iwanted to designate Dr. Six as a resource when the item comes up, just
in case Members have additionalquestions.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 21
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Alright,may we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisJason Economou.
To be followed by Norm Franco.
MR. JASON ECONOMOU. REALTORS ASSOCIATION OF MAUI (testifying on Committee
Report No. 22-119):
Good morning, Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Am Ispeaking too loud?
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. Yes.
MR. ECONOMOU: Okay. IfIlean back, isthat a littlebitbetter?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. ECONOMOU: Let me tryand fixthe settingrealquick with you. So sorry about this.
Anyway, I'llspeak lightly.This morning. I'm testifyingon behalf of the Realtors
Association of Maui as their Government Affairs Director regarding Bill103. Firstand
foremost, we came to you with a proposed amendment. And thank you, thank you all
for including that amendment, and allowing people to maintain property ownership
even iffinancialhardship hitsthem fora couple of years. We reallywant to be able to
keep people intheirhomes because there'sa whole host of benefitsthatcome with
homeownership.
One of the aspects that I'veseen gettinga lotof focus isthe buildingof equity. And
what I want to address is that when RAM examined this bill,there wasn't reallymuch
concern regarding the equitysharing or the shared appreciation,because thatseemed
to already existwithinthe code itself.
But one thing that Iwant to address isthat with the way mortgages are structured,
having a 30-year mortgage, a lotof times when people sella home early,they are
gettinga lotof equity. But thatequityislargelybuilton the managed debt thatthey've
been holding. So, when you have these shorterdeed restrictions,people can break
out of the deed restrictionsearly and sell,and then get a windfallthat’sfarbeyond the
amount of the subsidy thatwas going intothe property insome instances.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 22
So. you know, there'srealeconomic concerns as faras isthe County doing something
fiscallyresponsibleifthey don'tcreatesome measure to tryand recuperate the amount
of subsidy thatthey put intothe housing? Ithinkthat was the real,real crux of the
controversy behind the changes to the Affordable Housing Fund that allowed for
increased subsidy. So, so those increased subsidies don't reallymake sense ifthe
County doesn't have a mechanism to hold back that property in a method that's
affordable for its residents.
So, beyond thatthough, ! reallymust warn that I'm not an expert on financing. So, so
what Iwould say islistento the mortgage professionalsthat you're hearing from and
ask them ifthere'sreallyan issue as faras equityor the affordabilityof the house given
the extended deed restrictions.From RAM's perspective,you know, people sign
30-year mortgages as a standard. So, so that in itof itselfisa limitationon equitythat
can be built.Limitationsexist. What's fairis ultimatelydetermined by you and the
market. So, that'sour input.
Thank you forthe amendments thatyou made. And you know Ihope you, some of the
other legislationis great, you know, protecting the cultural remains, protecting the
trees,and protectyour residents,please. And thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. So, as itstands now, it'sa 20-year deed
restriction.And ifmy understanding iscorrect,you said you would support a 30-year
deed restriction,because of the way the other times are set up. like a 30-year
mortgage?
MR. ECONOMOU: Councilmember Johnson, I said that RAM does not have a position
regarding the lengthof the deed restrictionsbecause we don't,we as an organization
are focused on, on housing and homeownership, not the financing of the housing.
Though we have a lot of financiers in our membership, we haven't heard any
complaints from them regarding this. So, I got to say that I'm technicallyneutral
regarding that,the length,the specificsof the length.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you for clarifyingthat,Jason, or Mr. Economou.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 23
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here, Mr. Economou.
So, Ijustwant to be clear in my understanding of equity. So, the shorter,the shorter
the deed restriction,the more equity isdeveloped withina home or property?
MR. ECONOMOU: No. So, thisisgoing to get a littlecomplex to tryand explain. But what I
mean by the length of time, in the past three years, is a good example, we saw the
prices of housing drasticallyincrease.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Right.
MR. ECONOMOU: Far beyond what somebody might have purchased that housing for,at
let'ssay the 100, or 120 AMI level. Ifpeople are allowed to sellwithinthese shorter
gaps where there's this massive increase in housing prices,then what ends up
happening isyes, there'sshared, you know, there'slimitationson how much they can
sellfor. But the overallproperty is much more expensive than might have been
anticipatedwhen the equityshare or deed restrictionswere put inplace.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: That wasn't helpful.But I'm going to--
MR. ECONOMOU; I'm so sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, no, that'sokay. It'scomplex, yeah.
MR. ECONOMOU: It'sreallycomplex. And that'swhy, you know, Ithinkit'sgood to hear
from the mortgage folks--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah, you're right.
MR. ECONOMOU: --when itcomes to that. But what I am saying isit's,the big criticismof
the AffordableHousing Fund isthatit'sa giveaway. And ifyou'resubsidizinghousing
unitsat $300,000 per unit,and people are able to sellthose unitsand make windfalls,
that'sa giveaway, and you are losing the housing inventory that you just spent
hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollarson. So, that'sthe realconcern. So, even
aside from the equity-building,people willbe able to buildequityregardlessinthe Maui
market. Homeownership comes with that,but also the decreased rent. Imean, right
now, a lotof mortgages are less than people are paying in rentforthe same sized
units.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 24
MR. ECONOMOU: So, there'sthose benefits,plus the stability,plus allof that. What I'm
reallyconcerned about isthattaxpayer dollarsare going intohousing to tryand help
our lower-income residents. And we don't want that inventory necessarily lost,
because those residentsare justas importantto our community as the higher-income
residentsthatcan buy a house forcash.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Right. Okay. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Iget itnow.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. No.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Mr. Economou.
MR. ECONOMOU: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisNorm Franco. To
be followedby Stan Franco.
MR. NORM FRANCO (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-119):
Hello there. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Hi. Yes.
MR. FRANCO: Hi. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. FRANCO: Okay. On the Bill103, I,based on my 44 years'experience inrealestateas
a broker and as an appraiser,Iwould support a 30-year restriction.And the reason for
that is we try to maintain workforce housing for as long as you can and stiflethe
opportunitiesforspeculation. I'veseen where in previous County projectsthatwas,
have a ten-yearrestriction,itwas too shortof a time,and those homes, as soon as the
ten years expired,was sold inthe open market.
I'vebeen advocating forquitea long time now thatwe should have a separate market.
Instead of Hawaiian Homes program for non-Hawaiians, with the County owning the
land inperpetuity,and affordabilityinperpetuity,insteadofdoing what you'retryingto
do which work with developers who are based on a profitmotive, insteadof a motive
of providing housing forthe workforce of Maui.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 25
We're losingour population on a dailybasis. Isee itevery day. Our young families
can no longer afford to liveon this island. Their hope of homeownership is being
dashed when we have homes sellingfor over a milliondollarsinthe Wailuku Heights
area. It'stotallyridiculousand itscraziness.
And Iexperienced itfirsthandwith a clientwho had a property in Kula and wanted to
sell to move into the Wailuku area to be close to his daughter. When he found out that
a home about the size of a standard three-bedroom, two-bath on a lot,have seen golf
greens biggerthan thatlot,sellingfor$1.2 million,Idon'tknow inany consciousness,
Itoldthe salesperson how can you justifythat? And her response was, well,that'sthe
market. Well, the market isallmessed up, and it'sbecause of an invasion thatcoming
to thisisland by the people who have cash, they don't care what they pay, and they
pay ridiculousprices,and they totallydevastate the localmarket.
So, my question,my answer to Council Tasha Kama, yes, there isa difference.When
you go 20 year, okay, that'sallIgot to say unless I'm given more time.
CHAIR LEE: Norman, can you justwrap itup in30 seconds?
MR. FRANCO: Okay. Ifyou have a restrictionof 20 years, or you base your mortgage on
20 years, you're buildingup equity fasterthan ifyou go on a 30-year mortgage. But
it'sall based on the fair market value of the home at the time of sale. So now, ifyou
have a home thatyou sold to somebody for$300,000, and in 20 years the value has
gone up to maybe 800,000, then theirgain isfaster.They can realizetheirgain faster
than a 30-year restriction.And most mortgages, and speaking for,because we work
with mortgage people on the appraisalside,they want certainty.So, Irecommend a
30-year restrictionbased on a 30-year mortgage. That's allIgot to say. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions,Members?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Franco, forbeing here. So.
my question is,you know, I realizethat mortgage lenders want a 30-year mortgage,
because they do want to make sure thatthat mortgage is able to be paid. And so,
we're looking at doing a 20-year deed restrictionon these 30-year mortgages. So,
what is,from your perspective,as a realtoror someone who's been inthe market for
many, many years, isthathelpfulto the homeowner?
MR. FRANCO: Okay, well, ifyou allow them to break out of thisrestrictionfor hardship
reasons or for other purposes, but you have to keep itwithinaffordability.And so, it
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 26
doesn’t reallymatter from theirpointof view ifit's20 or 30. Itwould matter ifthey can
spin that property offintothe open market and realizea windfallgain. But ifyou keep
it30 years, thatdeters thatpossibilityand, you know, itdoesn't hurtthe homeowner,
actually.Idon'tthinkitdoes. It'sreallybased on tryingto keep itaffordableforas long
as period of time as you can. The ultimategoal isto make itperpetual affordable,but
that isanother issue entirely.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah. Well, thank you so much foryour response. Thank you
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the next
testifier,please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyis Stan Franco. To
be followed by TrinetteFurtado.
MR. STAN FRANCO (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-119):
Good morning. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. Yes. Good morning.
MR. FRANCO: Good morning. Chair Lee and Members of the Maui County Council. And
thank you for allof you and your devotion to the well-beingof the residentsof Maui
County. As you know. I'm Stan Franco, and I come to do testimony on BillNo. 103.
For too long in our island home we have not addressed the housing crisisthat our
people face. Since 2017, FACE Maui and Stand Up Maui have championed thatthe
County of Maui have a plan to develop the strategiesto buildthe homes thatour people
can affordat the incomes they earn inMaui County.
Icredityou fortakingthatbold step of creatingthatplan in2021 and your subsequent
legislativeactionsto make the plan implementable. Today, we can take the next logical
step in that implementation. You have before you BillNo. 103, which requiresthat
deed restrictionsbe placed on homes that we the people of Maui County investour
property dollarsto subsidize the constructionof the homes or to finance the home
purchase.
The question thatyou are faced with today is how long should thatrestriction,deed
restrictionperiod be? To me, the restrictionperiod should be the same as the term for
a normal mortgage loan, 30 years. Some have said that it'stoo long because itwould
not allow a homebuyer to buildwealth forhimselfand hisfamily. Ina normal market-
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 27
based economy, home builderswould buildto meet the needs of the common man
and woman. They did,and Ibought my firsthome in 1975 for$40,500. But we are
not ina normal market, with the average home costing more than a milliondollars.As
the comprehensive affordableplan has calledfor,we must change our view ofbuilding
homes likewe did and when Iwas settingup my household in 1975.
The most importantthingthatyou can do today isto decide thatthe 30-year deed
restrictionis reasonable. Then we the people will not be continuallyreplacing
subsidized homes with shorter-term restrictedperiod because they are sold on the
open market. Ibelievethatthisisa reasonable trade-offforour investmentofproperty
tax dollars,30 years,the term of a mortgage, normal mortgage loan.
By creatingthe subsidizedmarket forour localpeople,we are sayingtothem, we care
about them, thatthey have a place to celebratefamilybirthdaysand anniversaries,a
place to walk with friends,a favoritesportingevent, and a placeforour childrento
study and do theirhomework. I believethatour people willsay yes to the 30-year
restrictionbecause they can affordan affordablemortgage payment loan. With a
reasonable mortgage payment, people can save for theirchildren'seducation,for
familyvacations,and ifthey want to buy a market pricedhome inthefuture.
Istand,come before you today to ask thatyou approve a 30-yeardeed restrictionfor
allhomes thatare subsidized by our property tax dollars.And thank you very much
forlistening.Have a good day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you verymuch.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisTrinetteFurtado.
To be followed by Kaniloa Kamaunu.
MS. TRINETTE FURTADO (testifyingon Committee Report Nos. 22-119 and 22-120):
Aloha mai kakou. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MS. FURTADO: Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Mahalo forthe opportunitytotestify
thismorning. What an awesome evening displaywe had lastnightto usherinthe
season of Makahiki, lono ika makahiki, everybody. I'mhere to testifybrieflyon two
CRs today.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 28
The firstone, CR 22-119, relatingto residentialworkforce housing restrictions.And I
absolutelysupport thisCR. Ithinkthatitisnecessary given the rabid consumption of
any availableand decently priced realestate by people who have recentlyarrived by
people thatwere lookingto escape COVID. Allof these differentreasons. But that
pushed generationalfamiliesout of much needed housing. And we already know that
we had a housing shortage before that.
This would also help, Ithink,curb forprofitrentalsin these areas whose rents exceed
what would normally be asked inan affordablerentalproperty area justbecause that's
what the market ratesare going forand these people can get it.Iknow thisbecause I
have a friend who lives in a house that is rented out for more than I'm sure what the
person ispaying for as a mortgage, and in an affordablearea. And because housing
is so criticaland hard to find,she has asked me to not,you know, speak furtherabout
who thisis,or what development it'sin. But itishappening. Itcould also help possibly
curb second homebuyers who slipthrough loopholes to obtain a home that they then
turn around and rent in such a manner. That's what I'vegot to say about that.
I hope that you willpass this. Ithink it'svery important. Idon't have a home. I rent
rightnow, but I am hopeful that I willbe able to get into one of our affordable
developments and provide a home fornot justmyself but formy daughter and forany
other family members thatcome down the line.
The second issue that Iwant to testifyon isCR 22-120, which isthe culturaloverlay.
And I support that as well. I think,you know, it'sbeen a long time in coming.
Historically,when issues involvingkanaka have come up for deliberation,those who
profitmost are oftenthe ones who don'twant to change the system thatallows them
to commit desecration. While residentsmust prove thatthey are lineally,likethey are
connected, to people who aren'teven connected, to speak forthose who cannot speak.
To speak forthe aina, to speak for iwikupuna, to speak forpractices.
It'san uphillbattleforrespect,which issorelylacking. This isnecessary in reminding
people that a people and longstanding practices,a civilizationexisted and continues
to existthough rapid and selfishdevelopment and profiteeringoff of our aina have
changed the landscape, both literallyand figurativelyfor kanaka even more
dispossessed today on our own aina.
A culturaloverlay would give a voice, no matter how small the whisper, to wahi that
urgently need a voice. One wouldn't think about bulldozing a church in their
neighborhood, digging up graves to move them, or pouring cement over them to protect
them, or even further,restrictingthe area so that longstanding practicescan no longer
be observed there. People would be upset, depending on the church of course. But
upset, nonetheless. And that'sjustone example of what thisoverlay would begin to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 29
address and hold people accountable to. And it'simportantgiven the dailydisrespect
towards kanaka, as ifwe don't belong here and are nuisances likegnats.
It'sone small step forus now as we're lookingat and deliberating,but it'sa giant step
forward forour kupuna that have been waitingforour advocacy and for our support,
and forour mo‘o who are lookingto us forguidance on how to maintain longstanding
practices and our connection to our lahui and our aina. And I thank you for the
opportunityto testify.And Ihope you allhave a wonderful day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Furtado, foryour testimony.
So, you mentioned inyour testimony that,you know, as a renter,you're reallylooking
forward to hopefullybeing a homeowner one day. So, my question to you is,as we
deliberateon thisitem, regarding the 20-year deed restriction,would you be open to
having,ifyou were able to purchase a home, would you be able to say okay ifthere's
a 30-year deed restriction?
MS. FURTADO; Without hesitation.You know, when you, when we plant,and you know
when we prepare the aina,right,it'snot justforwhat I'm going to do or what I'm going
to make offof it.But it'sseven generations down the lineand so Iwant someplace to
do that with.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair,very much. Appreciate it.Aloha
a hui hou.
MS. FURTADO: A hui hou. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Ms. Furtado.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisKaniloa Kamaunu.
To be followed by Carol Lee Kamekona.
MR. KANILOA KAMAUNU (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-120):
Aloha mai kakou. Council and Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 30
MR. KAMAUNU: Kanaloa Kamaunu from Waihee. So, I'm reflectingon Bill154, i believe,
the culturaloverlay. Itwas something that,you know, I represent Malama Kakanilua,
as well as linealrecognized descendant from Waihee. Malama Kakanilua, for years,
with others,you know, not saying thatwe're the only ones, with others have, you know,
held signs,have gone through allof these meetings, whether itbe State or County,
you know, to advocate forthe protectionof our,not only our iwi,but the lepo itself.
People forgetthat the rest of the person is in the lepo. When allthat breaks down,
those things turn to, back intothe earth and mixes up with the lepo. We only think
about the iwi,but the iwiisnot what makes up a human being. It’sone, the spiritthat's
inthatbeing,as wellas the fleshand the blood that'sinthatbeing. So, when allthose,
when they hala,allthose things go intothe lepo.
And likeeven the English saying isashes to ashes, dust to dust. And you returnunto
that. Well, then, we're not only talkingabout justthe iwibeing sacred, but the lepo.
That's,that'sthe restof our kupuna. Those are our ancestors. So, forus to say that
the place issacred, isbecause we know thatwhen winds blow, itmoves the lepo. It
moves the dirt. Itdoesn't stay there. So, that place is sacred, because the ano,
essence of the person isthere.
Malama Kakanilua has fought for thiswith the positionof the County archaeologist.
We, Ireallywanted more oversighton actuallya Committee thatoversee archaeology
itself,because they become partof thisproblem. What we have rightnow iswhat we
have. And thatoverlay becomes important,because itstartto bringout the history.
Imagine thatthe pu'uone anywhere on the . . .description,anywhere from 100 to 300
feet,where do we see that pu'uone now? Below our feet. We stand on itnow, the top
of the pu'uone because of such desecration, because of such degradation and no
foresightof what that place meant, the mo'olelo.
How am 1supposed to say thatthese battlesof Kakanilua and other battleswere held
inthe pu'uone when the pu'uone isn’tthere. So, we need to,I'lljusttake a few minutes,
second or so. How do we describe that to our mo'opuna? It'sno longer there. So,
thiswould secure thatthisdegradation doesn't continue,and thatwe don'thave to hold
signs, or Idon't have to walk ... my skeleton,or drivearound with iton my car,so
people get the gistof what we're saying. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 31
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lastperson we have signed up to testifyduring this
testimony period isCarol Lee Kamekona.
CHAIR LEE: Carol Lee?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Carol Lee, we see thatyou're connected to the meeting, and
you are unmuted, but we can't hear you. Chair, shall Ido lastcallforthe time being?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, we'lldo lastcall.There isan individualrequestingto testify.
MR. JASEE LAW (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-1221:
I'llstalluntilshe can get to the microphone. Jasee Law from . . . CR 22-122, Don
Guzman vs. County of Maui. Don Guzman, I believewas born here, but Ithink he's
likeFilipinoorigin.Idon'tknow what "Happy Birthday"isover there. "Hau'olimakahiki
hou" you say in Hawaiian. He justhad a birthdaylastweek and he goes to Roman
Catholic Church last I heard.
There's a story in the Baibala about Joseph, his brother sold him out cause he was
jealous of him, cause he was the favoriteson. And he turned out he was working for
thisguy, and he turned out a reallygood worker. But the wife of the man's, the boss
man, the master didn't like,I mean, she liked him too much and she wanted to have
sex with him, and took him in,triedto get him going in the bedroom with her, he didn't
want to do it.
CHAIR LEE: Jasee, what isthisabout?
MR. LAW: CR 22-122.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, what you'retalkingabout has nothingto do with thiscase.
MR. LAW: Itdoes.
CHAIR LEE: Idon'tthinkso. You're talkingabout personal information. This isjustabout a
case.
MR. LAW: This isa male-female thing.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 32
CHAIR LEE: No, we're talkingabout his case.
MR. LAW: Ifyou want me to speed things up, Ican continue or justgo.
CHAIR LEE: Well just,you don'thave to give such personal information.Let'sput itthatway.
MR. LAW: Oh, thatwas the,forthe people thatdon'tread the Bibleand the storyof Joseph,
the woman accused him and itwasn't true,and then he got firedby the man. So, that's
why Iwas tryingto bringup, and akua makes roosterscrow fora reason.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Any questions,Members? Ifnot.thank you very much.
Did Carol Lee come back on?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,we did hear something come through from Carol Lee, so
we'llcallher again. Carol Lee, itisyour time to testify.
MS. CAROL LEE KAMEKONA (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-119 and 22-120):
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
MS. KAMEKONA: Perfect. Okay. Kaia mai. Aloha kakahiaka kakou. Lono ika makahiki.
My name isCarol Lee Kamekona. Iam not a paid lobbyist;however, 1am a member
of Malama Kakanilua, Ho'oponopono O Makena, Aha Moku O Wailuku, and our
common denominator isthe protectionand preservationof our history,traditions,and
culturaland archaeological sites. I believe thisculturaloverlay billis a step forward
towards our collectivemission. Itallows developers to see iftheirprojectsitesmay
have any potentialculturalimpacts, which inturn would save them money and time
from possible interventionsand contested cases.
I kakou the testimonies of Ke'eaumoku, Noelani, and Kaniloa and willnot repeat, but
willadd inthe time Wailuku garage parking site,there have been fiveof our iwikupuna
who have been disinterred.So, in saying this,Iwould liketo see a billpassed which
can coincide with this proposed culturaloverlay billto put a timelineon how old a
previouslydone AIS can be used. Inother words, forexample, a 20-year-oldAIS done
by .. .previous owners shallnot be used, obviously,cause topographically,much can
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 33
Look at how the aina of Kauaula in thebe changed as we know inthe blinkof an eye.
west side has changed due to the currentfire.
With reference to the housing bill,I am trulyin support of owner-occupied workforce
housing being held inperpetuityto help our kanaka familiesto liveintheirhomeland.
Mahalo to thisCouncil for providing,caring,and listeningto our voices. . . . maikai.
Mahalo. Ke Akua pu. Have a beautifullyblessed Maui day.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo. Questions, Members? ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the
next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are a couple of other testifierswho have signed up.
The next person signed up to testifyis Thomas Croly. To be followed by Zhantell
Lindo.
MR. THOMAS CROLY [testifyingon BillNo. 192 (2022)1:
Aloha, Council. Tom Croly,testifyingon my own behalf. Iwant to make comment on
Bill192. This appears to be a new introductionof a billrelatedto realproperty tax
exemptions, specificallyforthe long-term rentalcategory.
I anticipatethatthisbillisgoing to be asked to be brought up at today'smeeting for
discussion,and Ikind ofobjecttothatidea. Ifullyunderstand thatthisistime-sensitive,
that ifyou don't pass a billrelatedto this before the end of the year, next year,
everythingstays the same and you can'tmake the changes. And in general,I'm
supportiveofthe intentofthisbill,and ofwhat iread initrightnow. But thisisnotthe
way to make legislation.And thisCouncil has done thisrepeatedlythisyear,where
the public doesn't have the opportunity to digest these bills,and give them
consideration,and go through the proper Committee work first,and then firstreading
at Council,and get the proper postingand so forth.
So, as much as Iwould liketo see some action taken to ensure thatpropertiesthatare
being granted to the long-term rentalexemption are the rightproperties,Ido thinkthat
the process thatwe go through to get to thatshould be followedcorrectlyand you
shouldn'tjam thisbillthrough,as Ianticipate.Now, maybe I'mwrong. Maybe it'sgoing
to be referred to Committee as itshould be. But that's the whole other problem. Ican't
prepare testimony foryou because 1don'teven know what'sgoing to happen withthis
rightnow.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 34
But ifthe plan isthatthisbillisgoing to be discussed at Council today, and ifyou're
going to ignore my recommendation that itbe referredto Committee, then be sure to
have allof the personnel from Real Property Tax there to clearlytellyou how allthese
changes would be administrated. Because again, I can tellyou from having chaired
the Real Property Tax Appeal Board, thatthe administrationof these billsoftentimes
isquitedifferentthan what the intentof Council was. So, unless you put on the record
what your intentis,you may not findthatitisadministratedinthe same way thatitwas
intended when itwas, you know, brought through,through Council.
So, thank you. Chair. Again, I don't know what's going to happen on 192. Maybe
everything I'm saying isirrelevantbecause you'rejustgoing to referitto Committee,
but that'swhat Iwould liketo see you do. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Questions. Members? Ifnot--
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Croly. Mahalo for your
testimony. Ididn'thear any specificconcerns about the billitself.And Iremember that
you did testifyat the Budget Committee previouslywhen thiswas. when Ipresented
on the amendments that came from the Department. So, to clarify,do you have any
specificconcerns about the amendments thatare proposed inthe billitself?
MR. CROLY: 1read the,you know, the amended bill,cause it'snot an amendments to bills,
right? You're not submittingitthatway, you're submittingthisas a new bill,correct?
And, and the changes that,that 1 read through thismorning, Idon'tknow thatallof
them were discussed at the lastmeeting. Maybe Imissed it.1don'tknow. But Ijust
don'thave enough time to reallythinkitthrough and say,alright,thismeans this.Plus,
Iwould liketo have the Department say thisamendment means we willdo this,and
then, once they say that,then Ican understand how itwould be administratedand how
itwould be put in place. But at this moment, I do understand the intentof the
amendments and Iam supportiveof the intentof the amendments. But again,1don't
know forsure how thatwould play out inthe realworld, ifyou will.
The one thingthatIwas concerned about thatisnot inthisbill,and perhaps couldbe
addressed when we set tax rates, is Iobserved that there isa propertyinMakena who
is getting$130,000 reduction in theirproperty taxes because they said,oh, we're a
long-term rental. Now, maybe it'sa legitimatelong-term rental.Maybe it'sa small
portionof thatproperty. Idon'tknow which. But isitthe Council'sintentto grantone
singletaxpayer a $130,000 tax reduction? I don't know. That seems to me a bit
absurd.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 35
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay,
were frozen.
Ithink you may have lostservice. Oh, you
MR. CROLY: Oh. No, no, !stopped speaking. Yeah, yeah. Sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay. You looked frozen. Okay. Sorry. Yeah,
so those proposed amendments to the Code were addressed in the Committee
meeting. Mahalo, Mr. Croly. Mahalo, Chair.
MR. CROLY: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Any more questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very
much, Mr. Croly.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Zhantell Lindo. To be
followed by ErinWade.
MS. ZHANTELL LINDO (testifying on County Communication No. 22-282 and Committee
Report No. 22-120):
Aloha and good morning. Council and Council Chair. Thank you forthisopportunity.
Iwould just liketo testifyreallyfast on County Communications 22-282. I mean, it's
basicallyjustthe Department of Housing and Human Concerns notifyingyou ofa grant
award forthe Section 8 Program. Iwanted to justthank the ladiesand the gentlemen
inthe Section 8 Program. 1work intimatelywith them, and Ithinksometimes they are
unsung heroes.
And Ijustwanted to give one big prop to that divisionof the Housing. I'veseen them
inaction. Iwatched them work tirelesslyto get our people intohousing, and sometimes
those worker bees no get the attentionthat they need. So, Ijustwanted to publicly
acknowledge allof those wonderful men and women, and theirsupervisorsfor the
greatwork they do thatwarrants us the continued support ofSection8 fundingthrough
HUD.
The second thing Iwanted to testifyon isCR 22-120. I'mso gratefulas Iwatched this
come through,thatMolokai had the foresightto includeitinour Community Plan long
time ago, thatthe culturaloverlay was definitelyour way, as a community, of securing
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 36
the thingsthatwere importantto us. And I'veheard a lotand support everythingthat
everybody said priorto me. But Iwanted to highlighttwo additionalthings.
One, there isa portionof property by the Lady of Sorrow Church inour Mana'e area
of our islandwhere the road isfallingin. And there has been constant talkhow we
going fixit.And one ofthe thingsthatisscary isthatIfound thatwhen SHPD, because
they'reState run organization,when a Council,sorry,when a legislatorevokes or asks
the Governor to put on a stateofemergency, SHPD becomes exempt from the process
of mitigatingthatemergency protocol.And so, allthe potentialintendedculturaland
archaeologicalprotectionmethods thatwe put inand we have faithinthatDepartment
to provide forour people and our aina,are now exempt from the process of planning
for mitigation.
So, when I look at culturaloverlays that are put in our Community Plan and also a
resolution like this, itmakes me feel more secure that there's an added layer of
protection. And I reallylove the wording that it'sto preserve culturalresource and
promote carefulplanning. And Ithinkthat'swhat's reallyimportant.
The second thingisin linewith that. I'vebeen screaming and yellingto the top of my
lungs forthe longesttime thatwe liveon islands.And as much as we need affordable
housing and we want to,we not going ever buildour selfout ofthe problem. But the
one component that has been missing is our carefuland prioritizedattentionto our
natural resources. And under our culturaloverlay,what happens iswe're forced as
planners and decision-makers and a community to take intoaccount our indigenous
kanaka wisdom from the people who had a place once upon a time that had no
disease, no predators, no poisonous plants,you know, allthe things that were
introduced.Why? Because therewas a way oftheirwisdom thatfoundthisimportance
of planning the things they were doing as they malama the aina and took careful
considerationthatthe resources were not being depleted whilewe were tryingto build
up according to our own need and our own wants. And so, Ijustwant tothank you for
that opportunity. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions forthe testifier?Ifnot,thank you very
much.
May we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisErinWade.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 37
MS. ERIN WADE. REDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PLANNER (testifying on Committee
Report No. 22-120):
Good morning, Councilmembers. Thank you for allowing me the opportunity. Ijust
wanted to quickly clarifysome testimony that was made that iwi kupuna were
disinterredat the parking structuresite,which isnot correct.As you know, you folks
were, you folksprovided additionalfunding so thatthose iwikupuna could be preserved
in place. And thatiswhat has happened. So, Ijustwanted to make sure thatthatwas
known and clarified on the record.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Ms. Wade.
MS. WADE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testifyduring
thistestimony period,so we'lldo a lastcall.Ifthere isanyone else who wants totestify
at thistime,please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, any objections--
DR. SIX: Can 1,can Iprovide,could Iprovide a littleclarificationalso?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ms. Six has already testifiedon Committee Report 22-120.
CHAIR LEE: You'llbe coming back lateras a resource person.
DR. SIX: Okay. Ijust,Iwas looking at some of the stuffin the chats and Ijustwanted to
make a clarification,but Ican come back. It'snot a problem.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, any objectionsto takinga ten minute break?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
1. Randy Wagner;
Planning DirectorMichele McLean;
Clairerose Noelani Bonilla;
Lynn Britton,Maalaea VillageAssociation;
2.
3.
4.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 38
Kyle Caires;
MitchellA. imanaka, American Resort Development Association;
Alan Lloyd;
Jeff Marsh;
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros; and
Larry Stevens.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
CHAIR LEE; Yes, Ms. Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ithought we can'ttake a ten minute break afterthe testimony
ispau.
CHAIR LEE: We're coming back and takingmore testimony.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Isthere more testimony?
CHAIR LEE: There always ismore testimony.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, ten minute break. Sorry,my bad.
CHAIR LEE: Any, Mr. Raatz, isthere a problem with us taking? Because we willresume
testimony afterthe ten minute break. I mean, in other words, testimonyisongoing
throughout the whole meeting.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ: Thank you, Chair. You can
take a recess whenever you want. But Ithinkmaybe the pointCouncilmember Paltin
was making thatyou can'tclose a portionof testimony untilyou startedto deliberate
on the relevantsection of the meeting agenda.
CHAIR LEE: However, the testimony isstillopen throughout.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair?
CHAIR LEE: No matter what. So, we can take a ten minute break then? Isthatwhat you're
saying?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; That's correct. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, ten minutes would be 10:49. Okay. Recess.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 39
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:39 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:58 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KING,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of November 18 please reconvene. Itisapproximately
10:58.
Please continue, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on the settingof the Consent
Calendar. Chair, rightnow, there are currentlyno individualssigned up to testifyon
the settingof the Consent Calendar, so we'lldo a lastcall. Ifthere isanybody who
wants to testifyon this,please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,lastcall.Chair,no one
has indicatedthatthey'dliketo testifyon the--
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto proceeding with the restof the agenda?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, shallwe close testimony on the settingof the Consent
Calendar?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ifthere are no objections.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Good. Very good.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, Chair, at this time, the body may set the Consent
Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, wouldn'tyou be doing thatpart?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,justforthe body's information,the Members can set the
Consent Calendar at thistime. But Members can also pullitems offfrom the Consent
Calendar ifthey so choose before settingit.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 40
CHAIR LEE: Alright,Members, you have, why don'tyou callup the items, so thatthey know
ifthey want to pullup--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: --pullout any items.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the-
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, we're settingit.We're not,the
next thing we would do istake action on it,and that'swhen the Clerk would callup
each of the items. So, we would set itfirstand then we would then take action.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.Members, at thistime,we willset the Consent Calendar. Asa
reminder, the calendar can stillbe adjusted even afteritisset. Are there any requested
changes to the Consent Calendar at thistime? Okay. No objections,the calendar is
set.
Members, before proceeding, I'mnotifyingyou thatIwillbe enforcingCouncil Rule 9.F,
no Member may speak more than twice on any pending motion. Members may speak
forone minute during both opportunities.Alright.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on items in the Consent
Calendar. At thistime, no one has signed up to testifyon any items inthe Consent
Calendar. We'll do a last call. Ifanyone does want to testifyon any of these
communications, please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,lastcall.
Chair, no one else has indicatedthatthey'dwish to testifyon any of these items.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to closing publictestimony and accepting
writtentestimony foritems inthe Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No objections.
Okay. Chair. Imean, not, Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 41
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-281 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated November 7, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Executive
Officeon Aging, forthe NutritionService IncentiveProgram, inthe amount of$33,712.
NO. 22-282 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated October 31, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing
& Urban Development forthe Section 8 Housing Program, inthe amount of $153,592.
NO. 22-283 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated October 28, 2022)
Transmittinga copy ofthe letterof intentfrom the State of Hawaii, Executive Officeon
Aging, forthe Kupuna Care Program inthe amount of $1,142,917.
NO. 22-284 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE,
(dated October 28, 2022)
Transmittingtwo reportson the settlementof claims as of September 30, 2022.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-284 be referredto the Budget. Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 42
NO. 22-285 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE,
{dated October 28, 2022)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loansfrom the General Funds and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the General Obligation Bonds Series Fund as of
September 30, 2022.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-285 be referredto the Budget, Finance,
and Economic Development Committee.
NO. 22-286 - SHAYNE R. AGAWA. DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
(dated November 2, 2022)
Transmittingthe Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater use
Reports forthe month ending October 2022.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR,
EXCEPT CCS 22-284 AND 22-285 FOR REFERRAL TO BFED.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, letme justwritethatdown. Okay, it'sbeen moved and seconded to file
allthe items,as read by the Clerk,except forCC 22-284 and CC 22-285.
Any discussion on thismotion? Ifnot, allthose favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye". Okay, now Ihave to count.
Mr. Clerk, Isee everybody except Member Sugimura?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. We do not see Member Sugimura.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 43
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, eight"ayes",one "excused"; motion carries.
Oops. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, Chair,justconfirming that CC 22-284 and CC 22-285 will
be referred to the BFED Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Then, Chair, proceeding with committee reports. You
have before you from you AffordableHousing Committee. Oh, apologies,we have to
do testimony. Proceeding with testimony on committee reports.Chair,the firstperson
signed up to testifyon committee reportsisan anonymous testifieratthe South Maui
DistrictOffice.To be followed by Lahela Aiwohi.
CHAIR LEE: South Maui DistrictOffice.Oh, Irecognize the Mr. Anonymous.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
ANONYMOUS TESTIFIER (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-120):
Aloha, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
ANONYMOUS TESTIFIER: Aloha, Chair Lee and County Councilmembers. Iam testifying
as an individual.Hauoli . . .today. Under the item CR 22-120, which isBill154, the
culturaloverlay.And Iconcur with allthe testimoniesthathave been given insupport
of passing thisbillon firstreading,and Ihope we do that. Ireallythinkthisisa win-
win situation. I can't see any downside to it. It'sa win-win for our Kihei-Makena
Community Plan because ithelps to implement the goals,and objectivesand policies
inthatplan under culturalresources,which would be page 23 and 24,which would be
to,pullthatup very quickly,"Identify,preserve,protectand restoresignificanthistorical
and culturalsites";and "Implement a historicalculturaldistrictoverlay ordinance to
provide protectionfor areas of significantarchaeological,and historicand cultural
resources."
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 44
While overdue, and this action would help implement passing this billwould help
implement these actions,Ithinkit'sa win-win foreverybody, kanaka, non-kanaka, who
have been involvedwith the historicpreservation review process to make itmore pono,
by informing itwith thisdatabase. Ithink itwould be a win-win situationfor planners,
for developers, and theirconsultants. Because I think itwould reallystreamline the
permittingprocess and cut down on costs. Essentially,legalcosts when itcomes to
having to intervene, or get involved in contested case hearings, or settlement
discussions and go to court. Isee that happen a lot,especiallyin my area, because
folksfeelthatthe culturalarchaeological assessments are not adequate. So, they have
to resortto,to litigationinorder to make sure thatthings are done ina pono way.
So, allthe cultural,allthe, the only thing database does ishelp people to look at the
land in a differentway. So, ifItoldyou I had a Ph.D. in rocket science from MIT, you
would look at me differently,right? Ifyou knew a piece of land had a high density of
historicproperties,you would look at that land differently,even though itwas barren
looking and itlooked likea wasteland, likenothing was there. But any case, Idon't
have a Ph.D. inrocketscience from MIT, but you did look at me maybe differentlyfor
a few seconds. And so, that'sthe whole pointof having thisdatabase, to look at things
with differenteyes. Mahalo for the opportunityto testifyanonymously today. And
aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Do we have any questions forthe testifier,the anonymous testifier?
Ifnot,thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the lastperson we have signed up to testifyon committee
reportsisLahela Aiwohi inthe chambers.
MS. LAHELA AlWOHI. HAWAII HOTEL ALLIANCE (testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-120):
Aloha, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers.Aloha, Chair Lee.
Mahalo foryour time and the opportunityto testifytoday. My name isLahela Aiwohi,
and Iam a paid lobbyist,and I'mtestifyingon behalfof the Hawaii HotelAlliance.This
morning. I'mtestifyingon CR 22-120, or Bill154, the culturaloverlay.
Firstoff.I'dliketo say thank you, thank you forthe hard work that you guys put into
this bill.I do understand that it'sprobably been about the lasttwo years that the
Committee has been working on it.And Ido appreciate the intent.1thinkthat'sthe
firstthing that I'dliketo express is that the intentof a culturaloverlay,as stated by
previous testifiers,iswell needed. I do also believe that there'ssome revisionsthat
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 45
could be made to make this a littlebit,or a littlebetterand to avoid any upcoming, or
any legalchallenge that may come up due to how the overlay iswrittenas is.
Ihear the supportersof the bill,or those who testifiedpriorto me that,you know, due
to the lackofdue diligence,Iguess, or maybe lackof staffingby SHPD, thatthisiskind
of what is pushing thisforward, so that we can have the appropriate needs done to
provide a proper culturaloverlay.
Unfortunately,thiswasn't on my radar untilviewing the latestversion of the bill.I
believe when discussions started regarding this bill,itreallyfitthe definitionof an
overlay. But where itistoday, Iunderstand ithas been changed quitedrastically,where
now there may be some legalissues thatthe County may by challenged with.
On behalf of HHA, we have some proposed revisions,as Imentioned earlier,that we’d
appreciate considerationof implementing these proposals. Ibelieve the revisionswill
assistinavoiding unintended consequences. Some ofthe questions that Ido have is,
one, ifwe look at how the review and process are on allthe discretionaryand the
ministerialpermits,having justone person review it,would thatreally,would thatspeed
up the process, or would that actuallyincrease the delay or the length of time being
taken as isnow? There's no timeframe rightnow, or the second thing isthere's no
timeframe or deadline on the review ofthe,ofthe permits. So, we are,you know, we'd
liketo discuss that. Ithinkthat'simportant,puttinga deadline on it,instead of leaving
itopen-ended. And then, we believe that having the CRC participatewillprovide a
venue forsome kind of public,a publicvenue to participate.So, ifthere isa opportunity
to talkto any ofthe Coundlmembers, we'd reallyappreciatethat. So, mahalo foryour
time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? No questions. Thank you.
MS. AIWOHI: I believe Councilmember Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Ididn'tsee his hand. Okay, kind of blends inwith the clouds.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Ms. Aiwohi, for your testimony
this morning. Just curious, isthe group that you represent contemplating any legal
challenges still?
MS. AIWOHI: Not at this time. Ibelieve that we, I mean, hopefullywe're able to discuss,or
have some discussion to avoid any of that.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 46
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other questions?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Aloha, Ms. Aiwohi. So, again,just
to clarify,so the concerns from the organization is about just having more people
involved inthe review process, ratherthan justone person, right?
MS. AIWOHI: Basically.Ithinkwhat we see isthatthere isputtingmore layerof governance
on this,which to us, we see itas delaying the process. So, Ibelieve thatwe do need
the culturaloverlay. IthinkI'dbe remiss,likeIsaid earlier.You know, ifIsay we didn't
need it,Ibelieve we do. Ithinkwe need to tightenup on the language that iscurrently
writtenand probably provide some kind of venue to have some input.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: So, additionaleyes, instead ofjustone. Okay. Alright.Okay
thank you forthatclarification.Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MS. AIWOHI: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisJunya Nakoa.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-119 and 22-120):
Hey, how's it? Igoing talkabout 120. Oh wait,you guys can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. NAKOA: Okay, shoots. Yeah. Yeah, the overlay. You know, you heard allthe kanakas
when talkand allthe stuff.They the, they, they the, you know, the guys that really
know about this. So, I support em allthe way. You know what, us Hawaiians, we
always get challenges,you know, legalchallengesthatwe gottadeal with,you know?
Like with developers kickingus Hawaiians offour own lands,likethat. You know, so
whatever challenges come from anybody, yeah, we going take em on, you know.
That's how. So, Isupport the, 1support the 120 forthe overlay. We get plentysmart
kanakas. We can go battlethose buggahs. Okay, pau with that one.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 47
We go do the 119. That'sthe one with da kine eh, the deed. You know, a lotof us,
likeme, the house Istay inrightnow, brah, I'vebeen here 45 years inthishouse. You
know what Imean? So, get plentykanakas out there isthatthe longerwe stayinour
house, the betterwe can give um to our kidsand allofthat,and allthatkinestuff,yeah.
So, ifyou going get this affordablehousing stuffand, you know, for the owner
occupancy, you know, and allthatkine stuff,it'sonly going betterus kanakas. You
know, get plentyof us,we no likego nowhere, who lovethisplace.
You know, get stupidguys out there likekickus offour properties,eh. Us kanakas, we
not going no place. So, that'swhy Isupport thisbuggah. And yeah, so, you know,
owner occupancy, yessah. And also,the deed. Brah, likeIsaidbefore,make um 50
years. Ino care. Longer the better.Ialmost reach 50 on my house so,yessah. Okay,
Ipau.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions,Members? No questions. Thank you, Junya.
MR. NAKOA: Okay. You guys have a good day.
CHAIR LEE; Next testifier.
You, too.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyon committee reports
is Faith Chase.
MS. FAITH CHASE (testifyingon Committee Report Nos. 22-119 and 22-120):
Aloha Chair. Aloha, Council. Really quickly,1 am just testifyingin support of CR
22-119. And also,justwanted toextend my supportfor22-120. That'sall.Thankyou.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Chase. Any questions,Members? Ifnot,nexttestifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are currentlyno otherindividualssigned up totestify
on committee reports.So, we'lldo a lastcallat thistime. Ifthereisanybody elsewho
would liketo testifyon a committee reportand has notdone so yet,pleaseidentify
yourselfnow. Irepeat,lastcall.Chair,no one has identifiedthemselftotestify.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objectionsto closingpublictestimony,and accepting
writtentestimonyforcommittee reports?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 48
CHAIR LEE; No objections.So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-119 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE;NO.
Recommending that Bill103. CD1 (2022),entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING SECTIONS 2.96.030(E) AND 2.96.060(B), MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING DEED RESTRICTIONS
AND RESALE," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-119.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Johnson, second by Member Molina, to approve the
recommendations inCommittee Report 22-119.
Discussion. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair. Your Committee met on August 18,
October 18, and November 3, 2022, and discussed Bill103. Bill103's purpose isto
amend residentialworkforce housing deed restrictionprovisionsto requireunitsto be
sold to owner-occupants in perpetuity and to increase the deed restrictionsfor
affordability.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 49
Under Maui County Code, the deed restrictionperiods are ten,eight,and fiveyears for
ownership unitsinthe below-moderate, moderate, and above-moderate income group
categories,respectively.
Your Committee discussed the need for residential workforce housing units to remain
affordableforas long as possible,and determined that a 20-year deed restrictionfor
allcategories of workforce housing ownership unitswould help to maintain housing,
house affordabilityand increase housing availability.
Bill103 would also requireresidentialworkforce housing unitsto be owner-occupied in
perpetuity.That means thateven afterthe deed restrictionaffordabilityhas ended and
the unitisoffered to purchase at market-rate,itstillmust be owner-occupied.
As provided in Maui County Code, homeowners may appeal to the Department of
Housing and Human Concerns should they need a waiver of the owner-occupied
requirement, such as formedical conditions or temporary relocationsforwork.
Bill103 would add financialhardship to those special circumstances. But in those
cases, itwillbe limited to a one-time waiver for up to two years maximum. And in all
cases, any unitthat is not owner-occupied due to waiver must be offered as a long
term rentalin the same or lower income qualifiedcategory at the time the unitwas
purchase. This would include households participatinginthe Housing Choice Voucher
Section 8 Program.
Your Committee expressed support for Bill103 and itspotentialto provide greater
housing affordability,security,and stabilityfor our local workforce and full-time
residents.
Your Committee voted 5-2 to recommend passage of Bill103, CD1 (2022) on first
reading. Irespectfullyrequest the Councilmembers support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. This billwas a long time coming and on
multipleeffortsfrom me.
I WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE AN AMENDMENT TO SECTION
2.96.060(B) TO A, B, AND C, TO SUBSTITUTE 30 YEARS FOR
20 YEARS IN RESPONSE TO THE OVERWHELMING
TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF THAT.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 50
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
I SECOND THE MOTION.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,second by Pro Tern Kama on thatamendment, to the
changing of the years of,forthe deed restriction.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. You know, we are givinggreat subsidy to
get trulyaffordablehousing. And the biggest challenge we have is keeping that
affordablehousing inthe affordablehousing inventoryas places forpeople to live.And
this is only for those houses that have been subsidized. Ifpeople want to make
speculativeinvestment,they can stilldo thatwith alltheirown money. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Ialso want to riseinsupport of thisand
thank Councilmember Paltin for that. We listened to the people and we’re going to act
on it.And Ithinkthat'swhat a good body does. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you. Member Paltin,forbeating me to
the punch, because you know, we did hear testimony thismorning of the,from one
testifieris reallylistenedto. She said,ifIcould, Iwould. And let'ssee ifwe can do
thisfor her and many others likeher, that are waiting in the wings. So, thank you,
Chair. Thank you, Member Johnson, forthe support. Thank you, Member Paltin,for
bringingthe amendment forward.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Alright,let'shave rollcall,please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with a rollcallvote on the amendment.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 51
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
EXCUSED.CHAIR LEE:
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.CHAIR LEE:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
NOES: CHAIR LEE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 52
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are seven "ayes",one "no'
carries.
one "excused"; motion
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Alright.Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the main motion as amended ison the floor.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore amendments? No more amendments. Then, rollcall.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding \A/itha rollcallvote on the main motion as
amended.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
EXCUSED.CHAIR LEE:
PresidingOfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 53
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Council Chair Alice Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
NO.CHAIR LEE:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, AND ViCE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
AYES;
CHAIR LEE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.EXCUSED;
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are seven "ayes",one "no",one "excused":motion
carries.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Before you go on, Ijustwant to ask Member King,what time isitover
there inJapan?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Let'ssee, I have my computer set to your time,so letme take a
look at my phone here. Itis6:24 a.m.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, my goodness.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The sun has justcome up and we can see Mount Fujifrom our
window, our hotel window.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-120 AGRICULTURE AND PUBLIC TRUST COMMITTEE:NO.
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 154. CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
TITLES 2, 16, 18, 19, AND 20. MAU! COUNTY CODE, TO ESTABLISH
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 54
CULTURAL OVERLAY MAP AND CULTURAL SENSITIVITY DESIGNATIONS
be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
2. That County Communication 22-266, from Councilmember Shane M. Sinenci,be
FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-120.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Reports 22-120.
Discussion? Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Members, this isthe end of a very long two-
year process to create the framework for a culturaloverlay map, and permit review
process. We've had six Committee meetings, and over six planning commissions,
CRC, and Hana Advisory Committee meetings on thisvery legislation.For the past
two years,we've worked closelywith Dr.Six,the firstCounty Archaeologistinthe State;
with Planning Director McLean and her staff;and former Public Works Director
Dagdag-Andaya, also with the current DirectorMolina, as well as the Corporation
Counsel Attorneys Stephanie Chen. RichelleThomson, Keola Whittaker,and Michael
Hopper on thisbill.Infact,the billwe are votingon todaywas senttous by the Planning
Department.
And Members, these are the people, and the department heads that will be
administering the bill.Their input and support have been invaluable. The Mayor
supports the mapping project,and has created a staffGIS positionto assistus withthe
mapping. Ialso used Dr. Six to review . . .and other County projectsto make sure
culturalresources are known priorto any decision making. We've had great support
from everyone involvedbecause thisbillbenefitspropertyowners, developers,kanaka
maoli, and allof Maui nui.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 55
Once created,propertyowners willbe able to access the mapping forinformationprior
to purchasing property. Developers willuse the map to design theirprojectsso they
are not stopped midway through and then face costlydelays. The billhelps the Native
Hawaiian community, who time aftertime have seen theirancestors' iwikupuna dug
up and desecrated, theirculturalresources destroyed inthe name ofcareless planning.
This billhelps government officialswho willspend less time dealing with projectsthey
didn't have the information they needed to plan properly. This billprotects our
residents,future generations, and even visitorswho come here because of our rich
culture.We have been directedby our General Plan to preserve what makes us special
and not to erase our past, and thisishow we do it.
You've heard from developers and theirrepresentativesthat benefitfrom the existing
broken review process. They'llprotestand tryto tellus the billdoesn't work. However,
the billworks to highlightproblem areas, itprevents careless desecration of cultural
resources and iwikupuna. We have worked extensivelywith Corporation Counsel.
The process has been thoroughly discussed and vettedfor legality.
I understand that change can be threatening,but in thiscase, it'sonly threatening to
those who want to continue to operate without knowledge, culturalresources, and to
continue to desecrate and erase our culturalpast. Chair, your Committee agreed that
a culturaloverlay map and culturalsensitivitydesignation willfurtherthe principlegoal
of the County policy.Countywide policythat states that Maui County is unique in the
world, and willpreserve,celebrate,and protectforgenerations to come.
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend passage Bill 154
153, CD1 (2022) on firstreading. And I respectfullyask the Members support of my
motion. Thank you.
excuse me
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discussion?
Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Member Sinenci. Although, Ido
not siton the APT Committee, I trustthe members of that Committee always do well
forour community, as well as forour own kanaka maoli. I'm reallyimpressed with this
culturaloverlay, but I'm also listeningto what one testifiersaid thismorning, Ms. Lahela
Aiwohi, about wanting to have conversations with us as Councilmembers. And Idon't
know ifthat ever took place with any of them. I know I did have a conversation with
her. And likeshe mentioned earlierthatshe caught wind of thislateand she looked at
the billand had some revisions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 56
So, Iwant to be able to see how we can, ifChair and Chair Sinenci and Members are
open to hearing those revisions.Because ifwe're going to do something forour people,
let'smake sure that it'sdone properlyand the way itshould be for the betterment of
our entirecommunity. So, Chair, ifthat could happen. I'dbe open to that,and ifthe
Members are, too.
CHAIR LEE; Well, Members, are you open to--
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: --allowingMs. Aiwohi to be a resource person? Yes, Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: May Irespond to Pro Tern Kama?
CHAIR LEE: Sure. Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, for Ms. Aiwohi's testimony. And yes, she's exactly
right,she'sjustcoming inatthe tailend oftwo years ofwork. And she did bringup the
CRC. And Ijustwanted to share, during our deliberationsboth the CRC and the
Planning Department agreed to have our County Archaeologist be the reviewer.
Within our discussions, the CRC does not possess any archaeologicalexpertise,so
they would be able to only opine on justthe map and nothingelse.They oftencomment
on culturalarchitecture,but nothing to do with archaeology. Currently,and lately,the
CRC has been hard to get a quorum to have theirmeetings, too. So, thatisthe reasons
why we didn'tgo through the CRC. We feltthatitwould even make the process longer.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Member Sinenci,forthat response. And thank you
Chair, for allowing me the opportunity to bring thisforward. At the appropriatetime
could we ask Director McLean her comments on this?
CHAIR LEE: Well, now would be the time, because we are discussing thisitem.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Iwanted to support the motion. And Isupport
thisbill,we have been working on itfor a long time. It'sa littlefrustratingforthese
organizations... We've had ...and then want to make lastminute changes. But also
want to share .. .that our not so anonymous testifiertexted me, who has been on the
CRC, Daniel Kanahele, and justreminding everybody thatSHPD has been chronically
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 57
understaffed and underfunded. We've been, weVe had long delays and automatic
approvals because of thatunderstaffing.And Mr. Kanahele, as a former member of
the CRC, welcomes the County Archaeologistand culturaloverlay.
I also wanted to thank ... for bringing up the factthatwe did put the culturaloverlay
into the Moloka'i Community Plan. That was a big item for them, and we actually
brought culturalexpertsover from Moloka'iwhen, to discuss culturaloverlaywhen we
were reviewing the community plan there. So, Ithinkwhat's good forMoloka'iisgood
for Maui, especially. ..thisbigger area here. And we are embroiledinlawsuitsquite
often,so thisisgoing to help developers. This is going to help the groups thatare
concerned that have been stepping in and hopefullysaving a lotof our localpeople
money from having to investinthese lawsuitsin order to protectiwikupuna and the
culturalsites.So, I'm insupport.
And Iwant to thank Councilmember Sinenci forbringingthisup earlyand oftenand for,
you know, having fulldiscussionson the issue ofthe culturaloverlaybeforewe got to
pointof firstreading. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Alright,Isaw other hands. Firstof all.Member Sugimura, then Member Paltin
then Member Molina, that order.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'vebeen listeningin,Members. So, I'mjustconcerned
that we're givingultimatepower to a person in our County which is the County
Archaeologist. And by having itwith the CRC to review,then you have a body, as you
know, they'relikeus, because everythingthey take up isthen,you know, partofthe
community to give input.So, Ibelievethat'smy major concern aboutthis.And thatI
thinkit'stoo narrow. And thatIbelievethatitmay cause a delay ingettingthingsdone,
because we're asking one person to do a job thatmaybe requiresmore. So, that'sone
thing that I'm concerned about at thispoint. And Ithinkmore discussionisneeded.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I did have an opportunityto speak with
Ms. Aiwohi as well,and others priorto thismeeting, and itcaused me to rewatch the
meeting, the Committee meeting lastnight.And inthe watchingofit,Igot refreshedin
my mind that many of these concerns were addressed in Committee. We're not
delegating our authorityto one County Archaeologist.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 58
The County Archaeologist,inreviewingthe meeting video,willmake recommendations
based on data. And we, the decision-makers, or the appointed directorswillthen either
act on those recommendations or we won't act on the recommendations. We did add
thingsthatwould be more transparent,thatthe recommendations, ifnottransmittedas
partof a packet,would also be providedto the Mayor and the Council.
So, it'sunfortunate that Members who are not on the Committee didn'ttake the time to
watch the Committee and then maybe, or even the testifiersthattestifiedagainstit,we
need to be informed when we speak to items,and then it'llbe better.
Beyond that,Ithink,you know, we have a Veterans Cemetery witha ShrineStatus.
We have, you know, the honoree thismorning thatcare takes forthe graves of the
people thatstartedthe church. And nobody disagrees thatthose are wrong things.If
ittook a few more days, or a few more weeks to ensure thatthoseareasare preserved,
so there'snothing differentin people's bones. Allpeople'sbones lookthe same, and
allpeople's bones should be respected. Allpeople's churches should be respected.
Allpeople'sculturalresources should be respected. That'sallwe'reaskingfor.
You know, thisisa billthatwas put forward by our Administration,which Idon'tthink
anyone would say istryingto stop developments. They're tryingto do developments
the rightway and Iso appreciatethat.So, Iwillbe standinginsupportofthisbill.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you very much. Madam Chair. Iwant to thank
Member Sinenci for all of his hard work. As he mentioned, six meetings, two years,
there'sbeen a lotof opportunityforinput.And IappreciateMs. Aiwohi's,you know,
she's doing her job expressingthe concerns of the people she represents.But you
know. Madam Chair, we've had thisdiscussion before on the issue ofdoing Committee
work at Council. I'm not in favor of that. I think we need to move forward at thispoint.
And certainly,a Member, a returningMember, who would liketo champion the
concerns that Ms. Aiwohi had expressed, itcan be done next term to amend this
legislation,assuming itpasses out attoday. So, there'sotherways.
But to me, ifwe consider some amendment here or whatever isbeing proposed, that
means we're doing Committee work. And who knows whatever amendment we
considerand pass, itmay resultinthisbillgettingsentback toCommittee. Idon'twant
to see thatatthispoint,because thisisa verysignificantlegislation,because it'sabout
dignity.Itrespectsour host culturenow and also inthe past.So, Istandinfullsupport
of this,Madam Chair. So, Iwould liketo take action,and I'mready tovote on it,Madam
Chair. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 59
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Anyone else?
Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Member Sinenci. to all
the department heads thatMember Sinenci named, and to allthe community members,
including,you know, Dr. Six,Ms. Ahia, those Ithinkat Malama Kakanilua,and others
particularlyin Maui Hikina,foradvancing and moving thisbillalong.
This billdid come before the Molokai Planning Commission. And as Member King
mentioned and Ms. Lindo explained in her testimony, that thisculturaloverlay is
something thatwas identifiedas a priority,an actionitem inthe 2018 updated Molokai
Community Plan. In2008, there was a Mana‘e GIS mapping projectthatthey wanted
completed, so thatwe would be able to establisha traditionalland use overlay. And
so, it'sin Chapter 6.2, item 19 [sic]in our Community Plan to identifyand protect
Mana'e numerous culturaland naturalresources through the adoption ofthe traditional
land use overlay designation.
Member King was the Chair ofthe Planning Committee atthetime and made surethat
our communities voices and prioritieswere memorialized inour Community Plan. And
thisculturaloverlaybilldoes, Iguess, make happen thistraditionalland use overlay,
and more, really.And not justfor Mana'e, but forallof Molokai. And not justfor
Molokai, but ailof Maui County, which Ithinkisbeautiful.
Member Sinenci attended a lotof those meetings. Like Isaid,Iattended the Molokai
Planning Commission meeting,and 1know thatMember Kama, you know, she'salways
. . .not being included and Iappreciate thatabout her. But Iknow thatMs. Aiwohi is
good at her job. And justas she saw thatthe culturaloverlaybillwas on thisagenda.
I’msure she monitors otheragendas and would have seen itindoing her due diligence.
And so, oftentimes,waiting untilthe lastmoment is a way to obstructthe billsfrom
moving forward. And Member Paltindid say thatshe, you know, discussed thiswith
Ms. Aiwohi.
So, the concerns that are being shared rightnow, you know, have been discussed.
And in Committee, we discussed fullythe amendments thatwere being proposed, the
pros and cons ofeach amendments. And so, due diligencehas been done, and Ifully
support the passage on firstreadingofthisbilltoday. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 60
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Ialso support thisbillon firstreading. I,
I thankyou know, I echo the sentiments of what my Councilmember said.
Councilmember Sinenci and the departments forcoming up with this.
So, Iwant to kind of add a littlepersonal story Ihave of when Iwas young and Iwent,
Iwas maybe in my early20's,Iwent to Okinawa, Japan to visitmy family. And they
asked me, well,what do you want to do? I kind of want to see my grandmother's
father's haka. That's the turtleback tomb. That's the old Okinawan style tomb for
samurai. And Iwanted to,and nobody could remember where itwas, because itwas,
cause our family has leftso long ago, our lineage isgone and cut from thatisland.We
had to go searching. Ittook us a day to finditinthe jungle. And you do what you do
when you go to the haka, you lightthe incense,you crack a can of beer, and you pray
to your ancestors. And to do that,iwas blessed to do that,because thatwas stillin
existence.
And Ithinkof what's happening here, and how we, we develop over these places that
are sacred, where people who are from here can'tdo that.And Iwas blessed to have
done that. So, that'swhy Ithinkthisbillwillallow those folks,who are of thatplace to
say, Ican go to see my lineage,my ancestors. And Ithinkthat'sexactlywhat thisbill
should be helping our folkswho livehere to have that connection. So, I feltthat
connection with my samurai great-grandfather,and Iwould hope thatpeople ofthis,of
this,of these islands could do that themselves. So, that'swhy I'minsupport. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else? Member Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair,formy lastcomment. Thank you very much.
Members, foryour comments. Iso do appreciate ailof you, and your commitment to
serving our community, especiallyour indigenous community. I thank you Member
Molina forreminding us about not doing Committee work on Councildays. Sometimes
thatescapes me but thank you very much. But Members, Iam always insupportof
whatever the body decides to do. Ijustheard something on the floor,and Ithought
that iwanted to hear more of it.And ifthat's not what you allwant, then I'm okay with
that.
But ifit'sokay with you. Chair,to inviteDirectorMcLean forher comments, ifthat's
okay at thistime?
CHAIR LEE: Is she, is Director McLean on the call? In the meantime, Isee Corp. Counsel
RichelleThomson. Richelle. Richelle,can you give your comments?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 61
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Thank you very much,
Chair. And my appreciationto Councilmember Sinenci forthe involvement,you know,
over as he said the lastcouple of years we’ve worked, many of us have worked very
closelyon the bill.And so. we reallyappreciate that involvement and the intentof the
bill.
We have, justfollowingup on the very lastversion of the bill,we have a couple ofwhat
we consider to be more clarifyingrecommendations. So, I'lljustgo over them briefly,
ifyou don't mind?
One of them isa follow-up on Dr. Six'stestimony earlier.There are two places inthe
current billthat discuss site avoidance as one of the types ofmitigation.And we wanted
to clarifythat our interpretationof that term "siteavoidance," would be that it's
consistent,isreferringto the specifichistoricsite,or burialsiteconsistentwith HRS 6E,
and not citeany more broad sense, as in the entireTMK, or entireparcel,or entire
projectarea, thatwe're referringto a specificimportant site.So, that'sone of them in
terms of where that,thattype of mitigationismentioned, it'sin 19.46.050(B) and (D).
Secondly, we actuallyrecommend removing the term "siteavoidance," because itisa
specifictype of mitigationand othertypes of mitigationaren'tmentioned inthe bill.So,
we don't think itneeds to be called out and said because it'salready a type ofmitigation
that could be recommended by the,eitherthe principalarchaeologistor any of those
reviewing agencies.
The thirdthing,this is page 5 of your bill,19.46.050(D), likedog. We recommend
removing thatsubsection because it'sduplicative.It'sa littlebitconfusinglywrittenand
it'sduplicativeofthe,basicallybroad authorityinthe section rightabove it,(C),forthe
principalarchaeologistto transmiteitherthe reportor informationto basicallyanyone
that she at thistime, you know, feels is an important agency to be aware of and to
request informationand comment from. So, we don'tthinkthat(D) needs to be inthere
also,because it'sconfusinglywritten.
And then, last,and thank you foryour patience with me, last,isthatthere are several
sectionswhere the principalarchaeologistmay recommend permit or other conditions.
And we're recommending that a time limitbe included, and that'sconsistent with
HRS 91-13.5,which requiresagencies to put reasonable time limits.So, Idon'tknow
if30 days issufficient?45? It's,we're justrecommending thata time limitbe included
inthose sections.And Ido have a redlineifanyone wants to see that.Icould email it
or share screen. Those are our recommendations. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Mr. Sinenci,are you going to respond tothe Corp. Counsel's
comments, or?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 62
COUNCILMEMBERSiNENCI: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Or did you want to hear from DirectorMcLean?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, justfor,torespond to Ms. Thomson,
we didn'twant to,we wanted to keep the sitelocationshe had mentioned on thatfirst
one. That was partof the outreach thatwe did withthe community members, and they
wanted to see that section of the billto remain.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.DirectorMcLean.
PLANNING DIRECTOR MICHELE MCLEAN: Good morning, Chair and Committee
Members. Ididn'thear the testimony earlier,but what Igatherwas there'sa desirefor
these reviews to be conducted by the CulturalResources Commission, ratherthan the
County Archaeologist. That idea,gosh, forthose of you who are inthe Committee
meetings, thisbillhas gone through a number of differentversions.And the version
that was transmitted back to the Council, back to the Committee, was one that we
supported, thatthe CRC reviewed.
The CRC did not want to be more involved in thisprocess. They did not want the
makeup of theirCommission, or the way thatthey functionchanged, which was also
proposed in an earlierversion. For the Planning Department, again we talked
yesterday, and I thinkthe day before,too, about green lightingthe permitreview
process, having the CRC do reviews ratherthan the principalarchaeologistwould
certainlyadd time. Their agendas are very fullas itis.They didn'twant to be partof
the review. We don'tfeel it'snecessary. We think it'llbe much simplifiedwiththe
County Archeologistconducting the reviews. And so, we would rathersee the billin
itscurrentform than to see changes thatinvolved reviewby the CRC, beyond what's
alreadyinthe bill.Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'dbe okay with a 90-day review period,same as SHPD.
CHAIR LEE: Members, reaction?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Ican, oops.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin,Member Kama.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 63
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Iconcur with Member Paltinon the 90-day
review.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Did you want to make a motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Could Ms., oh.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Ihad my hand up. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Dr. Six put inthe chat thatit's45 days, not 90.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I'm stillokay with 90. Does she want 45? IsDr. Six-
CHAIR LEE: 45 is better than 90.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Dr. Six,you want 45?
DR. SIX; Ideally,itwould move very quickly,because what I'mdoing istakinga quicklookat
the area, a quick look at our database, and making a reallyquickreview,the same as
SHPD does, whether itgoes to 6E review or ifwe can streamlinethe process and not
send it6E. So, I think I could do itwithin 45, but if90 isfine. I mean, because it'sa
new system, and we're going to figureout allofthe glitches.We can see how fastIdo
it.But Idid three yesterday ina matter of about 20 minutes forMayor'sOffice.
So, it'snot hard forme to take a look at what's proposed and lookwhat's known about
the landscape and create a reallyquick summary and recommendations to whatever
body isasking me. But it'swhatever you folkswhat. But when you said SHPD is90,
SHPD issupposed to be 45, although they do get bogged down. So, the whole idea
is,I can streamline that hopefully and willonly send thingsto 6E review thatneed to
be reviewed by them. And then we can-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you.
DR. SIX: Okay. Thanks.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 64
CHAIR LEE: Do you want to make a motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yes, ifMs. Thomson can directme to the proper section.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson. Ms. Thomson, are you on the call?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Sure. Yes. Do you mind ifIshare screen,just
very briefly?Otherwise, Icould also justread out the sections. But ifyou'd liketo see
them, Ican pop itup on the screen.
CHAIR LEE: Share screen. Yeah.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. So, hopefully,everyone can see.
I'vegot the bottom of page 5 up. Section 2; 2.80B.110. And therethe,the end, thisis
the same language thatwe would recommend throughout. And rightnow, Ijust,Iput
30, you know, calendar days. But Ididn'tcatch what amount ofdays you'relookingat,
whether it's45 or 90? But at any rate, the language would be, "The principal
archaeologistmust provide recommendations no laterthan x amount of calendar days
from"-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 45.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: -45? Okay, "45 from the date of transmittal,
otherwise the principalarchaeologist is deemed to have no recommendation". And
that would be the same language that we'd recommend for,as you can see, the
amendment to 16.04C.160. Same here in Section 4, 16.26B.105. And also, to the
subdivision code 18.08.100, that'sdown at the bottom in E. Let'ssee, Ithink,there we
go, 19.68.040-
CHAIR LEE: Are you gettingallofthisMember Paltin,or you want her to helpyou writeailof
the section numbers down?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Iwould liketo change from the date of receiptto the date of
the County Archaeologistreceivingit,because itcan take considerabletime totransmit
the applicationfrom the Mayor's Office.Would thatbe possible?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Sure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: From the date of the County Archaeologist receivingit.Then
she can have 45 days.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 65
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Forty-fivecalendar days from the date of-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, are you ready foryour amendment, motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE SECTIONS OUTLINED BY
CORPORATION COUNSEL THOMSON TO READ, "THE
PRINCIPAL ARCHAEOLOGIST MUST PROVIDE
RECOMMENDATIONS NO LATER THAN 45 DAYS,
CALENDAR DAYS FROM THE DATE OF RECEIPT;
OTHERWISE THE PRINCIPAL ARCHAEOLOGIST IS DEEMED
TO HAVE NO RECOMMENDATION".
And l-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -would put that inallthe-
CHAIR LEE: Sections.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -sections-
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -that Ms. Thomson shared with us.
CHAIR LEE: The information that Ms. Thomson shared with us. And for discussion, first
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'mpleased thatwe have Dr. Six on as a resource and she can
tellus how quicklythatshe can expedite the process. And so, if45 days isgood with
her, then it'sgood with me. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I can refer to Dr. Six, but normally 90 days would be the
preferential,only because 90 days from the receiptof transmittal.And Chair,other
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 66
departments get more time than just45 days. So, forme, the 90 days was betterfrom
the receiptoftransmittal.Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Itlooks likeDr. Six isokay with 90.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Ican accept thatas a friendlyamendment.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Iwanted to clarifyI’m supportive of
90 days. So, on the amendment ithas calendar days and not business days, idon't
know ifDr. Six would have a preference forcalendar days versus business days.
CHAIR LEE: Dr. Six?
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Not that she works on non-business days. At leastI
hope she doesn't.
DR. SIX: No, Ithink,Ithinkbusiness days. But Idon'tthink,Ican'timagine thatI'mgoing to
take 90 days to do a recommendation. So, Ithinkit'llbe okay to do either,whatever
this body deems appropriate. But, no, I don't work on weekends, unless there's
inadvertent finds,then Iwork.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: And I'drecommend thatyou use calendar days with
something of that long of a duration. It'sjust a loteasierto apply that. You use
business days ifit's,you know, seven business days or less,you know, justwith a
shorterquantityof days. But for90 days, !would use calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Maker of the motion, which one do you want?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'dlike90 days, just you know, cause we are, she isa civil
service worker, and she's entitledto,you know, allthe vacation,and sickleaves,and
things likethat. It'dbe great to have a secondary principalarchaeologist.But Ithink
90 calendar days from the time she receivesitisgood. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody infavor of that? So, the motion isthetime limitwould be the
90 calendar days as stated by the maker of the motion. Are you ready tovote on that
amendment?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 67
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we had, we had your second already. Member Kama. Any more
discussion on this amendment? Ifnot, do we need rollcall? Okay. Allthose infavor
of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aye.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aye.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Isee eight"ayes". Member Sugimura, I'm sorry,I now see your head.
Member Sugimura, did you vote? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Ivoted "yes".
CHAIR LEE: She's an "aye". Okay, nine "ayes' zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now, are there any other amendment? Alright,the main motion as amended. Do we
need rollcall? All those in favor of the main motion as amended, raiseyour hand, and
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All"ayes". Nine "ayes’ zero "noes"; motion carries.
Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Members.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We’re not sure how Councilmember Sugimura voted.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, how did you vote?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, rollcall.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 68
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with a rollcallvote on the main motion as
amended.
Counciimember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Counciimember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Counciimember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING; AYE.
Counciimember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
Counciimember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Counciimember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 69
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are eight"ayes",one "no";motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Next. Chop, chop.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-121NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 150 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING TITLE 3, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF A PARKING REVENUE FUND," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-121.
CHAIR LEE: Second, somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin,to
approve the recommendations inCommittee Report 22-121.
And discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 70
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and Economic
Development Committee met on November 2, to discuss Bill150 (2022),which would
amend Title3, Maui County Code, to establish a Parking Revenue Fund for the
County's parking operations, including maintenance, repair, security, safety,
improvement, equipment, beautification,expansion, staff compensation, parking
facilitybond payments, and other relatedcosts.
Your Committee notes that the parking program is intended to be financiallyself-
sustaining,and any surplus funds may be used for maintaining or improving County
parks; expanding and enhancing public transportation,pedestrian, and bike
infrastructureor programs; improving safety, wayfinding, or maintenance of
neighborhood business districts;and protectingthe, and acknowledging sensitive
cultural and environmental sites.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of Bill150 (2022) on firstreading.
Irespectfullyask forthe Members continued support. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose in favor of the motion raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-122 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCYNO.
COMMITTEE;
Recommending thatResolution 22-236 .entitled"AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
DONALD S. GUZMAN V. COUNTY OF MAUI. ET AL.. CIVIL NO. 21-00202 DKW-RT",
be FILED.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Molina.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 71
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-122.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve
Committee Report 22-122.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on November 1,2022, todiscussResolution
22-236.
Resolution 22-236's purpose is to authorize the Department of the Corporation
Counsel to settlethe claim filedon April23, 2021.
The claim alleges the Plaintiffsrightsto privacy and due process under the
U.S. Constitution were violated in accordance with 42 U.S.C. § 1983. The claimfurther
allegesthatthe Plaintiffwas discriminatedagainstbased on a disabilityinaccordance
with Hawaii Revised Statutes.
The Corporation Counsel noted she was ordered by the courtto convey a settlement
proposal to the Council, which she shared directlywith Councilmembers via
confidential transmittal.
And your Committee held an executive session meeting to discuss confidential
information related to the claim. Your committee voted 8-0 to recommend filingof
Resolution 22-236. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthe motion,raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 72
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura? Aye? Okay, nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-123 	 - GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCYNO.
COMMITTEE:
Recommending thatResolution 22-117 .entitled"AMENDING RESOLUTION 18-210
AND AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITION OF APPROXIMATELY 33.373 ACRES OF
COUNTY REAL PROPERTY LOCATED IN LAUNIUPOKO, MAUI. HAWAII, TO THE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, STATE OF HAWAII, FOR THE
HONOAPIILANI HIGHWAY REALIGNMENT, PHASE IB-2," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-123.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve
Committee Report 22-123.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on September 13,2022, and November 1,
2022, to discuss Resolution 22-117.
Bill[sic]117's purpose isto amend Resolution18-210 and approvethedispositionof
33.373 acres of County realpropertydescribed in and shown on Exhibits"A-1"and
"A-2",conditionedupon the County'sreceiptof payment by the StateofHawaiiinthe
amount of $1,251,798 for the additionalacreage used for the Lahaina Bypass, in
accordance with Section 3.44.020 of the Maui County Code.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 73
A representativefrom the Department of Finance noted Resolution 18-210 attached
an incorrectmap of the property as Exhibit"1" and provided detailedmaps of the
property, in additionto the corrected maps attached to Resolution 22-117 as
Exhibits "A-l" and 'A-2".
Your Committee supported amending Resolution 18-210 and approvingthe disposition
of the property,but expressed concerns about homeless encampments inthe area.
Your Committee agreed to address the concerns under a separate discussionwhen
the Department of Parks and Recreation and Department of Housing and Human
Concerns could be consulted.
Your Committee eventuallyvoted 9-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-117.
Mahalo, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthe--
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Ijustreallyhope thatthe money, the County takes
thismoney and cleans up the area. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Allthose infavorofthe motion,raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Members, we're at K. Resolutions. Do you want to take up K and M, orwould you like
to have lunch?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; We'd like to take a break.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Lunch.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 74
CHAIR LEE: Lunch? Alright,it's12:09. Members, how about one hour? Isone hour enough
so we can--
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair, 1:30.
CHAIR LEE: 1:30? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 1:30. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,Members, we'lltake a lunch break at,rightnow, until1:30.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:09 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:36 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER
SUGIMURA AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of November 18, 2022, please reconvene. Itis
1:36 p.m. And we have with us about seven people isit,Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. There are currentlysix Members, oh, okay we're
back to seven Members.
CHAIR LEE: Noweight. Eight? Seven?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I don't see-
CHAIR LEE: Alright,we have Member Sugimura offlineand who else?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Vice-Chair isn'tpresent.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, the Vice-Chair, okay. That's right. That's right.She's coming. She's
coming. Alright,let'sproceed with resolutions.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with testimony on resolutions.First
person we have signed up totestifyisMike Moran. To be followedby Michele McLean.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MR. MIKE MORAN (testifying on Resolution No. 22-258):
Mike Moran, for the KiheiGood afternoon. Chair Lee and Councilmembers.
Community Association. You may note thatwe changed our background today to a
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 75
Wiliwilitree because we're talkingabout trees. Not necessarily Wiliwilis,but alltrees.
And this is on the Resolution 258. We did notice in the agenda thatthe word "tree"is
not mentioned in the item. Of course, it'smentioned in the details,but we found that
out from some community members when we toldthem about the issue. And they
said, we can'tfind anything about a tree in the agenda, so we had to give them the
number.
A couple of thingsthatwe look at,we're hoping thatyou can do what itsays inthe,on
the agenda to pass itrighton to the, itsays to the planning committees, and also the
South Maui and the Haiku community groups. Now, we're not sure,we have seen this
happen before, and our understanding was that the Council cannot directlysend
something to the regionalcommittee meetings, committees. And can only send itto
the planning commission, and then the planning commission makes thatdecision.And
we have seen that the last two items that was South Maui issues, that was sent to the
planning commission, they declined to send them to us even though they were housing
projectsinour district.So, kind of disappointing,but thatseems to be the way thatthe
ruleisset up thatit'stheirdecision. So, whatever itis,itis.
But we're tryingto get thisexpedited. And by happenstance, the CPAC, thispast
Wednesday, at our meeting, much of this,of thatpartof updatingour community plan
was addressing thisissue.And we had our County Arboristthere,and we had several
community members who addressed it.And inthe draftthatthe Long-Range Planning
produced based on community input,there'sscads of issues on trees,more treesand
the issue of canopies. So, you can see there'sa big concern inour community, inthe
South Maui community about this,about what ishappening. And people who livehere,
it'svery obvious, you can go intomost any parking lotand that'swhat you see, what
Ernie Rezents, the man who knows more about trees than anybody on Maui said. But
we're hoping-
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead, finishup, Mike.
MR. MORAN: We're hoping you can ... on without going back to a Committee, which would
delay it further,because there's a great community concern,
opportunity.
Mahalo for the
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions forMike? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MR. MORAN: A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: May we have the next testifier?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 76
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lastperson signed up to testifyon resolutions is
Michele McLean.
CHAIR LEE: Director?
MS. MICHELE MCLEAN. PLANNING DIRECTOR (testifying on Resolution No. 22-258):
Aloha. Chair and Members. I submitted some testimony by email. I was actually
hoping thatyou would filethisitem,but at a minimum, please referitto Committee. As
my email testimony said, we've been there, done that. We've been through
amendments to Chapters 12.24 and 19.36B. The existinglanguage today was a
collaborativeeffortwith the Parks Department and the Public Works Department, and
came on the heels of the adoption of the Maui County PlantingPlan.
Itdoesn't mean I'm,you know, certainlyopen to discussing it.But interms of referring
a billtothe planning commissions, the planningcommissions don'tneed to review such
a long and detailed billthat amends Chapter 12.24. That's not under theirauthority.
So, thatcould be separated out. And then,justa billrelatingtothe parking Code could
go to them.
When itcomes to the amendments, 2.19.36B, the Parking Code and the canopy
coverage requirement, we went through that in detailwhen the Planting Plan was
adopted. We do not have the expertise to manage that kind of administrationand
enforcement. We do enforce against trees that are lopped off,or improperly pruned.
We're able to make that kind of assessment. But we're talkingabout a whole different
levelof,a whole differentroleforthe County. And again, itdoesn't mean I'mopposed
to that. It'sjustnot something the Planning Department isequipped to handle. So,
that concept needs much more discussion.
So, again, I had asked that the billbe filed. But at a minimum, please referitto
Committee. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thanks for being here, Michele. Appreciate
your input. What department would, ifyou are saying that thisdoesn't belong inthe
Planning Department, isitPublicWorks? ... Ifwe, ifyou want itsent to PublicWorks,
isPublicWorks going to tellus to send itback to you?
PLANNING DIRECTOR: Well, the, so when we're talkingabout Chapter 12.24, again, this
was a very long process working with Park and Public Works determining who's
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 77
responsible for which trees. And the Parks Department is responsible for trees in
County parks; PublicWorks isresponsiblefortrees,forstreettrees;and Planning is
responsible fortrees in parking lots.
When it comes to the health and maintenance of those trees, Parks contracts out
because they have so many treestotake care of. PublicWorks alsocontractsout,but
they now have the County arborist.You remember the County arboristused to be with
the Parks Department, isnow with PublicWorks. The arboristisn'tresponsibleforthe
maintenance but does go out to check on the health of trees,to advise the Public
Works Department on whether they need a contractorto trimor remove.
When itcomes to parking lot trees, we're talking about privateproperty. The
maintenance of those trees isthe responsibilityof those propertyowners. So, when it
comes to assessing whether or not those trees are being properly maintained, there
reallyisn'tany, isn'tany department's responsibility.Ifthat is something that the
County, thatyou want the County to take on, Isuppose we could get a contractforan
arboristto,to monitor the health of parking lottrees. But rightnow, that'snot something
we're equipped to do and certainlysomething--
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I think the-
PLANNING DIRECTOR: --that needs a lot more discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think that's . . . when I was hearing and, you know, came from
the community, but we were hearing about the lack of the proper. ..trees in places
likeWar Memorial. So, itwasn't private,not just privateparking lotsthat we were
talkingabout. . .public.County parking lots.
PLANNING DIRECTOR: Ibelieve that that parking lotisso old thatitwas developed before
the requirements were inplace. So, that'swhy thatparking lotdoesn't have trees per
the Code today. Ifthat parking lotwere builttoday, itwould have one treeforevery
fiveparking spaces.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. But Ithinkthatwas the pointof thiswas to,you know,
figureout how we get the parking lotsto comply. So, ifit,so you're,basically,... it
doesn't need to go to the Planning Commission, so we could possiblyreferthe billto
the Committee?
PLANNING DIRECTOR: I'm saying that Idon't,the billto amend Chapter 12.24 was rather
extensive and rather detailed. I don't think that that needs to go to the Planning
Commission. So, it'snot withintheirauthority.It'snot requiredby the Charter. But if
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 78
we took a billto them, they'dwant to review the whole thing and comment on it.But
that'snot what they should spend theirtime doing. The title-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But what about the 19, 19.36?
PLANNING DIRECTOR: The 19.36 component would have to. So, that'swhy Iwas saying
maybe separate them out ratherthan give the Planning Commission thisbig task that's
not withintheirauthority.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Separate out 19.36 .. .
PLANNING DIRECTOR: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ... move on to the Planning Commission. Okay. And then,we'd
send the bill,12.24 to the Committee, iswhat you'resaying?
PLANNING DIRECTOR: The 12.24 billmay be, may be work on 12.24 billfirst,and see what
the result in that is. And ifthe result of that is something thatrequiresa change to the
Parking Code, then thatcan come from, from the conclusion of thateffort.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay, so Ithinkwhat you're asking to do isto justrefer
the,the proposed billto the CARE Committee and then tryto figureitout from there
how to separate itout? Because thisdoesn't,because half,more than halfof this
doesn'teven go to the Planning Commission.
PLANNING DIRECTOR: That's correct.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Got it.Alright,thank you. Appreciateit.Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. DirectorMcLean. Justtoclarify,
thisiskind of likethat other one we took up on Wednesday with the EV parking,and
the Chapter 10 similaridea? And then, I-
PLANNING DIRECTOR: Similar in that it'scombining two things and only one of them is
under the Commission’s authority.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And then my otherquestion iswhen you referredtoWar
Memorial, itwas recentlyresurfaced,and IthinkIrecallthe Parks Department coming
to us foran exemption thatwe wrongly passed. Cause intheirpresentation,they said
they were going to do allthe trees around the perimeter, and Iguess us as decision-
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 79
makers should not have approved thatprobably. Cause I'vesat inthatWar Memorial
parking lot,and itisvery hot. So, we as a body can't,should not exempt even the
County probably. Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments on the Resolution22-258? Okay.
Mr. Clerk, do we have more testifiers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, there's currentlyno one else signed up to testifyon
resolutions,so we'lldo lastcallat thistime. Ifthere isanybody else who would liketo
testifyon eitherof these items, please identifyyourselfnow. I repeat,thisislastcall
fortestimony on resolutions.
and acceptingCHAIR LEE: Members, are there no objectionsto closingpublictestimony
writtentestimony forresolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.Okay, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
Chair, proceeding with resolutions.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-257
APPROVING PROPOSALS FOR INCLUSION IN
THE 2023 HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION OF
COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Chair.
IMOVE TO PASS THIS BILL [SIC].
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 80
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Sinenci,to pass the resolution.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, sorry,my bad.
CHAIR LEE: Resolution 22, actually,not to pass.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Imeant to adopt resolution.
CHAIR LEE: To adopt Resolution 22-257. So, passed, I mean, moved by you. Member
Paltin,seconded by Member Sinenci.
And now, discussion. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Members, Resolution 22-257 liststhe five
proposals for inclusionin the 2023 HSAC LegislativePackage as approved by the
HSAC Executive Committee at itsmeeting of October 25, 2022.
At thistime, Iwould liketo proceed with a proposed amendment thatwillbe distributed
by the Officeofthe County Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Was itdistributed?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ibelieve itwas emailed, but.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Oh, it'sgoing to be distributednow. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SO, I'D LIKE TO MOVE TO AMEND RESOLUTION 22-257 AS
FOLLOWS:
STRIKE THE THIRD WHEREAS CLAUSE;
ALSO, IN THE FOURTH WHEREAS CLAUSE, REPLACE "ONE
PROPOSAL WAS" WITH "THREE PROPOSALS WERE";
AND ALSO, ADD "A BILL FOR AN ACT RELATING TO THE
REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS";
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 81
'A BILL FOR AN ACT RELATING TO TRAFFICAS WELL AS
FINES":
FIFTH WHEREAS CLAUSE, REPLACE "2022'AND IN THE
WITH "2023".
And that'sit.IfIcan get a second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second by Member Sinenci.
Okay. The discussion,Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. The proposed amendments accurately
identifythe Ha\A/aiiCounty Council as the originatorof variousproposed State billsfor
the 2023 Hawaii State Association of Counties LegislativePackage, and correctthe
reference to the year.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,any questions or more comments on this proposal? Proposed
amendment?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.Just wanted ...Member Paltin,if...thiswas
the tobacco was run by the HSAC?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Idon’t remember that being in the HSAC Package when ...
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I believe the tobacco was from the previous term thatwe were
carrying itforward.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. So ... from the previous term. Okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 82
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions?
raiseyour hand and say "aye".
Ifnot, allthose in favor of the amendment
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Isee one, two, three, four,five,six,seven, eight. Isee eight,no, seven "ayes".
Seven "ayes", two "excused". Excused are Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and
Member Sugimura.
Now, the main motion as amended.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Resolution 22-257 liststwo proposals from
Maui County and three proposals from Hawaii County as follows:State Billrelatingto
the Employee' Retirement System, which would provide an incentiveto recruitand
retain more police officers. State Billto expand exclusions of the definitionof
"development" in Chapter 205A, Hawaii Revised Statutes,to reduce the need for
specialmanagement area permits forcertainactivities.House Resolution requesting
the State Department of Health to adopt rulesfora permitto discharge pollutantsthat
consider the major factorsthat are considered in identifyingthe functionalequivalent
of a directdischarge for point sources or non-point sources. State Billto reauthorize
the counties to enact restrictionsof sales of tobacco products, including electronic
smoking devices by insertinga sunset date intoAct 206, Session Laws of Hawaii 2018.
And State Billto clarifythatthe counties may by ordinance designate county highways
where the stopping,standing,or parking of vehiclesare restrictedor prohibited.
Each of the four counties is now required to review and approve the finalpackage of
proposals as approved by the HSAC Executive Committee before they are sent to the
State Legislature. The HSAC Executive Committee is requesting the approved
resolutionbe sent to them before theirnext meeting on November 22, 2022. So, itis
important we act on thisresolutiontoday. 1 respectfullyask forthe Councilmembers
support of my motion as amended.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion? Before we take the vote on the main motion
as amended, we need to vote on Rule 19.C. Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 83
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL, SO THAT WE MAY TAKE ACTION ON THIS ITEM
TODAY, BECAUSE IT’S TIME SENSITIVE?
CHAIR LEE: No, because thisissecond and finalreading.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
BECAUSE IT'S FINAL READING AND IT'S TIME-SENSITIVE?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Did you have a second on that? No. No, thisisfor-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, Iseconded.
CHAIR LEE: -the Rule waiver. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I seconded it.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. Okay. Idid,Idid-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Kama. And anymore
discussion on this? This ison the Rule waiver, yeah, 19.C. Ifnot,allthose infavor,
raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 84
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All"ayes",zero "noes",two "excused": motion carries.Excused are
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Member Sugimura.
So, that takes care. Oh now, we have the main motion as amended. Okay. Anymore
discussion on the main motion as amended? Ifnot, allthose infavor,raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes", zero "noes", two "excused"; motion carries. This one, the
excused are Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Member Sugimura.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, you have before you for referralto the Council Chair for
the 2023-2025 term. Resolution 22-258.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-258
REFERRING TO THE LANA‘1, MAUI. AND
MOLOKAI PLANNING COMMISSIONS AND
ADVISORY COMMITTEES TO THE MAUI
PLANNING COMMISSION A PROPOSED BILL
AMENDING CHAPTERS 12.24 AND 19.36, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE
LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN
CHAIR LEE: Isthis,isthisyou. Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, itis.Chair. Just, yeah, given the inputfrom the Planning
Director,I'dliketo get thisreferredto the CARE Committee for our November 30
meeting. And Iwanted to ask Mr. Raatz, ifhe'shere, ifit'spossibleifwe, ifit'spossible
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 85
to make the referraljust for 19.36 and separate out the proposed amendments to
Chapter 12.24?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair Lee and Councilmember
King. The resolutioncould be amended, but ifit'snot going to actuallybe adopted
today in amended form, the amendment probably wouldn't be in order, it'dprobably
be more efficient to consider amendments like that in Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so-
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: .. . Council action today.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, we could make those amendments in Committee as far as
passing out a proposed billfor Chapters 12.24 and then fonwarding the 19.36B onto
the Planning Commission.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair Lee and Councilmember
King. Well, actually,what's on today's agenda, what would be referredisa resolution
thatattaches a billas an exhibit.Ifthere'sgoing to be proposed actionon a billwithout
a resolutionreferringthe billto the planning commissions, that separate piece of
legislationwould probably have to be introduced.You'd have to have a billon Chapter
12.24A, as a stand-alone new proposal.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, we, ifwe referthe whole thing,we couldn'tdo thatin
Committee?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we make those changes in Committee iswhat I'masking?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. I don't think so, actually.
Because you would need a billreferredto Committee. Right now, we have a resolution
that'son today's agenda, and that'swhat would be referred. So, itwould probably
requirea separate introductionof a billat Council.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 86
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, we could, ifwe referthisone, we could,we could
amend the resolution to address the 19.36B Section?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair. Yes, that'scorrect.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But the 12.24 would need a separate bill?Okay. So, Ithinkthe
best,Ithinkthe easiestthingto do would be, Imean, we can'tmake a referralto a bill
rightnow iswhat you'retellingme. So, we justreferthiswe can get the 19.36B Section
...addressing ... isthatwhat I'mhearing.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair Lee and Councilmember
King. Yes, that'scorrectunder the Officeof Council Servicesviewpoint.It'spossible
other actions could be taken inCommittee, such as, perhaps, keeping justone unified
bill,but making itexplicitthat you wouldn’t be asking the planning commissions to
comment on the restof,restof itthat'soutside of the comprehensive zoning ordinance.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, Isee. So, Ithink.Chair,IthinkIwas going to tryto pass
thisout,but inlightofthe inputfrom OCS and Planning Department, Ido requestthis
be referred to the CARE Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered. Refer thismatterto the CARE Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with testimony on bills.Chair,thereare currently
no individualssigned up to testifyon bills,so we'lldo lastcallatthistime. Ifthereis
anybody who would liketotestifyon any item inagenda sectionM. Bills,pleaseidentify
yourselfnow. Irepeat,lastcall.Chair,no one has identifiedthemselves as wishingto
testify.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closing public testimony and acceptingwritten
testimony forbills?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 87
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; No objections.So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with bills.
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 191 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.34, MAUI COUNTY
CODE. RELATING TO GRANTS FOR HOME RESTORATION
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 191 (2022) be referredto the AffordableHousing
Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Any objectionsto referringthis.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
(Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez returnedto the meeting at2:02 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: 1see that,forthe record, the Vice-Chair has joinedthe call.And now, we can
proceed with the restof the bills.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 192 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48, RELATING TO REAL
PROPERTY TAX CLASSIFICATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, do you want to take thisone by one or all
together?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 88
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Iv^illtake up 192. And then, after192, I’lltake up
193 through 195 together.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk. You already read 192? Okay, so I'm callingon you, Vice-
Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez on Bill 192.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 192 (2022)
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
IN
CHAIR LEE; Second? Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin
to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bill192.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Members, this billistime-sensitive,
as realproperty tax assessed values are calculatedon January.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,anymore discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorof the motion, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Eight"ayes",one "excused": motion carries.Excused is-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair? Apologies. We're missing Councilmember Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 89
CHAIR LEE: Oh, alright.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: "Aye". Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Aye. Okay, eight"ayes",one "excused"; Member Sugimura. Motion carries.
Now, again. Bill192. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVE TO PASS BILL 192 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin,to pass
Bill192 on firstreading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the purpose of thisbillis
to amend Sections 3.48.305 and 3.48.466 to promote equity in our realproperty tax
legislation.
As discussed during the Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee
meeting of November 2, 2022, these proposed amendments would address some of
the issues encountered by the Department of Finance over the lastyear, including
owners rentingto themselves and long-term rentalleases that lastforone year and
one day in order to qualifyfortwo years of the exemption.
As your Committee also discussed during the next budget session,the Council may
want to address additional concerns ... the real property tax rates. But these
amendments are a startto addressing equity concerns relatedto Maui County's real
property tax legislation.And I respectfullyask for the Members support. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 90
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Ms. Martinwas with us when we discussed
the general idea of these amendments inCommittee. And she did explain,you know,
some folksthat have TVRs were saying thatthey shouldn'tbe paying the STR rate,
but they'rethe same and, you know, these other loopholes that people are using to
gain the system. So, I'm in support of the billbecause that wasn't the intentof the
originallegislation.And so, they brought to our attentionproblems that they were
having,and thisisjustfixingiton theirterms. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
one "excused"; Member Sugimura. Motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes'
Mr. Clerk, the next three.
(Councilmember King was excused from the meeting at 2:08 p.m.)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 193 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, PARKS AND RECREATION, BOND FUND
WAR MEMORIAL GYM BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 91
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 194 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
WAR MEMORIAL GYM BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 195 f2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71, CD1. FD2 (2022),RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
OF COMMITTEE
194, AND 195 IN
RULES OF THE
1 MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 193,
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, towaive
the Rules of the Council regarding Bills193, 94, and 95, 195.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Discussion.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 92
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the bid opening for this
projectwas held on November 2, 2022, with a sole bid of $28,342,932 receivedfrom
Blazy Construction,Inc. The Department has $14,999,972 from FY 2022, and
$10,000,000 from FY 2023 availableforthe project,which isinsufficientbased on the
bid. The contractorhas agreed to hold the bid pricefor60 days from the bid opening
date, so action on these billsistime sensitive. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Allthose in favor of the motion,raiseyour hand, say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes",one "excused";Member Sugimura. Motion carries.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair? Apologies, Chair,IbelieveCouncilmember King has left
the meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Seven "ayes",two "excused". Two excused would be Members King and
Sugimura. Motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 193, 194, AND 195 ON FIRST
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 93
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Tasha Kama
to pass Bills193, 194, and 195 on firstreading.
Discussion. Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez. Ithinkyou already explained it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Members, the purpose of these bills
isto amend FiscalYear 2023 Budget Bill,Appendix C, and Bond Billto appropriate an
additional$3,350,000 in bond funding for the Department of Parks and Recreation,
War Memorial Gym BuildingImprovements.
As previouslystated,the amendment isnecessary because the current appropriated
funds are insufficientbased on the bid received. The projectincludes repairto building
structuralelements and exteriorfinish;coating of roof surfaces; upgrade of building
electricaland visualfirealarm systems; accessibilityimprovements at restrooms and
locker rooms; installationof airconditioningin the gym; replacement of gym wood
flooring,bleachers,and other ancillaryimprovements; readiness forfutureadditionof
photovoltaic system; and structuraland facilityupgrades as needed to meet the
Enhanced Hurricane Protection Area requirements for a Category 3 hurricane shelter.
Representatives from the Administration are availableto answers any questions the
Members have. I respectfullyask for the Members support of this motion. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, how many do you see? Eight? No seven. Seven "ayes",two "excused":
motion carries.The two excused are Members Sugimura and King.
Next.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 94
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 196 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE
COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
WITH THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY (US ARMY)
REGARDING A DESIGN AGREEMENT FOR THE
lAO STREAM, MAUI, HAWAII - FLOOD RISK MANAGEMENT
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 196 IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second, somebody. Second.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sinenci,to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bill196.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, funding for this project
was included in the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget. And approval of thisbillas soon as
possible willallow the U.S. Department of the Army Corps of Engineers to move
forward with the design process. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 95
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes",two "excused"; motion carries.Excused are Members King and
Sugimura.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 196 ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sinenci,to pass Bill196 on firstreading.
Discussion. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the purpose of thisbillis
to authorizethe Mayor to enterintoan intergovernmentalagreement withDepartment
of Army, Corps of Engineers to complete the design ofa Federalundertakingatthe
Wailuku River Flood Control Project.
As previouslymentioned,fundingforthisprojectwas includedintheFiscalYear2023
Budget, Department of PublicWorks CBS-1070, lao Stream FloodControlProgram.
Design costsare projectedto be 525,000 withthe Department oftheArmy'sprojected
cost estimated at 342,000, and Maui County's costs projectedto be 184,000. Funds
are currentlyrequested forthisproject.
Representativesfrom the Administrationare availableto answer any questions.I
respectfullyask forMembers support.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthemotiontopass Bill196
on firstreading,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 96
CHAIR LEE; Seven "ayes",two "excused"; motion carried.The two excused are Members
King and Sugimura.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 197 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.82.050
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO GREENPRINT
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 197 (2022) be referredto the Council Chair forthe
2023-2025 Council Term.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto thisreferral?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on billsforsecond and final
reading. Chair,there are currentlyno individualssigned up totestifyforany ofthese
items, so we’lldo a lastcallatthistime. Ifthere isanybody who wants totestifyon any
of these items,please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objectionsto closing publictestimonyand acceptingwritten
testimony forbillson second and finalreading?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with billsforsecond and finalreading.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 97
BILLS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 124 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE HAWAII
STATE FIRE CODE, WITH CERTAIN AMENDMENTS THERETO
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. So, Chair, due to a production issue,the
public notice of finalreading of Bill124 was not published in the Maui News.
Section 4-2, Revised Charter ofthe County of Maui 1983, as amended, states"Digests
of allbillswhich pass firstreading and the votes thereon shallbe publishedonce ina
newspaper of general circulationinthe county at leastthreedays beforefinalreading."
As the noticewas not published,Iask that Bill124 be deferred untilthe December 2
2022, Council meeting. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. There was only a productionerrorwith Bill
151, CD1. Allother billsand theirdigests were, the digestsforthe otherbillsforsecond
and finalreading were published correctlyinthe Maui News.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, we can proceed to pass thisone on second and finalreading?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Ifthe body wishes to do so. yes.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,Member Kama, itappears thatwhat you'rereferringto isanotherbill.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, okay. Yes. Okay.
CHAIR LEE; So, do you want to make a motion on Bill124?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
CHAIR. I MOVE THAT WE APPROVE BILL 124 ON SECOND
AND FINAL READING.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 98
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Pro Tern Kama, second by Member Molina, to pass Bill124 on second
and finalreading.
Discussion. Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Well, Iwas not prepared fordiscussion,Chair, because Ithought
that we were going to defer it.But I'm in support and Isee no reason why we could
not pass thissince we allsaid Okie dokie to itat the IT Committee meeting. Thank you,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any othercomments? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthe motion,raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes",two "excused":Members Sugimura and King. Motioncarries.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 126 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF
MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
STATE OF HAWAII, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Imean. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 126 (2022) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 99
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,second by Pro Tern Kama, to pass Bill126 on second
and finalreading.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. Members, as you may
recall.Bill126's purpose isto authorize the Mayor to enter intoa Memorandum of
Agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of Health,provide DOH with access
to data from autopsy and police investigativereports relatedto deaths occurring in
Maui County from suicides,homicides, accidentaldrug overdose, and undetermined
deaths. Irespectfullyask for Members support of thismotion. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorof the motion,please say "aye'
and raiseyour hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
zero "noes": motion carries.Two "excused": Members King andCHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes'
Sugimura.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 133, CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10, VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO COMMERCIAL DOCKLESS VEHICLES
AND PENALTIES
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern Kama.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 100
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 133, CD1 (2022) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern, moved by Pro Tern Kama, seconded by Member Sinenci,to pass
Bill133, CD1 (2022) on second and finalreading.
Discussion, Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Members, as you may recallBill133,CDI’s
purpose istomake itunlawfulto park,leave standingorlying,abandoned,orotherwise
place a commercial dockless vehicleon a sidewalk,street,highway,orpublicproperty;
make itunlawfulto operate a dockless vehicleon a sidewalk;and increasethe penalty
amount forviolationof Title10, Maui County Code.
While dockless vehiclesprovide increased mobilityoptionsover shortdistances,they
pose considerablesafetyand publichealthconcerns,createtrippinghazards,make
sidewalks inaccessible to the disabled, and help to create clutteredand unsafe
environments forpedestrians. Irespectfullyask the Members supportofthismotion.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavorofthe motion raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI. VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 101
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.Two "excused"; Members King and
Sugimura. Congratulations,Member Paltin,as well.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 151, CD1 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO IMPLEMENTATION OF A PARKING AMBASSADOR PROGRAM
TO ENFORCE COUNTY AND STATE PARKING RULES AND LAWS, A PAID
PARKING SYSTEM, AND PERMIT PARKING ZONES
CHAIR LEE: Let'ssee, paid parking. I'msorry,Ilostmy place.
Oh, Member, I mean. Pro Tern Kama, this is the one Ithink you were talkingabout
earlier.The Maui News had a productionerror.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Idon't know, did it? I'm not sure, because Ihave notes thatsay
move to pass or to adopt.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. This bill,Bill 151, CD1 (2022), there was a
productionerrorwith the Maui News and the digestwas not published-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: --in time for the Council to act on thisbilltoday.
CHAIR LEE: So-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SO, MOVE TO DEFER.
CHAIR LEE: So, Member Kama, we can't,we cannot, yeah, we cannot pass thistoday.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 102
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, Chair,justforclarity,the body wants thisitem postponed
to the next Council meeting?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, tabled.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. Thank you. Chair.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 152 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
(PULELEHUA AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ifthere are no objections,may I
request thatthe Clerk also callup Bills171 through 176, Bills178 through 184, and
Bills188 through 190.
CHAIR LEE: Did you get that,Mr. Clerk? Mr. Clerk,callthose up.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 171 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
COUNTYWIDE, GOVERNMENT FACILITIES. BOND FUND,
DPW HIGHWAY DIVISION COUNTYWIDE BASEYARD FACILITIES;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 103
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 172 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, COUNTYWIDE,
DPW HIGHWAY DIVISION COUNTYWIDE BASEYARD FACILITIES PROGRAM
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 173 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71, CD1, FD2 (2022),REU\TING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 174 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,
SOLID WASTE OPERATIONS PROGRAM;
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
COUNTYWIDE, OTHER PROJECTS, BOND FUND, COUNTYWIDE EQUIPMENT;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 175 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
COUNTYWIDE, COUNTYWIDE EQUIPMENT
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 104
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 176 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71, CD1, FD2 (2022),RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 177 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM,
SOUTH MAUI ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL,
AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS
CHAIR LEE; I'm not sure ifthat's included.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Isthisone included? Yes. Oh okay, sorry. Go ahead.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 178 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
COUNTYWIDE, ROAD IMPROVEMENTS, BOND FUND,
COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 105
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 179 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
COUNTYWIDE, COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 180 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71, GDI, FD2 (2022),RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 181 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION,
FEDERAL-AID AND OTHER TRANSPORTATION GRANTS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 182 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.25.030,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO HIGHWAY BEAUTIFICATION FEE
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 106
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 183 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2023
BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX B, REVENUES - FEES, RATES, ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, SPECIAL REVENUE/TRUST AND AGENCY FUND,
HIGHWAY BEAUTIFICATION
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 184 f2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,
HIGHWAY BEAUTIFICATION AND DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED OR DERELICT
VEHICLES REVOLVING FUND
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 188 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE,
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND.
LAHAINA ANTENNA REPLACEMENT;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS {OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 189 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 107
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE,
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA
LAHAINA ANTENNA REPLACEMENT
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 190 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71, GDI, FD2 (2022), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF POLICE)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. When I looked up and saw Member
Sinenci'sface, I realizedyou were right,Chair,that Bill177 was not included. But if
Member Sinenci would like,I can include itand then he can speak to that portionof it
and we can pass itallon one motion. Okay, thumbs up.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 152, BILLS 171 THROUGH 184, AND
BILLS 188 THROUGH 190 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Tern Kama, to pass
the billsas mentioned on second and finalreading.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, discussion.
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bill152 (2022) amends the Fiscal
Year 2023 Budget, Appendix A, Part II,Special Purpose Revenues - Schedule of
Revolving/Special Funds by adding an appropriation under the Affordable Housing
Fund for Maui Oceanview LP for the Pulelehua Affordable Housing Project in the
amount of $18,000,000.
Bills171, 172, and 173 (2022) amends the FiscalYear 2023 Budget Bill,Appendix C,
and the Bond Billto add the project description and appropriate an additional
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 108
$1,207,000 in bond funding for the Department of Public Works, DPW Highway
Division,Countywide Baseyard Facilities.
Bills174, 175, and 176 (2022) amends the FiscalYear 2023 Budget Bill.Appendix C,
and Bond Billto add $785,000 in additional bond funding for the Department of
Finance, Countywide Equipment; and to increase Carryover/Savings from the Solid
Waste Management Fund by $300,000; and appropriate these funds to the
Department of Environmental Management, SolidWaste Operations Program.
Bills178, 179, and 180 (2022) amend the FiscalYear 2023 Budget. Appendix C, and
Bond Billto add $3,919,000 in bond funding for the Department of Public Works
Countywide Federal Aid Program, along with amending the program descriptionto add
the Makawao Avenue Pavement Reconstruction Project,Phase 1.
Bill181 (2022) amends Appendix A, Part 1,to carryover $9,530,000 from the Fiscal
Year 2022 grant under the Department of Public Works for Federal Highway
Administration,Federal-Aid and Other Transportation Grants.
Bills182, 183, and 184 (2022) amend Section 3.25.030, Maui County Code, and
Appendices A, Part I and B of the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget to increase the fee for
U-drive motor vehicles from $1 to $10, effectiveJanuary 1, 2023; expand the use of
the Highway Fund Beautificationfee to includethe abilityto mitigateand address the
impacts of tourism-relatedtrafficcongestion; and amend the titleof the relevantfund
to the "Highway Beautification,Abandoned Vehicle, and Tourism-Related Traffic
Congestion Revolving Fund".
Bills188, 189, and 190 (2022) amend the FiscalYear 2023 Budget Bill,Appendix C,
and Bond Billto add $3,000,000 in additional bond funding and a projectdescription
forthe Department of Police,Lahaina Antenna Replacement.
And Iwillyieldto Member Sinenci forBill177. And Ican see thatMember Molina really
appreciates taking thisallup in,in one motion. And I believe thismight be another
record-breaking motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci. Thank you. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Bill177 amends the FiscalYear 2023 Budget.
Office of the Mayor, Economic Development Program, South Maui Economic
Development, Environmental, and CulturalPrograms, to add an additional$10,000 in
funding for Fourth Friday events; $6,980 for the Hawaii WildlifeFund for fence
replacement at Kealia Pond forsea turtleprotection;$7,000 forthe Ma'alaea History
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 109
Book Extension: and $14,000 for the Teran James Young Foundation for consulting
fees fora South Maui EcoVillage.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more discussion on any of the bills?Ifnot.ailthose infavorofthe
motions, raiseyour hand, say "aye". Allthe budget billsand thisother one.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND SUGIMURA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, seven "ayes". Member Paltin? Seven "ayes",zero "noes"; motion
carries.Two "excused": Members King and Sugimura.
Bill153. Did you do that one?
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 153. GDI (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE REPEALING CHAPTER 16.16B, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, AND ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 16.16C, MAUI COUNTY CODE
RELATING TO THE ENERGY CODE
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 153, CD1 (2022) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second, somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved--
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 110
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by Member Johnson, to pass Bill153 on
second and finalreading.
Mr. Sinenci, discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Bill153's purpose isto adopt the Hawaii
State Energy Code, with modificationsspecificto the County of Maui.
The deadline foradopting the County's Energy Code is December 15, 2022.
These amendments were developed with inputfrom the industryexperts,and we thank
them for their time and for their contributions. And Ialso wanted tothank my colleagues
fortheirwork on thisbilland respectfullyask forthe Members support.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion on any of those bills?Well, not any of them; Bill153. If
not,allthose infavor,raiseyour hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes",zero "noes"; motion carries. Excused are Members King and
Sugimura.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there's no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Music to my ears. So, Members, do you have finalpartingcomments? Anything
likethat? You want us to stay longer and talkabout, talkstory?
Member, Member Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 18, 2022
Page 111
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair,Iam so thankfuland so gratefulforour Budget Chair that
she's able to help navigate,Ithinkisthe word, forus to get through many ofthese bills.
And Iso do appreciate that. And Iappreciate the amount of work that ittakes forthat
to happen. Thankful to Member Sinenci and his bill.Thankful formy Councilmembers
and the work thatwe do. Whether we agree or not,inthe end, we come together and
we work as a Council should. So, thank you. Chair. Thank you, everyone. Have a
great weekend.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Yes. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. I'm thankful to Member Kama
as well,forbringingup the subjectof being thankful.We have Thanksgiving next week,
so everybody have a good, safe Thanksgiving weekend. And tryour best to lose
weight afterThanksgiving Day, which isalways my biggest problem. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Anybody else?
Ifnot, oh, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, thank you. And Happy Thanksgiving to allof you and
to our hardworking staff.And forthose ofyou who are travelingduringthe week, travel
safe. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else? Alright,Happy Thanksgiving, everybody. And take
care,and we'llsee you again soon. This meeting isadjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of November 4, 2022, was adjourned by the Chair at 2:35 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
221118/lks:jm
RECEIVED
2B7?NOV 16 PH |:34Testimony on Peso 22-258
Randy Wagner, AIA
November 18, 2022 orriCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Please send these Ordinance Revisions to the Planning Commission
for approval thisyear.
Chapter 12.24A.Q4Q
Making Maui County Planting Plan Standard Practice
The document has taken decades of research and professionalknowledge.
Itisthe gold standard fortreeselection,plantingand maintenance.
This must be a requiredstandard to allcounty departments, not “advisory
As itstands, itislanguishingand the community isnot benefittingfrom the
expertise contained within it
This is especially pertinent as we make an effortto respond
positively to temperature rise and flooding due to climate change.
Chapter 19.36B.080
Clarifythe intentionof shade treesin parking lots.They must be allowed to
become mature canopy treesin order to provide 50% shade over hardscape to
reduce atmospheric heat gain and to reduce and filterrunoffpollution.
This is especially pertinent as we make an effortto respond
positivelyto temperature rise and flooding due to climate change.
Count^^lerk e●●
Michele McLean <Micheie.McLean@co.maui.hi.us>
Tuesday, November 15,2022 5:58 PM
County Clerk
JackyTakakura;Jordan Molina;JosiahNishita;KarlaPeters;Sandy Qp
Testimonyre:Reso22-258 COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent: ZBZZNOV16 AH & 06To;
Cc:
Subject:
I You don't often get email from michele.mclean@co.maui.hi.us. Learn whv thisisimportant
Aloha Chair Lee and Members of the Council,
Pleaseacceptthistestimonyinoppositionto ResolutionNo. 22-258,which would send to the three planningcommissions
(and the threeadvisorycommittees to the Maui PlanningCommission) a billto amend Chapters 12.24 and 19.36 (sic),
Maui County Code, relatingto landscaping.(Thecorrectreferenceisto Chapter 19.36B,MCC.)
Please filethe resolution and do not refer itto committee.
We've been there,done that.Chapters 12.24and 19.36Bwere modified extensivelyin2018, and the changes are working
well.The changes to Chapter 12.24were a collaborativeeffortby the Department of Parksand Recreation,the
Department of PublicWorks, and the PlanningDepartment, to clarifywhich department isresponsibleforwhich trees,and
how the Maui County PlantingPlan(MCPP) willbe administeredby each. Iam not aware of any concerns relatingto how
thesechanges have been implemented. As faras Iknow, none of these departments has been consultedon the bill.
The billwould have the MCPP adopted by ordinanceand be a mandatory document; thisisnot necessary.The MCPP had
the approval of the Council,the ArboristCommittee and the Mayor afterseveralmeetings,and itisalreadymandatory in
the parkingcode. The billwould alsomake the PlanningDepartment responsibleforenforcingthe MCPP fortreesthat
are not under our authority(inparks and on streets)— thisisnot our responsibilityand isbeing handled alreadyby Parks
and PublicWorks, respectively.
The proposed amendment to the parkingcode would impose a "50 percentcanopy coverage of the hardscape"
requirement,which Planningisnot equipped to administeror enforce.Like1said,we went through thiswhen the MCPP
was adopted and the ideaof canopy coverage was discussed-- and dismissedas a requirement.There isno need to
revisit this.
Ifthere isa desireto pursue thisbill,itshould be separated intotwo billsso thatthe planningcommissions and advisory
committees are not tasked with reviewingthe Chapter 12.24 amendments thatare not under theirauthority.
Lastly,the bill'sauthor willnot serve on the Council next term, so itisnot clearifthere isanother advocate. Please either
file Resolution No. 22-258 or forward itto the next Council to see ifthere isanother supporter who willexplainwhy the
billis needed.
Mahalo foryour consideration,
Michele.
MicheleChouteauMcLean, AICP, PlanningDirector
County ofMaui
One Main Plaza,Suite 315
2200 Main Street
1
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Office: 808/270-7735
Fax: 808/270-7634
01 vofim-e H'i
n0 -'3 ^
JO YTv 4 I
;.i t
<*■..●
2
Count^^lerk
ClaireroseBonilla<claireb16@yahoo.com>
Friday,November 18,2022 8:15 AM
County Clerk
Bill159 -Campervan Legislationon Maui
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don’toftenget email from claireb16@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
As a past residentborn and raised on Maui, 1wish to voice my oppositionto the amended language in
section 19.36B.120 of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negatively
impact our community and small businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on the
islandand appreciatethe economic value they bringto Maui,
iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our local
economy and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forallowingus to continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely,
Clairerose Noelani Bonilla
1
’lr
Ri,-
W1 NOV17 Ml-T08
,rFlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
A S 5 O C 1 A r I O N
November 17, 2022
Council Chair Alice Lee and Members
South Maui Economic Development, Environmental and Cultural Programs {CARE-1(17))
FUNDING INCREASE, G5252 MAALAEA HISTORY BOOK
RE:
Aloha Chair Lee and Council Members:
Ma'alaea VillageAssociation(MVA) appreciatesyour consideration of a budget increase to support the
completion of the book on Ma'alaea historyentitled:Ma'alaea: The Untold Story of Maui's Historic
Crossroads funded by OED South Maui economic development, environmental and culturalprograms.
As ofthisweek's second and finalreadingforthe billwhich includesthisbudget increase,final
preparations are underway to send the book for printingby the end of thismonth. We hope to have
the book available for sale and distribution to Maui County schools by the spring.Upon publication
there willbe book signingsat Maui's historicalmuseums and other venues.
Briefly,the initialproposal of $20,000 (MVA-$5,000 cash,$15,000-OED, and approximately $4,900 in
“inkind")was for a 128 page “picturebook.''The book has increased in sizeto a current 208 pages due
to the expansive 17-page index provided by our professionalindexer,and an extensive bibliographyby
book author Lucienne de Naie based on her research in the Maui News archives at UHMC and personal
interviewsand archivalmaterialsprovided by currentand former Ma'alaea residentsand families.
We're nearing the end of the journey. MVA "cash" donations have more than doubled, “inkind" now
totalsover $17,000 and printingand shippingcostshave increaseddue to increaseinpage sizeand full
colorcosts.The book team has alreadydonated considerabletime to the projectbeyond was budgeted
for a 128-page book.
To finishthe project,we seek an additional$7,000 from South Maui Economic Development,
Environmental and CulturalPrograms to compensate the book team and meet additionalprintand
shipping costs.
Mahalo for your continued support!
Lynn Britton,MVA Immediate Past President
Count^CleH<
KyleCalres<kylecaires@yahoo.com>
Tuesday, November 15,2022 11:27 AM
County Clerk
Warren Watanabe; shylohsj@live.com
Testimony regardingBill160
From:
Sent: im NOV 15 AM W- 30
To:
Cc: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftenget email from kylecaires@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Pleasefindmy testimony enclosed regardingbill160.1 had to flyto Kauai forwork and am heading to an area with poor
cell service.
Mahalo,
Kyle
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone
On Monday, October 31, 2022, 5:50 PM, Kyle Caires<kylecaires@ya hoo.com> wrote:
Maui County Farm Bureau on behalfof our farm and ranch familiesand organizations,supports with
suggested amendments, Bill160 amending Chapter 22.04A, Maui County Code, relatingto the expansion
area of the Kula AgriculturalPark. Please findour testimony regard Bill160 enclosed forconsideration.
Mahalo,
Kyle
Kyle Caires
PO Box 1733
Makawao, HI 96768
Cell: 541-760-6317
1
«©AE{DAH RE ./EDV-/ L..
J-imNOV17AK|(:J|9imeshare with CE OF THE
●OUNTY CLERK
November 18, 2022
Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Femandez, Vice-Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
TO:
AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)FR:
Bill 154 - A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH A CULTURAL
OVERLAY MAP, CULTURAL SENSITIVITY DESIGNATIONS, AND RELATED
REVIEW PROCESSES TO PRESERVE CULTURAL RESOURCES AND PROMOTE
CAREFUL PLANNING
RE:
Hearing date:Friday,November 18,2022 at 9:00AM
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Members of theMaui County Council,
Thank you forallowingARDA-Hawaii to submittestimonyprovidingCOMMENTS on Bill
154 - A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 18, 19 AND 20, MAUI COUNTY
COUNTY TO ESTABLISH CULTURAL OVERLAY DISTRICTS. Bill 154 seeks to create
culturaloverlaymaps to identifyculturalsensitivitydesignationsand relatedreviewprocessesto
preserveculturalresourcesand promote carefulplanning.
ARDA Hawaii isconcerned with the impactsof thismeasure.This measure seekstoestablish
culturaloverlay districtsintended to creategreateroversightforarchaeologicaland historical
review.The measure positsthatfederaland statereviews are insufficientto protectculturally
significantsites,and therefore,the measure isdesignedto provideMaui County with review
authority.Specifically,Bill154 createsa second layerofarchaeologicalreviewsby thePrincipal
Archaeologiston top of thereviewconductedduringthediscretionarySMA approvalphase.
Primarily,ARDA Hawaii is concerned thatthe additionalreview processwill resultin
conditionsbeing imposed on buildingpermitsby the county archaeologist,making an already
lengthyprocessmore cumbersome. Bill154 willmake thealreadylengthywaittimes(7months
to a year)much worse by creatinga confusingprocessthatthecountywon’tbe abletomanage
efficiently.In essence,the measure willresultin delayeddecisionson “ministerial”permit
approvalsatnearlyeverystageofthedevelopmentprocessandmake ministerialpermitapprovals
intodiscretionarypermits.
Additionally,the criteriaforthe culturaloverlaydesignationsareunclearand over-broad.
Specifically,section19.46.030(A)laysout tenenumeratedcriteriawhich createan overreaching
1
scope of areas that may be deemed culturallysensitiverequiring review by the county
archaeologist.For example,Section19.46.030(A)(6)isvague and unclearstating:
“The areahas potentialtorevealfurtherinformationabout theCounty’s pre-orpost
contacthistoryas determined by the principalarchaeologistor the State Historic
PreservationDivision (SHPD).”
This requirementfailstocreatean identifiablecriterionand could be interpretedtoincorporate
vastportionson Maui. The creationof thesecriteriacould ultimatelyleadto significantportions
of Maui Islandbeing unnecessarilydeemed culturallysensitive.In turn,the review of allthe
enumerated permitapplicationswould be delayed by an additionalcounty review.
Moreover, the review process createdby Bill 154 isunnecessarilyduplicativeof the current
(SHPD) review currentlyin place.This billwas establishedto createa county review process to
account forthedelaysand mistakesinreview by SHPD. Essentially,Bill154 createsa new county
lead review akin to what is already required by SHPD. The duplicativereview creates an
unnecessarystepinthedevelopment processand lengthensthe alreadylong review conducted by
SHPD.
Accordingly,ARDA Hawaii recommends includingadditionallanguage throughout various
sections of the billto establish timelines for the PrincipalArchaeologisttomake recommendations.
Specifically,we recommend thata 90-day period be implemented to parallelthe timeframe
afforded to SHPD to determine impacts and evaluatea mitigationplan.This amendment would
reduce delaysin the development processwhile allowingforan adequate amount of time forthe
PrincipalArchaeologistto conduct a review.
ARDA Hawaii isconcerned with the potentialdelayscreatedby themeasure and looks forward
to working together on establishinga process that allows for fullculturalreview without
unnecessary delay.
Thank you foryour considerationof my comments.
Respectfullysubmitted,
\
Mitchell A. Imanaka
ARDA Hawaii Chair
2
Count^^Clerk r-< t—
From:
Sent:
Alan Lloyd <alanlloydlac@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 16,2022 3:36 PM
County Clerk
SUPPORT of Bill103 CD1 (2022).CR 22-119.
Z6??NOV \6 PH J 57
To:
Subject: FtCE OF THE
::OUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom alanlloydlac@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
11/16/22
Maui County Council
Council Chamber,
Kalana 0 Maui Building,
8th Floor,
200 South High Street,
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Aloha Council Members:
1,Alan Lloyd,residentof Wailuku, Maui and organizerforthe Hawai'lWorkers Center,submit thiswrittentestimony in
SUPPORT of Bill103 CDl (2022),CR 22-119. InfactIam infavorof extending Deed restrictionsto 30 years,ifitis
amended, ifnot ISUPPORT the deed restrictions to 20 years.
Alan Lloyd
1010 Eha St.
Wailuku, HI 96793
1
imCounty Clerk
From:
Sent:
JeffMarsh <ampline3369@gmail.com>
Friday,November 4,2022 5:25 PM
County Clerk
Bill 152
im NOV 15 AH © 18
To:
.U'TICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom ampline3369@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iam writingyou to say Ifullysupport Bill152 and hope itgets voted into law. Iam an over 18 year residentof West
Maui and we are in desperate need of affordablehousing forthe working class.Mahalo!
1
Count^CletJ<
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros<mavisoliveira@gmail.com>
Friday,November 18,2022 10:21AM
County Clerk
APT bill154,CD1 (2022)
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Aloha Chair Lee & Councilmembers,
This isMavis Oliveira-Medeiros,of Hana DistrictOffice,CM Sinenci.
Writing to testifyon Bill154, CDl (2022)
To give you an idea of how important thisbillis,rightnow as 1writethis,there isa Buyer from the mainland who
recentlypurchased property in Hamoa, Hana. She hiredanother person from the mainland to prepare the landfor
farming,great right?
By the time we noticed it,he had already removed trees,pushed rocksand covered allthe grubbing & pushing by
using a chipper and chipping allthe trees,covering the dirt.
Problem is,itisvery near or on top of a "threecomplex" siteconsistingof Hale 0 Lono Heiau,KaluanuiHeiau and an
unknown site.
We calledand emailed the powers that be and an inspectionwas ordered. We were toldthatwhile thisreportIs
being done, the work would stop. We haven'tnoticedany "stop work" and it'sbeen difficultto naildown who's
doing what, when, despitemany helpfulmana'o from many organizationslikeSHPD, OHA, County of Maui and
others,it'sstillhard to know what isgoing on.
Iseriouslybelievethat having a CulturalOverlay would eliminateproblems likethis.
Pleasepass thisworthwhile bill."Lono Ika Makahikil!"
Mahalo,
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros
(808)866-7409
1
County Clerk
TT^
From:
Sent:
LarryStevens <lfstevens@earthlink.net>
Saturday,November 5,2022 8:50 AM
County Clerk
22-112 testimony
im NOV 15 AH 10=18To:
Subject: GFRCe OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
1 You don'toften get email from lfstevens@earthlink.net.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha County Council!
For Maui to get offof oil,we need to switch to EVs.Charging those cars willrequireway more power than we generate
now.
Currently,most car charging happens at home, over night,when almost allpower comes from oil.That'sno good.
itturns out that we have a great power resource that we're not using.It'smid-day solar.We generate more than we can
use, so we throw itaway.
Instead we need to get people to charge cars while the sun isbrightinthe middle of the day. I.e.,charge at work. That
way we stop throwing away solarand cars go home fullycharged and don't charge at night.
We reallyneed to get employers to put fastchargers at work.
As a bonus, most people don'tdrivethatfarevery day. More and more carsnow allowyou to power your house from
your car.Ifour cars get home mostly charged, then we can use the car'sbatteryto power our homes through the night.
A typicalEV batteryhas more capacitythan 5 Tesla Powerwalls. Most homes can get through the nighton 1-3
Powerwalls.
This works well for apartment dwellerstoo, because gettingchargersforallapartment spaces would be a huge expense
that would increasenighttime charging.
LarryStevens
0 Virus-free.www.avast.com
1