MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Public Hearing | 2022-05-26
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=2644,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
REGULAR MEETING
and
PUBLIC HEARING
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
May 26, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII, AND THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE PURPOSE OF RECEIVING TESTIMONY
ON THE PROPOSED OPERATING BUDGET AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR JULY 1, 2022 TO JUNE 30, 2023, WERE HELD IN THE COUNCIL
CHAMBER, KALANA O MAUI BUILDING, WAILUKU, HAWAII AND ONLINE VIA
BLUEJEANS, ON THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2022, BEGINNING AT 9:02 A.M., WITH
CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the regular Council meeting and the public hearing of
May 26, 2022, now both come to order.
Mr. Clerk, please proceed with roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call.
Members participating from non-public locations should state who. If anyone, is present
with them as part of roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Saibaidee, Chair and aloha kakahiaka kakou my Maui hikina.
For the record, we're broadcasting from the Hana Cultural Center. And Members, I'm
here with my ^ Dawn Lono and district staff Mavis Medeiros. And looks like we have
no testifiers. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 2
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and . . . Madam Chair, and my fellow colleagues, and
everyone else joining us here in the Council Chambers here in Wailuku. And yes, for
the record, 1 am transmitting from there. And no reports of, regarding testifiers at the
Paia District Office. Looking forward to a very long but fruitful Council meeting today.
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha. 1 didn't catch the greeting for today, so-
CHAIRLEE: Saibaidee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Saibaidee?
CHAIR LEE: Saibaidee, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you so much. And I'm happy to be here in the
Chambers this morning. Chair, although we miss your presence. There are four of us.
It looks like we're, we're spaced far enough apart, six feet. No testifiers at the South
Maui District Office this morning. And looking forward to an important meeting this,
today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair, Councilmembers, community
members. And County Clerk seems really excited today, so I'll have what he's having
for breakfast. Saibaidee to all of you. And I'm alone in my workspace. There's no
testifiers at the Lanai District Office. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 3
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Saibaidee and aloha mai kakou too. I'm broadcasting live and
direct out of the Council Chambers with all these great people over here. And I'm sure
that the West Maui District Office will let us know if there's any testifiers at that location.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Aloha kakahiaka, Chair. And saibaidee to everyone here in the
Chamber and everyone out there in Akaku land.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair, Members, and everyone at
the Chambers and watching on Akaku and online. I'm at the Molokai District Office
alone on my side of the office. And I have my legislative analyst on the other side of
the office, Mahina Poepoe. We have no testifiers here at the Molokai District Office. I
look forward to today's meeting. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Saibaidee my colleagues. And that's a greeting from Laos. Southeast Asia. I
am home alone in my office space, maybe for the last time. I'm planning to transition
back to the Council this weekend, lugging all my paperwork and everything, so that I
can start broadcasting from the Chambers.
Just want to remind you, also, Members, that we are going to take our lunch break at
12:55 until 2 p.m. And it, depending on the volume of testimony, we may take two
breaks before that. So, we'll, we'll just play it by ear and see how things go.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 4
Alright, and I believe Member Sugimura will be joining us shortly. I, we heard that there
was an accident on Haleakala Highway, and she may be tied up in traffic.
So, Mr. Clerk, please proceed.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, KELLY T. KING, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, NATALIE A. KAMA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA.
(Councilmember Sugimura was not present when the roll was called; however, she
arrived at 9:15 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, there are eight Members present, one Member excused.
A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
Chair, also for the record, the notice for today's public hearing was published in the
May 19 and May 23, 2022 editions of the Maui News.
CHAIR LEE: Opening remarks this morning will be provided by Pro Temp Kama.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: And thank you, Pro Temp Kama, for those beautiful and meaningful words.
Please, Members, join me and the public in the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 5
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request that everyone
keep their microphones muted unless it's your time to speak. Decorum shall be
maintained at all times.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on
ceremonial resolutions. The first individual we have signed up to testify is Jay
Penniman. To be followed by Jeff Bagshaw.
CHAIR LEE: Could you call their names again?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: They're in the Chamber, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, they're coming down to the microphone? Okay.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MR. JAY PENNIMAN. MAUI NUI SEABIRD RECOVERY PROJECT (testifying on Resolution
No. 135L
Aloha kakakiaka [sic], Chair Lee, Members of the Council. Glad to be here today
speaking in support of this resolution. I speak for the na manu kai, the seabirds. I'm
Jay Penniman, the manager of the Maui Nui Seabird Recovery Project. And I really
want to recognize all of the Councilmembers for your contributions to the betterment of
endangered species, notjust na manu kai, but all of the other animals and plants, which
your actions have supported through over the years. The management of invasive
species is a critical thing and the amount of support that this Council has provided for
the Maui Invasive Species Committee is completely laudable. It should be recognized.
The invasive species are the bane of our endangered species. And, and all of the work
that we do together for the plants, for the animals, for the aina is essential to keep
everything in balance or try to get it back to balance. Na manu kai bring nutrients from
the sea to the land that nourish the soils. They actually built the soils that all of our
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 6
native plant community evolved in, that the snails can clean the leaves of ohia, that the
coral reefs can protect the community and the aina from being \A/ashed away by the
waves and the wind. And I just want to express my thanks for all of that work that you
do. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions for the testifier? If not, thank
you very much, and may we have the next one?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next testifier is Jeff Bagshaw, also testifying on
Resolution 22-135. To be followed by Sarah Malick-Wahls.
MR. JEFF BAGSHAW. DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES, DIVISION
OF FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE (testifying on Resolution No. 22-135):
Good morning, Maui County Councilmembers. I am representing Division of Forestry
and Wildlife for the State of Hawaii. The 45 people, men and women and volunteers,
who work on over 25 percent of the land and some parts of the ocean of Maui Nui. We
have the awesome distinction of having the most endemic species in the world in such
a small area, because of our isolation and our micro habitats. But we also bear the
burden of being the extinction capital of the world, as you already know as stated in
the resolution.
194 species of plants are only found on Maui, and number less than 50 individuals in
the wild, just to highlight what extinction means. In the time that I've lived on Maui, in
the 35 years I've lived here, two bird species have been declared extinct. That is
unprecedented and it's, you don’t see that elsewhere in the world. Two more may
become extinct in the next five to ten years.
But I'm joining Jay and the other partner agencies in thanking you folks. In my memory,
this is the most proactive Council I have seen on issues from keeping our oceans clear
of toxic chemicals, working on lighting to protect endangered seabirds, and managing
species like the axis deer, which threaten many corners. This kind of leadership, in my
memory, is unprecedented and there's a lot of gloom.
(Councilmember Sugimura arrived to the meeting at 9:15 a.m.)
MR. BAGSHAW: But I have to tell you a personal story, it won't be long. When 1 came in
1988 as a national park ranger. Nene were, it made the Maui front, it made the front
page of the Maui News. If you ever saw them outside of the national park, below
8,000 feet. Just last year, I was with some 20-somethings in Nakula on the leeward
side at Haleakala at about 5,000 feet in a forested area we had restored. And ten Nene
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 7
flew over and landed at 5,000 feet on the backside of Haleakala. Nene were thinking
outside the park. Nene have been taken off the endangered, the Federal endangered
species list. They’re still protected at the State level. But the mascot of my agency
was there, and I was dancing around. And those kids didn't understand why I was so
excited. Because I had never thought I would see the day when Nene . . . So, there
is hope. I just wanted to share that story, that we have a lot of work ahead of us, but
thanks to you folks and the interagency cooperation, and the intergovernmental
cooperation, I think we had some hope. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, may we have the next testifier?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the last individual we have signed up to testify on
ceremonial resolutions is Sarah Malick-Wahls, testifying on Resolution 22-135.
And to inform you, Chair, Councilmember Sugimura has joined us in the Chambers.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning. My apologies, I was stuck in traffic on
Haleakala Highway. And I hope whoever is safe, that caused the backup. But anyway,
good morning, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Good morning. Ms. Wahls, good morning.
MS. SARAH MALICK-WAHLS, MAUI FOREST BIRD RECOVERY PROJECT (testifying on
Resolution No. 22-135):
Good morning. My name is Sarah Malick-Wahls. I’m the ‘Alala research and recovery
coordinator for the Maui Forest Bird Recovery Project in Olinda. Our organization's
mission is to develop and implement techniques that recover Maui's endangered birds,
and to restore their habitats through research, development, and application of
conservation techniques.
We are well-aware of the extinction crisis in the Hawaiian Islands, as the entirety of our
work is focused on developing effective means to recover declining native forest birds
such as Kiwikiu, ‘Alala, ‘Akohekohe, and Tiwi. Raising awareness of the problems
faced by native birds, as well as species from other taxa, including plants and
invertebrates on Maui with a day dedicated to this issue will help to educate the public,
so that more resources may be devoted to this important cause.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 8
It's particularly challenging here on Maui for people to have a personal connection to
our forest birds, because they're difficult for the general population to observe firsthand,
since they are now restricted to only the most inaccessible locations. They are only
found in the high mountains, or in the case of the ‘Alala, only in captive breeding
facilities, due to a number of factors that you all are well-aware of such as habitat loss,
invasive predators, and disease spread by mosquitoes at the low and mid-elevations.
So, this is a problem, because when people have a personal connection to a species,
they're more likely to take actions towards their protection or recovery. So, actions by
the general public, such as advocating policymakers, providing monetary support,
helping to reduce populations of exotic predators and competitors, or restoring habitat
in our own backyard would all make ourjob much easier. So, we support this resolution
to recognize May 20 as Endangered Species Day as one way to help build that
important connection between our endangered species and the citizens of the County.
Mahalo. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Ms. Malick-Wahls. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very
much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testify on
ceremonial resolutions.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Please, so are we going to close taking testimony at this time? Or are
you expecting more?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIRLEE: Yes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh. Yes, Chair, if, if the body has no objections, they can close
the testimony on ceremonial resolutions at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Testimony on ceremonial resolutions are closed at this time.
Mr. Clerk, please proceed with the resolutions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 9
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with ceremonial resolutions.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-134
CONGRATULATING LINDA PUPPOLO FOR RECEIVING THE NATIONAL
2022 WORKFORCE PROFESSIONAL OF THE YEAR AWARD
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair.
ENTITLEDI  MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-134
"CONGRATULATING LINDA PUPPOLA FOR RECEIVING THE
NATIONAL 2022 WORKFORCE PROFESSIONAL OF THE
YEAR AWARD".
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
I SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to adopt the
Resolution 22-134.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. May I please request the
Clerk read the resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 10
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you very much. Thank you, James Krueger, for
reading that resolution. I want to express my deep appreciation to Linda Puppolo. I
know her personally for many, many years and when  Iheard that she was going to do
this position, she was going to take on this position, I thought a very good person, you
know, to take on the challenge. And of course, during the pandemic, you know, when
the going gets tough, the tough gets going, and definitely that is Linda Puppolo.
I would always see her as, and I wonder if he's with her today? Her grandson is always
with her. No? He has to go to school. Anyway, she always, always has him by her
side and I'm sure he's proud of her for her accomplishments and has set a model for
him to follow, too. So, I really appreciate the National Association of Workforce
Development Professionals for this award for her. And Maui County can be proud. I
want to also commend JoAnn Inamasu the Director of the Department, because it
takes that kind of leadership too, to move us forward in these challenging times.
So, in behalf of the Council it's my honor to join Mayor Victorino and her colleagues,
and the colleagues in the Office of Economic Development with JoAnn Inamasu in
congratulating and recognizing this outstanding accomplishment. And Linda, please
continue your dedicated service in our community. And I respectfully ask for the
Members full support of this resolution. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion. Members?
Member Johnson and then Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I also rise in full support of this resolution.
And I'm happy to consider Linda a friend of mine as well. I'm really happy that she's
got, gotten the recognition she deserves. And even our little island of Lanai has
benefited from all of her services. So, I just want to give her a big shout out and
mahalo, Linda. I really appreciate you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. I'd like to share some personal
thoughts regarding Linda. Certainly, a very, very well-deserved award. Many, many
years ago when I was a member of the teaching staff over at Kalama Intermediate,
Linda was our parent liaison. And all of those elements that you heard in the resolution
regarding leadership and bringing people together, so true and applicable to Linda.
And she epitomizes that. So, she did a wonderful job keeping everybody informed at
the school, and very involved with many of the school activities. So, she was a real
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 11
lightning rod and Energizer bunny. So, she is certainly well-deserving and, you know,
blessings to her in her new position. So, I certainly support this resolution. Mahalo
and thank you so much, Linda. Aloha, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion. Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. And congratulations, Linda. Sowell-deserved.
I have known Linda for a long time on this island, starting with her time at Kalama
Intermediate as Mr. Molina just explained. But she's also been, you know, she's
worked on a rose farm, she's worked in the administration at Hui Malama Learning
Center, now she's with the County, and she's also been an officer of a major local
political party. So, she has an extremely diverse background. And this, this award
doesn't surprise me, because like Councilmember Molina said, she is the Energizer
bunny. So, thank you for all your service to the community in all of your iterations of
different, different work situations, Linda, and very well-deserved.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Anyone else. Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I also want to offer my full support. And I've
known Linda for many years. And I agree with my colleagues that while the resolution
is true, it just barely scratches the surface of all the things and people that she has
touched over the years here in Maui County. And, you know, I believe Linda is an
example of, you know, transforming adversity into opportunity. And it would be great
if we, you know, could clone her. So, full support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. I, too, have known Linda for quite some time.
And sometimes I think that our paths mirror each other. But what I want to say about
her are things sometimes that we don't know about other people, that we find special
in them. So, what I found special about Linda is her instinctiveness, and her intuition
to take initiative when she sees initiative needs to be taken.
I remember when I was a young campaigner, when I first started on this trail of politics,
and I didn't understand, you know, what we do when we campaign, we gotta go to the
radio stations and we have to go to Akaku, and we have to go all over the place. And
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 12
those places are intimidating sometimes if you have never been there. But when I
went to Akaku, Linda was there, and she helped to put me at ease. She helped to
facilitate my being in front of a camera. And from that time on, I feel like she has been
mentoring me ever since.
And I am so happy and so proud that she has gotten this award. I wish we could have
done this before anybody else did and acknowledged her great worth. And I'm hoping
that in the future that we'll take a look around us and find others among us who has
such great worth and potential. But I'm happy, because she's moving on to a place, I
think that although the County will suffer great loss, I think where she's going now is
going to bring much brighter things into people's lives. So, I just want to thank my
friend, Linda for all her work, her service to our community here, and wish her all the
best and God's blessing. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Pro Temp Kama. Members, any more comments? I'll just briefly
say that I've had the pleasure of knowing Linda for many years, as we sort of both
come from the nonprofit world. And yes, indeed, she is outstanding and, and is well-
deserving of this award and many more.
Members, at this time, are you ready to vote for the resolution? All those in favor of
adopting this resolution, please raise your hand and say aye.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTiN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. There are nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk, is, is Ms. Puppolo in the audience?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Could you please call her up to the podium? Good morning, Linda.
MS. LINDA PUPPOLO: Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Councilmembers. Good
morning, my OED staff.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Good morning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 13
MS. PUPPOLO: Good morning my partners in crime. I'm very emotional. I'm very honored.
I brought the trophy. I named her Venus. The last couple of months have been,
there've been many pinch-me moments. We worked really hard over the last couple
of years, but nobody does this without help. I have a staff that I can't tell you with me
leaving to go to the Pacific Cancer Foundation, it doesn't matter. The staff is the staff,
and they are awesome, and you have, you know, you have the best people in place.
I want to acknowledge JoAnn Inamasu, thank you for your leadership. I want to
acknowledge Mayor Victorino, thank you so much forgiving me the opportunity to work
in government service, something that I've wanted to do my whole life. I want to thank
my staff Maureen Harvey, Rapid Response Coordinator; Chase Nomura, Program and
Fiscal Specialist for the Maui County Workforce Development Board. I want to thank
my OED folks who are in the audience today. Thank you so much for showing up in
support of me. I so much appreciate you.
I want to thank Joan Tsuji from Workforce Development Division; Sonja Spring; Karen
Arakawa, the manager of the AJC; all the people from Workforce Development
Division, Kevin Kimizuka, all those guys; and Chentelle Rowland, who is our provider
for the Goodwill Program for the Adult and Dislocated Worker Program; and our new
provider Kealoha Daubert, who’s our Youth Program Coordinator. And big thanks to
Karen Hanada and Keku DuPonte from UH, who held the program together for quite a
long time. Nothing happens in awards unless you have that kind of leader, that kind
of work together. Oh, I also want to thank Nicole Fisher, our webmaster. Nobody is
like Nicole Fisher. She's just been a great support behind everything. So, we've been
very fortunate, Juli Patao from UH. We've been very fortunate to have all these people
in our lives with a great relationship with UH and the other State and County agencies.
I couldn't have done it without any of them.
I'm really honored. Thank you so much for acknowledging me. And I have worked
with all of you. I love you all. And onto community service, because that's, if you can
do it, let's do it. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sugimura, you have a lei to present?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so if you could stay there, Linda. And if the
Members would like to congratulate her, I have the certificate and I have some flowers
for her also. Thank you. Stay right there, Linda.
Chair, if you don't mind, I would like to have JoAnn say a few words, as the Director
for the Office of Economic Development, as well as I would love to take a group picture
with Linda Puppola. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 14
DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT JOANN INAMASU: Aloha, Chair. Aloha and
good morning, everyone, all Members. Thank you so very much. We are very proud
on behalf of our team, the Office of Economic Development team, which Linda is part
of. We'd like to thank you for the recognition, and we are very proud of Linda and what
she's accomplished and being part of our office. And we do a lot in our office, and I
think all of you know. And to have a program be so outstanding and be recognized on
the national level is incredible. So, congratulations, Linda, bringing it to the 808 and to
Maui as well. So, mahalo, everyone and mahalo, Council. Mahalo Chair. Thank you
very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Inamasu.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair, can we do a group picture?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, over there, we'll go. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you want to take a short recess?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes, can we do that?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, five, five minutes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: We have the OED staff who helped?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, we can take a-
CHAIR LEE: -recess for five minutes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We can take a recess, but can everybody stay on the screen?
And then we, if we take the picture in front of the screen, then you can all be in it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so 9, let's see, 45.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. But stay on screen if you're not in the Chambers.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 15
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 9:38 A.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 9:45 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting and public hearing of May 26, 2022
please reconvene.
Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-135
RECOGNIZING MAY 20, 2022, AS
ENDANGERED SPECIES DAY IN THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-135.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt Resolution
22-135.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. In honor of our folks who are here and who've
already testified, I'd like to read the resolution myself, entitled "RECOGNIZING
MAY 20, 2022, AS ENDANGERED SPECIES DAY IN THE COUNTY OF MAUI".
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And if I may. Chair, just propose to add Hannah Bernard with the
Hawaii Wildlife Fund.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members, to that?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 16
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. And so, discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. May 20, 2022, is Endangered Species Day
recognized by people around the world. Sadly, it is now generally accepted that we
are in the midst of the sixth mass extinction caused by human activities. Moreover,
Hawaii is known as the endangered species capital of the world, because although the
islands make up only .25 percent of the area of the United States, 25 percent of
endangered species call Hawaii home. Many of the species are endemic, found here
and nowhere else on earth.
In a September 29, 2021 news release, the Center for Biological Diversity reported
nine additional species from Hawaii were lost to extinction. Maxx Phillips, Hawaii
Director and staff attorney for the Center said, "of all the species listed as endangered
or threatened in the United States, nearly a third are Hawaiian".
Sadly, today's Honolulu Star Advertiser article entitled "Endangered species' habitats
not protected, group says", starts off with the following: "The U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service was put on notice Wednesday that it is being sued for failing to designate and
protect critical habitat for 49 endangered species found nowhere else but Hawaii". The
reality is that without habitat protection, and this is a quote from Maxx Phillips, "these
species will continue on a path toward extinction", said Maxx Phillips, Hawaii Director
at the Center for Biological Diversity, the nonprofit organization that filed the 60-day
notice of intent to the, to file suit. Clearly, we have much more work do, including
bringing attention to the problem. Some examples of Hawaiian endangered species
include Nene, Hawaiian goose; Honu, green sea turtle; and I did not practice this ahead
of time, 'Ilio holo I ka uaua, translating to a dog that runs in rough water, which means
the Hawaiian monk seal.
Thankfully, we have many organizations working to protect these vulnerable species
and we recognize just a few of them today. Jay Penniman, of the Maui Nui Seabird
Recovery is here, and also Jeff Bagshaw from DLNR. I'm not sure if there is anyone
here from Maui, from Maui Nui Marine Resource Council. But I ask for the Members
full support of this reso, this important resolution as we move forward in our work to
protect our endangered species.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much for that. Members, any more discussion?
Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 17
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo to Councilmember King for
introducing this important resolution on behalf of endangered species. Especially here
at home where our natural environment is the hallmark of our islands. The American
Bird Conservancy declared Hawaii as the most threatened bird habitat in the United
States. Over 10 species of birds have gone extinct, as mentioned by Member King.
These include the Akepa, Nukupu'u, and Po'ouli birds of Maui, and the manu
Kakawahie of Molokai. Other endangered bird species are the Hawaiian Hawk or 'lo,
whose existence is threatened by declining forest areas, illegal hunting, starvation, and
predation. Also, the Crested Honeycreeper, ‘Akohekohe, whose numbers dropped
drastically, leaving only 3800 birds left in the world.
There are many things we can do as a community to protect our endemic species. But
we can enact and support laws to protect the environment and the public trust. We
can volunteer or donate to a local wildlife refuge. We can use native plants for
landscaping. Recycle and buy sustainable products. And we also can respect native
species in their natural habitat.
Members, it is my sincere hope that more public education be promoted at all ports of
entry, so that a greater appreciation of these endangered species be acknowledged,
as part of Hawaii's heritage. So, again, mahalo for the resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Member King and Member Sinenci
certainly said it all. And I just wanted to add my appreciation to individuals like
Mr. Penniman, Mr. Bagshaw and all of our environmental champions out there. You
know, for example, you, myself, and many others who grew up here, remember Maui
when there were a lot more species here than is currently now. So, it's very
heartbreaking to hear how much species have been lost. So, it's all about education
and awareness to ensure that what we have here today can at least be preserved for
our future generations to experience. Thank you. Member King, for this resolution. I
whole-heartedly support this. Mahalo, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Molina. Anyone else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Kelly King, for bringing this
forward. And I'm sure that this will be unanimously approved, and very valuable. !
think it's at a time when we look around and we realize the, the importance, and how
precious our environment is. And I always say living Upcountry, we live in the, you
know, not only breadbasket, but we have such a beautiful environment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 18
And when I think about growing up, we used to have a pond in our yard, and I
remember one day, my dad said come, come, there's  a‘Auku'u in our yard and he took
a picture of it. And from that day forward, I just thought, there's, there's a bird here that
we never saw, you know, cause we had mongoose. I'm sorry. Mynah bird and, you
know, we had other birds, but not that beauty of that ‘Auku'u.
But that's the environment that we grew up in and I, too, value the words spoken. And
I believe also Jeff Bagshaw, with his communications effort that he does on behalf of
the DLNR is very, very valuable, and I appreciate him speaking today. So, I support
this resolution, and look forward to unanimous support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else. Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I also would like to offer my sincere mahalo
to everyone that is raising awareness about the endangered species. And I just wanted
to say, you know, we, as human beings, are not separate from nature. We're not
separate from all the various species. We're, we're a part of nature. And in the
extinction of these species, it's really the extinction of ourself that we're facing, because
we cannot survive with just a few or a handful of species. Each additional species that
goes extinct is a part of ourselves that's going extinct. And so, you know, I urge folks
to do what they can, and not to fight the extinction of species by cutting ourselves off
from nature, but to participate fully in the reforestation, to participate fully in the cleaning
of the oceans, and, and just to be a part of nature once again as our ancestors from
long ago were. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Paltin. Anyone else?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
YES, I'D JUST LIKE TO ALSO MOVE TO ADD TO THE
RECIPIENT LIST SARAH MALICK-WAHLS, WHO'S WITH THE
FOREST BIRD RECOVERY PROJECT AND WHO TESTIFIED
TODAY.
if there are no objections?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 19
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no objections. So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And I also wanted to let folks know, you know, we do have, we
do have some of our endangered birds that accessible to us. This picture that is in my
virtual background, I actually took this up at Hosmer Grove. And I think when this bird
visited us during our picnic, there were about ten cameras that went off around us.
But, you know, this is, this is really a valuable, an opportunity, i think, for us to recognize
and then to go out into nature ourselves and appreciate what is still here. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Anybody else. Members? If not, all those in favor of the motion to
adopt the resolution, please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you.
Member King, did you wish to have a guest come up to speak?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, Chair. We, we already had Jay Penniman and Jeff Bagshaw
come up and speak earlier. But I'd like to ask them to come to the podium and receive
lei and thank them for their activism as well. Because, you know, while they recognize
that this Council has been proactive and progressive on these issues, we do it with the
support of folks like this, who are, who have the science that we need to back up our
actions. So, these are the real experts. And if you could come down, Jay and Jeff, to
the podium. And I'd just like to recognize them with a round of applause, and some
leis, so thank you. If there's anything else you'd like to add to what was said earlier,
feel free.
MR. PENNIMAN: Mahalo to the entire Council, and for all the support. I would like to
recognize also, I don't do this alone, I have a fantastic staff. They work out of the
University of Hawaii, the Pacific Cooperative Studies Unit, just as the forest bird people
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 20
do, the invasive species committee people do. And all of these people are the reason
that we have the successes we have.
I can share just one for the ‘Ua‘u, the Hawaiian Petrel. When we started working after
the Department of Land and Natural Resources put  aungulate-proof fence around
Nakula/Kahikinui, we searched over several thousand acres. We found eight ‘Ua'u
burrows, this was in 2014. This year, we have over 100 burrows up there. And, and
the same thing has happened at Kamaole III Beach Park, where the Council has
supported us, the Office of Economic Development has been a grant source for funding
there where we control the predators and work on the habitat. And we've gone from
just a handful of birds down there to several hundred. And it's just, we are having some
successes. We have many more challenges to go, but we do have some successes.
And it is the support of all of our community that makes that possible. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Jeff, do you want to?
MR. BAGSHAW: Just one quick do-over, I forgot in my earlier comments. I'm sorry. What I
supplied to each of you is just a very brief overview of a State action plan that is unique
to Maui Nui. Our branch of Division of Forestry and Wildlife has put amazing resources
together to bring scientists, map these endangered species and try to maximize, where
it's basically triage, to maximize how many we can save and where we can do that.
So, it's the first comprehensive plan. And Maui County is leading the way. The other
branches for Oahu, Kauai, and Hawaii Island are now trying to formulate the same
plan.
So, but as Jay said, and as Linda said before, everything is done with teamwork, and
we're no longer in silos. That's what I really find hope in, that by agency, by County,
State or Federal, we're no longer in silos. And that Hawaiians recognized a long time
ago that the land and the ocean are both aina, and everything is really connected from
seabird poop fertilizing the forest, as Jay always likes to talk about, all the way down.
So, mahalo for your work as well. Thanks.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 21
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Could we maybe take a two-minute break and get another photo,
and ask all of you virtual to stay on, on the screen? We'll take a picture in front of the
screen again with Mr. Bagshaw.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections to a two-minute recess?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, recess until 10:07 or 10:06, depending on your watches. Recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:04 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:08 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting and public hearing of
May 26, 2022 please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, are we done with the ceremonial resolutions?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next item on the agenda is setting the Consent
Calendar.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: Members, at this time, we will set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder the
calendar can still be adjusted even after it is set. Are there any requested changes to
the Consent Calendar at this time?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I would like to request County
Communications 22-128 and 22-129 be pulled from the Consent Calendar and referred
to PSLU if there is no objection.
CHAIR LEE: 128 and 129.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Those items are already not on the Consent Calendar.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 22
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, because 1 was looking for them. I couldn't find them.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh. sorry.
CHAIR LEE; So. Member Paltin-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I got a old version of the agenda.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. That's okay. Anyone else?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think, well, camera back on? I think one of the problems is that
the first page starts out "ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR" and says.
"COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS". And then the second page starts out with "COUNTY
COMMUNICATIONS". So, I believe all of the items on the first page are the only ones
that are on the Consent Calendar? Is that correct? The County Clerk is nodding his
head.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, starting with 22-113.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: To 22-123.
CHAIR LEE: Is that what you have? Alright, let me see now.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry, Chair, I wasn’t looking at the one we received this
morning. I was looking at the old one.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, that's fine. Alright, Members. Do you want to delete, I mean
take off any of these? Pull any of these? If not, so ordered.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes? Do you have-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh, I didn't raise my hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 23
CHAIR LEE: You didn't raise your hand. Okay.
Alright, Mr. Clerk, can you please proceed with the minutes? Oh no, I'm sorry. It's the
public hearing with the, the public testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with the presentation of testimony.
Members of the public may testify in the Council Chamber, at courtesy testimony sites,
or remotely through the information listed on the meeting agenda and the public
hearing notice.
Individuals in the Chamber may sign up to testify with the staff member located at the
desk in the eighth-floor lobby. Individuals at courtesy testimony sites may sign up with
staff at the site. Individuals participating remotely may sign up in the meeting chat. If
you are connected to the meeting by phone, you will automatically be added to the
testifier list. Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted
when it is their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep
both their video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time
to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda and the public hearing notice.
Individuals may testify for three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your
name and the name of any organization you represent, as well as the items on which
you will be testifying. Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans if you are
participating remotely. Once the testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers,
staff, and designated resource persons will be connected to the meeting. All other
individuals will be disconnected. The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on
Akaku Maui Community Media, Channel 53, or on mauicounty.iegistar.com.
Individuals may also be disconnected from the virtual conference at any time for
breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person we have signed up to testify is Cody Pueo Pata in the chambers.
To be followed by Peter Cannon.
CHAIR LEE: Before we have Mr. Pata, I just want to clarify that on the Consent Calendar,
there were no changes, requested changes to the Consent Calendar, so no objections
to setting the Consent Calendar.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 24
CHAIR LEE: Oh, what happened to the sound? So, the Consent Calendar is set Now, we
shall begin testimony.
Good morning, Mr. Pata.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
KUMU HULA CODY PUEO PATA (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
Aloha pumehana mai, Chair Lee and esteemed County Councilmembers.  I am Pueo
Pata, and I took personal time off from my County position to testify here today, in my
capacity as a citizen of Maui County, Kumu Hula, and as a recognized practitioner of
various other ‘oiwi arts.
I completely regret having learned these things to . . . said no one who has ever had
the opportunity to do so. When I began my own learning journey in 1991 at the age of
16, the opportunities to learn what I know were still around. Because of my activities
in halau back then and soon after through my association with the Alu Like Kupuna
Program, after I graduated high school in ‘93, I was consistently around manaleo, or
native speakers and kupuna practioners of our community, who because 1 was already
speaking Hawaiian, shared so very much with me.
Although l‘m conventional, those were some of the opportunities available to me at that
time. Today, every single kupuna and master that I've learned from, has since passed
away. So, I'm so grateful that I had those opportunities. You may also remember from
my previous testimony that I lived and worked with my own seven masters for the
duration of my apprenticeship underneath them which spanned twenty years from
1991 -2011, when the last of my masters passed away.
In that span of years with them, not one of them had a permanent or consistent space
to teach from, and in looking back, they were quite resourceful in how they either found
created spaces and opportunities for us to learn at their own expenses or sacrifices.
And when I look at our Kumu Hula here on Maui, we all share similar experiences on
learning journeys, which by default also makes us environmental champions, who
from the beginnings from our own lineages continue to teach about our intrinsic
connection to and the importance of our environment. And we continue to assert that
we and our traditions are important parts of and inseparable from this natural
environment.
or
our
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 25
For so many reasons, I do not see the same opportunities present in our community at
this time for the perpetuation of the unique sets of knowledge and practices that are so
intrinsically a part of the fabric of our modern-day Maui Nui that they're almost easy to
take for granted. Pull those things from our community, from our environment, we
might as well be in Southern California.
The Halau of ‘Oiwi Art will provide many such opportunities for the future masters and
practitioners of our Maui Nui community. Although the main subjects to be taught there
are firmly rooted in Hawaiian culture, they're available to every member of our
community regardless of ethnicity, creed, or homeland of origin. And this unique type
of knowledge perpetuation is a benefit of our island, for our entire County, for our
environment, our State and even the world.
So, I humbly urge you to fund the Halau of ‘Oiwi Art and create an enduring safe and
nurturing space of opportunities for our entire community. Mahalo so much for your
time and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Pata. Are there any questions, Members? If not, thank you
very much.
Mr. Clerk.
KUMU HULA PATA: Thank you, and also to the Councilmembers who came to the open
house the other night. Chair Lee, Member Sugimura, Member Molina, and Member
Kama. Mahalo nui. Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Peter
Cannon. To be followed by Jill Wirt.
MR. PETER CANNON (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
Good morning, Councilmembers. I hope you can hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. CANNON: Thank you. My name is Peter Cannon, I'm a board member for the Ma'alaea
Village Association. I'm board president for the Hono Kai Condominium. I'm co-chair
with Tapani Vuori on the steering committee for wastewater at Ma'alaea.
Our County Charter recognizes that the County government has a duty to control
pollution and to protect the unique beauty of Maui County. Ma'alaea Bay is a resource
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 26
that needs protection. Sewage and sediment have been seeping into the bay for years
and the County needs to act. The issue is not whether the well should be replaced,
but rather who should be taking action to prevent further harm? And while we debate
this issue, the problem only worsens.
Council is correct, we can use the State Clean Water Revolving Fund to improve the
injection well situation at Ma'alaea. The Department of Health has confirmed that the
SRF is appropriate. I believe that we have a responsibility to do so. Currently all
condominium wastewater permitting that require Department of Health approvals in
Ma'alaea have a clause requiring that their injection well system be shut down and
they join the regional system when it becomes available. The Department of Health is
totally behind the regional system.
As an example, I serve as board president at Hono Kai. We've been ordered by the
Department of Health to replace our aging wastewater plant. Joining the regional
wastewater system is a requirement in our permits. Hono Kai chose to build a military
type, modular plant that is above ground that can be sold when the regional becomes
available.
You may have received testimony against the regional system from owners at the
Lauloa Condominium. They too were ordered by the Department of Health to replace
their injection well system. There was a bitter fight at this condo. The previous board
had a above ground system, all permitted and ready to go, just like Hono Kai that would
have cost less, could have also been sold, but the other factions did not want to look
at it. They wanted it buried and they won. The Lauloa has buried a million dollars in
the ground, and it is not recoverable once they're ordered to hook-up to the new
system. This is the real reason why you might see negative testimony coming from
Lauloa owners.
Another point, NVR systems are modular, they can be large or small. The idea of
smaller, diversified regional systems instead of  ahuge centralized system like Kihei or
Lahaina, can work in the smaller communities like Haliimaile or Haiku, or parts of
Upcountry. This is a solution to get off of the cesspools. Ma'alaea Regional
Wastewater System can be a model or a proof of concept for other communities on
Maui. You will find that the cost for flushing toilets will come in far less than the cost
per toilet when building the new Waikapu plant. Smaller regional plants are
economically feasible for other communities and the Ma'alaea plant can set the
example.
Lastly, I've heard criticism. I'll finish. We are at a crossroads, we should not fear, let
fear keep us from leading. We should be courageous and do what we think is right.
Maui island deserves nothing less. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 27
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Mr. Cannon. Members, any questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Cannon.
MR. CANNON: I'm hearing an echo. Go ahead. I’m sorry, if there's a question, I couldn’t
hear it.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
MR. CANNON: Standing by.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I have a question, there,  Ihave a question, Mr. Cannon.
Thank you very much for your diligence on this and representation all these years for
the Ma'alaea Village Association and this wastewater reclamation system. As you
know, when the, when the $9.5 million came up in the budget to use the State
Revolving Loan Fund, I was a lone voice that voted against it because of two things.
And you mentioned in your testimony, which I didn't realize you had a letter from
Department of Health saying that you needed to, now I wrote your words, joining the
regional wastewater system. And we have the Central Maui Wastewater Reclamation
Facility being built, which is in your neighborhood, sort of, if you're in the Wailuku area,
and that it is available for the Ma'alaea Wastewater Reclamation, Ma'alaea Village
Association to join, to come and be a part of that.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. Member Sugimura. Member Sugimura, do you have a
clarifying question?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: My question is. my question is that correct that the
Department of Health sent you a letter saying that you should be joining the regional
wastewater system?
MR. CANNON: It wasn't a letter. It was a requirement in the permit to build the new system.
We're required to build a new system. That's an order from the Department of Health.
In it-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: To join the existing, did they, did they also say for you to
join a regional wastewater system.
MR. CANNON: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 28
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think that's what you said.
MR. CANNON: Yes, that's correct. When it becomes available.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And it's going to be available in 2027, Chair. You know
you justified, you know, my vote basically. So, thank you very much. Appreciate it.
MR. CANNON: Well, let me clarify. It cost much more to pump uphill to Waikapu than it does,
is to build a regional system in Ma'alaea. We keep the assets and the water in
Ma'alaea and it's, it's just cheaper, cheaper, and easier to run, plus the cost of
managing and pumping, the operational costs is going to be higher than having a local
system right there.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Cannon. Thank you. Appreciate it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, Mr. Cannon, the regional system that you
were talking about would also be completed much sooner than the, than the new
Central Maui Wastewater Treatment Plant, is that correct?
MR. CANNON: That's correct. They can be built in less than a year and the only thing that
would hold, hold it, make it longer would be the permitting requirements. So, and both
the local Maui Planning Department has given us a fast-track and way to do it, combine
permits together, and the Department of Health is 100 percent behind making this
happen. Yes, much faster.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Cannon. Mahalo for your
testimony this morning.
Just a quick question for clarification, how much is the total cost of the project that
you're proposing?
MR. CANNON: 9.5 million, the amount that you've put into the budget.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 29
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I mean the total costs?
MR. CANNON: That's the total costs. That covers it-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: From start to end?
MR. CANNON: -start to end, that’s what we're expecting. That’s the math that we've been
doing for all these years, we've come to that conclusion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay, cause we've received testimony otherwise.
Okay.
Mahalo, Mr. Cannon. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Cannon.
Mr. Clerk.
MR. CANNON: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Jill Wirt.
To be followed by Kathy Hi'ilei Maxweli-Juan.
MS. JILL WIRT (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
Aloha, good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. WIRT: Jill Wirt, a project and research coordinator with Maul Nui Marine Resource
Council. Maui Nui Marine Resource Council testified via email earlier this week in
strong support of the Ma'alaea Bay Wastewater Reclamation System. But I just
wanted to take a minute to talk with you in-person about why this wastewater system
is urgently needed and has an important place in the 2023 Maui County Budget.
We're talking about reversing the pollution that's been decimating the coral reefs of
Ma'alaea Bay. The reefs are in serious decline largely due to pollution, if we don't act
quickly, we're likely to lose the reefs and the limu, fish and marine wildlife that is part
of the reef ecosystem in Ma'alaea Bay. We're talking about cleaning up the pollution
and a shared community resource, the Ma'alaea, the waters of Ma'alaea Bay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 30
Visit the area, you'll see people fishing, surfing, paddling, diving or just spending time
with their kids. When the . . . break is happening there can be hundreds of surfers in
the water. Two of Maui's canoe clubs paddle in this Bay, including the pink paddlers
cancer survivors. Let's take care of this community resource and stop the pollution
that's ruining it.
When I'm talking about a wastewater plant, it's not like the big Kihei Wastewater Plant.
This is a new higher tech system of treating wastewater called a membrane bio reactor
that's in use around the United States. There's no odor, no open pools of water or
sewage sludge. It occupies a small footprint. It produces higher quality R-1 than any
of Maui's current wastewater plants and best of all, it's modularized and easy to install.
It can be up and running in a year, pending permits.
For all these reasons, please keep the $9.5 million for this system in the 2023 Maui
County Budget. The reefs cannot wait years. We need to act now. Please support
Bill 69 in the Operating Budget created by the County Council which includes
$9.5 million in funding for the Ma'alaea Wastewater Treatment Plant. Please also
support Bill 73 which authorizes Maui County Mayor Victorino to enter into an
intergovernmental agreement to finance the West Maui Recycled Water System
Expansion and the Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater System. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Wirt. Questions, Members? If not. thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual we have signed up to testify is Kathy Hi'ilei
Maxwell-Juan in the Chambers. To be followed by Paulo Faleafine, Jr.
KUMU HULA KATHY HI'ILEI MAXWELL-JUAN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
Aloha mai kakou. My name is Kathy Hi'ilei Maxwell-Juan. I represent my family's
legacy, Pukalani Hula Hale, which has been in existence since 1966. I have been a
Kumu Hula since 1986 alongside with my mother, the late Nina Maxwell. My ‘ohana
comes from this ahupua'a, my dad is from Waikapu, my mom is from Waiehu. I
currently live in Wailuku for 16 years.
Mahalo for this opportunity to testify in strong support for the funding of the Halau of
‘Oiwi Arts. I would like to send my aloha to you and to all my many Kumu and
supporters of the Halau of ‘Oiwi Arts. For many years our Halau has been a part of
the community island wide with thousands of haumana benefiting from our teaching.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 31
The same is true with the other Kumu here today. Many of our haumana grew up with
halau and has taken its way of lifestyle through them, through adults and through their
families, learning to preserve, protect, not only the Hawaiian cultures, values, but being
leaders with environment from the mountains to the sea. We value and want to protect,
preserve what we have in our island home, seeing climate change, food shortages,
global pandemic, the valuable lessons are available through halau.
I know HOA will have direct effect on the community in this way. It has been a struggle
finding facilities to hold our cultural hula practices. My mom was taken to court in the
early 70s for teaching hula in her garage. I could not understand why back then, this
was our culture. Why was this happening to us? We should be able to have done this.
Since then, we've been going through schools, classrooms, cafeterias, community
centers, and parks. There is no venue for us. How is this that our host culture has not
been facilitated and taken cared of all these years?
Hula and cultural practices is as important as sports. I know the Halau of ‘Oiwi Arts
will be just the place all halau can call home. With my many years in halau and being
a Kumu Hula, I am confident that the HOA will be an asset for our community and our
island knowing that Maui will be the leader to facilitate this great space for all cultures
to benefit from. That is No Ka Oi. Mahalo for your time. Please vote for full funding
of the Halau of ‘Oiwi Arts. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is PauloDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
Faleafine, Jr. To be followed by Anne Pernick.
MR. PAULO FALEAFINE JR. (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
Aloha, Council.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. FALEAFINE: I'm Paulo Faleafine, I’m with the nonprofit Na Mea ‘Ike ‘la. I’m testifying in
support of the Ho'omahua Initiative. I'd like to thank representatives Kelly King for
allowing us to present to the CARE Committee representatives, Shane Sinenci and
Tamara Paltin and Kelly King as well for setting aside funds in the budget to move
forward on a pilot project for this initiative. The progress we've made is we‘ve managed
to bring some amazing technology partners out of Silicone Valley to work with us to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 32
move forward on this smart tourism concept. And with, with that, all of the support that
the County Council has provided from passing Resolution 21-170, to the funding
support has motivated the Administration to reach out to us, telling us to work on a side
project that can help bolster this concept of smart tourism. So, thank you all for
everything you've done to really help us move into, move forward into this direction.
The other item I'd like to quickly discuss is, we are having a "Wear Orange" event here.
It's our first one on Maui, and this is part of the National campaign to end gun violence.
This is being done in partnership with the Noah's Arc Foundation, who's done this work
out of Chicago with 'Wear Orange" and now they want to bring this here to Hawai'i.
So, we're working with them, we'll be doing this of the 4th of June at the Hawai'i Wildlife
Discovery Center partnership with Hannah Bernard and her folks there. So, thank you
for that and we'd encourage any of the Members if they want to support, to please
come. It will be a short event that we work with the kids.
But thank you all for your support and gaining the administrative support because of
your efforts as well to move this forward for next year's fiscal budget, and we look
forward to working with you. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just, thank you. Chair. Just real quickly, Paulo, is that event up
at the Ka'anapali site?
MR. FALEAFINE: Yes. It's going--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MR. FALEAFINE: It's at the, they're at Whaler's Village on the third floor.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Just wanted to verify. Thank you.
Thank you for your testimony.
MR. FALEAFINE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 33
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Anne Pernick. To be
followed by Dick Mayer.
MS. ANNE PERNICK (testifying on Resolution No. 22-133):
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers and many thanks for the opportunity to speak
with you today. My name is Anne Pernick and I am paid staff at Stand.earth, working
with the SAFE Cities and Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Teams. I am testifying
in support of Resolution 22-133, "AFFIRMING THE COUNTY OF MAUI'S ONGOING
COMMITMENT TO THE GOALS OF THE PARIS CLIMATE AGREEMENT AND
ENDORSEMENT OF THE FOSSIL FUEL NON-PROLIFERATION TREATY". I want
to thank Councilmember King for her leadership in introducing this resolution. The
Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty is a global inititive to phase out fossil fuels and
support a just transition to renewable energy.
As the lastest iPCC report and Russia's invasion of Ukraine make even more clear,
bold and immediate action is needed to address the climate and fossil fuel emergency.
The main cause of the climate emergency is fossil fuels. Coal, oil, and gas are
responsible for almost 80 percent of all carbon dioxide emmissions since the industrial
revolution. Yet, over the next decade the fossil fuel industry plans to produce enough
fossil fuels to far exceed the Paris Climate goals. Fossil fuels also endanger our health
and safety in all communities and especially in communities that are sites of major
extraction, production, and use.
The Paris Climate Agreement does not name fossil fuels and complementary action to
stop fossil fuel expansion and phase out fossil fuels is necessary for the goals of the
Paris Climate Agreement to be realized. The treaty is a critical complementary action.
Support from the County of Maui and other local governments around the world is
critical to achieve the international action for the treaty. As many speaking before me
today have also noted, this Council is doing critical work to protect Maui County's
environment and beauty, and you've also taken bold action on the need to move off
fossil fuels. Because of that commitment and action, as well as the impacts of climate
change on Maui County's world reknown beauty, a treaty endorsement from the
County of Maui will be especially powerful.
The Hawai'i State Legislature adopted a resolution calling for the treaty earlier this
month, the first State Legislature to do so and with Councilmember King's support.
That resolution also called for the State and all Counties to endorse. Maui is the first
County in the State to introduce a resolution to endorse the treaty and could become
the first County in the State to endorse the treaty. So far 51 city and some national
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 34
governments around the world have endorsed the treaty and i ask respectfully that the
County of Maui endorse this resolution and lend your important voice to this effort.
Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBERPALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I missed what item it was you were testifying
on?
MS. PERNICK: Yes. Ifs Resolution, sorry. 1 just lost my number. Resolution 22-133,
"AFFIRMING THE COUNTY OF MAUI'S ONGOING COMMITMENT TO THE GOALS
OF THE PARIS CLIMATE AGREEMENT AND ENDORSEMENT OF THE FOSSIL
FUEL NON-PROLIFERATION TREATY".
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just had a question, um. fully suppoort, are you
also involved in the ... scheme, cause during the budget this year highway funds were
what we couldn't come up with to make our roads safer, which is based on the gas
taxes and obviously like you said we don't want to continue to do gas, but we also want
to keep our roads safe. So, I was just wondering, are you involved in those efforts to
switch the taxation scheme off of fossil fuels?
MS. PERNICK: We're involved in efforts to switch to renewable energy in all sectors of our
economy. So I haven't personally been involved in that, in that effort in the County of
Maui or Hawai'i, but through Safe Cities and through the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation
Treaty Initiative, there are many different local policies that we do support, and are
happy to provide support, support on. Yes, it is, there are many things to consider in
transitioning to clean energy, and how we will support communities during that
transition is very, is a very important issue.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you so much, cause you know, crosswalks and things
like that needs funding too, and those blinking lights so people don't get hit. But if
we're using taxes off of gas to fund those things and then when we switch to clean
energy, it would help if there's big picture solutions as well as more narrow. Thank
you. Chair.
MS. PERNICK; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not. thank you very much for your testimony.
Mr. Clerk. How many more testifiers do we have?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 35
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have about 12 more testifiers signed up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, good. I see Mr. Mayer, is he next?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next testifier is Dick Mayer. To be followed by
Hokulani Holt-Padilla.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifying on Resolution No. 22-144):
Morning, Councilmembers. I‘m not a paid lobbyist.  Iam going to urge you strongly to
pass on to the GREAT Committee, the Resolution 22-144, dealing with Planning
Commissions.
I'd like to give some background on what this resolution, what this amendment to the
Charter would do: You formerly set up several advisory committees because you
couldn't set up these Planning Commissions because it wasn't in the Charter to do so.
This will give you the opportunity to elevate the advisory committees into actual
planning commissions. What it would mean is that you would have then six on the
Island of Maui, six planning commissions, one for each of the community plan districts,
and that would be an increase essentially of three committees. Get rid of the three
advisory committees, you now have three new ones in the very busy areas, particularly
of West Maui, Central Maui, and Upcountry, which do not have advisory committees.
These committees would meet to discuss matters in their own district. And one
problem right now, we have the special management area responsibility in the planning
commission, but the coastal areas in each area, Hana, for example, has very different
coastal issues than let's say Kihei does, or West Maui does. This will allow each
commission to interpret and apply the rules separately in their own areas, as well as
other things going on in their district.
The second thing in this resolution would involve setting up a countywide planning
commission. It would be made up of the chairs of each of the community plan districts,
including Moloka'i and Lana'i, where you would have eight, six on Maui, Moloka'i and
Lana'i, eight people representing each of the planning commissions or they could
choose to have their vice-chair, if the chair happens to be too busy. And then the chair
of that countywide one will be appointed directly by the Council, that would make nine
members on the countywide body. That countywide body would handle issues that
are of countywide significance.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 36
Let me give you a couple of examples. One issue that's come up occasionally is
agricultural subdivisions. Right novj ag subdivisions do not get any kind of screening
by the genera! public, the planning commission, and very often we don't even know
they are going on. Let's say the Council says, we would like regulations for this. That
would go to the countywide planning commission, because it would affect the whole
County. Another example, would be changes in the zoning code that would affect the
whole County.
So, countywide issues would go to the countywide body. It would not necessarily meet
every month; it would meet as needed when you refer issues to the planning
commissions for discussion. I think each district is now at a stage that we can begin
making decisions for our district, ratherthan relying on one Maui Planning Commission,
which might have only one member from that area on the planning commission's
countywide, present Maui Island Planning Commission, for example. Which is really
not giving the districts in the various communities the opportunity that they need.
So, 1 hope you pass this on to the GREAT Committee to be put on the ballot, to give
the public and our communities the opportunity to establish a bit of selTrule and home
rule in each of their own areas. If there's questions, I would love to clarify any need to
explain any of that.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions?
Member Paltin has one.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Mayer, for your testimony.
I was just wondering, currently the practice is if it's a countywide proposal, it will go to
the Maui Planning Commission, Moloka'i Planning Commission, and the Lana'i
Planning Commission. So you're saying if it's a countywide proposal, then the Moloka'i
and the Lana'i Planning Commission would not get to hear it? Is that what you had
said?
MR. MAYER: You have the opportunity to refer it. If you think there's special implications for
a particular area, you could also refer it to one of these district bodies, it doesn't
preclude you from doing it. But it does give the opportunity for the issue to be looked
at by all of the things, and make, gosh, one recommendation to you rather than the
three separate ones. Or you could say, no, this one really affects Lana'i or Moloka'i.
Then you could send it to Moloka'i one and to this countywide body.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, so basically you're saying it's still up for discussion on the
final way that it goes through the--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 37
MR. MAYER: That would be up to. well what it does, it sets up the body itself, the countywide
body. And nowadays with the technology, it does not mean always the Moloka'i and
Lana'i people have to come to Maui . . . assume that we go back to the normal thing,
because it could do it electronically. But it would allow the whole County to look at it
as to how it would affect the whole County. Or you could say no, we would like special
reports from Moloka'i and Lana'i on that matter. It's up to you when you refer matters.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you for the clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Any more clarifying questions, Members? If not, thank you very much
Mr. Mayer.
MR. MAYER: And 1 just want to say, I want to thank Councilmember King for putting this out
there. I think it would be a major improvement on the way we do planning on Maui,
Maui County.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Hokulani Holt-
Padilla in the Chambers. To be followed by Kapono'ai Molitau.
KUMU HULA HOKULANI HOLT-PAPILLA (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
Aloha mai kakou.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
KUMU HULA HOLT-PADILLA: [Spoke in Hawaiian.}
Aloha, I am Hokulani Holt. I live in Kauahea, Wailuku, Maui, and I am a child of this
land. For generations on my mother's side, we have been from Wailuku. My
grandmother was born in . . . now known as Papohaku Park, and my 'ohana still live
along the shoreline of Ka'ehu Bay. On my father's side, are the Holt, Richardson and
Kepoikai 'ohana of Wailuku. I am also a third generation Kumu Hula in the hula
lineages of Maui.
I am here today to voice my strong support of the Halau of 'Oiwi Art currently in your
budget deliberations. I would like each of us in this room, as well as those listening,
take a brief moment of reflection and answer these questions. How many of you know
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 38
someone who is or has taken hula? How many of you have watched hula at a wedding
or baby luau, at the mall, in a hotel, or on TV? How many of you have worn a lauhala
hat, given or received a lauhala bracelet as a gift, used a lauhala fan, or walked upon
a lauhala mat? How many of you have worn clothing by Hawaiian designers inspired
by Hawaiian culture? How many of you have a cherished feather lei? How many of
you have attended or participated in a ceremony to bless, open, or begin an important
occasion, or place?
As I stand in this room, the two pahu at either side of the Chair's podium have their
foundation in hula. How many of you know why is it there and what does it represent
for the leadership of this room? If you said yes to any of these things, you have
benefitted from ‘Oiwi Art. You have been beautified and inspired by what was taught
to its maker. You have been moved by depth and breadth of chant and hula and you
have benefitted from making Hawai'i your home.
As the leaders of our Maui Nui community, you have unprecedented opportunity to say
that you believe and support whole-heartedly the culture that provides for your well
being. By providing full funding now, the Halau of 'Oiwi Art will be assured of
completion and use in a timely manner. Please vote for full funding for the Halau of
‘Oiwi Art. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Hoku. Good to see you.
KUMU HULA HOLT-PADILLA: Mahalo.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Kapono'ai
Molitau in the Chambers. To be followed by Christopher Fiskin.
KUMU HULA KAPONO'AI MOLITAl (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42);
[Spoke in Hawaiian.]
Simple lessons and it‘s the second time that I get to be here, up here and I'm not as
nervous as the first time around. However, . .. Molitau. I am Kumu Hula of Halau Na
Hanona Kulike 'O Pi'ilani and Hawaiian business owner here on Maui, known as Native
Intelligence. I stand before you again to testify in strong support for funding of Halau
of ‘Oiwi Art in the proposed Fiscal Year 2023 Budget.
As a Kumu Hula in Maui for the past 28 years, and educating hundreds on Maui Nui
community and our Hawaiian community at large, the Halau of ‘Oiwi Art will provide a
long overdue support space where culture and practitioners that make our home no ka
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 39
oi. We as Kumu Hula feel that halau and hula is integral to the culture and our
community as a safe place. The word "safe" place.
Hula and halau also represent our islands throughout Hawai'i and the world. Our halau
hula on Maui are, have brought so much joy and pride to our island home. And with
the establishment of Halau of ‘Oiwi Art this level of excellence will continue and it will
only excel. Personally, l‘ve invested majority of my life in hula. I‘ve invested in my
community and halau. Many a times l‘m not up in front of this kind of public space,
because l‘m supporting my community as much as I can. These investments are long
term, and the main goal to these investments to our halau community is to make sure
we build practitioners for a lifetime in a safe environment.
Furthermore as a cutural center, our community and the world, the Halau of ‘Oiwi Arts
will foster relationships, inspire connections and uphold our cultural excellence. You,
the County of Maui and all of the world have this amazing opportunity to showcase.
As a Kumu Hula, this space is not only an investment for the near-future, where they'll
have lasting impacts in our community for generations to come. Mahalo nui for your
time and your support of Halau of ‘Oiwi Art. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you very much, Kapono'ai.
KUMU HULA MOLITAU: ‘Ae. Mahalo. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is Christopher
Fishkin. To be followed by Mike Moran.
MR. CHRISTOPHER FISHKIN (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-125 and
22-129L
Can you hear me. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 40
MR. FISHKIN: I apologize, my video for some reason is not going on. Thank you. I'm going
to be testifying on two items, 22-129 and 22-125. As to item 22-129, the Planning
Director's report on status of all active conditional permits. There's at least one permit,
which is not on Director Mclean's list, and which remains open and active. As such,
the records being presented are inaccurate and incomplete by the Planning
Department An Affidavit by Sam Small of a detailed investigation on this has been
submitted in support of my testimony.
County records show that there's an open conditioned SMA minor permit issued in
June 2000 which developers received two extensions as represented in their
environmental studies, order of magnitude evaluations SM220000042 permit number.
Also for the record, the valuation which was required to be professionally stamped was
by Unemori Engineering. And Unemori is the firm by the way which designed Fairway
Subdivision in violation of the grading ordinance. Furthermore my research
demonstrates just like with Greg Brown development the valuation for this permit is ten
times less than the correct value.
To document this, I personally submitted an RFS for a field inspection on this May 13,
in the new COM Connect system, which the Planning Director stopped her inspection
supervisor from performing. In response to my RFS, the Planning Department closed
my RFS writing on the system on May 19, "Chris Salem unissue".
If I may be allowed a moment of levity, I guess the Greg Brown development violations
are also a Chris Salem issue, so we don't need to discuss those, as well as the
Upcountry water bill applied island wide, deferral agreement violations, Palama Drive
walls designed by Unemori. But here's the issue on the open SMA I'm referring to. My
research reveals that Unemori Engineering submitted a sworn statement stating they
played no role in that SMA permit, when in fact they're the engineer of record for the
valuation for the work which was to be performed and has never been completed to
this time, despite the two extensions granted and which Director McLean refuses to
inspect and confirm is still open and unfulfilled and would be on that list.
I'm requesting that the record Director McLean is presenting today be rejected and
determined to be incomplete until the field inspection requested by me and by others
for the past 20 years is actually performed. Litigation cannot be used by Public Works
to not perform a field inspection. This has been requested before, during, and after
any litigation.
Derek Highland formerly of DSA unofficially inspected and confirmed that the required
environmental mitigations and infrastructure improvements conditioned by that permit
remain unfulfilled to present time. And pursuant to public County records it was
required for subdivision approval. So, it's pretty serious. This simple field inspection
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 41
would actually help to resolve, actually resolve for you pending litigation. So, it's really
in the public interest, in the interest of the County to, to really re-open my RFS and
request that field inspection be done. It’s really no big deal to do one. And I'm done
on that item. Thank you. Council. Testifying on 22-125. As the Council is aware, the
Charter requires-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Fishkin. Mr. Fishkin.
MR. FISHKIN: Yes, ma'am.
CHAIR LEE: We have a question for you.
MR. FISHKIN: Oh, I'm sorry.
CHAIR LEE: On your first testimony.
MR. FISHKIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Fishkin for your testimony.
My question is do you understand that a conditional permit is not an SMA permit, that
they're two different types of permits and that's why it's not on the active conditional
permit list?
MR. FISHKIN: Well, Councilmember Paltin, on the communication on the agenda it says
Planning Director report--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's a yes or no question.
MR. FISHKIN: -on status of all active conditioned permits, conditional permits. And that is
the SMA minor is an active condition, conditional permit.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, a conditional permit is  aspecific type of permit and an SMA
permit is a specific type of permit.
MR. FISHKIN: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, this report is on active conditional permits, which is different
than SMA permits. So, I just was wondering if you understood that or not?
MR. FISHKIN: No. I did not understand that distinction. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 42
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members? If not, Mr. Fishkin, you can proceed to the next
item.
MR. FISHKIN: Thank you, Chair. As the Council is aware, the Charter requires anticipated
revenues to offset expenditures. Unfortunately, my testimony is similar to that in 2012,
when I testified, and this issue was also brought to the attention of then Mayor Arakawa
and his Administration all the way back in 2001. Despite being noticed, these revenues
are still unaccounted for. Now, it took ten years for Public Works to provide a list of
thousands of unaccounted for and uncollected developer deferral agreements for all
the CIPs which were performed with County funds thanks to the efforts of Christopher
Salem.
There is revenue owed by private developers to offset the expenditures of public funds
as the Charter requires. Phase 1,2, and 3 on South Kihei Road is one example. These
agreements are nowhere to be found in this budget. For example, there is a current
CIP on lower road in West Maui, which is publicly funded, and which construction has
commenced. As a staff member of the Office of the Mayor, Mr. Salem notified Public
Works they were in violation of the County ordinance regarding the assessment and
collection of the agreement, to which Public Works did not respond.
With respect, instead of being considered thorns in your side, myself, Mr. Salem,
Mr. Small, should be considered heroes of the public interest. Tens of millions of
dollars are owed. If the audit had been done correctly, it would quantify these amounts.
After three years of holding on to this audit, the Auditor must at least have the ledgers
to these agreements which can be incorporated into a list, so that the Council can be
aware of which agreements should be offsetting expenditures in the budget. These
are agreements regarding the CIPs wherein construction has already commenced thus
triggering their assessment and collection pursuant to County ordinance.
The Council needs to request this list from the Auditor and from the Department of
Finance. There was really never a need for an audit. There was a need for an
investigation, but the then Council didn't understand their powers of investigation fully.
I worked with Kathy Kaohu for Don Guzman to initiate the reso for that audit. Sam
Small was designated as an expert by the Council Infrastructure Committee then and
made a full presentation. Christopher Salem was hired by Mayor Victorino to complete
the legislation to address the assessrnent and collection. The studies by consultants
were acquired by him and provided to the Mayor.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 43
The legislation called the fairness bill was created by Mr. Salem. The Corporation
Counsel consistently blocked all the above because I believe they continued writing
hundreds of these developer agreements since 2001, never collected with bad fruit in
those orchards. The Chair of Infrastructure now has the responsibility to account for
these offsets. That is to track these revenues to offset the expenditures of public funds
in this budget.
To her credit, Councilmember King brought this matter to the attention of the Council
years ago. The Auditor has never interviewed any of those who brought forth the
discovery and analysis of these audits and have been the whistleblowers. And now a
three-year-old audit, which should have been completed two years ago has been
suspended because of a dispute over one of thousands of agreements. In less than a
half hour through two simple exhibits, this Council under 3.6 of the Charter, can
determine there is no basis for holding up an audit over that single dispute.
Has Auditor, Mr. Taguchi explained this to the Council? I assert that he has not acted
independently to both branches of government in this matter, but he has just been
serving the interest of the Corporation Counsel. He has only interviewed those
responsible for the problem and none of the whistleblower individuals who have all the
information, who exposed the violation of the County ordinance relating to these
agreements, confronted Public Works successfully to reveal the agreements and were
able to get unanimous vote for an audit from a previous Council.
So, I request that the Chair of Infrastructure act to resolve-
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Chair.
MR. FISHKIN; I request that the Chair of Infrastructure act to resolve the budget violation of
the County Charter immediately by requesting these ledgers. I initially brought this
issue to Councilmember Sugimura's attention at budget hearings when she was first
running for Council in 2015. Mr. Salem, Mr. Small, and myself are all available to assist
her. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Are there any questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Chair. Chair. I was trying to get your attention. So, sorry
about that. I do not appreciate testifiers saying, urn, in vain things about our Auditor
that is his opinion and not the truth. So, thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any clarifying questions?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 44
MR. FISHKIN: Is she allowed to do, is she allowed, that, that's not a clarifying question, Chair.
She's not allowed to tell me my opinion is not valid as a testifier.
CHAIR LEE; Any clarifying questions, Members? if not, thank you very much, Mr. Fishkin.
May we have the next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have, the next individual we have
signed up to testify is Mike Moran. To be followed by Paul Deslauriers.
MR. MIKE MORAN (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-130. 22-131,22-132, 22-139 & 22-144):
Good morning, Chair King [sic], and Councilmembers. My name is Mike Moran, and I
would like to commend President Pro Temp Kama for her opening comments on the
madness of the gun violence. And, I mean, it's not we don't want it anywhere, but we
certainly don't want it to come here, and if it's not stamped out like any other thing, it
spread anywhere. And we see in these poor communities they say we never
thought it could happen here. So, thank you, Councilmember Kama for those words,
and that's why I'm wearing my orange shirt this week.
Thank you. Chair. Now, thank you, for the Kihei Community Association, we have
several items, but we can kind of group them together so we'll shorten testimony.
Starting off with Reso 22-144, and Professor Mayer addressed it in-depth, and we just
say for KCA, we are in support of this of having regional planning commissions. We
don't feel that the current system works. We have had objections to it for years. Having
this sole group of appointed people, and we have heard many, even with Council
saying that this system is not fair, where you are given an up and down vote for
someone. And so we're in support of 22-144 and thank you Councilmember King for
bringing this up and hope we can proceed.
And that leads into 22-139, which is tangentially related, we're having another
appointment to the planning commission,
recycling, that we keep bringing back people that have been there before. And we
testified numerous times when that gentleman was there, and he in fact told me on the
floor that he wasn't interested in the opinion of KCA, that he was the decision maker,
and he would make the decision. So, we're hoping that we can progress somehow,
and get a better system in place with the effort, with the advisory committees, but we
see, I was one of the appointees to the one for South Maui. But, you know, nothing is
happening with that. So, this gives us an opportunity with 144 to hopefully make
progress.
can
And it seems like it's now becoming
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 45
And then I'll move on to, I'll just group them altogether, they're all on the same matter,
22-130, 131 and 132 on the proposed project at Hale Waipu'ilani. And honestly 130 is
such, such a lengthy that we couldn't get through it in time to talk intelligently about it
and we don't think it's fair to say up or down on 131 or 132 without having time to go
through all that. But I will say that we were very glad that the developers came to meet
with KCA twice and made presentations. But after the first, and then finally after the
second presentation, we could not support the project, and we told them so. So, that
was our stance at the time. As I said, if we had more time and more volunteers, we
could have gotten through 130, but we did not in all honesty.
So, that's it for today, and thank you as always for the opportunity to offer our opinion
to this best Council that we have seen in at least in this century. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mr. Moran. We have a question from Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. It's just a clarifying, Mr. Moran, thank you for
being here again, Mike as always. But the items that you were talking about as far as
the Waipu'ilani development are on the agenda to be referred to committee. So they're
not up for decision-making today, but I believe they're going to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
MR. MORAN: Terrific. So, we have, we have some extra time to . . . the info. Thank you for
that, Councilmember.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. Nice seeing you, Mr. Moran, in your
orange shirt. I just wanted to know if you submitted your letter regarding this. You said
your, that the KCA did not support the project and I just wondered, that you said not
enough time to discuss it, now it will be referred to committee as Kelly King mentioned,
but did you submit what your objections were?
MR. MORAN: We did not. We submitted them to the developer, that's our process.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Oh. But not to us, not to us, because you're testifying
today. Or could you?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 46
MR. MORAN: Yeah, and that's been our practice is we don't share unless the developer
wants us to show it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. okay.
MR. MORAN; We . . . voluntarily. We give them our opinion, but we don't publish what we
told them, just a yes or no, up or down--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, I see. I thought maybe you would share with us what
the KCA thought. But we'll wait for it to come up before the Affordable Housing
Committee. Thank you very much.
MR. MORAN; Developer gives up the okay, we certainly will do so.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Yes, in regard to. the Waipu'ilani project
we plan to have it in my committee, Affordable Housing of June 6, for the, forthe record.
Thank you. Chair.
MR. MORAN: Thank you for the tip.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Johnson. Anybody else? If not, thank you, Mike.
MR. MORAN; A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Appreciate your testimony. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Paul
Deslauriers. To be followed by Joe Kent.
CHAIR LEE; Morning.
MR. PAUL DESLAURIERS (testifying on Resolution No. 22-144):
Aloha, Chair Lee and County Councilmembers. I am testifying on Resolution 22-144,
regarding the Maui Planning Commission. I'm not a lobbyist, and I am personally
testifying. After being on the Charter Commission for over a year, we had an
opportunity to listen to a lot of testimonies about issues and concerns within our
community. We listened to hundreds of them, and I would say by far the biggest has
to do with Planning and the way that people do not have a voice sometimes in what
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 47
happens within their own local area. It‘s very frustrating. They feel disempowered.
They feel that governance can't be trusted. There's sometimes lack of clarity in terms
of what's being discussed about their local area.
So I think that first of all by having these additional six community plan areas in Maui
and also with the other two, it gives us then an opportunity for participation which is so
crucial in our governance by our local community. They need to have a voice that's
heard. And there's a lot of other things that happen as not only a result of this positive
repercussion, but again, we have an opportunity then to look at, you know, eliminating
steps and really expediting the whole process of, of construction and development.
Because you're not going through the additional steps of advisory committees. They're
already integrated within. And again, it really supports a greater level of home rule, I
think many of us would like to see that so that our community can be more engaged in
our decision-making process here within our community.
So, I strongly would like to support Resolution 22-144. Again, Kelly King, thank you for
your support as we also looked at that within our own Charter Commission and also
Dick Mayer. I think that this is a crucial piece for our community. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Deslauriers. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Joe Kent. To be
followed by Dean Frampton.
MR. JOE KENT (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
Aloha, Chair and Committee Members. My name is Joe Kent and I'm an Executive,
I'm the Executive Vice President of the the Grassroot Institute of Hawai'i, which is a
501(c)(3) nonprofit, and for which I'm a paid lobbyist. We are a taxpayer watchdog
group that educates about the values of individual liberty, economic freedom, and
accountable government.
And I'm here today to testify on the County budget, and give a broader and independent
look at the budget. So, the golden rule of government budgeting is that the government
should not grow faster than the economy. And that's because the government derives
its revenues from the economy so it's more sustainable in the long run if the economy
grows faster than government, not the other way around.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 48
The Fiscal 2023 County spending plan has just reached a record high of $1 billion of
spending, and that's 27 percent higher than before the COVID lock-downs. The new
spending plans add 232 new employees to the rolls since Fiscal 2019, and that's an
increase of 8 percent. Most of the new employees are for Public Works with 52 new
workers, 30 new Parks and Recreation workers, 28 new Fire workers, 23 new Police
workers, and 23 new Finance Department workers.
The County is paying for this growth partly with $37 million of increased TAT, and
$118 million in increased property tax revenues which came from higher taxes on high-
end real estate and the tourism industry. The County also has a $26 million cash
windfall because of projects that weren't completed due to workforce shortages during
the last two years. But the County iawmakes should be cautious to use the current
windfall to permanently grow the size of this government especially since its economy
is still lagging. Maui's private sector employment has fallen by 2.6 percent, and the
jobless rate is still relatively, it's still double what it was in Fiscal 2019. So, in other
words, the government is growing, the economy is smaller right now.
And Councilmembers, and I'm going praise you this one, thankfully lowered property
taxes almost across the board and we really appreciate that amongst all categories
including for owner-occupied homes, apartments, commercial and industrial
properties. Of course, disappointingly we've also had high taxes for short-term rentals
and non-owner-occupied homes, but nontheless, it's not clear how this tax reshuffling
will affect future tax revenues, especially if the economy should tank? And the feds just
increased interest rates, and they are doing so substaintially. We're not sure whether
or not this windfall is permanent or temporary. Such a down turn scenario may see
Councilmembers raising taxes to support the increased level of County workers. So,
thanks for allowing me to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Mr. Kent. Any questions? If not, thank you very, oh, we have one.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Mr. Kent, thank you for your testimony. You
had alot of facts and figures in there, which, um, you know, we have been following.
But did you send your testimony in written format?
MR. KENT: I have not. I can certainly do that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Appreciate that. Thank you and thank you for being a
watchdog.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 49
MR. KENT: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? If not, thank you very, oh, one more question.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Kent for your testimony. 1
wasn't clear when you said you were testifying on behalf of the Grassroots. Are you in
a paid position or is that a volunteer position?
MR. KENT: Oh, yes. I'm paid by the Grassroots Institute. I'm a lobbyist, so, l‘m a paid
lobbyist.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you for the clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I couldn't write fast enough. Mr. Kent. Can you, and I
look forward, I was going to ask if we could have your testimony in writing also. So
could you state in short that you're saying that our budget, the economy is, is, hasn't
grown as fast as we are increasing our budget?
So, the economy has not recovered to its
Fiscal 2019 levels yet. The Maui County jobless rate is 4.3 percent compared to
2.6 percent in 2019. Whereas, the County budget is growing employment by 8 percent.
MR. KENT: That's correct. That's correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Ah. Thank you.
MR. KENT: Since 2019.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Any more clarifying questions. Members? If not, thank you very much. Mr. Kent.
MR. KENT: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is Dean Frampton.
To be followed by Barbara Barry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 50
MR. DEAN FRAMPTON (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42 and Resolution
No. 22-144):
Hi, good morning, Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. FRAMPTON: Thank you. My camera is inoperable right now, so just the audio. Good
morning, my name is Dean Frampton, I'm testifying this morning as an individual. First
and foremost, thank you for your efforts in drafting this massive budget. I’m testifying
on item 22-42, which is Bill 73. And I also want to make one comment on 22-144, the
two items.
But I appreciate your efforts in this, in drafting this budget. It's a testament to
compromise, and you guys have done an amazing job balancing the many, many
concerns of our community. So thank you for your efforts. And of course, before I get
started, please, please, please proceed with the funding, the full funding of the Halau
of ‘Oiwi Arts, please. That's much needed in our community.
But regarding Bill 73, the first $5 million that are allocated for West Maui Water
Recycling in West Maui, that's a great step. In fact, I fully support that funding. I was
very happy to hear in the Committee hearing on Tuesday, to hear Councilmember
Paltin talk about R-1 water and that we need to view it as source. I really appreciate
this message resonating with the Council and gaining traction. So, thank you for that.
My concern with Bill 73 really relates with the 9.5 million funding for the Ma'alaea
facility. I appreciate this Council taking action to address the wastewater mistreatment
in Ma'alaea. I also appreciate the testimony by Mr. Cannon earlier today. He obviously
is committed, he's obviously working towards, very diligently towards viable solutions.
But my concern with the funding is that it seems narrow. It seems like it only allows for
one mechanism, and I, and I could be misunderstood here but it does not seem to be
flexible and it only allows for a County owned and maintained wastewater facility. And
I don't think it allows for design alterations or design alternate considerations. And I'd
like to hear from the Wastewater Division. I think Scott Rollins is signed up to testify.
But Councilmember Sugimura brought up a very good point, and my question would
be, I would push back a little bit on, on the concept that Mr. Cannon raised about the
long term cost of pumping versus the maintanence and operation and staffing of a
stand-alone wastewater treatment facility. I think that's a question that should be
addressed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 51
And also probably the bigger question, and it seems like maybe Mr. Cannon's condo
has been very diligent in trying to address their concerns, but is that the exception
rather than the norm? Because l‘m not sure all the other condos have acted the same
way. So, does this funding allow for public-private partnership? What will the condo
owners be bringing to the table? Every homeowner in Maui County who has cesspools
will be facing the same question moving forward. Will it be setting a precedent for that,
that question? So, thank you for allowing me to share my concerns about the funding
being flexible, and for what degree the condo onwners will be responsible for their
share of, fair share of the payment and the cost.
The second item i wanted to testify really briefly on is 22-144 and that's Maui Planning
Commissions. I fully support people being more involved. I think the County of Maui
has a very good planning process. I think, especially with BlueJeans and being in front
of the Planning Commission, there are active participation. My. my, there's, I see
staffing challenges and I see training issues for individual community plan areas to all
have their own commissions.
I think a simple solution or consideration would be advisory committees like we've done
in Paia-Haiku and like what we've just done with Kihei. They need to get off the ground
and that's what we have in Hana. But I think advisory committees are more appropriate
than actual commissions. And that's just my opinion.
And I would what to state, 1 heard some testimony about people having their voices
heard, um, and the difficult things at times is there’s a difference between having your
voice heard and having things your own way, the way you want them. So, 1 think we
have a very good planning process, and obviously, the more voices the better. And 1
certainly encourage that, but we also have to be reasonable and effective in our
government. So, thank you for allowing me to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Frampton for your testimony.
I just was, um. wanted to clarify your understanding of the advisory committees, was
your understanding that they give recommendation?
MR. FRAMPTON: Yes, recommendations-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 52
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And to whom?
MR. FRAMPTON: --recommendations to the Planning Commission, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Alright. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Frampton. I wanted to ask you a
couple of questions. One is on the planning commission proposal, when you said it‘s
one thing to be heard, but another thing to have it your own way. So, if 95 percent of
the community comes out to speak to the Planning Commission and is heard, but the
decisions go the opposite way, are you saying that that's okay for the community?
Cause I think that is what has happened in South Maui.
MR. FRAMPTON: I understand that concern. The, at the end of the day, we have a system
where the Planning Commissioners are appointed, and they are entrusted to make
decisions. You bring up a very good point, but I can also see things going the other
way. It just, I believe we have nine planning commissioners and I don't know that
setting up, well, I was going to say that I don't know that setting up a separate planning
commission in Kihei would reach the, net the same result as-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That is kind of the point.
MR. FRAMPTON: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's kind of the point, because you want the community to be
heard and to their collective opinions to be acted upon.
And then the other question I had was, you know, when you were talking about the
wastewater treatment facility and asking that folks involved to participate. Are we, have
we ever
wastewater treatment disinfection, or all of the million of dollars we're putting into that
to clean up the Kahekili Bay and those other areas that are being polluted?
MR. FRAMPTON: If I'm a new user and I sign on to the system, I need to pay a connection
fee. And I'm one user out of everybody. I need to pay my fair share. And part of my
monthly fees that I’m paying to the County includes ongoing maintenance and
operations. So, yeah, everybody is paying their fair share. In this case, it appears
more like a gift.
asked any of the Lahaina residents to participate in funding the Lahaina
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 53
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. No, this is, these folks will be paying in sewage treatment
fees just like everybody else.
MR. FRAMPTON: Yeah, and I guess the rub is who pays for the improvements itself? The
outgoing, the improvements, and that could easily be done. When you look at
$9.5 million, that's approximately $20,000 per owner of the 500 and some odd units
there. Ironically, that's the same amount that they've estimated it's going to cost
residents on Maui, in Maui County to convert to, from a cesspool to a septic. So, you
know, interesting number.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, yeah, we'll get to that point later, but the whole idea is to
maybe, hopefully do something for. . . funding for cesspool owners as well, is to help
them out. Because we're really helping out the environment. Anyway, thank you for
your responses.
MR. FRAMPTON: Absolutely. Oh, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
CFIAIR LEE: Any, any more questions? Any more questions for the testifier? If not, thank
you very much, Mr. Frampton.
MR. FRAMPTON: Thank you, Councilmembers for your efforts.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Barbara
Barry. To be followed by Elle Cochran.
MS. BARBARA BARRY (testifying of Committee Report No. 22-42):
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Nice to see everyone today. I'm in a COVID
haze up here in Haiku so I'm really happy to be able to testify via BlueJeans.
So, I am, I am testifying today on Committee Report 22-42, item no. 1, Bill 69, in regards
to the Kula Ag Park proposed increase, tenant, lease increase. Once again, my name
is Barbara Barry, I'm a small organic farmer in Haiku and not a paid lobbyist. I have
sat on the Kula Ag Park Advisory Committee for the past four years, and my comments
are my own. We tried to have a meeting this last week, and due to technical difficulties,
we were
today, although they may be unpopular would be the same ones that I would share
with the committee members. So I'll share my thoughts on this proposed rate Increase.
not able to have that. But the ideas below, or the ideas I'll share with you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 54
Since we really don't have a clear idea of the amount of food being produced at the
Kula Ag Park, it seems premature to issue a blanket increase at a time when our food
farmers are under increasing demand to produce more food for our County food
security. The large, larger leaseholders who are not producing food may be able to
easily absorb the increase, but the smaller leaseholders, who are producing food may
not. These leaseholders also pay for their, for pumping the electricity, for pumping their
water to their farms. So there are added costs that are not reflected in their lease
payments.
The electrical costs is substantial and a current survey of the tenants to note their
electrical expense for pumping water for last year could be gathered. It might be very
valuable information,
renewable energy source for these farmers.
Concerning problems left, um, the damage left by past tenants. A damage deposit
would be a reasonable thing to have required at the time the leases were signed.
Perhaps that could be added to offset property that's not being left in good condition.
That's pretty typical with any kind of lease. Where's my spot?
There are also two lots that are not being leased. My question is why, since there are
many farmers looking for places to farm. As a commissioner. I've often asked this
question, if there are spots available and how the public is notified of this availability?
Oops, really, did 1 do that already?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Could you conclude in a minute please, Ms. Barry?
MS. BARRY: Certainly. Essentially, 1 think that it is premature to be increasing lease prices
farmers at this point. And that we shouldn’t try and compete with landowners
who are leasing land for profit. The County should be doing everything they can to be
supporting our farmers at the Kula Ag Park. And I personally feel an audit would be
very valuable for the Kula Ag Park, because of how it's been run and the condition of
things at the moment. So, that's basically my testimony. So, thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, are there any questions?
Member Sugimura, then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Hi, Barbara nice seeing you. I just wanted to
let you know that that special meeting of the Kula Ag Park Committee did happen. We
having kind of technical difficulties in the beginning, but after, I dunno how many
minutes, I think the meeting was 5:30 meeting and we ended up conducting it. But
after we went through the technical difficulties,  Iwonder if, well, maybe Kaeo Patrick
Perhaps It's time to look, for the County to look at, into a
on our
were
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 55
Ornellas might have called you, but we did have the meeting and sorry that you missed
it. And ! really appreciate your testimony today.
MR. BARRY: I was on that call until 6:00. I waited for an hour for it to start and it never
started.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: l‘m sorry about that. Probably Kaeo can give you minutes.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much for that and then Member Paltin has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Barry for your testimony. I
did have three questions, clarifying.
The first one, are you aware if the two lots that aren't being rented are the two lots that
need that remediation?
MS. BARRY: I have no other information other than looking over the, the pages, oh what is
this, on the information that the County budget, there are two available lots.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, i believe those are the ones that need the toxic
remediation.
My other question is have you requested from the County Auditor to do an audit of the
Kula Ag Park?
MS. BARRY: No, but if I need to, I think that's a good next step for me.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And then my last question is are the Kula Ag Park
tenants prohibited from applying for any of the County farming grants that are being
offered?
MS. BARRY: I don't think so, but I'm not completely clear about that. I wouldn't think they
would be prohibited.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Alright. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. Thank you
Ms. Barry for your testimony.
MS. BARRY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 56
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Berry. Mahalo for your
testimony today. And mahalo also for flagging the special meeting of the Kula Ag Park
for me.
I did jump on and continued to check in on the BlueJeans meeting link until about 6:00,
too, and that meeting link never started. And I continued to monitor the chat, because
1 wanted to be available for any questions regarding the added $25 to the Kula Ag Park
lease fee. ... so you’re testifying in opposition to this $25?
MS. BARRY: I think, thank you for that question.  Ithink we really need to look into the whole
way the Kula Ag Park is run much deeper to understand if the leases are being paid
currently. How much food is being produced? Where, where, where the money would
actually benefit the County, if these leases were increased? And what is the impact to
our smaller food farmers? I think it's premature, before we have a lot of, a lot more
information about how things are actually being run for them.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, and then hopefully, Mr. Kaeo Ornellas is
available. I'm hoping that the tenants are aware that the Council has discussed
potentially increasing the rates. Because I would hate for them to find out when their
bill comes at that moment, and at that moment, the Council won't be able to help
already.
And to answer Member Paltin's question, the condition of 12 acres or less, so if any of
the Kula Ag Park lessees have more than 12 acres, then that may be a disqualifying
criteria. Mahalo, Ms. Barry. Mahalo, Chair.
MS. BARRY: I have, I have one thing to follow-up.  Idid ask Mr. Ornellas about how the
tenants were contacted? And he said he personally reached out to everyone via phone
and email. So, there was a full, you know, information shared with them about this.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for that information, Ms. Barry. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Barry.
MS. BARRY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Elle
Cochran. To be followed by Steve MacKinnon.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 57
CHAIR LEE; Welcome, Ms. Cochran.
MS. ELLE COCHRAN [testifying of County Communication No. 22-128; Committee Report
No. 22-42; Resolution Nos. 22-60. 22-99, 22-105. 22-127. 22-128, 22-129. 22-135,
22-136, 22-137. 22-138. 22-139. 22-140, 22-141. 22-142. 22-143 & 22-144; and
Bill Nos. 69 f2Q22). 85 (2022). 86 (2022). 87 (2022). 91 (2022). 93 (2022). 94 (2022),
& 95 (2022)1;
Hello. Aloha. Members, please don't be afraid. I was going through to particularly
speak on the Ma'alaea Wastewater Treatment Plant and went through the nine pages
of your agenda and came up with like 15 plus items. I'm not going to speak to each,
all of them, I'm going to condense it, so let me begin.
One, I am super supportive the Halau of ‘Oiwi Art. I recall back on the Council that
started the discussion and now to see it come this far is awesome. So, thank you for
that.
I did want to speak on the ceremonial resolution, but had issues trying to log in, as I'm
not that techy savvy still. And, you know, we are the extinction capital of the world, so
keeping attention on this subject is dire.
CC 22-128, about the County Auditor assessment of ZAED is, is very crucial and has
been needed for probably decades.
And moving on, I'm going to just condense all of this. The various resos between 22-60
all the way up to 22-142 has reference to, you know, volunteers from our community
onto boards and commissions. So I just want to mahalo everybody who takes the time
out of their busy lives to, to, you know, put their heart, soul, and effort into joining our
boards and commissions as volunteers, not paid, you know, representatives of
particular entities.
Resolution 22-143, the designation of Wailuku Town as an arts district. That, this is
awesome,
happen for Lahaina Town, to designate it as like  avery culturally significant historical
place, and 1 mean arts, the arts world pride is in, in Lahaina Town also. So if it gives it
that much more protection and, you know, significance, and enhance education on, on
that, then I'm all for it.
Never heard, you know, of this concept before. I would love to see that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 58
Resolution 22-144, this is supporting proposing the question on the ballot, establishing
the Planning Commissions? Yes. And thank you to Professor Dick Mayer for clarifying
the finer points of it. And I’m very, very supportive of pushing that forward.
For second and final readings, Bill 91, the mapping and protection of wetlands, I believe
is very imperative. I think, you know, we would not be in the predicaments that we are
today, having built on wetlands. And, you know, it would have been, put us in a better
situation today, and this also can add towards the protection of our species, you know,
our endangered species and their critical and sensitive habitats. So, that is definitely a
must.
Bill 93, relating to the homeowners' exemptions.  Imahalo you folks for, for putting this
forward. I personally have been able to benefit from this. So, I completely appreciate
you folks creating that homeowners exemption.
Bill 94, this is the Maui Food Hub, I believe receiving 259,000, Bill 94 and 95. Yes, I
support this service. I utilize it weekly and I've seen it grow, and for me, I'm so happy
to be a part of this, you know, program, which builds the circular economy that we all
need and it also supports our local farmers and local businesses. So, thank you. Thank
you for that.
Bills 85, 86, and 87 has to do with all the countywide equipment items. And I saw there
was a little mini refuse manual truck for West Maui. So, I know having been
Infrastructure Chair, dealing with Solid Waste, Public Works, all of the entities in West
Maui, they always ask for pertinent justified items that they need. So please continue
the support of what those departments ask for, because I have firsthand experience.
They, they don't ask for a whole lot. they ask for what they really need.
Bill 69 is, I support the three budget items that three different districts put in for the
Ho'omahua Initiative. Paulo Faleafine, Jr. testified to this earlier. So. mahalo
Councilmember Sinenci, from East Maui for the 10,000, on page 16. Mahalo,
Councilmember Kelly King, of South Maui for 25,000 on page 18 of the budget doc.
And mahalo to Councilmember Paltin for the 50,000 out of West Maui on page 19. So,
mahalo you guys. And again, Paulo did mention the funds that you folks are supporting
has allowed him to, you know, open up doors of opportunity. And, I'm so excited for
him and all of us, cause this is really going to work wonders for us in reference to smart
tourism and management of tourism.
It was brought to my attention that the Kihei Grip facility project is still in this budget.
And I don't know if you recall, but I, it's stuck in my head, because it's probably the
most nightmare item I ever had to deal with on my last budget there at the Council.
And at the time, real briefly, it was asked of $13 million to do this project. I spoke about.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 59
I had it referred to my Committee, lEM and the project never needed to be done then,
and if it did need to be done it would only, it should only cost $250,000. There was a
study, I mean, everything, and it's a proven fact that it's not needed to be done again.
That's about four years ago. What is the situation today with the facility? But I really,
really believe that multi-million of dollars for this is not needed. So 1 would definitely
take it out, or revisit or something. But again, huge nightmare for me on that one.
But the main reason why I went through this agenda was to talk about Ma'alaea
Wastewater Treatment Facility. And I am in full support for that and you know, people
might think oh, it's just for the Ma'alaea people, the condo dwellers there, that only
specific community. No, it goes beyond that. Right, Ma'alaea Bay and the oceans and
nearshore waters and fisheries affect everyone and everything. And this can go
towards our cultural practitioners. Limu, fish, you know, the gathering opportunities
that have been, you know, decimated or at least negatively impacted by injection wells,
which I'm keenly aware of with the whole West Maui issue. So I'm super supportive
and I want to thank all the decision makers, Councilmember Kelly King and I know Kai
Kahele, Congressman Kai Kahele, Roz Baker, Angus McKelvey have all had a part in
this. And I got, can i have a minute to conclude my-
CHAIR LEE: Please, please go ahead.
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you. Thank you. Chair. And you know, for me, this is, we can be a
part of, you all, we all can be a part of you know leaving something better than, than
what we found. And, and the destruction to Ma'alaea Bay, I feel is not a lost cause,
but we need to turn the tide on that. And this project will help, you know, be part of that
solution. So, I applaud everyone who had brought this item this far and seeked out
funds from all different levels to make this happen. Oh, Mahi Pono I believe donated
some land, or has, whatever has land available to make this project happen. So, with
all of that being said. Members, I believe I touched on every single thing 1 wanted to at
this time. So, thank you for listening.
CHAIR LEE: Very good, you haven't lost your touch. Members, do you have any questions?
If not, thank you, Elle, good seeing you.
MS. COCHRAN: Alright. Thank you. Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: We have a question.
Member Paltin.
MS. COCHRAN: And thank you, Members.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 60
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin has a question.
MS. COCHRAN: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, former Councilmember Emeritus
Cochran. I just wanted to clarify that part of your support of Ma'alaea wastewater
treatment, is that the water that is being injected is not even to the standard of Lahaina
injection wells. And so for people that came out against Lahaina injection wells, this
water that is polluting it is not even to that standard. Is that what you're saying?
MS. COCHRAN: Yep. Yes. That is true. And so yeah,  alot more damage has been done,
and we need to address it? You know, 1 mean, I think it's imperative that we deal with
this now and it sounds like we have some great opportunities to do so. And I’m in
whole-hearted support of that.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. And the one other clarification, I didn't see the
wetlands for second and final reading. I just saw that for referral to committee. Was
it, I think maybe the resolution above was second and final reading. And then there
was another sub header of just bills, and then in our annotated it says, for referral, I
believe, is, is that™
MS. COCHRAN: Yeah maybe 1 overlooked that. Sorry. But yeah, thanks for that clarification.
So yeah, referral is good. I'll keep an eye on it and be a part of the discussions for
sure. So, thank you, thank you for that clarification. Mahalo everybody for all your
work. Thank you for surviving the budget. Did it many times. I've been there, done
that.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, Ellie, you'll be happy to hear that we
didn’t have any midnight meetings this budget session, maybe you'll be envious? But
I just wanted to let you know that the wetlands restoration bill wil be coming back to my
Committee, to the CARE Committee mid June. So it's being referred back to
Committee. So, I'll, I'll, my office will keep you apprised so you can come and testify.
MS. COCHRAN: Great. Thank you. Alright, aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you everybody. No more questions. Alright, thank you. Member
Cochran.
MS. COCHRAN: Thank you, Chair Lee. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 61
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Before we go on to our next
testifier, would it be possible to give us a short break, bathroom break not only for us,
but for staff? Before we continue.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, any objections to taking a short recess and returning at 12:00
noon?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Short recess until 12 noon. Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez did
you have your hand up?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just heard from one of the testifiers
that they won't be available. If we could consider one of the testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Are they next in line?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: After the next one.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, you want to take just one more and then maybe take the
person who has to leave? Yeah, we're going to have to, you know, jump the line a little
bit here.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, who is the individual who needs to leave? Is it Autumn
Ness?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then the next testifier is Autumn Ness.
MS. AUTUMN NESS ftestifvina on Bill No. 94 (2022)1:
Hey you guys. I, I am so sorry. I am waiting for Mana's parent teacher conference
right now. I'm like do you choose kid or Maui Hub, Im not sure? Thank you so much
for letting me jump the line.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 62
I am here talking about Bill 94, amending the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget as it pertains to
OED and Maui Food Hub. I want to clarify that l‘m  apart-time staff member for
Councilmember Johnson. However, I'm not working for him today, I'm here today in
my role as a volunteer to the Maui Hub as the board Vice President.
You know that we have a grant agreement in this current fiscal year, not next fiscal
year, with OED, with funding approved by you folks during the last budget session;
right? So not this last one.
Last budget session, we were approved for $259,000 grant to pay for large upfront
capital expenses and grovrth. When we wrote that last year, the request, we were
really specific in our request about the amount approved for each thing, such as
125,000 for a 16 foot refrigerated box truck, and 50,000 for a refrigerated van, and
5,000 for electrical work for AC power that would connect those vehicles to a long-term
power feed. Very specific. The funding, the good news is the funding has meant we
could really grow the kind of infrastructure that our local food system needs and set our
farmers and our businesses up for long-term success. So thank you so much.
The challenge right now is that since these specific line items were approved a year
ago, costs of just about everything has fluctuated and we've been unable to source a
truck and van that fits into these cost brackets. We spent months looking all over the
U.S. and we just can't find anything. The cost of chill vans has gone way up, probably
because of deliveries related to pandemic, new pandemic style businesses. And
ironically the cost of box trucks have gone down, maybe because gas prices are
expensive. Labor costs for electrical work have gone way up so like finding items that
fit into the boxes has been really challenging.
Bill 94 would delete the conditions, the specific dollar amounts for each item and allow
flexibility for us to use the grant funds. I want to be clear that the purposes for grant
funds remain the same. We still need to purchase two chill vehicles, we may end up
going with a van that's more expensive and a truck that's less expensive. And we may
end up saving money collectively on the two vehicles and actually spending more on
the electric labor. But the intent is the same, the items purchased by the grant funds
will remain the same, because our needs and our goals are the same. We just need
some wiggle room with the amounts because so much of the market is changing every
single day and we need to be able to buy things when they're available.
I'm here to answer questions and as always. I'm so appreciative of your support of the
Hub over the years. And lastly, I really want to invite you guys to come down to the
facility and see how exciting it is to see all the food coming in and out.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 63
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Are there any questions for Ms. Ness? Apparently not. So, good to see
you.
MS. NESS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. See you. Bye. Okay. Members, now we can have our little recess to
let's make it 12:05, okay? Any objections? Recess until l2:05.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 11:51 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 12:08 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting and Public Hearing of May 26, 2022 please reconvene.
And Mr. Clerk, let's continue with public testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next individual signed up to testify is Steve
MacKinnon. To be followed by Scott Rollins.
MR. STEVE MACKINNON. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICE MAUI HUMANE SOCIETY
(testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42V
Good afternoon. Chairman Lee and Councilmembers. I'm Steve MacKinnon, l‘m the
Chief Executive Officer for Maui Humane Society.
Just wanted to ask for your consideration of just changing some language with the
Animal Revolving Fund. Just a quick background, the Animal Revolving Fund is
actually supported by dog license fees. And each year for the past large number of
years, the Council has put $120,000 towards Maui Humane Society for the purchase
of two vehicles. And since I've been on board about two and half years ago, the
Department that we work with, County Council, County attorneys have all expressed a
strong interest in us taking over the fleet.
Right now, the, the concern has been, is that we have non-County employees driving
County vehicles, so I definitely understand the liability concerns and all. So, we've
been slowly doing that over the past couple of years. We're about two-thirds of the
way there, of the eleven vehicles in the animal control fleet. Three of them now still
remain as County vehicles and we hope to be able to change that over within the next
year or two. Right now, the Animal Revolving Fund has specific language that only
allows two vehicles to be purchased every year. And that's kind of limiting our ability
to move towards that goal of taking over the entire fleet.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 64
In the past, that $120,000 was used just to purchase two vehicles where they
essentially build the animal control vehicles off-island with special vendors, have them
shipped over, and that used up the entire 120,000. The past two years we've been
using those same funds to purchase vehicles on island and equip them and set them
up ourselves, and we've been allowed to be able to quicken the turnover of the fleet,
and then be able to take control ourselves.
What we're suggesting the Council consider the Animal Revolving Fund, rather than
having the language just as two vehicles per year, is we're asking just that the language
be changed to allow purchase of vehicles, animal control vehicles and related
equipment. If that was done, that would allow us to purchase the vehicles, change
over the fleet so we don't have vehicles now that the County vehicles are well over
250,000 miles. And the additional funds, the additional equipment that will be referred
to within the fund will allow us the changeover cost.
When we retire a vehicle, we have to remove the radio and equipment from that vehicle
and install it in the new vehicle, install radios, emergency lightning, and additional
equipment in the vehicle. All this cost more than just the purchase of the vehicle itself.
So we just ask consideration of the Council to change that language to allow us just
that 120,000 for the purchase of animal control vehicles and the related equipment.
That will expedite the changeover and really allow a cost effective approach in having
those vehicles in control of the Maui Humane Society. So thank you for your
consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Mr. MacKinnon. Mahalo
again for your understanding in allowing Ms. Ness to testify before you.
MR. MACKINNON: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: My question for your testimony is, did you send this
in writing, and if you didn't, will you please send it to me.
MR. MACKINNON: I submitted it as written testimony as well. We did talk to Department of
Housing and Human Concerns, they supported that. The Budget Director supported
that. But it was the County attorney that, unsure that they were uncomfortable with
changing that language. But I have submitted it as written testimony as well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 65
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for that response, Mr. MacKinnon. Mahalo
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. MacKinnon for your
testimony.
I would just ask that you please don't leave West Maui out. I heard from one of our
former Councilmembers other than Member Cochran that they feel that West Maui is
being underserved. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other clarifying questions. Members? If not, thank you very much
Mr. MacKinnon.
MR. MACKINNON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Scott
Rollins. To be followed by Kyle Caires.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. SCOTT ROLLINS (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
Good morning. Thank you for hearing my testimony today. I'm testifying on item 22-42
item 5, the Ma'aiaea Regional Wastewater System.
Got a lot of things to say, I'll say it kind of briefly. Maybe you'll have questions when
I'm done. I think you're rushing in pretty much early to this. By the way. I'm Scott
Rollins, I'm Wastewater Reclamation Division Chief. I think you're rushing into this
prematurely trying to just throw it in the budget. I think it needs more discussion with
the Committee.
There a lot of things we need to consider before building a system down there. I think
one thing you need to think about, this is going to set precedence for other systems,
other infrastructure in the County. If we're going to bail out this community, other
communities are going to come in. Whether it be treatment facilities, sewer systems.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 66
storm drains, roads, etc., there are other systems that need help that are going to be
looking for the County to help out.
Also, the cost for this, $9.5 million. I've only seen the one-page document that says
this is 9.5, I haven't been able to find anything that kind of breaks that down into a
better estimate. There was a Brown and Caldwell study for Ma'alaea done in 2019,
their cost were, were 23 million. That's kind of what we've looked at when we looked
at the system also. So I don't think the 9.5 is, is adequate for this type of project, and
I don't think you can do it in a year. If this is going to be County money, then we're
going to have to go through an EIS process, which is easily a year, so you're not going
to encumber that money.
I think you really need to go through a PER with this to determine what is the best way
to attack this, whether it's a treatment plant or simply pumping to the Central Maui plant
we're already planning and in process of doing. Plus, that's the better alternative, we
don't have to operate another treatment plant, we don't have to maintain another
treatment plant, much easier to run pump stations and maintain them. We'd also be
going to a facility where we used to be, could be easily distributed in the end.
So, if the subdivision has to be done for the actual site to do either pump stations or
treatment plant, that will take a while to do. Operational facility, we have trouble just
getting operators to fill our positions for treatment plants we have on island, so having
another treatment plant would put another burden on the County as well.
You talked about the funding; I know you're talking about SRF funding for this project.
So the last I looked a couple of weeks ago, this project wasn't on the priority list for this
year with the State, so that's one hurdle you have to get over. If you're going to do
SRF funding, you have to do all that environmental processing which is normally taken
care of with most of the EIS, so that's well over  ayear. There's no way you're going to
encumber this money, you're really setting up the County for failure by trying to put this
money in the budget at this point.
If we had a better discussion through Committee then we could determine if this was
the right course of action to do. Which way we wanted to go, and I'm sure you could
do a budget amendment later during the summer or other times.
So, and I think you can get a PER done in a year, you may be able to start design but
really we typically don't start design until we get in the EIS process so I'm pretty sure
what we're doing. That's all I have for you today, if you have questions, we can go
through that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 67
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you. Mr. Rollins for your testimony.
I just was wondering; this is not property tax money that we're putting in. We're putting
in a SRF application money, so if we put it in, it's then on the Administration to go for
it. And it hasn't been made super clear to me that the Council can initiate budget
amendments after the budget has been passed. I know that we did try to do that for
the parking lot, but it's not super clear when, and when the Council cannot, when they
and when they cannot initiate a budget amendment. So, it's seems to me I'm not
clear why you're opposed to putting in the ability to apply for a State Revolving Fund
at this point when once we put it in the budget, it's ultimately on the Administration to
apply for it or not, so I'm not clear on that. But I am clear that I'm not clear when the
Council can initiate a budget amendment and I'm not sure if you're clear on that either.
can
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Rollins.
MR. ROLLINS: Okay, good comment and a good question. I agree. I don't know the process
exactly we have to go through. But it seems we did discuss it in a Committee meeting
and then we could introduce a budget amendment if that was the case. And while you
brought it up, the funding part also, I mean even if we get an SRF loan, someone has
to repay that loan at some point, right? So, so right now it would come out of sewer
money, and it would be the existing sewer users. I'm not sure that's the appropriate
place we want to, to pay for all these improvements, right? Whether it be the taxpayers
or bigger tax base or it's, or in my opinion maybe a community facilities district might
be the funding for Ma'alaea to fund it for themselves even though the County would
own and operate it in the end. That way the burden is not on, on just our sewer users.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I guess, I, I think it's not clear either of us if the
Council can initiate a budget amendment and we're not sure who the Administration
will be into the future, and so 1 think that this is a safer way to not cut off the
opportunities and still look into it and still have further discussion in Committee as you
recommended. And so, thank you for your comments.
CHAIR LEE: Questions?
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 68
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you very much Mr. Rollins for being here. So,
9.5 million to build a system for Ma'alaea, is that enough money? Whether it was State
Revolving Fund or anything, is that enough money to build a-
MR. ROLLINS: That's a good question. Based on what I’ve seen, 1 don't believe that's enough
money. I think whether you build a treatment plant or if we just build a conveyance
system to the other treatment plant we're building, I still think it's going to be $23 million
before we get that done.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, how would we, this is  acommittee. You know. Chair,
if you want you can send this to my Committee for discussion, I would love to take this
up. Cause 1 have questions for Mr. Rollins and he's the expert to me and I'll withhold
any more questions until we get further. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Rollins. Mahalo for your
testimony today. I'm sorry I missed it.
How much did you project that the project would cost from start to end?
MR. ROLLINS: After reviewing the Brown and Caldwell 2019 study and then putting our own
numbers to that, we think it would be around 23 million.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 22 or 23?
MR. ROLLINS: 23.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 23. Okay. And did you do like a rough estimate on
how, how long it would take to, to finish?
MR. ROLLINS: We did do a rough schedule and it looks like it would be completed about the
same time our Central Maui treatment plant comes on-line. Would be sometime by
late 2028, early 2029.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Alright. I know this is kind of committee work,
but this is something that's already in the budget. These are important facts and figures
to consider.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 69
So, with the ending date 2028-2029, when did you project that it would start. Because
I know like as you said in your testimony, if this is a County project it will require an
EIS. The EIS takes about a year, so planning, permitting, design and then start and
then, start construction, end construction.
MR. ROLLINS: Start construction about May 2027.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, the planning, permitting, and design would
start like next year and would take four years?
MR. ROLLINS: Yeah, I think we looked at-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, point of order. This sounds like it's getting into committee
work and facts and figures that are one-sided at this point.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Just, questions just be pertain to clarification.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, they're clarifying. He testified on that. And so
I'm getting an understanding based on his testimony, he said it would take longer. And
so. I'm getting a better understanding of what is longer.
CHAIR LEE: No, no go ahead. Finish your clarification questions and then I'll see if anybody
else has questions. But it is true, you know, we're not going to debate the issue but
we're just, if you're inquiring as to what he said and you wanted an explanation, then
please continue.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And  Ido agree with Member King
that, you know, this is committee work and we should take it to committee for further
discussion so that we're not doing this in public testimony.
Mr. Rollins, did you, did you have that starting date for planning, permitting, design?
MR. ROLLINS: Yeah. If this was in this year's budget, I think we'd start primary engineering
this fall after the budget comes into play. We'll start the environmental impact report
mid next year, and then design would follow towards the end of that. So, the design
would probably initiate in 2025, monies in FY 25-26 Budget.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Got it. Okay, mahalo for that clarification, Mr. Rollins.
Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 70
CHAIR LEE; Anymore questions, Members? Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Rollins.
Next testifier, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have to testify is Kyle Caires. To be
followed by Mahina Poepoe.
MR. KYLE CAIRES (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
Thank you. Chair. Hope you all are doing well. I'm here today to talk about item 3621
and chapter 2204, related to the rental of the Kula Ag Park. As some of you may know,
we called a special committee of the Kula Ag Park, of which I'm testifying as chair.
On May 23, 2022, at 5:00 p.m., that meeting got off to a really rocky start. Very
frustrating. We weren't able to start the meeting till about 20 minutes in due to technical
difficulties. Luckily many of our Kula Ag Park tenants reached out to committee
members both prior to that meeting, and we had a fair amount of ag park committee
members and tenants connect.
Councilmember Sugimura broke down the proposal for the rate increase from $100 to
$125. You know, farmers can't agree on anything, whether it's what to plant, when to
plant, how to plant, how to water, how much water, when to water, eh, what time of
day, how do we even plant seasonally. But the vote was unanimous in terms of a
committee recommendation and that's just all it is, it's a committee recommendation to
not move with a rate increase at this time but to please refer it back to committee so
the stakeholders can be involved in the discussion.
The $25 per acre increase, urn. I'm paraphrasing, it's not a deal breaker for many of
the, many of the tenants and they understand it would apply to, you know, people who
have steps in their contracts and/or new, new leases with new lessees. I think their
concern is they would entertain and be okay with  aland increase relative, or an
increase in land usage fee if some concessions could be made on the ag water use
rates. And, you know, water that's a whole other can of worms, but I'm just conveying
the, the consensus that committee came to. And any questions that you may have, I'd
be glad to take and not use up all of my time. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Questions, Members?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 71
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Sorry, I pressed the wrong button.
Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Caires for your testimony. I was wondering when
you said refer to committee before decision being made, did you have a preference as
to which committee or would you say that Agriculture, Public Trust one?
MR. CAIRES: Yeah, I mean I think, I think that would be, that would be suitable. My opinion
on this is what committee it's referred to isn't necessarily as important as the people
who are available to participate in the discussion.
I think the ag and trust, that would be an appropriate, appropriate place. You know,
we have stakeholders that are willing to contribute to that discussion and I think, you
know, I think there's a general understanding that, you know, the price of everything
has increased. Fertilizer, . . . plastic, you know, water, even shipping, like logistics,
seed. Everything is going up, inflation, you know, we could spend three hours talking
about all that you know, land use--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Clarify when you said, it's not important to what committee, but
more the people who can show up to the committee. Is that, you know, I know that a
lot of farmers work during the day, like is that to imply maybe a evening committee
meeting time or something?
MR. CAIRES: Yeah. I agree with what you had mentioned. Agriculture committee and Public
Trust, that's a good, that's probably a good place. Any attempts could be made to
schedule the meeting or you know, a follow-up meeting at 5:00 p.m., or after that, I
think you have a much better chance at farmer participation. In a, in a nutshell,
compared to what may have happened twenty years ago, because so many of our
farmers are targeting the fresh market. You know, they're planting and harvesting
almost every single day, and in many cases due to like workforce issues, they're also
the ones making the deliveries in many cases. So, for most of them from like 4:00 in
the morning sometimes to 4:30 in the afternoon, you know, they’re road warriors.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Caires, thank you. I think you answered her
question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Caires. Thank you. Chair.
MR. CAIRES: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 72
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Dr. Caires for being here. And you said the
meeting started at 5:20, I was there as well as Kaeo, or Patrick Kaeo Ornellas. Do you
know when it ended? Because people are saying today that they tried to log in but
they couldn't cause, for whatever reason. But I think we had the meeting and we ended
with one committee agenda item. Do you remember what time it ended? 1 don't.
MR. CAIRES: Off the top of my head, I do not. I think it was around 6:30, I know at the time
of adjournment, I think I made mention of the time. So there should be a time mark in
the recording.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
MR. CAIRES: I can't tell you when.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I don't remember either. But anyway, I just wanted
to say, you chaired the meeting, that it did happen, number one. Number two is I
apologize for the people who tried to sign in and they couldn't. Number three is that I
also have the Kula Ag Park in my Committee, and 1 would love to hear it also. And
also, I am the Council representative on the Kula Ag Park Committee, so I guess it's
more like the Chair or the Members that i would really be interested in taking this up
and doing, doing like what you did, an evening meeting so that the tenants, the Kula
Ag Park tenants could then attend and hear their, let their voices be heard. Cause I
think that was also mentioned as being important.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you very much. Dr. Caires.
CHAIR LEE: We'll take that up when the time comes.
MR. CAIRES: Yeah, 1 would agree. And I think having diverse representation, we have, you
know, we had two seats on the Kula Ag Park that we are awaiting confirmation of those
individuals by the Council. You know, I think once we get back to our full deck, it would
be good, but I would encourage Farm Bureau, Farm Union, Ag Working Group, you
know, anyone invested in agriculture to attend that meeting and share their
contributions.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
MR. CAIRES: Before I'm done, I just want to thank all you guys for supporting agriculture,
whether it be plant or animal base, or in the case of, you know, some of the value
added here in the islands, is keeping the beauty that makes Maui great.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 73
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Dr. Caires. Mahalo for your
testimony today.
I was one of the ones that Member Sugimura was talking about that tried to attend. I
was asked to attend as the Budget Chair, because this was an amendment during
budget session. And I was really interested in hearing the feedback regarding this
proposal. And so, I was on and so was the nominee, Mr. Bobby Pahia and everyone
was chatting and talking about, you know, if Mr. Ornellas contacted everyone, as well
as Ms. Barry and no one checked on that link and that link never started. So, my
clarifying question is what link was that meeting on?
MR. CAIRES: The link was on the meeting that went, went out via invite that Kaeo sent
everybody. 1 know Bobby did connect and when my computer was on for part of the,
part of the meeting, he did participate in the chat saying that, you know, he had to leave
for another meeting, but he would be right back. It's really frustrating that those
technical difficulties did happen because it stymied the, you know, the overall spirit. I
mean, I think everybody was ready and willing during that time, we had quite a few
phone calls by individuals asking what was going on and you know, myself, Joanne,
Councilmember Sugimura, and Kaeo all tried to respond. But yeah, those technical
difficulties were a little bit of a rough start.  Ithink that was maybe one of the first times.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo. And I agree with Member Sugimura in
having a more robust discussion on this item.
Mahalo, Dr. Caires. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else. Members? If not, thank you very much, Dr. Caires
MR. CAIRES: Mahalo. Thank you, guys.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Mahina Poepoe. To
be followed by Kai Nishiki.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 74
MS. MAHINA POEPOE (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42):
My name is Mahina Poepoe, from MolokaiHi, good evening, Councilmembers.
testifying on my time and on my own behalf.
I first wanted to commend you all on a job well done with the budget and the process
so far. I am here to speak on a specific budget item that I disagree with. So, I'll get
started. My husband is a firefighter stationed at the Puko‘o Fire Station on Molokai in
Manae . So, I want to just make very clear that I'm not testifying on his behalf but as a
trusted and well respected community leader, an advocate in Manae.
I'm here to express to you all that I do not support the funding for the reallocation
position from firefighter to captain at Puko'o. I find that it essentially acts as a placebo
effect with no practical benefit. I would however be in full support of an expansion
position that adds a captain in addition to the existing driver and firefighter. Our
community in Manae has never expressed the need for a reallocation position, but has
in fact expressed the need for an expanded captain's position. Because an expanded
position actually makes the functional immeasurable diffence by adding manpower and
adding that additional body which the reallocation does not do. The reallocation does
not address the issue of limited manpower.
I understand that the Council isn't able to have  afull discussion for every single item in
the budget and move really quickly through it. I know that a couple of questions for
this topic were submitted to the Department in writing and I found that the responses
provided were really short, they basically said that the current staffing is outdated and
they don't have the supervision of the captain. Other reasons cited, at the Fire
Commission and like in the newspaper, included statements that like the current staff
had too many responsibilities and not enough training, things like that. I don't think that
these kind of statements should just be accepted at face value. I think we deserve a
different analysis prior to funding like, you know, what specific responsibilities is too
much and what training is not, has not been provided? We spend alot of money on
training every year. So the current personnel in Manae even removed of my husband,
I think is the best we've ever had. I, I think that the decision to ask for the reallocation
was not well thought through.
So, I have three actions for your consideration in order of preference. The first would
be to remove the funds for the reallocation and to add funds for an expanded captain's
postion which would increase the personnel from two to three. If that's not going to
happen, number two would be to remove the funds for reallocation and to leave the
current staffing as it currently is. And if that's not going to happen, consider requiring
the Department to come to committee for a fuller discussion prior to releasing the funds.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 75
If, you know, if the firefighter position does end up going away in this budget then
restoring it will be a priority for me next year, in this next year. It‘s something that I'll
fight for but it's frustrating to have to put so much time and energy into fixing a mistake.
I'd rather just not let the mistake happen.
I‘m about to wrap up. 1 know at this point it‘s like Hail Mary time, it‘s not the coolest to
be asking you to change things at this point, but l‘m here and Tm asking and what's
the worse that could happen. I do have more detailed testimony that I can submit an
email and l‘ll conclude by just saying thank you so much for your time and for the
sacrifices you make in the work that you do. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you and we do have a question.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Poepoe for your testimony.
I was wondering if you could clarify, if not the salary for the captain and what the
existing firefighter position is or the difference between the two, in dollars?
MS. POEPOE: I believe the request. I can't clarify that for you, like right now totally. But I
believe it's like $90,000 of a difference in the reallocation. To add a position, I know it
would be significantly more. I don't have numbers, so I can't. But I can look it up and
I can submit it with my written testimony.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And then I guess my second clarifying question is even
if we were to move the money around, the amounts at which we don't know right now,
I don't know that this would preclude that from happening. In previous years, we've
seen a captain at ocean safety get removed and what they just did was take one of the
lieutenant positions and make that be a captain. So, I don't know if, I don't know if you
are sure that adjusting the money that we give to them will preclude what you're saying
you want to happen. Because once we give them the money, it's just a "A" category
and "B" and "C" category and then it seems like they've done what they wanted on the
ocean safety side.
So, are you sure that by adjusting the money, that what you want to happen, will
happen?
MS. POEPOE: Now that you've put it that way, no. But, you know, I just, I just, really wanted
to say what I had to say.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 76
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Okay. I just, I mean, I, l‘ve seen something similar
happen on the other side and, and it didn't happen the way that people thought it would
happen. So, I just wasn't sure if you had known something that I didn't know.
MS. POEPOE: No. I think you knew something that I didn't know. Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Poepoe. Mahalo foryour
testimony today.
To clarify the part in your testimony where you said it wasn't thought through. Was this
idea brought to the Commission on Fire and Public Safety?
MS. POEPOE; I believe that at the April commission meeting, they did do a presentation that,
you know, went over the, employee relocation as well as the reallocation position. So
they did talk about it at the commission briefly.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay, okay. What was the feedback from the
commission? Supportive or?
MS. POEPOE; Welt, there wasn't much feedback but there was one commissioner who did
question, you know, why not add a position to make it a three-man station rather than
making it remain a two-man station. Cause it's still, it's just going from firefighter/driver
to driver/captain and it doesn't address the manpower issue.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for that clarification, Ms. Poepoe. Mahalo
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions? If not, thank you very much.
MS. POEPOE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Kai Nishiki. To be
followed by Faith Chase.
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 77
MS. KAI NISHIKI [testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42: Resolution No. 22-139 and
Bill No. 92 (2022)]:
Hi. Hello Chair, Councilmembers. Kai Nishiki testifying on my own behalf. I'm
testifying on three items today starting with K5, Bill 73.
i am really shocked and I can't really see why the County is supporting these short
term rental owners at Ma'alaea. It really, really sets a bad precidence. According to
the DOH, Department of Health, Wastewater website there are more than
12,000 cesspools on Maui and more than 1,400 on Molokai. Many of those are close
to our shorelines, especially in West Maui, negatively affecting the reef. As was
reported by Maui Now, Peter Martin, the new wannabe developer of Ma'alaea Mauka
lands, was fined a $100,000 last summer by the EPA for his illegal large capacity
cesspool at his wedding and luau business at Olowalu Plantation which is on the
shoreline affecting our mother reef at Olowalu.
Is the County going to help pay for a wastewater treatment facility for Peter Martin in
Olowalu too? Or to help the over 12,000 other local families on Maui and Molokai with
their cesspools? We have condos falling in the ocean in West Maui, is the County
going to pay for that too? Just last year, I had Ma'alaea condo owners calling me
because their one condo association authorized a $3 million seawall fix and were
assessing each condo between 40,000 and 100,000 based on square footage. So,
obviously the condo associations know how to invest in costly and futile seawalls, but
they refuse to do that for their own wastewater treatment facility.
I  believe that the County is supporting these short-term rentals by investing in
infastructure that will only further entrench them instead of focusing on strategic
relocation and managed retreat.
The County spent a couple hundred thousand dollars last year already and I think that
they're suppose to be spending even more than that through the Planning Department
on our coastal resiliency plan for Ma'alaea that still needs to present its findings to the
public later on this year. It makes far more sense to remove this from the budget and
send it to committee, I mean, you guys see we're having committee discussions on the
floor. Councilmembers are saying that, thank you Kelly King, and Yuki, and Keani.
And, you know, it's an opportunity to come up with a more cohesive plan incorporating
a waste solution that is more equitable, such as  aCFD, Community Facilities District
to have the condo owners pay for the cost. It seems at a minimum there should be
conditions placed on the project to incentivize strategic relocation of the buildings and
not provide them reasons to stay on the shoreline.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 78
I just find it so odd that we're propping up these aging, failing condos. Look at the
pictures, go down there and check it out, with County and State money. And the condo
owners are horrible. They block shoreline access. They are not kind to residents.
Obviously, they've been polluting and destroying our reef and, you know, now they're
going to ask even for additional millions to propose beach nourishment, which is
sucking sand off the reef to make pretty beaches for their tourist customers and the
County is left literally holding the dodo bag for these pampered poodles.
So, 1 know, that the Council has good intentions with the reef, and the water, and the
bay, and the whales, and the turtles, and look, I'm the biggest environmentalist but
there has to be some responsibility taken by those that have been doing the polluting.
You know? It, it makes, it makes sense and thank you very much. I, if I could just
conclude. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. NISHIKI: Please remove this from the budget. Refer it to committee for discussion on a
more equitable way of paying for this. And you know, the County has already invested
hundreds of thousands of dollars into this proposed retreat plan that you guys haven't
even been able to look at. So, I just feel there needs to be a more cohesive,
comprehensive, inclusive plan more well thought out. And, you know, DEM has said,
you know, we have some time on this. So I think that's the best thing. Thank you.
I'll move onto L, 22-139. And this is for Maui Planning Commission appointment of
Wayne Hedani to the, for the Maui Planning Commission. Wayne Hedani has been a
friend for many years. We collaborate on a lot of things. Hedani was chosen by the
Mayor and his advisors to, you know, we've had testimony from Ipo Mossman, who
said, you know because he works in Lahaina, his contribution is knowledge based,
even though he lives in Wailuku. And just like based on that, like Tiare Lawrence
applied a couple months ago, she lives Upcountry, but she's from West Maui, she has
knowledge base that would be valuable on the planning commission.
So there are other people and I'd like to bring up the point that the Maui Planning
Commission acts as the authority in all matters relating to coastal zone management
law. Shoreline issues don’t go to the Mayor. They don't go to you folks on the Council.
They go to the Planning Commission. And one of the most important and significant
natural resources of the County of Maui is its shoreline environment.
The Maui Planning Commission is getting ready to amend the shoreline and SMA rules,
which regulate the use and activities on land within the shoreline environment to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the public by providing minimum protection from
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 79
known coastal hazards and to ensure that the public use and enjoyment of our
shorelines are preserved and protected for future generations.
Scientist have been warning us for years to get ready for sea level rise, extreme
weather events, and severe coastal erosion, and we have been very slow to respond
appropriately, which contributes to further degradation of our resources, Ma'alaea.
There are proposals to utilize the 3.2-foot sea level rise as a planning and legal
instrument adopting the erosion hazard line and looking at new shoreline set-backs.
For these reasons, I believe it is crucial and incredibly wise to seek commissioners with
knowledge and expertise in marine sciences and coastal geology. Who really needs
a voice on the Maui Planning Commission right now? We have tons of real estate,
union, tourism, all, all of these people are, are have their voices heard, but who are we
not hearing from. The voiceless, the oceans, our reefs, our ocean creatures, our
shorelines. So I know that all of you have received an application from Mark Deakos,
from Dr. Mark Deakos who has that sort of background and it really makes sense to
urge the Mayor to put forth an applicant with some qualifications.
If I could finish. Chair? To put forth a candidate who has the qualifications who can
really serve. Someone who's voice is not heard on the commission at this time.
So, moving on to N, 92, boards and commissions. I know that this is just to be referred
to committee. Thank you, I believe Councilmember Tamara Paltin for bringing this
issue up, about making sure that someone, someone lives here who's on our boards
and commissions. But I also think that during those discussions if you could please
consider putting a requirement for a seat with, on the planning commissions for
someone with a background in CZM for all of the reasons i just kind of laid out.
And to consider shortening the, the term limits.  Ithink Councilmember Kelly King,
thank you so much for bringing that up the other day. I fully support what you said that,
you know, like it's kind of crazy that we have term limits for the Maui Planning
Commissions for like five years, or sorry, there are no terms limits and the term is five
years for planning commission, like that's longer than Council, that's longer than the
Mayor. I mean, what is this, the Supreme Court, 1 mean, hey, the planning commission
they, they do, they do put out decisions and opinions that are very, very long lasting
and important. And obviously, you know, to Dick Mayer's point about the different
proposals for that.
But I would support term limits and to shorten the term from five to maybe two or three
years. It seems a bit more appropriate and that's it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 80
Thank you for your time and thank you for working so hard for us on this budget. I
know there are a lot of things in the budget that really support our quality of life. Mahalo,
Counciimembers.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thanks a lot. Bye. Thank you.
MS. NISHIKI: Thank you. Bye. Have a great day.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Faith Chase. To
be followed by Tiare Lawrence.
MS. FAITH CHASE (testifying on County Communication No. 22-124):
Good afternoon, Chair. Good afternoon. Council. I just want to make a comment on
the grants reporting, CC 22-124, the April contracts and grants, specifically, the Maui
Nui Regenerative and Tourism Management Initiative. I don't know if next month
there's more information available on the grant deliverables, but $130,000, it concerns
me that the monies for two budget years now, you had allocated money for mediation
on the Hana Highway. And that one grant got hijacked by a Senator who is no longer
in office. Second year, it gets swung back to Maui Visitor's Bureau, and 1 just don't see
the follow through and the expenditures that make sense. So, I would just like to
earmark that for you to look into because we need to make sure that Hana Highway
gets the attention that you ail prescribed two budget sessions ago.
And I would like to mention that I'm concerned about the Constant Associates, the Maui
Emergency Management, someone is trying to knock on the door. The Maui
Emergency Management monies, I don't know what that's for? Recovery related
functional annexes but, you know, I have been really disappointed with MEMA during,
since the top of the COVID pandemic and their ability to provide. So, I'm not sure if I'm
reading that wrong. But those two things alarm me.
I'm never really happy to hear the Maui Farm Bureau allocation money, cause I don't
think that they do enough for our organic community. It's always there, $130,000 is
certainly less than it was in the past.
I really sympathize with the testifier, Scott Rollins, really good points. I look forward to
following that conversations and I know you guys can muscle through that and protect
Ma'alaea and make sure that the right people are paying for it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 81
And I also just want to say, thank you for supporting ... from EKO Compost. Because,
you know, it's a dirty job and somebody has to do it until we figure out how are we
going to deal with the trash and the sewage. Thank you so much. Bye.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions? Okay, thank you.
Member Sugimura, what was that?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I wanted to know if Faith Chase could again, just what,
what item were you talking about with the tourism regenerative and 130,000? I
scribbled notes and just wondered.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We'll get, we'll get that item number to you. Cause we're, we're heading
down the home stretch.
MS. CHASE: G5482-1.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Tiare
Lawrence. To be followed by Kamalani Pahukoa.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
(testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42 and ResolutionMS. TIARE LAWRENCE
No. 22-139V
Aloha, Councilmembers. Mahalo, for getting through that painstaking budget process
I know it was a lot of work so applaud you guys.
I wanted to testify on K.5. and what number was it, sorry L. 22-139. So, I just wanted
to testify today in strong opposition of the allocation of $9.5 million and I want to explain
why. So, I'm an Upcountry resident. Recently, I tried to take out a home equity loan
with the intention of building a ohana unit. Unfortunately because of the new law, all
of Upcountry needs to upgrade from cesspool to septic system, right? And that, and
when I went out and got bids, it's going to cost me over $30,000. So I feel a little bit, I
cannot support it because majority of those homes are short-term rentals. And here
you have a homeowner that passionately wants to build another affordable housing
unit so that I can, for the benefit of our community, but I would have to pay over
$30,000. Yet these people are asking for $9.5 million without contributing one penny.
I don't think that's right.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 82
I'm all about a treatment facility because, you know, for us at Mahi Pono we would
gladly use the R-1 and R-2 water for our crops. I think we definitely need to make
better uses of our wastewater, but to give them a free ride, I mean, I think it's just going
to open a can worms and piss a lot of people off. Because the expectations from
people like me are going to be well if they got their stuff paid for, then why don't you
help me pay for my stuff. Which I feel, Upcountry residents should have more access
to those taxpayer funds over people that are renting out their units for short-term
rentals.
So, that's my mana’o on that issue and, and quite frankly, you know, when they, they
spend a lot of money on seawalls. Perhaps they should turn around and use that
money they would spend on seawalls or fixing their seawalls on treating or building
their own facility. New developers at . . . have to build their own brand new facility,
wastewater treatment facility on site. So, why, why, we should hold them to that same
standards.
And then secondly, just to testify on the appointment to the planning commission. You
know, for people like me that are passionate, like new generation, I mean. I'm not as
young as I was, you know, but kinda turning 40 this year. But I'm like, you know,
passionate about being more involved in our community, and I get disheartened when
the same people get appointed, you know.
And, and. you know, I think Wayne Hedani is a nice guy, but he's served his time. He's
gotten ten years. And then you, I know other people besides myself have applied and
so I'm a little bit disheartened that the Mayor isn't considering giving that position to
someone brand new. Someone that can bring different perspective. Someone
perhaps grounded in different values than Mr. Hedani. And. you know, I think and I do
agree with Kai Nishiki that somebody with experience in climate change and coastal
management should be appointed to the planning commission and I do think that that
should be one of the key elements of one of those positions.
And so, that's that. I mahalo you guys for all your time and thank you for letting me
testify today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you. Aloha.
Mr. Clerk. Come on.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is
Kamalani Pahukoa. To be followed by Lucienne de Naie.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 83
Lucienne de Naie is the last individual we have signed up to testify. So if there is
anybody else that has not testified and wants to do so, please sign up now.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Aloha. Ms. Pahukoa.
MS. KAMALANI PAHUKOA (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42 and Resolution
No. 22-141):
Aloha, Chair and Committee. Thanks for enduring this long day. Your agenda looks
packed.
I'm testifying on the budget and finance, 22-42.  Ijust wanted to quickly request that
we make sure monies and grants get allocated to our rural communities for the purpose
of agriculture of course, but specifically wetlands. I think majority of these ag grants
should get expanded somehow to reference or even support, you know, fishpond
restoration. If you can somehow make sure language throughout the year, you know,
encourages these fishpond restorations, these wetland restoration projects or farms,
whether its business related or what not. Just to kind of help out, you know, our
mission, fulfilling the kuleana of our back country peoples and then, you know, the
lifestyle of Hawaii. I know this, out here in town, this city life can get so complicated.
You know, we really forget what, on what makes Hawaii Hawaii, and that's our lo'i.
That's our taro farms. That's our fish ponds. Just making sure that all of that is in the
budget and finance.
When we talk about the wastewater treatment facilities, that all, you know, plays a
major role in the pollution runoff. I just put in my notes here, you know, don't forget it's
the year of the limu. So, limu is, you know, our priority. When it comes to making sure
that all these pollutions, all the runoff doesn't just hurt or kill our entire eco system,
cutting off, I don't need to explain more but we know this.
Moving on to the second item. I just wanted to quickly mention I guess in the same
budget and, you know, finance item, Hana Highway management. Like Ms. Chase
said, Hana Highway is only getting worse. Congested traffic. It's actually an
emergency scenario and it's just mind-blowing that MPD and the Mayor have yet to
create or support with, you know. Hawaii Tourism Industry a plan. We've already
presented countless solutions and you know, we see one, one officer, two officers. So,
making sure that you understand Hana Highway is the number one thing to do here on
Maui, so that needs to be in the budget as a priority.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 84
I don't know how, you know, we don't have six patrol units or crews working from
Keanae to Kipahulu. And I really would like this County to pressure the feds, Kipahulu
National Park. Because they are the ones encouraging a lot of traffic flow to head to
the County road. You know, the State highway stops right these at Hana Hotel so then
it turns County and Kipahulu National Park guests really f-up the road. So. I just would
love to see this County put pressure on Kipahulu National Park.
Moving on to item 22-141, the appointment of member to a police commission. You
know, I hope it's someone who understands the issues regarding land disputes. As
taxes rise in Maui County, countless ohana are still trying to get back onto their
ancestral lands. So I only expect more conflict to arise which it doesn't necessarily has
to be conflict, but Maui Police Department should understand their role in mediating,
you know, when it comes to that point. So if I. I'd like to request a new land dispute
document similar to the one Councilmember Paltin requested from former Chief
Fa'aumu, regarding the County of Maui role in land disputes and conflicts. So, if you
could make a note on that. I would love to see that signed by our current Police Chief
and published for the public.
And then, just you know, making sure that we always keep in mind the people who
strengthen and support our Hawaii residents which are, you know, the taro farmers and
everyone. When we talk about cesspools, and I understand there's so much issues
going around, but before we build ohana units, you know, let's make sure we have the
water. And when we talk about issues and standards, let's make sure we appropriate
water to the righteous tenants and farmers. You know, let's make sure our water, let's
make sure our muliwai get water before corporations. That's it. Mahalo. Had to add
that in there.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Couple clarifying. I just wanted to ask on
the loko i'a issue, if it was something that you had tried to apply for funding, and it
wasn't within the scope, or is that just a general statement, like to make sure that it is
possible?
MS. PAHUKOA: I'm sorry, what was the question? I would love to see it-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: When you were, when you were saying that you wanted us to
make sure in the farming and the ag grants that loko i'a would apply for funding, did
you try to apply for funding through the ag grants for loko i'a and it was denied?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 85
MS. PAHUKOA: No. I wish I did that. I applied just at trying to restore our Wailua Nui patches.
Of course, ours is the farthest in and hard to get to. Full of hau, so I was thinking, how
am 1 going to do this? But, I wish I . . . You know, when it comes to wetland and taro,
people forget that. . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, you applied for funding for your lo‘i and were denied? Is
that what you're saying?
MS. PAHUKOA: . . . the funding. Yeah, so, back to the funding I would love to encourage
somehow the understanding that loko i'a is part of taro patch or lo'i restoration or stream
restoration. It all plays a role. I hope that answers your questions.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And then I guess the other question is, you were saying
for the police situation, you want a same exact letter that, or transmittal that was sent
to Chief Fa'aumu to be sent to Chief Pelletier so that he, there is one with his signature
on it. Is that what you were saying?
MS. PAHUKOA: Exactly. Yes. And I hope it could be made public. You know, there's a lot
of families East Maui, I'm sure throughout Maui County that are trying to get back to
their lands and that little piece of paper that, you know, has the Chiefs signature it's a
great resource to show MPD officers because sometimes they forget. 1 know they go
through cultural training and whatnot, but sometimes they just need to be reminded.
So, I'd love to put that in my wallet.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And regarding the statement you made about police
commissioners, have you tried to recruit anyone that fits that criteria? Cause.
MS. PAHUKOA: I really wish I could recommend someone. I just know that our Maui County
is separate from, you know, Honolulu Police Department. And Honolulu has so much
corruption going on, I would just hate for Maui County to head in that same direction.
But I'll be keeping an eye out too. i'll be trying to recommend someone for sure.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you for your testimony and clarifications
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Pahukoa.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the last individual we have signed up to testify is Lucienne
de Naie.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 86
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE [testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42: Resolution Nos. 22-139
& 22-144: and Bill Nos. 73 (2022) & 92 (2022)1:
Hello. Greetings, Councilmembers. I'm here in Florida and watching you ... I'm
signed up to testify on a number of items today.
First, I would like to say thank you for the ceremonial resolutions honoring our
endangered species and also honoring Linda Puppolo, who is just an amazing County
person. I've known Linda for many years and she's very deserving for this recognition.
I missed that part of the meeting, but just wanted to add my congratulations for
recognizing those two important facets of our community life.
I would like to testify on Bill 72, quickly just in support of the needed budgetary items
in Hana, and of course in our Wailuku facilities that are so well used and so necessary
to our community. So thank you for putting those funds where they're going to be put
to good use.
I would also like to testify on 22-139, this is the appointment of Wayne Hedani to the
Planning Commission. You know what, I agree with the last few previous testifiers, it's
like, Mr. Hedani is a wonderful person, but he's been on the Planning Commission
twice before. And you know, if, if there are people with the level of expertise and
dedication as Dr. Deakos who applied and were overlooked, there is something wrong
with our appointment system.
Because I watched planning commission meetings and our planning commissioners
try, but they don't have expertise in those areas. They ask the staff and the proponents
of projects a lot of questions and often get very evasive or you know, kind of half-baked
answers. It would be great to have someone who could ask the right questions and
who could also speak from years of expertise and research.
And you know, Mr. Hedani should be honored for all of his long service on various
boards and commissions. But the Council should leave the door open for other people
who have applied, who have good skill sets and would be a great fit and a great addition
to the commission of what they don't have now. So, that's my two cents and I will say
that just personally, Mr. Hedani when Wailea 670 was approved, he believed
everything the archaeologists said and didn't believe the community. And those
archaeologists were wrong, there were not 40 sites, there were like 4,000 sites. But,
you know, we need someone who's going to probe otherwise we are going to get bad
decisions that people have to sue on.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 87
I'll move on to Bill 92, talking about the residence, residency requirements. I think it
really is important that we have a sense of balance on our boards and commissions.
That it's not all just a perspective of people who live in one community. The reason we
have the idea of public input, and these citizen boards is that we get a wide perspective
and that's hard to get when there's no due diligence made to seek out that kind of
regional range of knowledge. So, I'm glad that this is going to be discussed. Thank
you. Council, for discussing this.
On that same tone 22-144, the proposed Charter Amendment that would deal with
individual planning commissions for the districts. I just really think that this is an idea
that needs to be put to a vote. It is so frustrating for a person who lives in an area that
is not well known to members of these boards and commissions to come up in front of
them and try to explain something about one's area. First of all, you have three minutes
and that's really not enough time. And if you're fortunate and a few commissioners do
ask questions, which many commissioners are very fair and they do, it's hard to explain
a lifetime of experience of living in an area in just a, you know, a short rejoinder.
It would really be better to have regional decisions made by people who live in the area,
especially as our population increases. You know, Oahu eventually went to this type
of system, they have the elected neighborhood boards. I think the regional planning
commissions is building on what we already have in Molokai and Lanai that none of us
would be so silly to assume that a bunch of people in Kahului could decide what should
happen on Molokai. Well, you know, it's really the same for Kihei. It's really the same
for Upcountry. It's really the same for West Maui, etc. So, thank you for your
consideration of forwarding this to the, I believe, the GREAT Committee for their
consideration.
And then last. I'd like to address Bill 73. And this has to do with the provision in the
budget to provide County funds to not take over an existing aging sewage treatment
system in the condos in Ma'alaea which people do have to realize these condos were
hailed in their time in the 1970's when they were bought. They were hailed by County
authorities as, and isn't this wonderful, we're going to get all this tax money from new
condos that, that we created the zoning. And I have to say that probably half the
residents of Ma'alaea in the 1970's protested that their zoning was changed to allow
apartments. They wanted single-family.
But the County in its wisdom, in its blanket zoning plan, the Kihei Civic Plan changed
all of those 20 lots to either industrial or apartment. And one by one, because they
were being taxed at that rates, it's called highest and best use, one by one, all but two
of the lots became condos. There was no infrastructure and so they took over these
little package systems that the County had been using. This was the solution, someone
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 88
had the bright idea, give these ten units the County had been using, give them to the
condos and the condos can install them. Problem solved. County doesn't have to
spend a penny and we can collect the taxes.
Well, I don't know if that's what happened in Haliimaile as well, but I do know Pukalani
does, has a successful packaged treatment plant and they have professionals to run
it. It's small in scale. The water is used to irrigate the golf course. As far as I know it
functions and they're proud of the way it functions.
This project is not taking over an aging system, it's creating a new state of the art, small
package plant that can be built in far less time than the large plants that the County
proposes. My guess is although it would require an environmental assessment that if
an honest one will do, will be done, it could be approved in a timely manner and the
functioning of the plant is going to be far different than the ones that the County is
proposing and the County is using right now. It is designed for reuse. It is designed to
fit into the terrain and it is not just about the condos.
Our Ma'alaea Harbor, one of the busiest places on Maui, has septic systems. Our
shops at Ma'alaea and the Maui Ocean Center, the second busiest visitor attraction
have septic systems. They, they ail can hook into this because it's not just the condos
that are contributing to the degradation of the reefs. I'm sorry there's a lot more to say,
but it's, it is a complicated problem, but it needs a solution that involves public funding.
CHAIR LEE. Thank you, Ms. De Naie. Members, are there any questions? No questions.
Say hello to our friends in Florida.
MS. DE NAIE: Thank you. it's hot here. You wouldn't want to be here.
CHAIR LEE: Oh yeah? Okay.
Alright, Members. Oh, do we have any more testifiers, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Chair. Yes, Chair. The next testifier is Sam Small.
MR. SAM SMALL (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-42 and Resolution No. 22-144):
Good afternoon. Thank you, again. It's a privilege to participate in this process. I'm
going to try and be really brief as, you know, basically you've heard all of this before.
Well, some of this is new, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 89
Changing the planning commissions to local districts is an excellent idea. The planning
commission has as it stands for decades has way too much authority. There is
absolutely no justification for me as a voting citizen for the force and effect of law to be
entrusted into the politically appointed planning commission. I vote for you people, and
it's my expectation and everyone's expectation that the only body that has the ability to
create force and effect of law is this Council. And as it stands, this Council has given
its authority away to the planning commission. And you see the opposition to the
appointment of the planning commissioner at hand today that, that's part of a rigged
system, that is facilitating a select few developers and their professional consultants in
continuing to abuse our system.
So, district planning commission, fantastic idea. Let's please distribute that, it will help
break that pattern of abuse. 1 agree with everything that Tiare Lawrence said, with
Lucienne de Naie said. These are people who have, you know, an extraordinary track
record of paying attention to what's going on here in Maui County, and I beg you, please
listen to these people. They know what they're talking about and their testimonies are
accurate.
I'll segway back into the budget because it's, it's, it's a problem endemic to the, to, to
what I'm talking about. This budget once again lacks at a full accounting of the three
lots or less deferral agreements, what, that were written for over 40 years and have
never once been collected upon. We have a capital improvement project on the books
right now, that has frontage that would be collected upon, but Corporation Counsel who
wrote these deferral agreements for 40 years is blocking every initiative to rectify and
resolve that situation.
And I'm sorry, the audit is the same way. I'm terribly sorry, the Auditor has not
performed. And there is no justification for delaying his audit report because of one
piece of litigation from Chris Salem. These three lot deferral agreements are not a
Chris Salem issue. But the Auditor is hiding behind that. Corporation Counsel is hiding
behind these lawsuits so that they are not exposed. And in fact, they have refused to
transmit to you a, two settlement agreements from Chris Salem to remove those
litigations so that we can move forward with Chris Salem as a community expert which
he is. And Corp. Counsel is inappropriately withholding those settlement agreements
from this body. This is part of the, the environment that we are frustrated with as
citizens and with, you know, something like Greg Brown to bring all these issues up to
the fore. We're not going away.
So, I urge you to, to act appropriately and absorb all of this stuff and to push back.
And, you know, and that's it. I beg you. Maui needs to move forward as a modern
municipality and stop this strangle hold that Corporation Counsel and wealthy, well-
connected developers, lawyers and civil engineers have on the Planning Department,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 90
on Public Works, Corporation Counsel and the Mayor's Office. You're the independent
body. You have the authority to launch an investigation into all of this and I beg you to
do so. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Small for your testimony. I
was wondering if you could clarify your statement about giving away authority to the
planning commission. Their authority is given to them by State law. So, 1 don't
understand what you were saying. Could you clarify that?
MR. SMALL: 1 think there are aspects that the planning commission is authorized through the
County Council. I don’t, and perhaps I'm wrong and please correct me if do.
! don't know that State law gives the planning commission the authority to write rules
that have the force and effect of law. That only,  Iunderstand, that authority only goes
to the County Council.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's not my understanding. I understand that the planning
commission has the full authority in the special management area but I don't know,
maybe you can consult a lawyer.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. SMALL: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Any other clarifying questions? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Small.
MR. SMALL: Thank you all.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. If anyone has
not testified but would like to do so, please identify yourself now. This is the last call
for testifiers, please indicate if you would like to testify.
Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have received written
testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the record
and to closing public testimony?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 91
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No objections. So, ordered.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
1. Peter Cannon;
Stephen MacKinnon;
Scott Rollins;
American Bird Conservancy;
Barbara Barry;
Suellen Barton;
Meredith Beeson;
Tom Board;
Bob;
Patti Cadiz;
Deashia Lei Chang;
Brandi Corpuz;
Justin De Leon;
Umesh Desai;
Jeanne Dunning;
Suzette Felicilda;
Mike Fogarty, Maui Nui Marine Resource Council;
Amy Fonarov^/;
Scott Fretz, Hawaii Division of Forestry and Wildlife;
Paul Gammie;
Carl Gann;
Susan Halas;
Gayle Harbo;
Lora Harbo and David Liebersbach;
Huamakahikina;
Lyndon Ibele, Ma'alaea Village Association;
Mark and Laurie Knodle;
Adam Knox;
Arnie Koss;
Barbara Kutterer;
La'akea Low;
Joy & Don Nelson;
Paula Phillips;
Harpreet Purewal;
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 92
Dianne and Ron Rascia;
Renee Riley;
Anne Riilero;
Amy Schliftman;
Wanda Shirreff;
Kevin Smith;
John Starmer;
Laura Stokes;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Robert Vafaie, Maui Property LLC;
Todd and Shannon VanderHeuvel;
John Yanneli; and
Wastewater Management Solutions.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
CHAIR LEE: Members, if there are no objections, I will adjourn the public hearing and we will
continue on with the rest of the regular Council meeting after our lunch break. Any
objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so the public hearing is hereby adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The public hearing of May 26, 2021 was adjourned by the Chair at 1:27 p.m.
CHAIR LEE: And now, for, the original plan was to come back at 2:00. Shall we make it
2:30?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: 2:30?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, if there are no objections, then we'll have, take our lunch break now and
return at 2:30. No objections?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 93
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; So, ordered.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 1 ;27 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2;33 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of May 26, 2022, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, shall we resume with the minutes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of March 4, 2022 was
presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES OF
CHAIR LEE: March 4.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
-AS READ BY THE CLERK.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second, alright. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member Sugimura, to approve the meeting minutes of March 4, 2022.
Any discussion? No. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 94
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. I'm missing Tasha Kama, Pro Temp
Kama, on the screen. She’s next to you?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: She's here. Are you having internet problems?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, there I see her. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, there she is.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk. Consent Calendar.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated May 2, 2022)
NO. 22-113
Informing of the removal of Christopher Berquist as a member of the Maui County
Arborist Committee, effective May 2, 2022.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated May 2, 2022)
NO. 22-114
Informing of a vacancy on the Board of Variances and Appeals due to the resignation
of Emmanuel Baltazar, effective May 1,2022.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 95
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated May 11, 2022)
NO. 22-115
Informing of a vacancy on the Maui County Cultural Resources Commission due to the
resignation of Ian Bassford, effective May 10, 2022.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated May 17, 2022)
NO. 22-116
Informing of a vacancy on the Maui County Arborist Committee due to the resignation
of Ernest Harold Rezents, effective May 16, 2022.
NO. 22-117 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR,
(dated May 12, 2022)
Informing of the appointment of Jordan Molina, Walle Landenberger, and Allison
Cleghorn to the Conservation Planning Committee.
NO. 22-118 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated May 2, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Department
of Health, for the Strategic Prevention Framework  -Partnerships for Success Grant in
the amount of $99,000.
NO. 22-119 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated May 2, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of Contract Log No. 20-194 Modification Order No. 9 from the
State of Hawaii, Executive Office on Aging, for the Kupuna Care Program in the amount
of $243,279.
NO. 22-120 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated May 2, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of Contract Log No. 20-251 Modification Order No. 5 from the
State of Hawaii, Executive Office on Aging, for the Aging & Disability Resource Center
in the amount of $147,805.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 96
- KARLA H. PETERS. DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATIONNO. 22-121
(dated May 10, 2022)
Relating to the allocation of a Pre-Audit Clerk I to Planner V in the Office of the Director
Section of the Administration Program in the Department of Parks and Recreation.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 22-122
(dated May 17, 2022)
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easement W-1, Haynes-Waiale Subdivision
TMK: (2) 3-4-003:054.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated May 19, 2022)
NO. 22-123
Informing of the increase in the hourly wage of positions in the PALS Program.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, including CC 22-123? Okay. Alright, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to file all the items on the Consent
Calendar.
No discussion. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand andAny discussion?
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
CHAIR LEE.
AND
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 97
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes", motion carries.
Mr. Johnson, did you have your hand up earlier? Did you say "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I did say "aye". Chair. Ijust-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Alright. Oh, did you have a question? No?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: No, not a question. Just a statement. I'm really happy that
the Mayor supports the increase in the pay wages of the PALS Program. That's all.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-124 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
(dated May 11,2022)
Transmitting 50 contracts/grants for the month of April 2022.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. You want to do the second, the next one too?
No?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-124, EXCEPT
FOR THOSE GRANTS AND CONTRACTS THAT
COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 98
CHAIR LEE; Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to file County Communication 22-124, except for the items Members
request to be removed.
Members? Oh, no requests. Alright.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. There was testimony on one of the
grants this morning from Ms. Chase. And I just wanted to let Members know that I do
plan to take up the tourism management grant item in my Committee next week
Wednesday at 1 ;30, so we discuss it there. I don't need to pull out the grant though, I
can just do a 7.B. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, anybody else? if not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye". "Aye", everybody. Okay.
Member Paltin, "aye"?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Motion carries.
Next item. Mr. Clerk.
- KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. CHAIR, BUDGET. FINANCE
AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
NO. 22-125
(dated May 16, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill 69, CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI FOR THE FISCAL YEAR JULY 1, 2022, TO JUNE 30. 2023".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no object, oh, if there are
no objections, I would like to ask the county, that County Communication 22-125 be
taken up at the same time as CR 22-42, 22-42.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 99
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
(See pages 100 through 107 for discussion and action.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications for referral. The
following communications are recommended for referral to the following Committees
as noted:
- SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 22-126
(dated May 2, 2022)
Transmitting the Director of Finance's Quarterly Report for Fiscal Year July 1, 2021 to
June 30, 2022 as of March 31, 2022 and the Capital Improvement Project report as of
March 31, 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-126 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- SHAYNE R. AGAWA. DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY.NO. 22-127
(dated May 5, 2022)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Reports for the month ending April 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-127 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
- U\NCE T. TAGUCHI. COUNTY AUDITORNO. 22-128
(dated May 10, 2022)
Transmitting the "Assessment of the Zoning Administration and Enforcement Division,
Department of Planning".
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-128 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 100
- MICHELE MCLEAN. PLANNING DIRECTORNO. 22-129
(dated May 18, 2022)
Transmitting the Department of Planning's quarterly report on the status of all active
conditional permits as of March 31, 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-129 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to these referrals?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; No objections. So, ordered.
Alright, moving on.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-42NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 69. CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING
TO THE OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR JULY 1, 2022, TO JUNE 30, 2023," be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
1.
That Bill 70. CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING
TO THE CAPITAL PROGRAM FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30,
2023," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
2.
(2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE3. That Bill
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF ONE HUNDRED FIFTY-TWO MILLION
THREE HUNDRED THIRTY-SIX THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED NINETY-
71. CD1
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 101
THREE DOLLARS ($152,336,793) AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PROVIDING FUNDS TO PAY ALL OR A PART OF THE COST
OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS OF AND FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI; FIXING THE FORM. DENOMINATIONS OF CERTAIN
OTHER FEATURES OF SUCH BONDS AND PROVIDING FOR THEIR SALE;
AUTHORIZING THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE TO DETERMINE CERTAIN
DETAILS OF THE BONDS; AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF A
LIKE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND
ANTICIPATION NOTES IN ANTICIPATION OF THE ISSUANCE AND SALE
OF SUCH BONDS; AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF REFUNDING
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY; AND PROVIDING FOR
OTHER ACTIONS RELATED TO THE ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELVIERY OF
SAID BONDS", be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT;
That Bill 72 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING
that PART OF THE PROCEEDS OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF
THE COUNTY OF MAUI HERETOFORE ISSUED IS IN EXCESS OF THE
AMOUNTS REQUIRED FOR THE PURPOSES FOR WHICH SUCH BONDS
WERE INITIALLY ISSUED, OR MAY OR SHOULD NOT BE APPLIED TO
THOSE PURPOSES. AND DIRECTING SUCH PROCEEDS TO OTHER
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS OR AUTHORIZED PURPOSES OF THE COUNTY
OF MAUI." be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
4.
(2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCEThat Bill
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO
AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT FOR A LOAN FROM THE STATE
OF HAWAII'S WATER POLLUTION CONTROL REVOLVING FUND FOR
VARIOUS WASTEWATER PROJECTS, FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET
ORDINANCE." be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT;
73, CD15.
entitled "ADOPTING THE FUEL TAX RATESThat Resolution 22-80, CD1
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI, EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2022." be ADOPTED;
6.
That Resolution 22-96 . entitled "ADOPTING THE FUEL TAX RATES FOR
THE COUNTY OF MAUI, EFFECTIVE JULY 1. 2022". be FILED; and
7.
That County Communication 22-82, from the Mayor, be FILED.8.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 102
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-42.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 22-42.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, I will make additional
remarks at second reading. But I want, I wanted to thank you all again for the time and
effort you put into the FY 23 Budget session. We were able to work together efficiently
to create a budget that will address the continuing impacts of the pandemic and
emerging impacts of the Russian/Ukraine war, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, while
working to address the budgetary needs of our children, families, seniors, and the
whole, and the County as a whole.
Chair, at this time, I would like to proceed with proposed amendments, beginning with
County Communication 22-125.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And then I'll let you know when I completed all my
amendments. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: How many do you have?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Two sets. Three, three, sets. Okay, the first one.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE FOLLOWING: ON PAGE 2, AMEND
SECTION 3.B.1.A.(1), DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
AGRICULTURE PROGRAM, BY INCREASING THE AMOUNT
IN CATEGORY A (SALARIES) TO $393,390, OH SORRY,
$393,396, AND THE TOTAL TO $1,754,041.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 103
And I’m sorry, you should have received an ASF in your email, so that you can follow
there as well.
To accommodate the salaries for the Department of Agriculture, Director and Deputy
Director.
2) ON PAGE 6, AMEND THE FOLLOWING: SECTION
3.B.5.G.(1), DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, COUNTYWIDE
COSTS, FRINGE BENEFIT, BY INCREASING THE AMOUNT
TO $159,487,301; AND SECTION, SORRY, SECTION
3.B.5.G.{12), DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, TRANSFER TO
THE EMERGENCY FUND, BY REDUCING THE AMOUNT TO
$3,270,764.
And my apologies, the ASF is not in your email. It's on your agenda. It's CC 120
22-125. It was posted on the agenda.
3) ON PAGE 54, AMEND APPENDIX A, PART II, SPECIAL
PURPOSE REVENUES. SECTION J, EMERGENCY FUND, BY
REDUCING ANTICIPATED REVENUES FOR FY 2023 TO
$3,270,764, AND THE TOTAL TO $45,329,693.
AND TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-125.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Who second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Your voice sounds so froggy. I was wondering who that was.
Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin.
And if you refer to the ASF, you'll see the three items for amendment. Now does
everybody have a copy of this. Cause there's no way you can remember what she
said.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 104
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I don't.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It's on the-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's on the agenda.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -meeting, if you click the hyperlink.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Did, you, did you click on it?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. While everyone is getting the CC that
was on the agenda, that has the ASF, I'll explain what these three amendments are
regarding. These amendments increase the salaries for the Director and Deputy
Director of the Department of Agriculture in accordance with the May 13, 2022 vote of
the Salary Commission, increase the cost of fringe benefits accordingly, and reduce
the transfer to the Emergency Fund.
So, the Salary Commission voted to increase the Director and the Department Director
of Department of Ag. Yay, mahalo, to the Salary Commission. And so, we had to
adjust the salary, fringe, and we took that from the Emergency Fund to, to pay for that,
because that's where some of the excess funds went. So, we're, we're not, we're still
following the law in how much Emergency Fund we're, you know, required to put into
the, how much funding we're required to put into the Emergency Fund. So, we're all
good. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, did everybody find the information? I'm not going to proceed until I know
that you all are following everything. I mean, don't be shy, if you didn't find it, say so.
Everybody has it?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I'm still looking for that. I'm still looking for that one. But I
thought that was one that, that the Vice-Chair said that she had sent an ASF on, but.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. I, Chair, it's on the agenda. If you, Member
Paltin mentioned, if you go to the agenda and you click on the hyperlink, then it'll bring
up the ASF. The ASF was posted to the agenda six days ago, so last week Friday.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Sugimura, are you sitting by Member King?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And the County Clerk just resent it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 105
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; We're fine.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Just sent it to your email. So, in addition to it being
posted a week ago, it’s also in your email. Mahalo, Clerks. Appreciate your help.
CHAIR LEE: I'm not going to move forward until I know everybody has this information.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: We have it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I got it from the County Clerk. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, everybody got it? Okay. Then any more discussion or questions on this?
This is a motion to amend three items here. Okay, ready? All those in favor of the
motion, raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,just. Chair, just point of order. I thought there were multiple
amendments that were in the motion that were made.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Three.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Beyond these three.
CHAIR LEE: Beyond these three?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It was just these three? Okay.
CHAIR LEE: So far. So far.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Again, the first part of this motion is
to add money to Category A, to accommodate the increase in salary from the Salary
Commission. The second part is to increase funding to Countywide Costs for fringe,
because the salaries went up. And the third part is to get the funding from Emergency
Fund, because it's General Fund, and to accommodate the adjustment that's
necessary. And the last part is to file County Communication 22-125. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 106
CHAIR LEE: Okay, and then also on the. probably the emailed version, I'm not sure about
the other version, the hyperlink. Attached to the motion are the mark-up copies that
the amendments refer to. Okay? That's all for the ASF that I have. But I'm sure you
have more amendments, right, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, Chair. And as I-
CHAIRLEE: Later.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -stated earlier, I will take them in sets. And so, this
is the first set, very harmless. I think we're all supportive of supporting our new
Department of Ag Director and Deputy Director getting paid adequately. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. Thank you, Chair. No,  isupport the bill, but I just, for the
edification of the public. Member Rawlins-Fernandez, maybe you could tell us what the
salaries are? Because there's kind of a lump sum. Do you know what the individual
salaries are for the Director, the Deputy Director?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Let's see. If you subtract that
number, you'll get that answer. If you subtract the 393 from the 336. I don't have both
the Director and the Deputy Director's. Never mind, I do have it now. Mahalo
Ms. Milner. The Director is $126,386. And the Deputy is $113,747. Mahalo
Ms. Milner.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any more comments or questions? Everybody ready to vote on the
amendment? On the motion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 107
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Zero "noes", right? Okay.
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. For the second motion.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE FOLLOWING:
1) ON PAGE 1, AMEND FUEL AND FRANCHISE TAXES BY
REDUCING THE AMOUNT TO $22,980,000. AMEND
LICENSES/PERMITS/OTHERS BY INCREASING THE
AMOUNT TO $43,709,425.
And I see that the County Clerk's did send the, this ASF at 2:55. So, if you want to
follow along, it should be in your email.
SECOND PART. ON PAGE 15, ON BEHALF OF CHAIR LEE,
AMEND SECTION 3.B.10.C.(2)(IV), WAILUKU ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND CULTURAL
PROGRAMS, BY DELETING: "C) UP TO $40,000 FOR KE KULA
O PIILANI; D) UP TO $10,000 FOR THE MAUI ACADEMY OF
PERFORMING ART; E) UP TO $30,000 FOR THE WAIEHU
COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION COMMUNITY CENTER FOR A
FEASIBILITY STUDY." AND INSERTING "C) UP TO $50,000
FOR THE MAUI FOOD HUB."
THIRD PART. ON PAGE 21, AMEND SECTION 3.B.10.C(6)(IX),
MAUI ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY AGRICULTURAL MICRO
GRANT PROGRAM, BY ADDING CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
TO READ:
"A) MEO WILL RECEIVE A $3 MILLION GRANT FROM THE
COUNTY TO MANAGE AND DISTRIBUTE MICRO GRANT
PAYMENTS OF UP TO $25,000, OH OKAY, MICRO GRANT
PAYMENTS OF $25,000 OR LESS PER GRANTEE. AT THE
CLOSE OF THE GRANT PERIOD, MEO WILL TRANSMIT A
LIST OF GRANTEES TO THE COUNCIL, WHICH WILL
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 108
INCLUDE RECIPIENT NAME. DISTRICT, GRANT-FUND,
GRANT-FUNDED PROJECT. AND WHETHER THE RECIPIENT
SATISFIED KULEANA LAND OWNERSHIP
HAWAIIAN, OR FEMALE DEMOGRAPHICS.
APPLICATION APPROVAL, MEO WILL ISSUE GRANTEE
VENDOR PAYMENTS IN FULL AT THE FRONT END TO
VENDORS. WITHOUT LIMITING THE NUMBER OF GRANTEE
VENDORS.
NATIVE
UPON
THE MICRO GRANTS MUST BE DISPERSED WITH EFFORTS
TO ENSURE EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION AMONG
APPLICANTS IN MAUI. MOLOKAI, AND LANAI, WITH
PREFERENCE GIVEN TO SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED
FARMING APPLICANTS. SUCH AS WOMEN AND NATIVE
HAWAIIANS, AND TO FARMERS THAT DID NOT RECEIVE
FUNDING IN FISCAL YEAR 2022 FROM THE, FROM THE
MICRO GRANT FUNDING. AN APPLICATION DEADLINE WILL
BE SET BY MEO TO ENSURE THESE PREFERENTIAL
GUIDELINES WILL BE MET.
THE MICRO GRANTS WILL BE EXCLUSIVELY TO FOOD-
PRODUCING FARM BUSINESSES THAT OPERATE ON LESS
THAN AN AGGREGATE OF 12 ACRES WITHIN MAUI COUNTY
AND POSSESS A COUNTY BUSINESS OR STATE GENERAL
EXCISE LICENSE FOR THE FARMING BUSINESS AS OF
JULY 1, 2022. LOW REVENUE FROM SALES WILL NOT
DISQUALIFY APPLICANTS. FARM BUSINESS OWNERS. AND
ANY PARTNERS, MUST BE MAUI COUNTY RESIDENTS FOR
A MINIMUM OF ONE YEAR PRIOR TO THE DATE OF THE
APPLICANT'S GRANT REQUEST. APPLICANTS WILL NOT BE
DISQUALIFIED BASED UPON RECEIPT OF COVID-RELATED
GRANT FUNDING FROM SUPPLEMENTAL SOURCES.
PERMISSIBLE USES INCLUDE: (1) FARM INFRASTRUCTURE
UPGRADES: (2) PACKING MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS;
(3) PROCESSING AND STORAGE EQUIPMENT AND
MACHINERY; (4) FARM GRANT. FARM EQUIPMENTS,
INCLUDING TRAILERS, TILLERS, AND LIFTERS, LIFTS;
(5) MARKETING SERVICES, SUCH AS PACKAGING, LABEL,
LABEL DESIGN AND PRINTING. AND WEBSITE
DEVELOPMENT: (6) LO‘l AND LOKO I‘A; AND
(7) PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT, SUCH AS FOOD
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 109
SAFETY MODERNIZATION ACT TRAINING. MICRO GRANT
ALLOCATIONS MUST NOT EXCEED THE DOLLAR AMOUNT
REQUESTED BY THE APPLICANT AND WILL BE
DISTRIBUTED ON A SLIDING SCALE WITH
CONSIDERATIONS MADE TO THE FARM'S DISTRIBUTION
OUTPUT TO THE COMMUNITY AND SCALE OF
OPERATIONS.
4), SO FOURTH PART. ON PAGE 30. AMEND SECTION
4.b.1.B.(1)(l), HALAU OF ‘OIWI ARTS, BY ADDING
DIACRITICAL MARKS AND CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE TO
READ- "A) A QUARTERLY REPORT MUST BE PROVIDED TO
THE COUNCIL ON THE STATUS OF THE PROJECT,
INCLUDING A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF WORK COMPLETED
IN THE CURRENT YEAR, IN THE CURRENT QUARTER,
WORK TO BE COMPLETED IN THE NEXT QUARTER. AND
ENCUMBRANCES AND EXPENDITURES FROM THE
APPROPRIATION. FURTHERMORE, THE COUNCIL MUST BE
NOTIFIED OF ANY MAJOR CHANGES. OR DELAYS, IN THE
PROJECT."
And that concludes my motion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, we have a motion and then a second by Member Paltin.
And now, we have discussion.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Alright. Okay, so for the first part of
the motion, the Fuel and Franchise taxes. $20,000 in the Highway Fund revenues for
the Weight Tax increase were inadvertently included in the Fuel Tax line item rather
than the Licenses/Permits/Others. That's just a household, or housekeeping,
housekeeping correction.
The second part of it, for the Wailuku Economic Development grants. The district area
representative for Wailuku, Council Chair Lee, requested that updates be made to the
Wailuku Economic Development, Environmental, and Cultural Programs.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 110
The third part is the Micro Grant condition. So, the conditional language for Maui
Economic Opportunity Agricultural Micro Grants Program delineates the process and
purposes for these funds. And it's mostly the same as last year's, giving, giving
preference to those that did not receive the grant.
I'LL, I'LL, FRIENDLY AMENDMENT, AMEND THAT PART TO
"DID NOT RECEIVE FUNDING IN PRIOR FISCAL YEARS",
AND NOT JUST FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022.
And finally, the conditional language for the Halau of ‘Oiwi Arts. And there should be
a diacritical over Halau and ‘Oiwi. So, the, over the "O", ‘Oiwi Arts. Requires a
quarterly report to the Council to ensure awareness of the project status as well as any
delays or major changes. And this is to address some of the feedback received
regarding Council's involvement and, you know, community's ability to provide
feedback, and to increase transparency on the progress of this project.
And for the Micro Grant condition, I added the lo'i and loko i‘a. And we heard testimony
on that this morning as well. So, that, that will help be a qualifier for those kinds of. .
. that will increase food security using traditional infrastructure. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, further discussion?
Member Paltin, then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I’m okay with the friendly amendment of
funding in Fiscal Year 2022, or prior years. As well as the friendly amendment of was
it a kahako over the "O" for ‘Oiwi, that's not in the ASF currently?
I had two questions. I'm on the MEO part 3 of the motion, where it says, the top of the
second page of the ASF, where it says, "MEO will issue grantee vendor payments in
full at the front end to vendors, without limiting the number of grantee vendors". I wasn't
clear "without limiting the number of grantee vendors", what is meant by that? That
would be my first question. I have one more after that.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo for the question. Member
Paltin. So, after the first year in 2020, when we first funded this program, feedback
that I received from some of the grantees was that it was, MEO was limiting the amount
of vendors to get their supplies and equipment from to, I want to say it was like four
vendors. And so, it, it kind of inhibited the way that some of the farmers, because not
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 111
everything, you know, for equipment and supplies will come from four vendors.
Sometimes they need to go to more. And so, that's the purpose for that language.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I understand that now. And then, I guess my--
CHAIR LEE: And then the next question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; My other question was for you. Chair. Did those guys make
you mad or something? You don't want to earmark them? Or are they, it was wrong?
Or I just wondering?
CHAIR LEE; Who, who are you talking about?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You.
CHAIR LEE; No, no.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-FERNANDEZ: Your. . . Funds, your district economic development
fund.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; District funds.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Okay, so for the Ke Kula O Piilani, they don't need the, they, they never
really requested it again. That was a first time grant last year. And then, the Waiehu
grant is something I have to work out with them more, in more, with more specifics,
because there's the issue of having a community center on Hawaiian Home Lands.
So, those are the, those are some of the issues that, that came up, you know, later.
And so, it's no, nobody made me mad, no. It's just a, it's a fluid thing, yeah, district
funds.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Yeah, yeah, i just was curious. Thank you. I
understand. I mean, it still can happen, it's just not, it can happen organically, if it
needs to, right?
CHAIR LEE; Right. And then, I might be able to access other funds, or do matching funds,
or do other things. But the one that is really urgent is the Maui Hub. Although they
have other, other grants, other sources, they're, they're growing at such a pace that
they need capacity building. And so, my, my meager little amount is to help them with
that.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. Yeah, just double-checking.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 112
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Thank you. Okay, but there are other questions, I'm sure. I think I saw
Member King's hand up.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you. Chair. Just  afollow up on that before I get to
my other question was so, if there's an item that was funded previously, it stayed on
your district fund list from the last year?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
When you're talking about Ke Kula O Piilani, that just
automatically went on the next year's budget as well?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
CHAIR LEE: I put them on. I put them on.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh okay.
CHAIR LEE: And then I, then I found out they received a $3 million grant, so, I thought, gee
I don't think they need this. Things like that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; And then, then map, then MAPA was actually the Administration's. You know
when you don't use all your funds, they, they use it for you? That was one of them.
Things like that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. Okay. Great. Well, I thank you for the funding for the
Food Hub. And another question I had is, you know, we've gotten several testimonies
of concern, or complaints, I guess, from folks who are on the Micro Grant, the Ag Micro
Grants from folks who are doing ranching on the fact that they, they may be leasing
more than 12 acres for grazing, but they can't apply for this grant. So, did we ever
address that issue, or are we just leaving all the ranchers out if they are using more
than 12 acres?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair? That's not mine.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member King, for your
question. If you have language to propose. I'm open to receiving your suggestion.
Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I'll, I'll try to work on that.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 113
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
YEAH, I WOULD LIKE TO THEN AMEND THIS TO SAY, "UP TO
40 ACRES".
Then that'll include, cause I did get calls from the ranchers and they were saying that
12 acres, you can imagine, right, you cannot raise cattle on 12 acres, it's not enough,
right, for grazing? And so, I would like to, if, if you allow Vice-Chair, to amend this, so
that this will then be up to 40 acres?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have another question first.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
OH, I WANTED TO TRY AND SEE IF I COULD FRIENDLY
AMEND THAT TO SAY, "FOR RANCHING UP TO 40 ACRES",
OR SOMETHING.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That, that sounds fine.
CHAIR LEE: Friendly amendment accepted.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I just, I wonder about regular ag land,
ranchers, so I'm going to agree with that.
I heard from
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
I'LL SECOND THE MOTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: With that friendly amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And then, now we have Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
separately then.
Perhaps we can take that up
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 114
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Shall we take that up separately, since there doesn't seem to be
consensus yet on this item?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh take the item up separately?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: No? How do, how do you want to take it up separately, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Instead of a friendly amendment, we can take up that
amendment after my motion. We have the language in front of us. I just want to make
sure that we, we can focus on one thing at a time. Let's just focus on this, and then
we can take up that as a separate motion to amend the language after we vote on it.
I'm open to it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Is that after we vote on it?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I just, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Everybody understand that?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE; Everybody agreeable? Consensus?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Withdraw the motion then, yeah, to amend.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; They asked if it would be a friendly amendment and
I didn't accept it as a friendly amendment. So, it, it's not on the floor right now. It s just
my motion with the four parts.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, everybody got that?
Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 115
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SO, I GUESS I’LL MAKE A, MAKE THE MOTION TO AMEND
THE MOTION ON THE FLOOR RIGHT NOW TO SAY, "THE
MICRO GRANTS WILL BE EXCLUSIVELY TO FOOD-
PRODUCING FARM BUSINESSES THAT OPERATE ON LESS
THAN AN AGGREGATE OF 12 ACRES" AND THEN ADD ", OR
UP TO 40 ACRES FOR RANCHERS, WITHIN MAUI COUNTY"
AND THEN GO ON THE REST OF THAT. SO, THAT WOULD
PUT THAT PHRASE IN THERE.
CHAIR LEE: Is there a second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member Sugimura.
Alright, so we have, do we have discussion on this. Member King, or anyone else?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I think it's, you know, what we've talked about, I've talked
about. Member Sugimura has talked about, that we've gotten complaints from local
folks who are ranchers who are operating on more than 12 acres, because that's what's
necessary to graze their cattle, and they're not eligible for these grants. So, this is a
way of putting them in that pool to be eligible.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion on this proposed amendment?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just wondering, can you, the first language was less than an
aggregate of 12 acres. Is the, was the amendment on less than an aggregate of
40 acres for ranch? What was, can you repeat what--
COUNCiLMEMBER KING: The language I used was "for up to 40 acres for ranchers".
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And is that to mean an aggregate of 40 acres, or? A total of
40, a total of 40 acres. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: A total of 40 acres.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 116
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just checking.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any more discussion on this motion to amend?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I’m supportive. So, for the 40 acres
it would be an aggregate. That's what Member Paltin was asking.
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
YEAH. WE CAN PUT THOSE WORDS IN IF YOU WANT TO
SAY, "OR UP TO AN AGGREGATE OF 40 ACRES FOR
RANCHERS".
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay. Mahalo for that clarification, Member King.
Mahalo Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Friendly, friendly amendment to my amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No.no.
CHAIR LEE: No?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I have another amendment. I'll wait. Okay, ready to-
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Do you want to clarify that the acres
are useable acres? So, if it's gulches and stuff?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay.
SO, YOU WANT TO, I JUST DO A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT
THAT SAYS, "UP TO AN AGGREGATE OF 40 USEABLE
ACRES"?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 117
Is that, does that work? That way they won't get, they won't get dinged if their, part of
their, the land is a gulf or is something that's not usable for grazing.
CHAIR LEE: Everybody understand that? Everybody agreeable to making that clarification.
Useable acres. Alright, are you ready to vote on that amendment? All those in favor
of the amendment, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now, Member Sugimura, did you say you have another amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. So, also, I’ve been hearing some feedback
regarding this. And I will tell you that some of the encounters I’ve had, people have
been very grateful for this. Thank you very much for creating this and expanding this.
But the amendment I have is that people who are in the farming/ranching business
have a comment that they would like someone with experience in the business to help
decide who gets, who's awarded the grants. So, I'm not too sure what their process is
right now, that MEO has. I do know what Lokahi does where, you know, they, they
have their grants review people. But I would like to add that the grant, the grants get
reviewed.
I MOVE, I DON'T KNOW WHERE TO PUT IT IN, I'M TRYING TO
SCAN THIS. BUT THE GRANT GETS REVIEWED AND PART
OF THE REVIEW PROCESS THERE ARE FARMERS, LIKE,
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE IN THE INDUSTRY WHO
UNDERSTAND, LIKE. I DON'T KNOW, CTAHR, YOU KNOW,
DR. CAIRES, SOMEBODY LIKE THAT WHO REALLY
UNDERSTANDS THE BUSINESS. AND TO BE PART OF THE
GRANT REVIEW PROCESS SO THAT IT'S VIEWED AS BEING
FAIR. SO. THAT'S MY MOTION. THE GRANT REVIEW, MEO,
THIS MINI GRANT PROCESS HAS A, FOR GRANT REVIEW.
HAS INDUSTRY. I DON’T KNOW WHAT THE RIGHT WORD IS.
EXPERTS OR INDUSTRY. PEOPLE WITHIN THE INDUSTRY,
WHO COULD BE PART OF THE GRANT REVIEW PROCESS.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 118
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, do you have any more discussion on? You kind of discussed it already.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I kind of did. But that’s what I've been hearing, about
this is really good, but the people in the, the actual farmers and ranchers, they said
that would like to know that there's somebody who's reviewing the process are experts
in the, or have experience and knowledge in the, in this industry. That's what this is
about.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just wanted to know if Member Sugimura has discussed this
with MEO? If it's something that they're aware of and able to do?
CHAIR LEE: Member Pal, Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I have not discussed it with them. But I think it's a valid
concern that I'm getting from outside, right? Not within MEO, but the people who are
in the industry, who are asking for it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion. Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I, I have a little mixed feelings about this
because you're basically asking people who are going to be competing against the
people who are getting these grants, you know? Cause farmers compete with each
other, ranchers compete with each other to make decisions on whether their
competition gets these grants basically. And so,  Iunderstand the concern, but I'm
thinking we're also going to have a Department of Agriculture starting up July 1. So,
at some point the Department of Agriculture should be the ones reviewing these grants.
But it, it's a, it's kind of a slippery slope to have an industry making decisions about
other parts of their same industry getting grants. So, I'm, I'm a little bit, yeah. I'm
hesitant to support that idea. Although I know, you know, people, there are people
with that expertise, but it just could be perceived in a negative way if you don't get a
grant and you know that somebody that is your direct competition is, is advising on
these grants. So, if you wanted to put something in there about the Department of Ag
reviewing the grants, I would support that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 119
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That’s a good idea. So, that's why I thought of CTAHR,
you know, as kind of a once removed, kind of entity that helps the entire industry. But
I’m really open to having another entity look at this also. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I'm not opposed to asking MEO to consider
this. But to include it in the wording without consulting with MEO, consulting with
CTAHR, at this stage in the game, I would not be able to support it. That's not to say
that people cannot reach out to MEO and request it. But I think once we put it in this
bill at first reading, there's not a lot of wiggle room, and people haven't been consulted.
So, I'm not, I haven't heard those types of complaints about what has been going on.
So, I'm not able to support it at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I, I have heard of the complaints. So,
Member Sugimura does make a valid point. But I agree with Member King about who,
who would end up, you know, being selected to give their final approval. Perhaps we
not put the language in, and we, you know, you know, Ms., Ms. Cabebe is so
collaborative and open. And I see you nodding your head in agreement. You know,
she's such a wonderful person to work with, i think she would be open to, you know,
collaborating with our Department of Ag once it gets going. And it's going to, you know,
get up and going real soon, because, you know, I,  Iagree, you know? I don't know
how much qualification the person that is approving the grants has in ag? So, I
understand, you know, the feedback and the complaints. But I think Ms. Cabebe would
be willing to work with us, so perhaps we just not put it in and then we just try to work
with her after this to get that going. Mahalo, Member Sugimura. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Concur. Yeah, concur. I mean-
CHAIR LEE: So, you, you'll withdraw your motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: MEO is amazing.
I WITHDRAW.
MEO is so amazing, that's why we even give them this project. But I'm sure they would
be open to suggestions. And I think--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 120
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -I'm seeing-
CHAIR LEE: The motion has been withdrawn by Member Sugimura, and the second
withdrawn by Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And I too wanted to add to the conversation. I think during
our deliberations of Department of Ag. we did add  acommunity grant writer too, in
anticipation should we move those existing agriculture grants to the Department of Ag.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, we're back to the previous motion. That has to do with adding 40,
aggregate of 40 acres. Okay, are we ready to-
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. It, it's just been flagged for me that
"ranchers" is not defined in Code. And so, I don't, I don't know if that's concerning to
anyone about, you know, what is considered a rancher and not? We do have a qualifier
that, you know, whoever the rancher is would need to possess a County business or
State GE license in farming business. I just read that all together right now and I don't
know if that still makes sense to everyone. So, maybe we should like read it again
before we vote in its entirety. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So, the maker of the motion was Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I thought we voted on this amendment already. So, if we
want to, on the amendment, to add the "up to 40 acres usable land for ranchers". So,
if we need, sounds like we need other definition for ranchers? Or do you want to, I
mean, I don't know what else to call them. Livestock producers, or? Does the person
who sent you that memo have another definition? Is livestock producer suitable? No?
Instead of ranchers? Okay, can we just make that friendly amendment, if there's no
objections?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 121
CHAIR LEE; Okay, just, just want to caution everybody. At the pace we're going, we're going
to be here till midnight. So, we're going to have to like focus, focus and be more
disciplined about what we're doing.
And okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, I saw your hand up.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: You have, you have an answer?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. Mahalo, Chair. I just wanted to clarify that
yes, we did vote on the motion. It did pass. It is part of it, but we're on the discussion
of the motion as amended, amended again. So, we're discussing what it currently is
before us, and making sure that everything makes sense. I could go with livestock
producer. I think that's, there's no question about what that means. But I also wanted
to flag this part where it says GE license for the farming business. So, I don't know if
ranchers or livestock producers have a farming business license, or if it would be
considered some other license? I'm not a rancher, so I don't, I don't know. I don't have
the answer to that. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair? Okay, so-
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can I respond to that? I, I what it's saying is that they have to
have a general excise tax license for their business. So, I think the word "farming"
means farming business, because that's what these grants are going to. And from the
testimony given by Mr. Caires earlier, when he talked about farming, he said farming
plants or animals. So apparently "farming" means both to them. But the, I think the
important part of that sentence is the general excise tax license for a business is that
that's required to get this grant. But I think it should be okay the way it's worded. Do
we want to, do we need a motion to change "ranching" to "livestock producing,
producers", or can we just make a friendly amendment?
CHAIR LEE; Well, what about the idea of dealing with this portion later, and we can ask staff
to look, come up with definitions of "ranchers" or anything else that's lacking here?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ask and you shall receive. So, I did receive Maui
County Code 19.86.020, Raising of livestock.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 122
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we voted on this amendment, but now we find that we need to correct
it, right? Because we wanted to add the raising of livestock instead of using the word
"ranching"? Is that what we're doing? Okay, I see James. James, do you have an,
James is a rancher, so he can help us with this. Come on, James.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: For, for the record, Chair,  Iam not a rancher. But Chair, just, I
just wanted to mention, since the language in question is language that the body has
voted on in the form of an amendment to the amendment, I would recommend that if
they want to change it further, they should either reconsider that motion and change it,
or make another amendment, and not do it as a friendly amendment. Just because
it's something that has been voted on.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Why don't we just make another amendment, then we don't have to
reconsider and I'll, which is more, more steps.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, can we, can we say just because of 19.56, whatever,
can we just call it "farming business", or farming as it would be not only livestock, but
all farmers in general? As there are farmers with more than 12 acres, yes.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, I, 1 think it was adding the word "livestock-raising", to the word "farming".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: That's, that's what I remember.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1  MOVE TO AMEND "RANCHERS" TO "LIVESTOCK
PRODUCERS", AND TO ADD "THE FARMING OR RANCHING
BUSINESS".
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 123
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to add
this other amendment, clarifying the word, you know, "ranching".
And so, anymore discussion on it? I think we've gone through it already. All those in
favor of making this change, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Now, can we vote on the main motion as amended? Or do
you have any more amendments?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Member Sinenci has his hand up.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I’m sorry.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, I had a ASF for the Council's consideration. Oh, not
yet?
CHAIR LEE: Not yet.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I’ll wait.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Okay. Alright, very good. Moving forward. All those in favor of the main
motion as amended, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay, before we go to your ASF, do you want to continue on, Vice-Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 124
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. That will conclude the amendments
for now. And I will have an amendment after Member Sinenci's amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: What about the‘Oiwi? Halua‘Oiwi? Oh, okay. I wanted
to say something about that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: No, wait. I called on Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, okay. Thank you, Chair.
AND MOVE TO AMEND BILL 69, BILL 70, AND BILL 71 TO ADD
$800,000 IN BOND FUNDING FOR THE HANA FIRE TANKER.
And then, if I have a second, go ahead and explain.
ViCE-CHAlR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez to
make a change in the-
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Bill 69.
CHAIR LEE: -add a tanker. Did you say the tanker? For how much?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Hana, for 800,000 in bond funding.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, to add $800,000 in equipment bond funding. Okay, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And I appreciated the Council's earlier
support during budget deliberations. But I did want to follow protocol and await the
formal CDBG financial report. But if staff can share the ASF with you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 125
COUNCILMEMBER SlNENCl; Oh, everybody got it. Okay. Alright, Members. And then, so
after discussions with the Budget Director, it was determined that there were no
additional funding for the CDBG grant for the purchase of the Hana Fire Tanker, and
so, we wanted to add. Budget Director is on to answer any of your questions.
But Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Member Sinenci, for
your amendment. I have great news. We're not going to be adding $800,000. We're
actually going to be subtracting $150,000. We inadvertently left in one of the horizontal
grinders in the equipment bond. So, we'll need to reduce that by $950,000.
SO. I MOVE TO AMEND THE MOTION BY REDUCING THE
TOTAL OVERALL BY 950,000, OH SORRY, BY 100, NO,
REDUCING IT BY 950,000 AND ADDING THE 800,000 FOR A
REDUCTION OF 150,000 TOTAL; AND REMOVING THE
U\NGUAGE OF ONE HORIZONTAL GRINDER, WHICH HAS
ALREADY BEEN ACCOUNTED FOR IN THE CDBG FUNDS.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: If I can get, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Further discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? Any more
discussion? Oh, you're amend, you are amending Mr. Sinenci's motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. I am amending his motion to add the tanker for
Hana and adding the 600,000 to accommodate for that; and reducing it by 950,000 to
remove one horizontal grinder for a total reduction of 150,000.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 126
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Any more amendments? Member Paltin and then Vice-Chair. And then, Member
Sugimura.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Mine was, oh.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry, I just, point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, that, that was my motion to
amend Member Sinenci's motion. So, we still have to take a vote on Member Sinenci's
motion.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, I, I just wondered if anybody else had any more discussion on the motion.
And she keeps raising her hand like, yeah, me.
So, Member Paltin, I assume you have discussion on the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm not sure if it's a point of order or what, but I just wanted to
clarify that 150,000 reduction doesn't need to go anywhere because it's bond funding.
So, we don't, it's not, it's like credit, not money. Okay, I see nodding.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yeah, it, it's not General Fund, it's
just Bond Fund.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, we don't need to account for it, you know, plus or anything?
Okay, just double-checking.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, and then, I saw James the rancher, our County Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 127
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. Sorry, to interject. I just wanted to clarify.
So, we distributed an ASF from Councilmember Sinenci. And so, just to clarify, the
motion that he made encapsulates all of the changes listed under a motion, under, on
the first and second page. And then, I just, I wanted, if it's okay, could we have clarity
on Council, on Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez' motion, that the body voted on. What
in that changed? Apologies. I just wanted clarity to understand what exactly changed.
CFIAIR LEE: Yeah, you know, Mr. Clerk, I was thinking to myself, as this was going on, that
the motion should have been the Vice-Chair's motion, and not Mr. Sinenci's. But, if
you want to, you know, I know this group loves complications. So, you know. I'm happy
to oblige you. So, what kind of clarification do you need, Mr. Clerk?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay, so in the first part of the
motion. Bill 69, on page 1, Bond/Lapsed Bond. So, instead of adding the 800,000, we
would be subtracting the total amount by 150,000, as well as the Total Estimated
Revenues.
On l.b, page 29, we would strike the one Horizontal Grinder. For l.c, page 34, Total
Capital Improvement Projects, I, I assume that would also be reducing it by 150,000.
And in second part in Bill 69, CD1, Appendix C, page 4, Countywide Equipment, we
would reduce it by 150,000, instead of increasing it by 800,000.
In part 3, Bill 70, page 1, Finance, to decrease it by 150,000 instead of increasing it by
800,000.
CHAIR LEE: So, getting back to my question, did we really need his, the motion? I don't
think so, but hey.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Wedidneed-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you still needed it? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We do need the motion, because he is adding one
Tanker Truck with equipment for Hana to Subsection B.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 128
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And so, everywhere where we've added 800,000, we
would now subtract 150,000, and strike one Horizontal Grinder.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, everybody got that? Alright, very good. Now, James, do you have any
questions on that? We're going to take a-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We have it, Chair. We're good. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, do we need to take a vote on this now, or are we going to have any
more amendments or anything? Any more amendments? Alright, ready? All those in
favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCiLMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries.
So, do we go back to you, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I have an amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait. Let's, we're following, you know, a certain pattern, yeah. And
we want to take things in order.
So, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This one I do not have an ASF for,
but it's, it's simple.
CHAIR LEE: So, others, can others do their ASF?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: ASF's now?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so then I saw two hands. Member Sugimura and Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 129
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay. Thank you. So, I have ASF. Did Clerk's pass it
out? As a condition to the, did it get passed out? Oh, here it comes. This is a condition
to the Affordable Housing Fund.
AND MY MOTION IS TO AMEND APPENDIX A, PART II,
SECTION 3.L, BY ADDING A SUBSECTION (9) ON PAGE 51
OF THE BILL TO READ:
(9) UP TO 950,000 MUST BE FOR A GRANT TO HOKU'ULA
PARTNERS, LLC TO INSTALL UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
FOR THE HOKU'ULA RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING
PROJECT LOCATED AT TMK 2-5-003:029.
And what was passed out, it also shows mark-up, marked up copies on page 51. And
you can see the highlighted number 9, which is what I just read. And this is in
coordination with Hawaiian Electric Co., the developer aims to install underground
utilities instead of overhead. The developer has  aquote of the work at $4.2 million.
And the 950,000 will help to offset increases to the cost.
And, and the amendment would condition 950 under the Affordable Housing Fund for
the Hoku'ula housing development project in Haliimaile for the installation of
nderground utilities. The project will convert approximately 1,500 linear feet of power
and communication lines from overhead to underground. The project also includes six
handhole groups, evacuation, lay, and backfill of approximately 7,500 linear feet of 4"
conduit and concrete easement [sic], traffic control needed for shoulder work, and
demolition of existing poles.
That is my motion and that is the reason as passed out in the ASF.
CHAIR LEE: So, who was the seconder?
u
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Tasha.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member, Member Kama, Pro Temp Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 130
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think I gave you my discussion.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Member Paltin has, has her hand up.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair, i just was wondering, i hadn't heard much.
Is this a 100 percent affordable housing project? And what, what stage is it in right
now? I had thought I seen something about a lottery for the market-rate homes or
something.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I don't know about market-rate, i don't know about that.
But it's, they are developing 196 single-family homes over 63 acres. And it's a total of
50 percent workforce housing project with 90 workforce homes under contract with
buyers who, oh, they have it under contract already, with buyers to begin move in
January 2023.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; And is there, what kind of precautions for, usually when Mahina
Martin comes and people talk about undergrounding of utilities, she says that there are
concerns about archaeological and things like that. I mean, is it time-sensitive that we
cannot hear the details in Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I think this project already passed out of Committee, and
it's under construction. Is that what you're asking?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Or, I mean, for the rest of the Affordable Housing Fund monies
that we were spending, we got more time, more information. This is like, I don't know,
I feel like I don't have very much information. Is it time-sensitive that we can't hear it
in Committee to get more information?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I believe that they are trying to move forward with the
project. And that they're to begin move in January 2023, which is right around the
corner. If housing is important, which I think it is, so, that's the time-sensitive, I guess,
reason for this to come up now.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Is, is this the Kihune's?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yes. Yes. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I guess, I mean, we did put money for them for the Kilohana
Makai. And I just. I'm wondering why now?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 131
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's in Kihei.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Why now this? Why they didn't do it together one time, like
you know, with the same kind of process? Cause this is like, I don't know it's
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: l,l can-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I feel like I don't have enough information at this time. I mean
I'm not saying yes or no, but--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: --the other one we had plenty of information.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the, from what I understand, this request did come up
earlier, and for whatever reason it wasn't submitted. So, I'm submitting it for them, in
their behalf, so that this project can move forward. So, time-sensitive is so that they
can proceed with building. As you know when they build, they need to do things so
that they can, you know, not, not phase it. but to actually continue on building. So, that
is the reason that it's coming up now.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I was just going to ask our Affordable Housing
Chair something, but he is not here. There he is. Okay, so yeah, I just had that same
question about I thought we had decided that the Affordable Housing Fund needed to
be 100 percent affordable housing projects. And this one, I thought 1 just heard
something about market priced homes in this project. So, if it’s, so maybe Mr. Johnson
could, or Councilmember Johnson could verity whether that was, you know, the
decision that the Affordable Housing Committee made on the Affordable Housing
Fund? The, that the project, infrastructure projects had to be 100 percent affordable.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: This one is not, right? So, Chair, can I?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Mr. Johnson. Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; This one’s not 100 percent affordable. And it's if the. the
infrastructure can be spent on a 100. but you can also spend the infas, oh, let me pull
it up before I speak. It's, I was just getting to grab the bill right now in my drawer.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 132
CHAIR LEE: Would you like a few minutes?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It looks like he would. He's disappearing. I can, I can wait for
that answer. Go to, go to Vice-Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, in budget session, there were,
there were a few projects, oh, well one, i guess, that was proposed to be under the
Affordable Housing Fund. And, you know, our policy at that time, and it has been our
policy in previous budget sessions as well, that because a budget amendment can
come later on and, you know, it's a revolving fund so it doesn't change anything as far
as like the bottom-line or the amount that's in the Affordable Housing Fund, that we
take it, take up the project in Committee, vet it through completely before we, you know,
give our stamp of approval. Cause once we put it into the Affordable Housing Fund,
they don’t need to come back and present to us. I mean, they could, but they don't
need to. So, I will be voting against the motion, so that we can take it up in Committee.
And then, we can do a budget amendment to add the project to the Affordable Housing
Fund after we're able to, you know, have a full discussion on it. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Sugimura, do you want to withdraw your motion, and then just refer this matter
to the Affordable Housing Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'll do that if I can hear the sentiment of the Committee. I
do also want to say that they are stuck with the supply chain issues that we've been
hearing about in the Committee. So, we have cost escalations. And yesterday, I
stopped by the project just to see it, and it's,  Imean, they're moving forward, so I was
trying to help them get this in line with what they need to do to build those houses. It
is, it is, as you all know, it's important. So, sure, I will, and get this referred so that we
can get it back here, and discuss it, and get questions answered.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. So, with that being the case.
Member Sugimura withdrawing her amendment, so this would go to Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez' Committee for consideration, or would this go to the Affordable
Housing Committee?
CHAIR LEE: Well-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 133
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: --which Committee are we looking at?
CHAIR LEE: It, it could go either, to either one.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Whoever's got it, please take it up expeditiously.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Because, you know, housing is critical for a lot of people. And
I think we're talking about housing, workforce housing, too, yeah, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: . . . fire. We don't want to delay our citizens from getting an
opportunity to get into homes. So, whoever gets it, expeditiously, as much as possible
if we could have it heard.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Member Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Do you want this in your Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, if we want to do it expeditiously, ! would recommend
it going to Budget, because I just don't have the time right now. We have an upcoming
one.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I can take it.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I can take it.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, can you take this up fairly soon?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Look at her. She has a full agenda, You can tell by her
eyes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm looking at the calendar. So, my staff is waiting
for me to sign off on my posting docs right now for next week. But perhaps, I don't
know if I gave up my June 15 meeting? Yeah, if, if Member Sugimura can take it up?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I can take it up on June 6. I can take it up on June 6.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 134
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Why would you take it up on June 6, though? The
posting, oh, the posting deadline would be May 31. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sounds good.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Done. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to referring this matter to the IT Committee?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes, James.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, apologies. Just wanted to flag for the body. I’m not certain
that the body can refer this item, simply cause it's not something that's been posted-
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: 7.B.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -from this point. But perhaps, yes, it could be handled through
a7.B.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And we can handle it later, right, in, in the meeting? Or do you want to
handle it now? We're just going to-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Or the understanding is-
CHAIR LEE: Go, go ahead.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: If the Chair, if the understanding is that it will be handled via
7.B., then I don't think there is anything further that the body needs to do. Although, if
the intent is to not do this motion anymore, I believe Councilmember Sugimura would
need to withdraw it. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 135
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I WITHDRAW.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
WITHDRAW THE SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, I thought you did already. I thought you did already, but that's okay.
That's fine.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Just to clarify. So. the, if it's a 7.B., then there's no legislative
action, so then she would be referring it to the next Council meeting for legislative
action and then waiving Council Rules and, and discharging it.
CHAIR LEE; Right.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. We also, if we take it up on June 6,
second reading is on June 8, and we could make an amendment if we re all onboard
with that. Just pouring it out there for further complication. Chair, because I know how
much you love complications.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, but you know what, it, it could go in immediately and not be part of this
budget. It doesn't have to be part of the FY 23 Budget I don't think.
Mr. Johnson. Member Johnson.
I'm not a member ofCOUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Sorry, Chair. You know, to go
Sugimura's Committee. I'd like to have a chat on this. So, I'm not even a member of
her Committee and so, I was hoping we could get it into Councilmember Keani
Rawlins-Fernandez. But also, I'll be out of country for a little bit next month, so that as
well, I just want to participate in conversation.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 136
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: But you’re going to be gone ... 13.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin and Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, I just wanted to respond to Member Johnson. It's not going
to be for legislative action. So, if Member Sugimura allows you to participate in the
conversation, you'll be on the equal footing as all of us, cause we're not going to be
making a vote.
And for Member Sugimura, if you do try to get it on for second reading of the budget,
just post it as like an ASF, and then, you know, it won't be a surprise.
CHAIR LEE: Also, Member Johnson, when are you leaving?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: The 10th to the 20th.
CHAIR LEE: The 10th? Okay. January/’s/c; 10.
And Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the Committee meeting that I would like to take this up
on is June 6. And I can do posting. And I believe, !only know what his travel schedule
is because we flipped times. So, June 13 is when we flipped times, so I know you'll be
out of country then. And I believe you just said you're going to be gone June 10. So,
you’ll be fine to sit into my meeting any time you want. You can listen from the ferry
as you're traveling over to come to Maui. Just kidding.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody all happy now? Okay, we were going to deal with this
separately, June 6 and try and resolve this issue at that time. Okay. Alright, so does
anyone else have an ASF?
Vice-Chair, I mean, not Vice-Chair, but Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I actually have this and another one. So, if I could finish,
unless you would like someone else to step in if I'm talking too much. But this is
regarding the Kula Ag Park and the lease recommendation that was made through our
process. And so, I would like to move to amend page 22. Oh, did you pass out the
ASF? Oh, you did. Okay.
MOVE TO AMEND PAGE 22 OF APPENDIX B BY REDUCING
THE RENTAL RATE PER USABLE ACRE AT THE KULA AG
PARK BACK TO $100.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 137
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you very much. And as you heard from
Dr. Caires, as well as Barbara Barry, who's on the Kula Ag Park Committee, oh yes.
CHAIR LEE: No. wait.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Can I continue. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: No, no, who's the second? Who's the seconder? Member, oh, Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I thought it was Keani. I thought I heard Keani.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, she just didn't recognize our motion and
second yet.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so, it's been moved by Member Sugimura, second by Member, Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez, to repeat your motion again. Did you say-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I move to-
CHAIR LEE: It had something to do with the, the increased fees for the Kula Ag Park.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Kula Ag Park. The lease yeah. So, I move to amend
page 20.
CHAIR LEE: So, you're amending to delete that or defer that? What, what are you doing?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I move to amend page 22. And it's actually putting it
back to $100 per usable acres is, is what I'm attempting to do with this motion. And
then, it was seconded. And if I could explain then. Am I allowed to do that?
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 138
CHAIR LEE: You know, it would be helpful if you just repeat your motion because
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay.
CHAIR LEE: -it probably doesn't say to put it back to what it was. right?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, I'll say exactly. To amend page 22 of Appendix B
by reducing the rental rate per useable acre at the Kula Ag Park to $100.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member, Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez. And then, now we have discussion on your motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And the reason, as you heard from the testifiers, Barbara
Barry, who's on the Committee, myself as well as Dr. Kyle Caires, and he's with
CTAHR. And the Chair of the Kula Ag Park Committee, a special meeting was held,
and consensus of that Committee was to not recognize the increase, rate increase.
And that really what they wanted to do was take this back to the Kula Ag Park tenants
and those that would be affected, just so that a discussion could be held and maybe
taken up at a, at a later time.
I also have Kula Ag Park in my Committee, if you want to take it up. if you would like
me to take it up there, I could do that. But I think it would be prudent to hold a, hold
this item and have it after in the evening, so that the Kula Ag Park tenants could weigh
in on their discussion for this item in fairness.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, more, more discussion?
Did I see, okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Did I see Member Paltin’s hand up
earlier? No? Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. She was just indicating that Member
Sugimura has two more amendments, ASF's that were emailed. Okay, so I support
the motion on the floor. I, I did try to attend the Kula Ag Park Commission meeting, or
Committee-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Last week.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -on Monday. As you heard in testimony, there was
technical difficulties, and ... I still support the discussion, cause I, I rewatched that
section of our budget deliberations and I agree with the sentiment that was expressed
and shared. The rates have not changed since it was established. Member King
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 139
shared about how some lessees in other locations pay $180 without, you know, the
additional benefits that Kula Ag Park lessees receive such as the UV vegetable cleaner
thing and fencing.
And but I think there’s like more discussion that we can have before increasing the
rates. And another idea that was proposed that I am supportive of is tiering the rates,
that those that are producing food can pay a lower rate, and then, those that are not
producing food, you know, can pay a higher rate. What we heard from testimony is
that those that aren’t producing food are actually generating much more revenue than
those that are producing food. So, you know, a similar policy that we've exercised
throughout this budget is providing tax relief where it’s needed, or rate relief. And then,
increasing the rates where it can be afforded, so that we’re covering the costs for the
benefit that the County is providing via taxpayer dollars. Mahalo, Chair.
so
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anyone else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, I support Vice-Chair’s comments. And
I just wanted to say if we are sending this back for more discussion, it should be a
broader discussion than just the tenants because, of course the tenants don't want
their rates raised, but the whole farming community. Because there are farmers who
have tried to get into Kula Ag Park and have not been able to, and so they're competing
against folks who are having their acreage subsidized and getting additional help.
Whereas, you know, the folks that are paying 180 or maybe even more per acre have
to compete in that same market. So, I think it should be a broader discussion among
the farming community of what the, what we’re, because this is a County subsidy, so
of what the County is subsidizing up there. And also, whether or not there should be
maybe reduced rates for the produce that comes off of these subsidized lots. So, just
this, this needs to be more of a community discussion because it is taxpayer dollars
who are subsidizing those lots. But you know, I would support, I would support
reducing it and having that discussion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Reducing it or just leaving as-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, reducing it to what it was before we increased it.
CHAIR LEE: To what it was. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, yeah, just, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 140
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yeah, I, I totally support having a broader discussion as \A/ell.
And I really did appreciate the suggestion in the testimony that Ms. Barry brought up
about opening up the UV washer thing to more people, maybe at a price or something
like that. And just, you know, having a broader discussion about the Kula Ag Park,
because it seems a little bit as though there's more questions than answers, not that
in a bad way. But just, you know, maybe we can tweak things so that they're better for
everyone, or something like that, because we haven't, we don't know information. So,
I support the ASF, and the offer to hear this at night. And I'm glad I'm a member of
that Committee, I'm glad I'm a member of all the committees. It's more work, but you
can vote on everything.
CHAIR LEE; That's the spirit. Member Paitin. Okay. Anybody else?
Oh, Member Sugimura, back to you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Sorry. I appreciate this discussion. And that's exactly
what the Kula Ag Park Committee was saying, this needs a greater transparency,
discussion, because it did come as a surprise to them. And but also, we all know that
there's, it's not called Kula Ag Park 2, but there's additional land that we did purchase
a few years back which we need to do infrastructure on it. And there's, that's where
you're going to have all this additional land for new tenants. So, we'll just, we'll focus
on this, we'll focus on that, we'll move that project forward, I hope, I hope too, and do
infrastructure on that, and that's going to be additional funding that's going to, we're
going to need for the Kula Ag Park 2 parcel. But this is great.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And open it up to everybody, cause that will be the tenant's
future, of the future. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: And, just for clarification, Vice-Chair, by voting on this, and passing this motion
it's not going to affect the budget, right?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No, it doesn't. Yes, it hasn't been realized in terms of
revenue. So, it's not going to affect the budget. It's not going to affect the budget.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 141
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh, sorry.
CHAIR LEE: I actually called on her, that's why. But that's okay. Do you have anything to
add to that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I just want to let the Members know this motion is not going to affect the budget.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Excellent question, Chair. For the Members and for
the public, we won't have to adjust because we didn't recognize additional revenue
through the 25 percent increase in rates or fees.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Everybody ready to vote? Not yet?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Let's vote.
CHAIR LEE: What was this? And what you, okay. All these kinds of motions everybody's
making. Alright, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, opposed "no".
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Now, you have another ASF, right?
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 142
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
assume that you all got it.
I'm doing a Keani. This is the, my third ASF. I'm going to
SO, MY MOTION IS, ON PAGE 21, MOVE TO AMEND
SECTION 3.B.10.C.(6)(III), OFFICE OF THE MAYOR.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, GRANTS AND
DISBURSEMENTS FOR AGRICULTURAL PROMOTION BY
ADDING THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE;
(III) FERAL ANIMAL RELIEF AND RECOVERY GRANT
PROGRAM FOR FARMERS AND RANCHERS
FENCING FOR AREAS IN EXCESS OF 40 ACRES BY
COMMERCIAL LA.NDOWNERS TO MITIGATE FERAL ANIMAL
IMPACTS MUST PROVIDE DOLLAR-FOR-DOLLAR
MATCHING FUNDS BY GRANTEE.
And I have a mark-up so you can see it on page 21 and what the verbiage is and what
the amendment. And the reason for this is to allow, allow--
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, we need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member King.
Okay, discussion. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this would allow large landowners to leverage County
funds to install fencing for feral animal mitigation, while also requiring an investment
by the landowner with a dollar-for-doliar match. So, that is the reason for this.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 143
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Just a question for Member
Sugimura. When you say large landowners, what are we talking about? A landowner
that owns 100 acres, 200 acres.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, yeah, so my, my amendment has in excess of 40 acres
by commercial landowners.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I, I seconded for discussion, but I'm a little bit
confused. 1 thought we discussed this when we went in the, when we were in budget
session. And what this did, I believe was remove some of the funding that was for the
smaller landowners. So, is that the exact same thing we're doing, we're proposing
again?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, at that time, 1 was doing, you know, half a million
dollars, or, 1 said, you know, and 1 tried to add  aspecific amount. So, I'm not going to
do that. And this would just allow the larger commercial landowners, and again,
40 acres is, is the definition to mitigate feral animal impacts. And I believe in all of, in
many of our discussions, we're excluding the larger landowners. And t did hear from,
I told Shane I heard from Hana Ranch, you know, who has 2500 acres. And I heard
from Maui Gold, which was Maui Land and Pine, but Maui Gold, and they're having
problems with feral animals also. And so, I just thought this was a way of us helping
of those large landowners, but also making it a situation where they would, they
could maximize the amount by doing a dollar-for-dollar match.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, but this, the funding pot of money has not changed.
some
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, then we're leaving it up to whoever is disbursing these grants
to decide how many go to the small landowners and how many go to large landowners.
And theoretically all that money could be taken up by a couple of very large
landowners. So, that's a little bit problematic and kind of scary to me. There, there's
guidance there as to how many small, you know, how many small farmers would
get the bulk of the grant. That's, it looks like I've got maybe some other people want
to make some comments. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, then Member Paltin.
no
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 144
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. For the reasons Member King just
kind of outlined, I will be voting against the motion. When we provide programs,
funding for programs like these, my intention in supporting these programs, I'll just
speak for myself, is to support those that don't have, you know, an excess, or, you
know, readily available capital to, to protect themselves. So, it is the smaller farmers
that generally don't have the kind of capital that larger farmers do. And so, I, I
understand that Member Sugimura is trying to, you know, limit it by doing a dollar-for-
dollar match. But, you know, if it's a large landowner, and then, and they have access
to that kind of capital, it's, it's not that difficult of a barrier to overcome to do a matching,
you know, to match dollar-for-dollar.
So, as I voted in, in, during budget session in Committee, I'll be voting against it. This
time, there is no cap. In, in budget session there was at least like a cap, so that there
would be funding reserved for farm, ranchers with less than 40 acres. And in this one,
it's a free for all for all one million. It could be used, you know, theoretically by all large
landowners. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I had a question for Member Sugimura. If
Director Inamasu or Director Yoshimura was consulted on this?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And they were supportive?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: i actually reached out to Budget Chair, I mean, sorry.
Budget Director on this and had actually discussions with this as we were developing
the $1.5 million budget amendment that the Mayor submitted and it was passed by this
body. Just trying to figure out how we can actually help these larger, so, yes, the
answer is yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, Director Inamasu was supportive of this?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: As, as long as we had money for the smaller, smaller
commercial landowners also.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: ... are turning.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Huh?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 145
CHAIR LEE: ! can see the wheels are turning. Are you . . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, and, and she, she ultimately makes the decision on howto
give this out, is that correct? Ms. Inamasu? Based on--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think it's probably going to go to RFP out to a nonprofit.
I don't think the Office of Economic Development processes these kinds of grants, as
Lokahi Pacific is doing the $1.5 million in this current Fiscal Year 22. So, I think it would
be handled, something, you know, similarly. And again, this is my attempt to help those
landowners that are larger than 40 acres. You may think just because they have a lot
of land that they, you know, they have a lot of money that they can put to the feral
animal condition. I would say that they probably--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have other questions.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions? Okay, Member Paltin, were you done?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure. Yeah. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I, I appreciate your, your intent, Councilmember
Sugimura. But, you know, over here on Lanai, we have one landowner that this would
apply for and they're doing fine. We'll just leave it at that. So, I, I understand that, you
know, what everyone, what, what we're saying is like, you know, there's only, there's
finite amount of money in this pot, and we should reserve it for the little, the little guys.
The bottom-up economics, I say it all the time, instead of top-down. So, I, I can't
support it at this time. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I guess I can hear what you all are saying. But if we put a
cap on it so that they could ask for 50,000, would that be a amendment that you may
be agreeable to? For Maui and Molokai landowners?
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina. Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 146
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair, I think that's a compromise, you know, I
can live with at least. So, this way, there's still enough in the pot for everybody. Cause,
well, if I may ask Member Sugimura, so who are these landowners' examples of?
Would that be like Haleakala Ranch, Hana Ranch, long time kamaaina--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Kaupo Ranch. I'm sorry. Yeah, I mean, you know, we, we
think that just because they're large, you know, landowners that they do not qualify for
this kind of assistance. I will tell you they are aggressively trying to look at mitigating
and control of these feral animals cause they are destroying, you know, the watershed.
They are destroying the land that their cattle graze on, right? So, there's a really big
need. And I, I think that we, as a body, we think, okay, they can take care of
themselves. But it is a huge expense, and they are slowly trying to fence. But the
faster we can help them, you know, I think it'll help everybody else. So, I'm, I'm trying
to be more holistic looking at this. So, thanks for letting me kind of plow away and try
again, as I tried to do in Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: These animals do not discriminate, large landowners, small
landowners, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: They do not.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I mean, there's a .. . So, okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And, yeah, mahalo. Member Sugimura,
and thank you for reaching out to both myself and the Hana Ranch. And I don't know
if you did reach out to them about their recent plans to, to sell the Ranch. But that is,
that was something that you were . . .
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, i did not. When I called Shane, he said that they're,
you know, Hana Ranch is now for sale. And I thought about it, and I thought even if
it's for sale or not, you're still developing the axis deer problem. Whether, you know,
Hana Ranch current owner or Hana Ranch new owner is going to own it, there's a
problem in Hana and I, I don't want them to eat their watershed, and EMI's going to be
gone. So, those are my, my concerns that I have for East Maui, as well as West Maui,
which i think Tamara did a, you know, in her district funds she did something to help
the watersheds. But we do not want this to spread. So, this is just my attempt to try
to do something with all of you to help those that a lot of people think we don't have to
help them.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 147
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. There's couple things I didn't understand. I
don't understand that, how it helps the watershed, because the cattle aren't grazing in
the watershed. And if we're fencing where the cattle graze to the axis deer, then, I
mean, I'm not understanding that. And then, I heard a cap of 50,000. Is that 50,000
total out of a million, was also, I didn't understand? So, I didn't understand those.
CHAIR LEE: I think it's 1.5 million, right?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: This one is a million dollar-
CHAIR LEE: Million dollars.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -item. A million dollars. But I, I will explain that. Thank
you. Thank you, Tamara. I was talking about the watersheds because as I was going
through my process of exploring where are the axis deer and hogs, or pigs,
devastating. I did call the watershed in, in West Maui. And I think you addressed their
problem by putting money in your district funds, because there was, yeah, you put in
25,000, I think. But that's going to help the watersheds, because this does not apply
to watersheds. But, so, to answer your question, axis deer, they don't, they don't know
who the large landowners or watersheds are, but they are damaging very precious
infrastructure to all of us, right, water and our environment. So that, and I, and I said
$50,000 grant, so it's just not limited, I mean, unlimited is what that is for, to amend my
ASF, or my motion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, and then, just to follow up, to clarify. If we fence off the
cattle grazing lands, then the axis deer, the hogs, could possibly go into the watershed,
instead of staying down below? Or cause I'm, I'm not aware of us putting money, giving
this amount of money to the watershed partnerships to fence around the watershed.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I have a comment.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You know, another five minutes, and we're going to have to end this,
because we're spending a lot of time on what I thought was 1.5 million, but it's $1 million
with a billion-dollar budget. Okay, so we're going to have to wrap this up. And if you
feel that, if you sense you don't have support, we can always refer this back to
Committee, and then spend more time on it. Okay?
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 148
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think, I think, I don't mean to delay this any further. I'm
just trying to, what I would, what I'm defining as providing support to larger landowners.
But if this body doesn't feel like there's a need, that's fine. And I will try again some
other way, I guess, or next budget session.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I don't, I think there, I don't, I don't see it as
there's not a need. I just see this program, and  alot of the programs that we're funding
are for the small farmers, because they don't have the wherewithal to apply for these
grants. They don't have the resources to reach out and try to get investments and
other funding. And so, if there's a need for the large landowners, I think we should
create a separate program for them and maybe even work in tandem with the State
funding.
But I also want to caution you saying that if they get fencing, that it helps everybody
else, because it doesn't really. If you fence, if you fence somebody out of your property,
they're going to go to the neighboring property. So, it actually, the more fencing you
do, the more it hurts the people who don't have fencing. So, you know, I would like to
see some kind of a program for large landowners, that maybe we could partner with
the State and then work with the local folks to incorporate maybe mutual fencing or
something. But there's a lot of pieces here that  Ithink kind of fly in the face with why
we originally made this, this, this pot of money.
And when we do the ag micro grants and. you know, the, the small business grants, I
think we're trying to give money, for me. I'm trying to give funding to the folks who don't
have the wherewithal to sit down and write a grant or to go out and find the investment
from other people, or other investment agencies. And so, this is kind of giving them a
leg up. That, that's why it feels uncomfortable for me to take some of that money away
and give it to large landowners. But I agree that there is a need. I just think we need
to find a different avenue for, to address the large landowners, so it doesn't take,
potentially take money away from the small farmers. So, that's, that's mainly where
I'm coming from. But I'd be happy to help with you help, help you work on, you know,
a separate, a separate plan and program.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 149
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. I'llbequick. I just wanted to give, for the
body's information, you know, we, I, I asked for  aquote for how much it would cost to
put a fence around a 100-acre ag park on Lanai. $326,000 for a 100-acre ag park, so,
that's just the fencing. So, if we were to, you know, look at this pot of money, that
money would be given up really quick. So, just letting you know that's about how much
it costs and it's pretty significant. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Suglmura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I can tell.
I WITHDRAW MY MOTION.
But I'm glad to hear this discussion, because there is a huge need, and, and it's
something that the large landowners, we're saying fencing, but they also are doing a
great job in terms of mitigation and control. They are doing a really good job, but they
need help is what I'm saying.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. Member King, and I'm  awitness, offered her help. And so,
so you gained something from this discussion today. You withdrew your motion, so
who was the second? Oh, Member Molina, was it, oh. Member King? Member King
withdrawing your second.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
I WITHDRAW.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. So, do you have one more ASF?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No, that, that was it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, thank you. Chair. Let's see, 1 have three ASF's, so maybe
the staff could pass out the first one. And I'll wait till everyone gets it.
CHAIR LEE: Which one?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 150
COUNCILMEMBER KING: This is the one for Economic Diversification fund. Is that the right
one, yeah? Oh, okay, they gave, they gave out all three. But, yeah, they all say Bill 69
on them. So, this, this particular amendment is to, shall I make the motion first?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
OKAY, MOVE TO, I MOVE TO AMEND PAGE 15, SECTION
3.B.10.C.(2).(III)
DIVERSIFICATION" WITH "MAUI ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
BOARD, INC.".
ECONOMICREPLACINGBY
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by, moved by Member King, second by Member Sugimura. And I think
all of you have the ASF, or do you v^ant to repeat the motion? You have the ASF.
Okay.
Discussion on the motion? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. Chair. So, throughout the budget session, we,
the Committee heard from individuals from different industries and walks of life who
explained the importance and role of MEDB in creating jobs and opportunities in new
economic sectors. And we heard from businessowners who said they wouldn’t be in
business today if it wasn't for assistance of MEDB. MEDB has existing and strong
partnerships with the Federal Economic Development Association and has written past
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy reports ("CEDS") and is currently in
the process of writing a new one. With its strong organizational ties, MEDB project,
projects that with the County's expense of 320,000 for the CEDS Implementation Plan,
it could leverage an additional 600,000 from Federal, State, and private sources to
expand on the Plan and carry out the implementation work in progress tracking.
Earmarking these funds for MEDB will ensure that this organization is poised to receive
the funding, which in turn will give the Plan the best chance of being created and
implemented effectively and efficiently. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion. Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 151
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I will be voting against the motion.
As we discussed in Committee, MEDB is not precluded from applying for the funds. I
have attended all but one of the CEDS meetings, and I think they are doing a good job.
I think that they benefit from this push. There has been three CEDS that has, you
know, that's been published in the past. And it, there, there was never an initiative to
implement it. It just is completed, and then as mandated by the Federal EDA,
Economic Development Administration. So, I think that by not just guaranteeing them
the fund and encouraging them to work for it to really earn it, will benefit all of our
County.
And so, I did hear from the testifiers, and I think it's great. I have been spreading the
word about the CEDS and there's been a lot more participation from a broader, from a
broader community. And again, it's been a positive experience. And those that are
facilitating the meeting, have shared with, with me how positive it's been. I think this
CEDS will be, will be wonderful. I have confidence in MEDB in doing a really good job
with the help of and support of this Council, with the Administration, and with the
community.
So, if they are the best, they will get this grant. And that’s why I'll be not voting for the
motion so that it, sometimes people get comfortable with just knowing that they get,
they're just going to get the money without having to work for it. And I think that we're
incentivizing that by continuing to just make it easy, and not forcing entities to have to
work harder for it. So, I support MEDB. But for this motion, I will be voting against it.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? Anybody else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I'm going to be supporting the motion for
MEDB. And through the years. I've worked with them, even before I got on the Council.
And I have attended a couple of the CEDS workshop, and for implementation. And
very good reach in the community. I believe, though, I believe that implementing the
CEDS was never part of the Federal requirement, but by seeing the robotics or different
organizations that we've been honoring, you can see how important the CEDS report
is and what it does in the community.
And I've been working with the, because of the axis deer, you know, try to work on
composting and we got that into the CEDS. We're working to get that into the CEDS,
because i can see how the future of getting Federal funding is available through the
strength of this. But they're creating it, and I believe that they will help in terms of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 152
implementing it. And they're doing a good job right now with the workshops that they're
having to develop it. So, I support MEDB. Thank you, Kelly, for bringing this forward.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? For myself, I, too, will be supporting the motion, because, for
one, Member King and I were part of an ad hoc group that actually helped to come up
with this proposal. And ad hoc group made up of a very diverse group that supports
MEDB because of, because of their wide network, and the fact that they are in a
position to leverage more, more funds. So, for that and other reasons, I will be
supporting the motion.
Yes, Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair, for my second and final. So, I, I, like
I said. I've attended all but one of the focus group meetings, their focus groups, not
workshops. I think I failed to say that earlier, when I said that I attended the meetings.
And they're, they're all . . . board meetings, meaning they're virtual versions of big
poster paper with post-it notes and then you take, you know, the red circle star, circle
stickers and post it on, you know, the post-it note with the idea that you support. And
so, it's a virtual version of that, doing SWOT analysis. There are two more next week.
Wednesday is the focus group for the Molokai portion, and then on next week
Thursday, from 4-6, is the Hana focus group. So, those are the last two, which I will
be attending as well.
And last night was the focus group on ‘Ike Hawaii, and so, Hawaiian culture and arts.
And at the end of each, of that focus group meetings, they, they put out an activity that
asks members that are participating in the focus group to choose one word to create a
word cloud. The biggest word that was on the word cloud for, to respond to the
question of what is your feeling of Hawaiian culture in Maui County was undervalued
and underrepresented. And that broke my heart.
There's portions in our community that is not being represented and feeling valued
through this process. And I am doing my best to ensure that this CEDS, those that
have not been, have not felt included are being included. And that's part of why I am
speaking so strongly about this. Because there's the people that are considered the
regulars that work with MEDB and there's, there are people that are not. And they
have not been included. And so, I am voting against this motion to ensure that those
that feel undervalued and underrepresented are receiving more outreach so that they
are included. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more discussion? Otherwise, all those in favor, oh, you have
a discussion. Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 153
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Sorry, wrong button again. Thank you,
Chair. I, I kind of agree with Member Rawlins-Fernandez. You know, it's great to all
the time see the kids with the robotics, and things like that. But every year, I look
forward to hearing some students from West Maui and I, I ask them sometimes when
they meet with us, like, how come the West Maui students aren't there? And you know,
my daughter brought home a little brown paper bag of STEMworks kit and we tried to
put it together, and it's like the tape didn't stick to the kaleidoscope thing. And it was
like kind of a little bit of a bust, but she enjoyed it.
And I just was wondering, like you know, and I also asked like about the immersion
kids in STEM. And this is my third year and I, I haven't seen that progression to where,
you know, it's like Hawaiian immersion kids are involved in STEM from West Maui, or
kids in West Maui are at the level that the Central kids and the kids that testify every
year. And it's not because i don't ask what's going on. I mean, I don't know what,
what's going on. But I would love to see West Maui kids talk about robotics, or things
like that, or get those opportunities. And I understand that MEDB is located in South
Maui, and West Maui is very far away. But I guess, you know, competition and
expansion, I'm for that. So, that's just my discussion. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. This is my second and final on this item, too.
I think it's great that we're holding focus groups where people are able to express
themselves and wanting to expand the programs. I would caution against conflating
of the programs that MEDB is actually running with this mandate we're giving
them to write an implementation plan. And I'm confident that they're going to stay,
keep the Council updated as it goes along, and take a lot of input as they go along with
this, with this plan. But I think it's really important to, to, we're passing things, like, the
putting the moratorium into ordinance. And we, we can't, we need to, in conjunction
with that, we need to expand our economy and diversify it, so there are other
opportunities for people throughout the County.
So I, I think this is a different mandate then MEDB has ever been given, because the
CEDS is a report, it's a strategy report. It's not an implementation plan. And just
personally, I want to see this happen as soon as possible, because I know from
personal experience that when we see our young people leaving the island, it's not just
because of housing, it's because of the limited career opportunities and career
pathways we have in the island. And if we don't start giving them jobs in different
industry sectors to go into after they get done with high school or college, then they
have to leave, because the alternative is to take three or four $10 an hour jobs just to
keep food on the table and to make a living.
some
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 154
So, I, I see this as the quickest pathway. I do,  Ido have faith in MEDB that they can.
that they can accomplish this. But I also have faith in this Council, that the Council will
remain involved and keep steering the project in the broadest sense possible to
address the entire County. And, and it may be that some of the programs don't, and
some of the programs, the individual programs, which is separate from this project,
need to be expanded as well. And hopefully, those two things can converge at some
point. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, C hair. You know, I appreciate this
amendment, Councilmember Kelly King. And I also appreciate Councilmember Keani
Rawlins-Fernandez' points of view, as well as Councilmember Paltin. I, I think
something that also needs to be said in the whole idea of changing this process is
that's what the proposal is. It's the, the first idea is that it's based off of merit. Who,
the, the person with the best plan will win this grant, right?
So, it's a meritocratic process to me. That makes sense. So, that doesn't, in my
opinion. I’m not trying to bash MEDB, but they might very well win. You know, they
might come up with the best plan. So, I think that that is, that is a good use of the
people's money as far as making a meritocratic process. But I hear where you're
coming also from the other side. But I just think that that doesn't exclude them. So,
I'm kind of feeling like I'm a little bit torn on this. Is, and you. I'm going to ask
Councilmember Kelly King, you said there's a time, a time-sensitivity too. Can you
expand on that a little bit?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I don't know if I can, okay, cause I did have my second and final.
But I, no, I will expand on that, that we need to get moving on this and we need to have
somebody hit the ground running and not have to do a lot of background work.
Because it needs to come, the, the idea of diversifying the economy has to happen
before we start shutting down more tourism. Otherwise, our people have nowhere to
go for jobs. We're going to implode. So, I know, although i agree that we have to get
a handle on tourism and we have to manage it in a way that it doesn't continue to grow,
our community continues to grow, our young people continue to grow up and look for
opportunities. And we have to get those opportunities in front of them as quickly as
possible.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 155
We have to start diversifying and figuring out where we need to invest more money in
other, other sectors. We're doing a great job with agriculture, but not everybody wants
to go into agriculture, you know. And there's high-level technology jobs that are
stealing our kids away from Maui. So, I feel an urgency, because kind of the same
urgency I felt when my kids were little and we were trying to build a high school. And
it didn't happen fast enough, and now my kids are out of college before the high school
even opens. So, you know, I'd like to see this happen as quickly as possible with the
most experienced organization that can, that can start the project like July 1st.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, ready to vote? All, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and
say "aye".
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Roll call.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, you might need a roll call.
CHAIR LEE: We'll take a roll call. We’ll take a roll call. Mr. Clerk, roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
NO.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 156
DEPUTY OUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.CHAIR LEE:
COUNCILMEMBERS KING, MOLINA, SUGIMURA,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, PALTIN,
SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
NOES:
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are four "ayes", five "noes"; motion fails.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member King, do you want to go onto your next ASF?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. My next ASF has to do with the South Maui
Economic Development district, or Environmental, and Cultural Program Fund.
SO, MY MOTION IS TO AMEND PAGE 18, SECTION
3.B.10.C.(2).{XXII!) BY ADDING CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
TO READ, ”F) UP TO $25,000 MUST BE FOR SISTER CITIES
SUSTAINABILITY SUMMIT ACTIVITIES".
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 157
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura.
Discussion on your motion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, this program is a collaboration between
Sister Cities International, United Nations, and other stakeholders and promotes
collaboration on issues relating to sustainable development as outlined by the United
Nations. It utilized partnerships established by Sister Cities to promote the participation
of local citizens in demonstrating locally based actions which can advance sustainable
development, improve the quality of life for citizens, and advance knowledge and best
practices.
And while we're looking for a place for the Sustainability Summit, potentially in South
Maui, there are other activities that will be associated with this, with the Sustainability
Summit as well. So, they may not all be in South Maui. But, and if anybody else, any
of the other Counciimembers wants to offer additional funding. I'm sure they'd accept
that. But for right now. I'm just trying to help out the Sustainability Summit for the Sister
Cities. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes"; motion carries.
Okay, next. Next ASF.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Members. Okay, I have one more. And this,
you heard about. This one you heard about this morning from former Councilmember.
Sorry, here we go. From former Councilmember Elle Cochran. This, I'll make the
motion first and see if I can get a second on this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 158
THE MOTION IS IN, TO AMEND THE FOLLOWING IN BILL 69
CD1 (2022):
A. ON PAGE 1
DECREASING THE AMOUNT TO $151,880,000.
TOTAL ESTIMATED REVENUE BY DECREASING THE
AMOUNT TO $1,065,838,795.
AMEND BOND/LAPSED BOND BY
AMEND
ON PAGE 27, DELETE SECTION 4.A.2.A.(2)(II), KiHEI
WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY GRIT SYSTEM
REPLACEMENT IN ITS ENTIRETY.
AND C. ON PAGE 34, AMEND THE TOTAL CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS BY
DECREASING THE AMOUNT TO $259,935,000. AMEND
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS) BY DECREASING THE AMOUNT
TO $1,065,838; I MEAN, $1,065,838,795.
2) IN BILL 69, CD1 (2022), APPENDIX C, ON PAGE 2, DELETE
CBS-5026, KIHEI WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
GRIT SYSTEM REPU\CEMENT, IN ITS ENTIRETY.
AND 3) IN BILL 70, CD1 (2022), APPENDIX B; ON PAGE 1,
AMEND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TO REDUCE THE
AMOUNT TO $68,630,224 AND ADJUST PERCENTAGES
ACCORDINGLY. AMEND TOTAL TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT
TO $280,486,775.
B. ON PAGE 2, AMEND GENERAL OBLIGATION FUND TO
REDUCE THE AMOUNT TO $148,336,793 AND ADJUST
PERCENTAGES ACCORDINGLY.
REDUCE THE AMOUNT TO $280,486,775.
AMEND TOTAL TO
ON PAGE 3, AMEND KIHEI-MAKENA TO REDUCE THE
AMOUNT TO $21,675,000 AND ADJUST PERCENTAGES
ACCORDINGLY. AMEND TOTAL TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT
TO $280,486,775.
ON PAGE 4, AMEND SEWER TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT TO
$58,180,224 [SIC] AND ADJUST PERCENTAGES
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 159
ACCORDINGLY. AMEND TOTAL TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT
TO 280,486, OR $280,486,775.
ON PAGE 8, DELETE CBS-5026, KIHEI WASTEWATER
RECLAMATION FACILITY GRIT SYSTEM REPLACEMENT, IN
ITS ENTIRETY.
ON PAGE 9, AMEND TOTAL KIHEI-MAKENA, FISCAL YEAR
2023 TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT TO 21,000; $21,675. AMEND
TOTAL KIHEI-MAKENA, 6-YR. TOTAL TO REDUCE THE
AMOUNT TO $107,825.
AND 4) IN BILL 71, CD1 (2022) ON PAGE 1, AMEND THE BILL
TITLE IN SECTION 1 TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT TO
$148,336,793.
B. ON PAGE 2, DELETE SECTION 2.A.1.A.(2) IN ITS
ENTIRETY.
ON PAGE. C. ON PAGE 4, AMEND TOTAL TO REDUCE THE
AMOUNT TO $148,336,793. THAT'S THE MOTION.
CHAIR LEE: Do we have a second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Johnson, on this rather lengthy
motion here.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I should have, 1, 1 was going to ask you if you want me to do ^e
discussion first before I finish the motion. Okay, the Kihei Wastewater Reclamation
Facility Study performed by Brown and Caldwell in 2018 recommended that the County
continue to employ its status quo operations for grit removal as this option offers the
greatest benefits in capital and life-cycle costs.
In addition, as indicated by the Department of Environmental Management in their
response letter to the Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee dated
April 12, 2022, the SRF funding for this project was disapproved due to a failure to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 160
comply with Section 106, Historic Preservation and Section 7, Wildlife, prior to breaking
ground for construction.
There's an attachment, marked up copies of, you can read that on the ASF. That's
another lengthy paragraph with a lot of numbers and page numbers in there. But
basically, it's following up on, on the issue that Member Cochran and I sat through in
our, in my first term in office, when this project was actually voted down a couple of
times. I don't know how it eventually ended up getting into the budget. But it was, it
was not recommended by Director of the Water Supply at the time, nor Brown and
Caldwell. So, I'm just giving us the opportunity to remove it. And if it, if this body wants
to send it to, to the IT Committee or another Committee to review before we consider
it again, I think that would be a good move.
CHAIR LEE: That's a lot to absorb right now.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. 1 guess my first question is like a point of
information. I imagine that the numbers don't reflect the amendment that we made
earlier with Member Sinenci/Rawlins-Fernandez' amendment, so.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The bottom line?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The bottom line, this would remove the $4 million from the CIP
budget. It's a $4 million project now.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And I think that they were going to bid it out at the end
of this year or first quarter of 2023. So, I was wondering if Director Nakagawa was
aware of this because ! think that there was a updated study from 2020 after the 2018
study?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're asking me? Yeah, no.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: If, if you consulted.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No, I did not consult with the Director.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 161
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good question. This is my department, and I did not speak
to Director regarding this and I would like to. You can send it to my Committee for
discussion, before you do a deletion from this. Just to make sure.
CHAIR LEE: Member, I mean, yeah, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, so, just to correct the record. We
don't, we cannot send subject matters anymore like we used to. But we can take it up
under Rule 7.B. So, I, I wish we had talked a little bit more about this in budget session,
when we had DEM up, so that we could all have a better understanding of this whole
thing. I, I don’t know enough about this to vote one way or the other at this moment.
But I do understand the concerns. So, one suggestion for consideration is we could
withhold the bond authorization. And I think Member Paltin's concern about this going
out to bid in the first quarter of FY 23, I think that would address the, that concern. But
I would have to ask Budget Director Yoshimura, and she is on, if we wanted to, to
consider that?
CHAIR LEE: Budget Director Yoshimura, do you have any comments?
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA; Chair, thank you. Yeah, if Councilmember
Sugimura would hear the matter, then they are planning to go out to bid either first or
second quarter of Fiscal '23. So, withholding the bond authorization, and then us
coming back for authorization after July 1, that would work.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Budget Director Yoshimura. And for the
study that's been referenced, is there an updated study? I think Member Paltin was
saying that there was a more updated study?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes. I did speak with Director Nakagawa. The 2018 study was
updated. They did another one in 2020, and that's what they based their design on.
Their design is in its final review stage, and that's why they'd be ready to go out for bid
by the end of this calendar year. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: You want to finish up? Vice-Chair, you want to finish up your questions, because
other people want to ask questions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 162
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. I said mahalo, Budget Director. And then, !
said mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Good.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: I concur. I'll take it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Thank you. Yes, just a clarifying question. So, it looks like in
2022, the SRF funding was disapproved. So, was that a matching fund, or can they
still complete the project without the SRF funding?
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. It actually, originally it was on the SRF list
back in 2018 when we approved it. And this time it's, it's out there, it's under bond
funding in the budget. So, that's why Vice-Chair was saying we could just remove
bond authorization for it, because it's not, it's no longer on, it was rejected from the
SRF fund back then. But I, I concur with the Vice-Chair, that you know, I would be, 1
would be amenable to just removing bond authorization and send, you know. Member
Sugimura could take this up in her Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Do you want to make that motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SO, MOVED.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Been moved by Member King, seconded by, seconded by Vice, by Member
Sugimura, to remove the bond authorization on this project.
Discussion, Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 163
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I think we, I think Vice-Chair did a good explanation of that.
And that would still keep the project alive and we can, we could vet it more thoroughly
and find out also who, you know, received the first, from who received the first contract,
which I think was Milton Choy Company, find out, you know, where we're at with the
design and engineering.
CHAIR LEE: This, this must have taken a lot of work to put this together.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I support this motion. I just wanted
to check with the Clerks if we needed to clear the slate by withdrawing the original
motion, or if you're considering this a friendly motion to Member King's own motion?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: I thought, I thought that Member King, you withdrew your first motion. You didn't
withdraw your first motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, but lean.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so you're withdrawing-
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
I CAN AND I DO.
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me? What did you say?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I said I can and ! do.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. okay. Alright. And then, who seconded the motion? Was it Member
Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I did.
I WITHDRAW.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King withdraws her first motion and Member Sugimura
withdraws her second. And then, because, because I, the reason why I said that, I
thought I heard you withdraw your motion, because you made a motion to, about the
bond authorization, remember?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 164
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Right. Right.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE: And that motion, so, we'll, we'll have to take that motion again, I guess.
Yes, James? Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, apologies to interject. But just to clarify that
Councilmember King's original motion for this ASF was seconded by Councilmember
Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so Councilmember Johnson, do you withdraw your second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
YES, I WITHDRAW MY SECOND, CHAIR.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Very good.
James, you still, you have another. . .
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Just wanted to clarify that for now. Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, is there something else you wanted to clarify?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, Chair. There's, there's no amendment motion on the floor
at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. There's, there's a new motion. So, Member King, can you repeat your
new motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
OKAY, MY NEW MOTION IS TO WITHHOLD BOND FUNDING
FOR THIS PROJECT.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 165
CHAIR LEE: Bond authorization.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
BOND AUTHORIZATION.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, withhold bond authorization. And so, it has been seconded by Member
Johnson. So, do you want to discuss?
Yes, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, apologies to interject. So. just to clarify that would mean
that on Councilmember King's ASF, only number 4 applies, right, with changes to
Bill 71. CD1? Is that staffs understanding?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Correct. That would reduce the amount of funding.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Okay. And then just to clarify for us. for staff, does budget staff,
if this motion should prevail, does budget staff have the ability to reconcile it with
previous amendments that were made that might also affect this bill?
CHAIR LEE: Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm sorry, can you say that again?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The, right, I just want to clarify if budget staff has the authority
to reconcile this, if this motion prevails with other motions that prevailed that amended
the budget?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so that’s a question for Vice-Chair. She's saying, she's
giving you a thumb's up.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, James, do you have any other questions? Instead of popping up every
five seconds, why don't you just, just say all of your concerns at one time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 166
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. No, just didn't, just wanted to make sure I
wasn't getting ahead of the Council. But no, I have nothing else that needs clarification
at this time. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so, at, at this time, no, James? So, at this time, we have a motion on the
floor, yeah, to withhold the bond authorization. We have a second. And what else do
you need? Did you need additional information on, on the motion?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, Chair. We, we have the motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so back to you. Member King. Do you have any more discussion on this?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No. I don't think so, Chair, because--
CHAIR LEE: What about you, Member Johnson, as the seconder?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: All my discussion was done. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo. Member King, for your
consideration. I speak in support of the motion and getting a, you know, a fuller
discussion in Committee inhibiting the progress of the Department of Environmental
Management. I just wanted to also correct the record for the design consultant. The
company is HDR and then not, not Milton Choy. And then the construction will be put
out to bid. So, I know there's, you know, connotations to that, so I wanted to correct
the record for that. But mahalo. Member King. And  Isupport the motion. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion relevant to the motion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I'm hesitant to support the motion. I just,
you know, going off of a four-year-old study, I just would hate it that if the grit system
that we have isn't working, I would hate for our wastewater treatment operators to have
to go in and shovel the shit themselves by hand. So, I'm thinking I'm not going to
support the motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 167
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, wait, Vice-Chair, how about we let other people talk first, if they, if
they want to?
Okay, thank you. Member Paltin for the colorful language. But perhaps we can use
another word? Shovel the sludge, you know, other words, okay?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, let's see, the June. July, August.
So, August, or by August, or by December they're going to go out to bid. I understand
Member Paltin's concern using her colorful language. It sounds like Member Sugimura
is willing to take this up as soon as possible. And if, if this Council is satisfied with the
presentation from DEM on this item, when we do receive the budget amendment to
add this project, the grit system project to the bond bill, I would be happy to expedite it
by, you know, taking it up on the floor, when it does come from the Administration so
that we are not, you know, going to put workers in that predicament. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I, I said I would take this up. So, that was what Keani
discussed, and I will. We’ll take it up as soon as we can. And my June 6 agenda is
filling up, so thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good.
Anybody else? Member Molina, are you ready for a break?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Ready for the vote and a break. Yes, you read my mind.
Madam Chair. We're-
CHAIRLEE: Yeah. I, I know. This thing is just dragging on.
Alright, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye". Oh, wait
a minute, roll call. Roll call.
Member Paltin, were you going to vote "no"? Yeah, okay.
Roll call, Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 168
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY OUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.CHAIR LEE:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 169
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, SINENCI SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight "ayes", one "no"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Members.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE; It is approximately 5:06. So, let's make it 5:15?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 5:20, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Recess. Huh? Pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Can we do 5:20.
CHAIR LEE: Oh alright, 5:20. This meeting is in recess until 5:20.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 5:06 P.M. ,AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 5:32 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE; Will the Council meeting of May 26. 2022, please reconvene.
So, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, before the body right now is the main motion as amended
to adopt the recommendations in Committee Report 22-42.
CHAIR LEE; The main motion. But I think we have more amendments.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. I'm happy to yield to any of the other
Members who have amendments.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King, were you done?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes. I don't have any more amendments.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 170
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anyone else? Okay, everybody sure now?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We, in the chambers are nodding our head, are shaking our head
no. We have no more amendments.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. What a bunch of, come on people, you have to speak up.
Speak up.
Apparently, nobody else has amendments. So, Vice-Chair, it's back to you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. Okay, I wanted to follow up on a
request from our testifier, Mr. Mackinnon from the Maui Humane Society. I was hoping
that Corporation Counsel would be able to speak to, I, I meant to call it during the
recess to find out why that item wasn’t, why we weren't able to fund it in the way that
was being requested?
CHAIR LEE; Okay, it's a language change, right? We don't have to, oh, okay.
Corp. Counsel. Deputy Corp. Counsel Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Hi, Chair. I'm sorry, I
don't have information on that, but I can, if, I can look it up, if there's a question on. Is
it the funding of the trucks and why it's just two per year? I was following that a little
bit.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, it was regarding-
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes. That's part of it.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Well, I know that we have, in terms of wanting
them to take over the ownership of the trucks and transition to purchasing, it's not that
question? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, I think we did do that, and that was fine. And that's
in the budget now. But he asked for something about the supplies. Shucks, I'm sorry.
I didn't find-
CHAIR LEE: No, he said, he said equipment and cars. That's what I recall him saying.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, there, Budget Director might have more details
on that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 171
CHAIR LEE: Director Yoshimura.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thank you. I think they limited them to two vehicles per year, because
of the limited funding that's in the revolving fund. And so, normally, Maui Humane
Society will tap this fund for, for different items. But we do have other agencies that
can tap this fund so if we have them with unlimited amounts of vehicles or unlimited
amount of funding then that doesn't allow anybody else to request funding from this
particular fund. So, I think that's why we've capped them at two per year. And what
we've done was allowed them to do one, because we know we had the funding for
one. And towards the end of the year, if funding is available, then we let them do the
other vehicle. Thank you. Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Budget Director. Mahalo, Chair, for that.
Okay, then I will go to the next one. And that is to amend the Molokai district funds.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait. Wait one second, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: So, that means we're not going to do anything to improve the language, the
condition for that fund? Is that the consensus of this group?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Consensus.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we're going to just leave it as is then. Alright. Just checking.
Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair, for getting that clarification. And I, I
can offline, I can talk story more with the parties to make sure that I, I've understood
that all correctly. Okay. But for the sake of getting on with this meeting, I'll make my
next motion. And that's regarding the Molokai district fund under OED. And that's on
page 18.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 3.B.10.C.(2)(XX) TO ADD A
"C) UP TO 60,000 FOR SOLUTIONS PACIFIC MUST BE FOR
ECONOMIC PLANNING FOR MOLOKAI".
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 172
CHAIR LEE; Okay, up to 60,000 for, what did you say? What kind of solutions? What did
you say?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Solutions Pacific.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And seconded by Member Johnson.
Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So. under the Molokai district funds
this would be for economic diversification and resilience on Molokai. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, anymore comments or questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion
raise your hand and say "aye".
Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Next.
And this would be the lastVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
amendment for the Members consideration. And this is regarding the Ma'alaea
Regional Wastewater System. And this would be on page 2 of Appendix C.
I  MOVE TO AMEND APPENDIX C TO CHANGE THE
LANGUAGE TO READ, "A COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT
MUST BE ESTABLISHED FOR A PRELIMINARY
ENGINEERING REPORT. DESIGN. PERMITTING. PROJECT
MANAGEMENT, AND CONSTRUCTION FOR THE MA'ALAEA
REGIONAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. THE 9.5 MILLION
WOULD REMAIN IN THE THIRD COLUMN, CBS-XXXX. AND
IT WOULD BE PUT INTO THE BOND BILL AND REMOVED
FROM THE SRF ON BILL 73. AND THAT WOULD BE ON
PAGE 337 IF YOU'RE LOOKING ON THE PDF.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 173
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, second by Pro Temp Kama.
And the motion, discussion on your motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay. So, I think we're ail supportive.
Nah, I can erase the think. I know we’re all supportive of protecting our environment
and cleaning up and restoring to what it was before human impact, as much as
possible. And so, I, I've been trying to figure out a way to address all of the concerns
that we've heard from all of the different testifiers, from the department, and to stop the
continued pollution of the bay, so that it's clean for our marine life, and for, you know,
people's recreational use. And the reef that's, you know, create oxygen for us to
breathe.
So, with, with this idea, it leaves in the 9.5 and having it under bond would give us
direct control over that. What we've heard from the Department is that this, the
Ma'alaea project is not part of the priority list. So, similar to MPO's STIP, with the
transportation infrastructure, in the STIP it outlines what projects are the County's
priorities. And so, similar to that, there's an SRF priority list. And the Ma'alaea
wastewater project is not on that priority list. And so, what we heard from the
Department is it won't receive funding through SRF.
We've also heard that by doing the SRF, there's Federal funds that could qualify. The
SRF is a loan. But through this mechanism, it would still be a loan through a bond
under the County, and the County could still apply for Federal funds that are becoming
available through, through that same, you know .. .of funds. We've heard that
because the users, so it's not just condo owners, there's also business owners, those
in the area that are polluting the bay are not currently on the system. The Wastewater
Division is self-funded. And so, the financial burden of paying for the construction of
this project would be on the current rate payers, sewer rate payers.
By establishing a CFD, like we heard from testifiers about what this kind of precedence
sets, that not, not asking those that would benefit from this to contribute anything would
be a very dangerous precedent for us to set, specifically knowing that there's going,
you know, the ban on cesspools is very quickly approaching. And we're going to need
to figure out how we would go about doing that. And, and we would go bankrupt if we
were to provide full funding to every property owner with a cesspool to convert to septic.
And I’m going to. I'm going to, I'm going to close up now. Okay, so those are some of.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 174
so the CFD would require contribution from those that would benefit from the project,
addressing those concerns that there wouldn't be contribution and setting up a
dangerous precedent for the County.
The last thing is we heard that this project is going to cost more than $9.5 million. At
any point in time, the, the Charter states, and I invite, you know, Corporation Counsel
to correct me. But my understanding is that the Council cannot amend the operating
budget, but it does not restrict the Council from amending CIP budget. So, if the project
would need more money later on, then we would be able to help the project by
providing additional funds.
Sorry, this is the last, the last point. With the loss of the Pohakea Watershed parcel
that we were in the process of purchasing, I know that there's a concern that the person
who purchased that parcel is a developer or, or wants to be a developer. And having
a County, County paid for system would, there's concern that it would make it easier
for that parcel to be developed with housing and then easily connect to that system,
and that was fully paid for by the County, making it more, more profitable for the
developer. So, those were all the concerns that I'm trying to address with this proposal.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I speak against this motion. The community
facilities district requires 55 percent of stakeholders to buy into it, and there's a large
tract of land still owned by A&B. They have not bought into this, and it would take a
very long time to create a CFD. But more importantly, we paid for wastewater
treatment all over this island with taxpayer dollars, and we don't ask the people who
are using the wastewater treatment facilities to pay for improvements. We're spending,
probably going to spend upwards of over $100 million in the Lahaina Wastewater
Treatment Facility. And 1 fully support that because we have to clean up our waters.
To say that those that benefit from this, the entire island benefits from this. And we've
heard people from all over the island supporting this project.
1 also want to let you know that the, I don't know where that, why the Director keeps
using that $23 million number. But the 23 million number from Brown and Caldwell
was a grossly inflated number for a legacy system in a report that was paid for by the
Ma'alaea Village Association. They debunked this number by getting cost estimates
from five or six companies that make the MBR systems and conveyance systems. The,
the Director has never met with the Ma'alaea Village Association folks on the MBR
system. I don't think he fully understands it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 175
I think, you know, we've been talking about this in Committee since two years ago. So,
for him to say we should discuss this in Committee is a little disingenuous, because
we've been talking about this issue. We've been getting multiple, I mean, scores of
people, hundreds of people supporting this project.
And the, the Federal infrastructure money is available now. So, the State Legislature
just sent the Ma'alaea visitor, Village Association 250,000 to start the planning process
and surveying. We don’t need to do that with bond money, with County money. And
the State does support this solution. The Department of Health, I've spoken to them.
I've gotten letters from Sina Pruder saying that she supports this. I'm not sure what
priority list people are saying it's not on, perhaps the Mayor's.
But, you know, like was mentioned earlier, there's an election this year and we might
have a different Administration next year. I've spoken to many of the other candidates
who support this project and support the idea that we need to clean up our oceans
now. We can't wait till 2027 and 2028. The, the, the project will take an environmental
assessment at least. But it, it, the actual construction of something like, of this off the
shelf technology takes a year or less. So, we're not talking about.
And, and, and the figure that was given for the conveyance from Ma'alaea to a Central
Maui wastewater treatment facility was over $10 million. So, it will cost more to convey
their sewage to a Central Maui wastewater facility, if we wanted to make them wait
until 2028 or 2030, which we cannot afford to. We're basically going to be losing the
reef in the next few years. If we don't get this going, we have no hope of saving the
reef at Ma'alaea.
So, please don't see this, you know, and also, you know, I got additional information
from Lucienne de Naie. 50 percent of the folks at those condos are local folks, so
there, yes, there are some people who own short-term rentals. But their business is
there. There are local people who live there. Is it, is it fair to us that Ma'alaea, that the
County re-did the zoning, forced them to put in those septic tanks, and use the injection
wells? The County was the one, according to Lucienne, who required them to build
those seawalls that are there. And now we're saying it's your fault and you're polluting
the ocean.
You know, we haven't done that with Lahaina, because we recognize this is a
countywide issue, and it's an environmental issue that the, the, the County pays for all
over the island, all over the County. We invest in cleaner waters and wastewater
systems. I'm not sure why everybody who is against this, which is not a majority of the
people who see this as different, and see this as something that, you know, why they're
attacking people who live there. But I, I, I remain focused, and the supporters remain
focused on the environmental issues and what we need to do here and now moving
forward.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 176
So, I understand putting on the SRF fund that the Mayor may never trigger this, this
current Mayor may not trigger the project. But the same thing would probably happen
if we had a bond issue. You know, he, it's still up to the Administration to create the
project, whether it's bond or SRF. And the SRF brings in the State partnership. So, I
think leaving it on here, Member Paltin had a really good point earlier, leave it on the
SRF fund and we can still discuss it. We can still, you know, hopefully get the
Administration to move forward with it at some point. But give us that option of having
that funding. And, and we know, we have a letter from Sina Pruder, who, you know,
encouraged us last year to put this on the SRF list. So, anyway, that's all. I'll reserve
more comment to see if anyone else has any comments. Thank you. Thank you.
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Members, I'm going to call for a ten-minute recess. I need to check
some technical questions here. And so, it is about five minutes to six. So, 6:05, okay.
Meeting is in recess until 6:05.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 5:51 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 6:07 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT FOR COUNCILMEMBER
SUGIMURA. EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of May 26, please reconvene. Alright, so we have a
motion on the floor.
Member King, were you finished with your discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I can't remember. I think I was. I'll come back if 1-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let me check if other people-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Other people have anything to say? Does anyone know where Member
Sugimura is? Is she coming back?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: She just came into the chambers.
(Councilmember Sugimura returned to the meeting at 6:08 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay, one, two, three, four, five, six, eight. We have nine. Alright, no more
discussion. So, Vice-Chair, would you like to repeat your motion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 177
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I can repeat my motion. There were pieces
that I left out, if we're going to consider this. But-
CHAIR LEE; Oh, wait a minute. You mean it wasn't  amotion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: There is.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But I didn't hit all the necessary documents to amend,
you know how everyone's, all of our motions are very long and it has all the different-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And it pertains to this motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well then, you can do it now then.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, no one else has discussion?
CHAIR LEE: I already asked.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Because I was going to do a second and final
before I repeat my motion. Okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay. Okay, so to the motion, I don't know what
the politics are down in Ma'ataea area and how difficult it would be to achieve
55 percent. But we've been lobbied pretty hard by the community, and so I feel pretty
confident in their ability to get 55 percent of the property owners down there to, to
support a CFD. And I don't think it would be fair to compare the length of time it's taken
to develop a CFD for Kahana, which we've been taking up in the IT Committee,
because it's a, it's a completely different project. That project is . . . and that's in the
ocean where we don't have jurisdiction as a County. Nor do we build or manage . . .
But we do build and manage wastewater infrastructure. So, if there were, if there was
a 55 percent support on the Council's end, I don't see it taking long. And the
Administration would be supportive to get that up and running rather quickly.
With the Federal funds, it is available now, and it will be available for the next five
years. So, it's not going to run out this year. It's, it's going to be available for the five
years. For the expansion of this project, and comparing it to Lahaina's expansion
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 178
wastewater projects, those in Lahaina are already sewer rate payers, because that's
who the burden will be on for these projects. It's the sewer rate payers. Only those
that pay sewer to the County, not all taxpayers, not all property taxpayers, only those
with sewer rates. And I don't know if you've gotten complaints, but I sure have about
how much sewer costs for people. And so, I don't know what, you know, continuing to
add projects like this would do to everyone's sewer rates, so.
And the last point that I forget in my initial comments was in regards to testimony about,
like, what is the message that we're sending with doing this? Yes, we support wanting
to clean up Ma'alaea Bay, but we also support mauka retreat. So, we’d have to figure
out how we're going to simultaneously support, you know, mauka retreat and cleaning
up the Ma'alaea Bay so that we're not sending conflicting messages about what this
Council is trying to accomplish.
And then I'll repeat my motion. I saw Member King's hand go up, so I'll get that more
ready. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to mention that, because the
folks at Ma'alaea are watching, that they, they did let me know that they're working on
a CFD for their erosion issues, which is part of the managed retreat. And they would
not be able to do a CFD also for the wastewater issues. In Lahaina, they're also
working on a CFD project for Kahana for erosion. No one's asked anybody to do a
CFD for the wastewater issues, I don't think anywhere in the County. So, I just wanted
to make that distinction.
And the reason why this was made a County project was because when we originally
tried to work with the Department and the Mayor to make these sewage conveyance
piece an SRF funded project and the, and private funding for a private wastewater
treatment facility, the Director complained that they needed the sewage treatment fees
in order to pay back the SRF fund debt service. And so, we made the whole project a
County project. And people there will be paying their own sewage fees. Other
taxpayers won't be paying their sewage treatment fees for them. And that's what will
be used to pay back the debt service for the SRF fund.
So, you know, a lot of the, the forming of this came from concerns that the Department
had over the last couple of years. And even when we had, had proposed to put 50
percent of just the sewage conveyance on the wastewater treatment, on the sewage,
the State Revolving Fund, we had full support from Sina Pruder at Department of
Health. Now that the whole projects on there, she's even more supportive. So, I just
wanted to make that distinction and, and let folks know that this is not, we're not asking
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 179
for something that everyone else is not getting. We pay for wastewater treatment
because we know it's important. It's part of our environmental protection, all over the
island, all over the County.
That's what we, that's what, and, and we're actually as a County starting to realize we
have more responsibility. If we want folks to build affordable housing, we have to get
more involved in the infrastructure. So, this is part of that infrastructure. We want to
be able to develop affordable housing everywhere. And now we're starting to get into
making deals with developers and building wastewater treatment plants for them in
order to make that happen. So, having a wastewater treatment plant that's owned by
the County so that people can pay those fees and pay for the actual construction
through the, or the debt service, through the sewage treatment fees, makes the most
sense.
Department. So, I just, I ask for the Members support of the project. I, again, am in
strong opposition to this budget amendment. Thank you.
That's the model that we've landed on because of the concerns of the
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else. Members? Yes, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this certainly sounds like my IT Committee needs to
have this Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater System discussed, because it's really
involved, you know? And doing a CFD, I, I commend the creativity for doing that. But
the members of Ma'alaea, they already said they don't want to do it. I think I asked
them that same question. They don't want to do it because there's going to be financial
responsibility on their part through real property tax, and they got to agree. So, I don't
know how far that would go. And the, I really would like a copy of Sina Pruder's letter
that, I know that Kelly has talked about. So, maybe the Committee needs to have a
copy of the letter so we can see that.
State Revolving Funds, that is, the discussion gets kind of mumble jumble because
when you hear the Department talking about that and about the years it's going to take
and why to do the Ma'alaea one as well as ours, is because we have, using
government money, there are the EIS that you have to do and just the process. You
have to go through the process that maybe the, that private funding, which I think
Ma'alaea thinks that this is going to happen I think, I don't know, will not have the time.
But when I have talked to the Department, it's going to take just as long to build the
Central Maui Reclamation Facility, the Central Maui one, and they've offered the
Ma'alaea people to tie in. But they don't want to is what they answered me in, by email.
And you can ask them too, I can share the email with you, that he specifically said they
do not want to tie in. I want them to tie in because we're building It. There's no need
for us to build another one. And it doesn't sound like the Department wants to build
another one, which is down the street, and we have Central Maui coming up in Wailuku.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 180
And they're down the street, and they just don't want to. That, that cannot be the
answer. We're providing a solution, and the solution is for them to tie in.
And maybe, you know, I don't know if you realize this, but from my years of working
with the Department, to build the Central Maui Wastewater Reclamation Facility, if it's
a new project, there's a $20,000 cost. It's like buying a water meter. It something very
similar. It doesn’t come free. Plus, there's a monthly maintenance fees that you got to
pay to be part of the system, if you're on the County system. If you're going to stay
private, that's up to you. But what we're really talking about, and what the Ma'alaea
Village Association is talking about, they want the SRF loan fund, which is County,
right, so we gotta build it if we agree to do this. And so, therefore, what Scott Rollins
is talking about all the time schedule is what we have to do as government to build
something. And he's saying it's going to cost 23 million, not 9.5. So, it's like we're
talking about apples and oranges. And if we are building a Central Maui Wastewater
Reclamation Facility and, I mean, I don't know if we can force the Ma'alaea people to
tie in, but that is available there, but yet, they don't want to, you know. It's like, they
don't want to cannot be the answer if, if it's being offered.
So, I say we're doing Committee work in Council. This is an important, you know,
decision. Keani, thanks for being creative to try to find another solution. I don't like
the Ma'alaea Village people thinking that oh because we did 9.5 SRF loan fund that
we're going to build it. You know, there’s still  adisconnect here in what is happening.
And there's all those people who think that this solution, their solution is going to be
solved. And it has to be done according to some kind of government process if we're
going to build it. SRF loan fund, 9.5, great. I mean, Ma'alaea's thinking that they can
just build it on their own and they can use it. They cannot, it's going to be government.
And I want that Sina Pruder letter. I would love to see her letter, if you could share it
with the Committee.
CFIAIR LEE: We have others who raised their hands as well. Thank you.
Member Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Okay, so, I think we should send this issue
back to the Committee, because our job is to make the decision--
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait. Pro Temp Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CFIAIR LEE: You're coming, your audio is kind of weak.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 181
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, let me take my chicken off. Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, try, try now.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: How about now?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, little closer. Get little closer.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Little bit closer. Anymore I'll be eating this. How about now?
CHAIR LEE: Perfect.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. So, here's my sense, our job is to figure out what the best
solution. But we can only figure it out if we have all the information that we need to
ensure that we're going to make the best decision. Because whatever we decide,
everybody's going to have to live with it. They don't have to like it, but they have to live
with it, because that's why we're here. So, my sense, Chair, is to send this back to the
Committee.
Your IT Committee Chair is so willing to take on whatever it is she needs to take on so
we can get through this ASAP. The longer we hold off on working on these issues, the
more polluted our oceans get, the more harder it is for the whales, the monk seals, and
everything in that ocean, all that marine life to thrive. So, we have to take care of this
ASAP. That's my sense. Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. You know, I've heard the
arguments on both sides. And, you know, I applaud Vice-Chair for throwing out a
solution. But it seems like our backs against the wall with time. You know, we got a
sick ocean, a reef, and I think we need to leave social classes out of the discussion
here. We can all agree that, you know, we're doing our best to take care of what's,
what happened out in West Maui and now waters out in Ma'alaea and South Maui. So,
I think we gotta be consistent and try to take care of matters expeditiously.
I think maybe let's go with the first solution that the South Maui representative has
presented to us. She's worked closely with the community, and let's see if they can do
it. And then, if cannot, well then, then we can look at the other alternatives. So, and
it's unfortunate a lot of these concerns that we've heard today, if it had come in a lot
earlier, then maybe we could have had a different approach to this. But it is what it is.
Sometimes this stuff happens. But I think we just need to move forward with what's
been proposed, and see what happens, cause we don't know. We just don't know
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 182
what's going to happen. But the only thing we do know, we gotta clean that ocean and
reef up. And not, you know, keep kicking the can down the road. Time is of the
essence, so that's how I feel about this. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, others who haven't spoken?
Yes, Member Sinenci. And then. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, just some clarifying questions, and
I, too, appreciate the discussion. But it sounds like all of this is still speculative. I mean,
it's still, we can discuss it, but ultimately it would be the Administration to either pursue
the SRF, is that correct? Okay, I'm seeing heads nodding.
And then, of course, with or without the amendment, we still keeping the 9.5 within the
budget. The amendment just puts the CFD as part of budgeting process, yeah?
CHAIR LEE: No. I believe the motion was to delete the 9.5 and put it into a bond. Delete it
from the SRF fund.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Alright. Thank you for that clarification. Thank you,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: And then. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. And... I'll just try to make three quick
points. So, the first one is, you know, the, I really appreciate Lucienne de Naie's
testimony on the historical perspective of, you know, the County has, you know, its
hands involved in this, so we should probably help, help them get out of this mess that
they're in.
Number two, the idea of a precedence, setting a precedent, okay that one, really, I kind
of went back and forth on the idea of setting a precedent. But I want to kind of counter
that with like the precedent that I'm concerned about is the injection wells that we
stopped in West Maui. That's a precedent we gotta be paying attention to, is ending
these injection wells. They're killing our reef.
Which leads me to my third one, is that, you know, fish don't care whose waste it is.
They only care, the reef only cares about the level of nitrogen on it. And we're pumping
nitrogen on that reef, you know. It's the, it's, so I think those are my three things that I
kind of feel like I appreciate the discussion today, but I just can't support it as it stands
now. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 183
CHAIR LEE: I saw a hand in this column. Was it you, Member Paitin? Okay, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: ! gotta take off the chicken. That's to prevent the hot mic action.
Anyways, you know, in the start of this meeting, we had a resolution about endangered
species, recognition endangered species, capital of the world and remarks that this
was the year of the limu. And at the time that the injection wells were allowed, that
was kind of one of the more progressive ways, I guess, to deal with your waste. And
since then, we've learned that it's not a good way to deal with your waste. The waste
that we were injecting in Lahaina was treated to the R-1 standard, which we thought
was a progressive way to deal with our waste. And the waste that Ma'alaea is not
treated to an R-1 standard. So, we're injecting bad stuff into the ocean that's affecting
our species, some of which are endangered. It's affecting our limu.
And the first time this budget session, that this issue came up, I felt like I got a bait-
and-switch from Corp. Counsel. They said one thing about liability, and when I spoke
to them offline, they said it was about the cost.  Ididn't appreciate that.
The other issue that I have is, you know, I'm not. I'm not doing this at all for the condo
owners, sorry guys, condo owner guys. I'm doing it for the ocean. It doesn't mean I
don't support managed retreat. I still support managed retreat.
The other issue that was brought up to me after the first vote this budget session was
that as we build this, we can condition how people hook up to it. So, if we want
Ma'alaea to clean up their injection well mess, to clean up everything there, that can
be a condition of them hooking up. That's not them not paying any amount of money.
They're going to need, I mean, I would fight for that condition, that they need to clean
up their mess if they think they're going to hook up to this thing. So, it's not, not paying
any money. It's the ocean that we all benefit from. It's the environment that is our
economy.
And I think that Member King has been consistent for the last few years, and not
committing with a different idea here and there.  Idon't, I don't think all the Upcountry
cesspool users should be forced to change to septic. I think the working group should
seriously look into composting toilets and allow gray waters to go into the cesspool, or
septic, or whatever have you, or they can build this packing type plant facility. Or when
the managed retreat happens, we can move this modular thing up there and it can be
theirs.
So, I'm not going to support the motion,
homeowners. I'm supporting the ocean, because every day when I get fed up with this
job, the ocean is what saves me. If, if I get fed up with anything, the ocean is what
saves me. If, if I have to go into the ocean and it's not clean, then like i said this
I'm not supporting short-term rental
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 184
morning, we're not separate from nature. We are a part of nature. If we're, if the ocean
is dirty, if the ocean is contaminated, then we're dirty and we're contaminated. So I
don't support the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, did everybody have a chance to speak?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, I think you had your hand up? No?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You asked me to-
CHAIR LEE: Or, or you said something about you wanted to finish the motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, you asked me to repeat the motion before we
take the vote.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. And then, you said you had to connect it to a few things? Oh, never
mind, just repeat the motion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Alright. So,  Idon’t think that this is going to
be as fast as everyone is making it out to be. This motion does support the ocean.
And this motion is just a different funding mechanism that would have made it more
possible for this to move forward, but! don't think it's going to move fonward with the
SRF. But because I love the ocean too, and I want to protect the ocean.
BUT THE MOTION IS TO AMEND BILL 69, CD1, PAGE 1 AND
27; BILL 71, PAGE 1. 2 AND 4; BILL 73, PAGE 1; BILL 70,
APPENDIX C, APPENDIX B, PAGE 9, AND ON APPENDIX C,
IT WOULD REMAIN $9.5 MILLION, AS IT CURRENTLY
STATES, BUT THE DESCRIPTION WOULD READ,
"A COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT MUST BE
ESTABLISHED FOR A PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING
REPORT, DESIGN, PERMITTING, PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND CONSTRUCTION FOR THE MA'ALAEA WASTEWATER
SYSTEM". WHAT THE LANGUAGE WOULD BE ON
APPENDIX C.
And yeah, 1 don't know, we’re, and Member King is leaving at the end of this year, so
hopefully someone will shepherd this project through.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'll still be on Maui; i’ll still be in South Maui.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 185
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, that's the motion, Chair. Oh. okay, go
ahead.
CHAIR LEE: So, Member Paltin, did you, okay, you raised your hand?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just a point of information. If we're going to have a process
about first, and second and final, that wasn't following the process of just repeating the
motion. Additional comments were added into it. And if we're following the process, if
second and final, that was, that additional onto second and final. So, that was just a
point of information.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any final comments anyone? Okay, let's, let's take the vote.
Mr. Clerk, roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: NO. WITH RESERVATIONS.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO.
DEPUTY OUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: YES.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 186
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND CHAIR LEE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are three "ayes", six "noes"; motion fails.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Next item.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, do you have another amendment to make?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, that’s it, Chair. So, we're back to the main motion
as amended many times.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, the main motion as amended many times. Anymore comments? If not
shall we take roll call. Members, or? No need, yeah? You want to take roll call?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 187
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
DEPUTY OUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE, WITH RESERVATIONS.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE, WITH CONCERNS.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-
CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine "ayes", no "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any. did we leave anything out, Mr. Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 188
No, Chair. Shall I proceed with resolutions?DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Chair, proceeding with resolutions.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-60
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
KULA AGRICULTURAL PARK COMMITTEE
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I need to get myself
together. Very long emotional, tough day.
BUT ANYWAY, I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT
RELATIONS, ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE
FROM FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION 22-60.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura.
Discussion on the motion. Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes. Thank you very much. Madam Chair. This resolution
was deemed time-sensitive due to the challenges achieving quorum at the Kula
Agricultural Park Committee meetings, which is the reason for today's discharge
request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the motion to discharge, raise your hand and say "aye".
Nine, nine. Member Sugimura, "aye"?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 189
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-60 IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura.
Any discussion on your motion. Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair. Again, this is a time-sensitive matter for
the reason that I just stated earlier. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes", motion carries.
Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 190
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO AMEND RESOLUTION 22-60 BY MOVING BOTH
MARIO PAUL [SIC] GAGGERO AND ROBERT HALE PAHIA'S
NAMES TO EXHIBIT "B".
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura.
Discussion on the motion. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much. Madam Chair. This motion allows
us to approve the nominees today. During the May 24, 2022, GREAT Committee
meeting, we discussed the Mayor's nominee, nominations of Mario Raul Gaggero and
Robert Hale Pahia to the Kula Ag Park Committee for terms expiring on
March 31,2027.
Mr. Gaggero is a member of the Maui County Farm Bureau and served on its board
from 2019 to 2021. And he's been a self-employed farmer and owner of Hawaii Seed
Pro LLC, which produces seed and local food productions since 2018.
Mr. Pahia, who many of us know very well, is the owner and manager of Hawaii Taro
Farms LLC and a chapter president of the Hawaii Farmers Union United, Mauna
Kahalawai. He indicated he would like to serve on this Committee to support efforts
that address food security and sustainability.
And after hearing Mr. Mossman, the Mayor's representative, and Councilmember
Sugimura speak to the nominees' background and work ethic. I'm confident that each
of them will provide valuable knowledge and skills to this Committee. I'd like to thank
them both for their willingness to serve and I ask for the Members full support for these
nominations. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 191
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUPi^ COUNTY CLERK: Chair, apologies. So, my understanding that what went through
was an amended resolution to move the nominees' names to Exhibit "B", or place the
names of the nominees on Exhibit "B". But there was no motion to adopt the resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I'm sorry, I was following his script and it did say motion to adopt. But
perhaps we should have taken a vote before that.
Alright. Let's take a vote on, repeat, repeat what you just said, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the body did amend the resolution, but there was no prior
motion to adopt it.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I’ll make the motion to adopt
I'LL MAKE THE MOTION TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-60, AS
AMENDED.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I, I thought you said that. But that's alright, because it's late.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Kama.
Any more discussion on the motion? This is to adopt the Resolution 22-60. Correct
Mr. Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 192
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair, as long as it's understood that the resolution they're
now adopting is, the amendments are included, that the nominees' names are placed
on Exhibit "B" as well.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Understood.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Everybody understands that.
All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
RESOLUTION
22-81, CD1NO.
ADOPTING THE WEIGHT TAX RATES
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI,
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2023
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If there are no objections, may I
request the Clerk also call Resolutions 22-123 through 22-126 and Bills 89 and 90?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, Mr. Clerk, could you call up those items?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 193
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-123
SETTING THE SALARY FOR THE DIRECTOR OF
COUNCIL SERVICES FOR THE REMAINDER OF
THE 2021-2023 COUNCIL TERM
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-124
SETTING THE SALARY FOR THE DEPUTY
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES FOR
THE REMAINDER OF THE 2021-2023
COUNCIL TERM
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-125
SETTING THE SALARY OF THE COUNTY CLERK
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-126
SETTING THE SALARY OF THE DEPUTY
COUNTY CLERK
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 89 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.44.015,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO SALARIES OF DEPUTIES
CORPORATION COUNSEL AND DEPUTIES PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 194
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 90 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.08.060, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO THE PAY RANGE FOR LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEYS IN
THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE BUDGET, FINANCE. AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER
CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION 22-81, CD1.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by Member Sinenci.
Alright, discussion on the motion, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Members, we discussed the weight
tax during our budget session. But as the public hearing was not held until May 13,
2022, we could not take action on it during those meetings. In order to ensure all of
the budget legislation passed in a timely manner.  Iam asking for this discharge today.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. All those in favor of the discharge, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 195
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-81, CD1;
RESOLUTIONS 22-123 THROUGH 22-126; BILL 89 (2022),
AND BILL 90 (2022), IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF
THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci
Discussion on the motion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, as discussed during the
discharge motion, all of these resolutions are bill, and bills are related to the budget
legislation. And while we are waiving Committee referral, we did discuss this during
budget session. So, this was discussed. It won't have its own reports, but it is included
in the overall budget session. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say
"aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 196
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTIONS 22-81,
RESOLUTIONS 22-123 THROUGH 22-126; AND
BILLS 89 (2022) AND 90 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
CD1;
PASS
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, on the
motion.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Members, Resolution 22-81, CD1 sets the
weight tax, which we discussed during Budget, Finance, and Economic Development
Committee meeting of April 25, 2022. These amounts are also included in Bill 69, CD1
(2022), Appendix B.
Resolutions 22-123 and 22-124, and Bills 89 and 90 were discussed as a Rule 7.B.
item on April 18, 2022, and they set the salary for the Director and Deputy Director of
OCS and OCS Legislative Attorneys, and Deputies Corporation Counsel and Deputies
Prosecuting Attorney at the rates included in the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget.
Also, on April 18, 2022, the Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee
voted to increase the salaries of the County Clerk and the Deputy County Clerk to
reflect the increases in other departments approved by the Salary Commission.
Resolutions 22-125 and 22-126 set these salary rates, and they also have been
included in the FY 2023 Budget. I respectfully ask for the Members continued support
of these items. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 197
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-99
APPOINTMENT OF KESHIA LEIANA ADOLPHO
TO THE COMMISSION ON CHILDREN AND YOUTH
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. If there are no objections, can we
ask the Clerk to call up Resolution 22-105?
CHAIR LEE; Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. So, ordered.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-105
APPOINTMENT OF TONI KAHEALANl RUST
TO THE LIQUOR CONTROL ADJUDICATION BOARD
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTIONS 22-99 AND
22-105.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 198
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Pro Temp Kama on the motion.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. The Council's deadline to
approve or disapprove the nomination of Keshia Leiana Adolpho is May 29, 2022. And
the deadline to approve or disapprove Toni Kahealani Rust is June 3, 2022. And due
to the timeline of our GREAT Committee meetings and Council posting deadlines, if
we do not take action today, the nominations will automatically be deemed approved,
which is the reason for today's discharge request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion on the discharge? If not, all those in favor of the motion
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCt, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTIONS 22-99 AND
22-105 IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF
THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 199
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, on the
motion.
Discussion, Molina, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. The matter is time-sensitive for the
reasons stated during my earlier discussion of the discharge request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes", motion carries.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTIONS 22-99 AND 22-105.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci, Member Sinenci.
Any discussion. Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. During the May 24,
2022, GREAT Committee meeting, we discussed the Mayor's nominations of Keshia
Leiana Adolpho to the Commission on Children and Youth for a term expiring on
March 31,2025, to fill a vacancy replacing Mercedes-Nicole Ritte. And Toni Kahealani
Rust to the Liquor Control Adjudication Board for  aterm expiring on March 31, 2025,
to fill a vacancy replacing Colleen Cluney.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 200
We discussed Ms. Adolpho and all of her accomplishments during the Committee
meetings earlier, well, this year and of course on the 24th. Nominations now before
us for a Commission that would best utilize her talents. And just a recap, Ms. Adolpho
is a licensed clinical social worker at the Molokai Community Health Center where she
works with children and youth and their families. And she indicated that she would like
to be a member of the Commission on Children and Youth so she may make
recommendations to the Council and advocate for positive change for the children and
youth of Molokai.
Ms. Rust is the HGEA Local 152 Maui Island Division Chief. She also serves as the
Maui Vice-President of the Hawaii State AFL-CIO. And I'm confident that both
Ms. Rust and also Ms. Adolpho will provide valuable knowledge and skills on their
respective boards and commissions. And I'd like to thank both of them for their
willingness to serve and I ask for the Members full support of this motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Further discussion? If not all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Alright, Mr. Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-127
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF RICKY AARON SANCHES
TO THE URBAN DESIGN REVIEW BOARD FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-127 be referred to the Government:
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 201
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-128
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF RANDON ALIKA SANCHES TO
THE COST OF GOVERNMENT COMMISSION FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-128 be referred to the Government,
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-129
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF POERAVA U'lLANI TEHIVA TO
THE COST OF GOVERNMENT COMMISSION FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-129 be referred to the Government,
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-130
APPROVING THE INDEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT
OF THE HALE WAIPU'ILANI WORKFORCE HOUSING PROJECT
UNDER CHAPTER 2.97. MAUI COUNTY CODE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-130 be referred to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-131
APPROVING WITH MODIFICATIONS THE INDEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT
OF THE HALE WAIPU'ILANI WORKFORCE HOUSING PROJECT
UNDER CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-131 be referred to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 202
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-132
DISAPPROVING THE INDEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT
OF THE HALE WAIPU'ILANI WORKFORCE HOUSING PROJECT
UNDER CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-132 be referred to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections to these referrals, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; If not, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-133
AFFIRMING THE COUNTY OF MAUI'S ONGOING
COMMITMENT TO THE GOALS OF THE PARIS
CLIMATE AGREEMENT AND ENDORSEMENT
OF THE FOSSIL FUEL NON-PROLIFERATION
TREATY
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, County Clerk, Deputy Clerk.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-133.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member King, seconded by Member, Pro Temp Kama, to adopt
Resolution 22-133.
Discussion, Member King?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 203
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to read the resolution in its entirety.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. And, and do you have any discussion on that?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I do have some notes. I'll try to read through them quickly, cause
I know it's getting late. Members, the, the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement only
become more important with each passing year. Hawaii was the first State in the count,
in the country to enact legislation that implements portions of the Paris Climate
Agreement. And Maui County must reaffirm its commitment to the goals set forth
therein. And in fact, we must go further.
The Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty is a global initiative calling for an end to a new
fossil fuel exploration and expansion, phase out existing production in line with the
global commitment to limit warming to 1.5 degree Celsius and accelerate equitable
transition plans.
It is imperative that we fully stand behind all efforts to end the negative impact that
fossil fuel expansion has on climate change, which we know directly impacts the health
and safety of all communities, particularly, notoriously under representative [sic]
groups who, underrepresented groups who are often hit the hardest.
Maui County is internationally recognized for our natural beauty and biological
diversity, including species found here that exist nowhere else on earth, creating
additional urgency for our community. It is our kuleana to make sure we do ail we can
to support and encourage a full transition to clean energy and sustainable practices to
climate, to combat climate change. I respectfully ask for the Councilmembers support
of my motion to accept this resolution today. Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion. Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I speak in strong support of the
motion. Mahalo, Member King, for this resolution.  Ithink it's really important to, you
know, affirm our position in words. But and even more that we affirm our position in
our actions. And I'm, I'm so proud to be part of this Council and this County that really
has been putting into actions our commitment to getting off of fossil fuel.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 204
And one example that I'm very grateful for is our support of our Molokai's community
owned co-op to build shared solar for 20 percent of our island's needs. And I really
hope that we'll be seeing more community owned co-ops for energy generation through
renewable energy on technologies. And I, and I think as a County, and a Council,
really investing in those community owned nonprofits should be a priority for us in
fulfilling our commitment to this resolution, and to the Paris Climate Agreement.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. 1 also speak in support of the resolution. I
just would reiterate what I said to the testifier to help us wean ourselves off of gasoline
and the gas tax. I'm not like 100 percent in favor of the HiRUC, but it's the best Hawaii,
Hawaii road usage charge. It's the best proposal so far to wean us off the gas tax and
still be able to fix our roads and expand our roads. So, if they can assist in finding
ways that it could be more equitable in how it's assessed, not annually in one huge
lump sum, or come up with better ideas. Those would be actionable items that would
help us wean ourselves off and still be able to fund highway projects. That's my only
comment because I know that if, if, that there's so many smart people out there that
believe in getting off of fossil fuels that we need to harness that brains to help us
address the unintended consequences that maybe not I have to deal with, but whoever
is in this seat into the future.
But we're, we're already starting to deal with it, like, cause you know, you see more
people using EV and then you see the Highway Fund going down. Or you see more
people working from home and not having to drive, which is fabulous. But then, we
see a lot of pedestrian accidents just, you know, in this day and this week alone. So,
I want to be able to, you know, get closer to those vision zero goals, but then we're told
we don't have the funding in the Highway Fund. So, I would just implore the folks that
support it and are smarter than me to put their brains on that as well. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else? If not, all those in favor of adopting Resolution
22-133, please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 205
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, if I just may?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I wanted to thank everybody for supporting this, this treaty. And
we're the first, one of the first counties I think in the United States to support it. But I
also wanted to, as a follow-up to this, invite all of you, and we'll send you an invitation,
to the installation of the first biodiesel fuel station at one of our small boat harbors in
Ma'alaea, which will be June 3, if you can, if you can save your, that date for attending.
But we'll let everybody know.
CHAIR LEE: June 3, is Friday.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
CHAIR LEE; Next Friday. Okay. Alright. So, the motion carries.
And Mr. Clerk, next.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-136
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
COMMISSION ON CHILDREN AND YOUTH FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. If there are no objections, may we
have the Clerk call up Resolutions 22-137 through 22-142?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 206
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-137
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-138
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
LANAI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-139
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-140
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
MOLOKAI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-141
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
POLICE COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-142
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 207
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT. RELATIONS.
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTIONS 22-136
THROUGH 22-142.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
discharge the GREAT Committee from further consideration of Resolutions 22-136
through 22-142.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. The Council's deadline
to approve or disapprove these nominations are, is May 29, 2022. If we don't take
action today, the nominations will automatically be deemed approved, which is the
reason for today’s discharge request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Just a point of information, question. When
we take all of those up, and I'm totally okay with discharging them all. but we don't have
to vote the same on all of them, right? We're just doing the discharge and like that all
at once.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Sorry, I just wasn't sure. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. No, 1 guess we're ready for
the vote. Just wanted to add in any additional support for your response if you needed
for Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 208
CHAIR LEE: Alright. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand, say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTIONS 22-136
THROUGH 22-142, IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF
THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to waive
the requirement of Committee referral and report for Resolutions 22-136 through
22-142.
Okay, discussion, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. This matter is time-sensitive for
the reasons stated earlier during the discussion of the discharge request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 209
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTIONS 22-136 THROUGH 22-142.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Wait a minute, do you want to take this separately?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, you know, Madam Chair, what I'd like to do, I'd like to
make the motion, then later on if, assuming if the adoption passes, then I'd like to
amend the resolutions by adding the various names to the respective boards and
commissions, if that works for you?
CHAIR LEE: Oh no, I think Member Paltin disagreed with one, one nominee, I think?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. I, what we can do is after I make the amendments to
the resolutions with the names, then I guess the Members can request separate,
separation, yeah, separation vote?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: That could work, yeah?
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Okay. Okay, all those in favor of your motion, right, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Again, this is the motion to just adopt Resolutions 22-136
through 22-142, yeah?
CHAIR LEE: Right. Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: The motion carries. So, Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 210
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes? We didn’t have a second.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: For clarification, what, what was the body voting on?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: To waive all of it.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The body already had voted on--
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, if I may clarify . . .
CHAIR LEE: You can explain it to Mr. Clerk, to, to, go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: The vote we've just taken is to adopt the Resolutions 22-136
through Resolution 22-142. If that is adopted, then I'll make a motion to amend these
resolutions by adding the respective names to the various boards and commissions
that they're being considered for. But we haven't made that amendment yet.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I mean, I'm not sure if that’s the right procedure. I don't know
if we should, you know, amend before adopting? Anyway, that's what I have here.
What I've, you know, been instructed.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Maybe what we can do. Madam Chair, let's take a time out to
work this thing out and then we can come back for  abrief recess.
CHAIR LEE: Certainly. Do you want, we'll take five minutes and then you can confer with
Mr. Clerk?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Okay, thank you very much, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So, that means 7, oh, well, 7:15, yeah? 7:15.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: That’s fine.
CHAIR LEE: Meeting will convene, reconvene at 7:15.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 211
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 7:11 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 7:19 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE; May the, will the May 26, 2022, Council meeting please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIR LEE: Just put us back where we were.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Before the body at this time is Resolutions 22-136
through 22-142. The body has discharged those resolutions from the GREAT
Committee and has waived Rule 7.G as it relates to those items. There was no, no
other motion was recognized as it pertains to those items. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, Mr. Molina, your motion to adopt.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair.
SO, I GUESS I WILL MAKE A MOTION TO ADOPT
RESOLUTIONS 22-136 THROUGH 22-142.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt
Resolutions 22-136 through 22-142.
Any discussion. Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, Madam Chair.
1 MOVE TO AMEND RESOLUTIONS 22-136 THROUGH 22-142
BY MOVING THE FOLLOWING NAMES TO EXHIBIT "B" ON
THE RESPECTIVE RESOLUTIONS THAT HAS THE BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS ON IT.
FOR EXHIBIT "B", TONATA LOLESIO TO THE COMMISSION
ON CHILDREN AND YOUTH.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 212
CHAIR LEE: Oh, wait, wait, I need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Oh, sorry. Yeah, I’m sorry. Go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member Sugimura.
Okay, proceed.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you, Madam Chair, Getting late, yeah. Getting
too excited.
ALRIGHT, AS I STATED EARLIER. TO EXHIBIT "B":
TONATA LOLESIO TO THE COMMISSION ON CHILDREN AND
YOUTH.
GORDON MALCOLM GILLIS TO THE FIRE AND PUBLIC
SAFETY COMMISSION.
NICOLE CHIEKO ALBORO TO THE U\NAl PLANNING
COMMISSION.
EKOLU LEIALOHA AH YEE AND KANANIKALA SEGUNDA
BiSHAW-JUARIO TO THE MOLOKAI PLANNING
COMMISSION. AND FORGIVENESS TO MY VICE-CHAIR
FROM MOLOKAI IF I MISPRONOUNCE THE NAMES.
PAUL IRVING 1V\UB TO THE POLICE COMMISSION.
JOHN-RUSSEL KEIKILANI PHIFER TO THE PUBLIC WORKS
COMMISSION.
AND TO EXHIBIT "C", FOR DISAPPROVAL, WAYNE NOBURO
HEDANl, AS IT RELATES TO THE MAUI PLANNING
COMMISSION.
Thank you, Madam Chair. And I wait. I wait for any other considerations before I make
further discussion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 213
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Requesting 22-141 separation, or 1 don't, what are we, what
do I say if I don't agree?
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, I guess, I assume you're, is that for Mr. Laub's
Exhibit "B"? Yeah, I guess you can just request a separate vote on that, because we
have a blanket motion right now, yeah. And you can make a motion to move it to
Exhibit "C" for disapproval, if that's your intention.
CHAIR LEE: When the time comes. Right now, you're just separating it, yeah?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so any other separations?
Yes, Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Just for clarification. Member Molina, you
did have a, for disapproval of 22-139. Did I hear that right?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mr. Hedani's nomination to the Maui Planning Commission
that is correct, 22-139.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: For Exhibit "C".
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, just point of information. I do not support that. I
understand, so Wayne Hedani is going to be our-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, wait, wait. Do you want to separate that one?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Point of order. Yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 214
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay. Yeah, can you separate it?
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, if I could be allowed to speak to my motion and then at
a later point, the Members can speak their minds as to what my motion is about. Okay,
well, first of all. I'll just spend time with regards to my motion to place Mr. Hedani's
name on Exhibit "C". Very, very tough one. Mr. Hedani is a very, very honorable man.
And you heard it today from the testifiers saying nice man, good man, and I think this
is just a case of victim of circumstance, if you will. Looking at the backgrounds of the
members of the current Planning Commission, it seems heavily weighted towards
people with business or union affiliations. And, you know, we live in a new time, where
we need to be a little bit more balanced and include people that have a environmental
background, as it relates to planning decisions. So, that is my basic reason for moving
Mr. Hedani's name to the Exhibit "C" for disapproval.
Now, it's funny, there may be a silver lining on the horizon. We earlier heard or saw
on the agenda, a vacancy on the Board of Variances and Appeals, which is a very
important commission. And I think with Mr. Hedani's two-term experience on the
Planning Commission, and also, I guess he served on the Charter Commission and
the Police Commission, so he's got tremendous background, and, and I've heard
nothing but good reports about his meeting attendance. He participates, whether you
agree or disagree with his views. He participates and he shows up. So, he's, you
know, got a lot of integrity and honor. So, I would hope, should Mr. Hedani's
nomination does not go through, that the Administration would consider him for a very
important commission like the Board of Variances and Appeals. So, that is my spiel
on this matter. And I want to thank all of the other folks who are putting their names
out there for consideration in serving our community in the various boards and
commissions that were just described. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: But Member Sugimura, did you want to request to separate that item?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: So, let's see, how do we do this? So, you already made the motion.
Mr. Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 215
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Can we just allow Member Sugimura to make a motion to separate that
Mr. Hedani?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair, Members can make motions to separate out
resolutions that they'd like to consider separately from the other ones.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; So, you move to separate that, Mr. Hedani?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
YES, 22-139, SEPARATE THAT, WAYNE HEDANI, I GUESS
IT'S TO PLACE HIM ON EXHIBIT "C". SO, I’M MOVING TO
SEPARATE THAT.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Pro Temp Kama to separate
Mr. Hedani.
Any discussion? Mr., I mean, Ms. Sugimura? No discussion? Okay, well, we'll just
separate it then, okay? We're just separating it and vote afterwards. Assume that is
the procedure?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. So, it is our, sorry, just for our understanding, does that mean that the
body's going to separate by no objections?
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections to separating Mr. Hedani? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; It doesn't seem like there are any objections, so, so ordered. So, we have two
separations right now. Any more separations?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 216
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, apologies. What was the other separation? Sorry to
interject.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin separated.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; 22-141, but I don't think it was included in that motion.
CHAIR LEE; No, I thought yours was separate. A separate motion. Any objections, just in
case? Any objections to separating that person?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; So. ordered. So, we got two people.
Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Separation of 22-142, Mr. John-Russel Phifer.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; If not, so ordered. Now, we have three. Anybody else? Okay, going back to
your, who's left?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; So, based on the request for separation of three individuals, I
guess there's eight names up for consideration. So, on the current motion, I guess we
have Tonata Lolesio to the Commission on Children and Youth, Gordon Malcolm Gillis
to Fire, Nicole Alboro to the Lanai Planning Commission, Ekolu Ah Yee and
Ms. Bishaw-Juario to the Molokai Planning Commission. And I guess the other three
has been, well, Mr. Hedani was on Exhibit "C". So, the separations, maybe if I can ask
a procedural question from the Clerk? And I think Ms. Paltin had Mr. Laub put on
Exhibit "C". So, I guess for Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez, your separation, that would
be placed on Exhibit "C"? Is that, would that be your motion? Okay. 1 think that kind
of clears it up. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. So, Mr. Clerk, do we take a vote on Mr. Molina first, and then individual
votes on the other three?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 217
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. So, our understanding right now is that the, what's
been separated is the motions to amend as it relates to Resolutions 22-139, 22-141
and 22-142. So, right now, before the body would be, is considering the motions to
amend the remaining resolutions.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Not, alright. I guess, 1 guess we took a vote on your main motion
Mr. Molina, so that's the reason why people can-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, no, no. Now, we're going to take a vote on the motion
that was amended, 1 guess with the names for now that are on Exhibit "B" And then,
with the names on Exhibit "C", we'll take separate votes on the three names for
Exhibit "C".
CHAIR LEE: Alright, shall we take a vote on, on this, that, right now?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Just the names on Exhibit "B". yeah.
CHAIR LEE: 1 guess not, Mr. Molina.
Yes. Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. Just to clarify, we, I don't believe the body
has voted to actually place those names on Exhibit "B". Those remaining resolutions,
that's what's before the body right now, that vote.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah, what we did deal with is a separation, that's what
we did. So, now, you want us to vote on each one separately? No?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Take the five and put them on "B".
CHAIR LEE: Not five. Oh, you mean Mr. Molina's.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah, his five goes to "B".
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: The five . . ., Chair, on Exhibit "B".
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. So, if everybody understands that, there's a motion. Mr. Molina
did you make a motion? Made the motion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 218
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah.
SO. I GUESS I'LL MOVE TO APPROVE ALL THE NAMES ON
EXHIBIT "B".
CHAIR LEE: On Exhibit "B"?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Mr. Molina, seconded by Member Kama, to approve the names on
Exhibit "B".
Any more discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I want to speak in strong support of Tonata Lolesio of Lahaina.
She's a principal of Sacred Hearts. And you know, at one point for a long time, we
didn't have anyone from the West District on the children of commission. Commission
of Children and Youth. And at one Police Commission meeting, that's ail they were
talking about, children of Lahaina and police matters that were not positive.
And so, when Mr. Mossman reached out if we could find someone from Lahaina, we
searched and we went through a couple trial runs. And when I finally was able to get
in touch with Ms. Lolesio, she said she was eager and enthusiastic to serve our West
Maui community. And you know, in speaking with her, I have the full confidence and
I'm so happy that she stepped forward. And I'm so grateful to the previous nominee to
step down and let West Maui be represented. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay, I just, I just wanted to repeat
what we're voting on, just so that I am clear, and the public is clear. 130, so, we're
voting to approve 136, 137, 138, and the two on 140?
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Alright, mahalo. I'll echo the sentiments of
Member Paltin, and supportive of everyone in this motion. And good try, Member
Molina, it's Ms. Kala Bishaw-Juario. I, I know the "J' in Spanish is like a H-ish sound.
But for their names, they pronounce the "J". I'm supportive of the two Molokai Planning
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 219
Commission nominees. Both have not served on the Molokai Planning Commission
before, so this will be the first time, as we talked about having fresh faces. And both
are younger one, Kala is a little older than I am and Ekolu is about 10, I think 10-ish
years younger than me, I think. So, I'm super stoked to be supporting those that are,
you know, in the upcoming generation to the Molokai Planning Commission. And for,
yeah, I'll stop there and then I'll speak to the other one after. Mahaio, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anyone else would like to speak on the motion on the floor? This is, this
is for the five people that were mentioned. If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now, we're going to vote on the separated resolutions. Member, I mean, Mr. Clerk
can you call them up separately?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. You have before you Resolution 22-139, entitled,
"APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI".
CHAIR LEE: So, Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I asked forthe separation. I vote against the motion, which
the--
CHAIR LEE: No, wait, wait. No, no, no. I don't think you, you would vote against the motion.
We voted for the sepa, I mean, there was no objections to the separation. So, now,
you Mr. Clerk, what would her appropriate vote be?
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, no. Madam Chair, just an FYI. I did make a, as part of
my motion, to place the name, Mr. Hedani's name on Exhibit "C". So, that is, his name
is on Exhibit "C".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 220
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I vote against Exhibit ”C".
CHAIR LEE: So, you're making a motion to vote against? You're making a motion to vote
against the motion to move it, the name to Exhibit "C"?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the body didn't actually vote to place anybody's names
on anybody’s resolutions. Oh, they did just vote to place the, Counciimember Molina's
resolutions, those names on Exhibit "B". But no motion has been voted on to place a
name on Exhibit "C" for Resolution 22-139. When they separated, that was our
understanding of the separation, that before the body now is Resolution 22-139. And
the motion is to adopt that, with a motion to amend it by placing the name on
Exhibit "C".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, did you get that Member Sugimura? Can you repeat the motion for her?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, clarification is that Member Molina placed Mr. Hedani's
name on Exhibit "C", which is a disapproval? And so-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that's, that's the point of contention right here. Because the Clerk just
said that when the matter was separated, it, it sort of nullified that. But let's check with
Mr. Molina, to get this all straight.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Well, hopefully I get it straight. But now. Member Sugimura
has the option of now, you know, amending my proposal to put his name on Exhibit "B".
I don't know if procedurally that is correct? Maybe the Clerk can clarify that?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, wait. Hold, hold on, everybody.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Amend my amendment, I guess.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We voted, we voted on your motion, which was on the five people.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: So, that's done. When she requested separation, I, to me it, it meant that your
original motion to put-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Is nullified.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 221
CHAIR LEE: -Mr. Hedani on the, on that exhibit was nullified, I thought. But let's get
clarification from the Clerk.
Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. If it's okay, could I request a five-minute
recess to confer with you?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Sure. Okay, five minutes, that would be what, 7:43 or so. Meeting in
recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 7:37 A.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 7:54 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of Thursday, May 26, 2022, please reconvene.
Members, we are ready. And sorry for the interruption. I think we're back on track.
And what we are going to do is now vote on Resolution 139. And an "aye" vote will be
to place Mr. Hedani's name on Exhibit "C", which is denial.
I see con, a question mark on Member Molina’s face.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, no. Madam Chair, I presume Member Sugimura wants to
support Mr. Hedani, so I, I guess her motion would be to put him on Exhibit "B", to
approve.
CHAIR LEE: No, your motion--
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: So, my motion stands, then? It wasn't nullified by . . .
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, your motion stands.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: So, her, her option is to vote "no".
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: So, yes is deny and no is not deny.
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 222
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I was just clarifying, when Member Molina
made the motion to put the names on Exhibit "B" or Exhibit "C" the first time, did we
take the vote on that?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, we took the vote on-
CHAIR LEE: We took the vote on all of them. We took the vote on all of them and then we
separated out. But you see, he had already made the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: ... got distracted when we separated it and we, we didn't take
that vote? No?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that’s where the confusion came in. Because we, we thought that
separating it meant it nullified the, the initial motion to place Mr. Hedani's name on
Exhibit "C". Because--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Because my, my recollection was we, Mr. Molina put all those
names on "B", except for Mr. Hedani. And then, Member Sugimura wanted to separate
Mr. Hedani and we neglected to take the vote on which list to put, about, we neglected
to take the vote on putting the names on the exhibits, because we had the discussion
about separation. And then, we voted on the names as though they were on a list, but
we neglected to take that vote?
CHAIR LEE: We took the vote. We. we, I believe we took--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Was my recollection. We took a vote on--
CHAIR LEE: We took the vote to approve Resolutions 136, 137, 138, and 140, which were
five people. We voted on that. And then, and then what we didn't vote, what's still on
the floor is Resolution 139. And so, the vote would be, if it's yes, then it's a denial. And
if the vote is no. that means to approve. That's where we left off.
Yes, Ms. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Would you please state the motion
that's on the floor?
CHAIR LEE: The motion is to move Mr. Hedani to Exhibit "C", which means to, to deny.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The main motion is to adopt the resolution. And an
amendment to that main motion is to move Mr. Hedani to Exhibit "C"?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 223
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that's what's on the floor right now. Okay, what is your question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm just getting that clarified cause I, that wasn't clear.
So, we have a motion, a motion to amend the main motion. And I just. I'm going to
support Mr. Hedani being on Exhibit "C", but 1 just. I'm not sure the guidance you gave
Member Sugimura is correct in that her only option is to vote against the motion to
amend.
CHAIR LEE: That's not her only option. She can vote "aye" or "no". That's her two options.
But she's in favor of Mr. Hedani, so therefore, she would vote "no". Yeah?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahaio, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I mean, that would be my
understanding because Member Molina had in his original amendment, was to place
Mr. Hedani on the "C" list, then that would still stand. I think by separating, we just kind
of took, took the vote individually now. But I think his, his motion to move Mr. Hedani
to "C", category "C" still stands.
Yeah, thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. And that motion is still on the floor. We have to vote on that.
So, Mr. Clerk, can you verify that what I'm saying is correct?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Before the body right now is that motion, was the,
the main motion for it was to adopt that resolution, then that amending motion to place
Mr. Hedani's name on Exhibit "C", that was separated out. And the body is now
considering that separated motion. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So, everybody knows what a yes means and what a no means? Okay.
So, we shall, should have roll call. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with roll call.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 224
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paitin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY OUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: NO.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA. SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 225
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are six "ayes", three "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Now, we’re going to do the same thing for the next one. So, Mr. Clerk
call up the next one.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that vote was to place Mr. Hedani's name on Exhibit "C".
Now, before the body is the main motion as amended to adopt Resolution 22-139.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any discussion, every, anyone? Okay, roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with a roll cal! vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We're taking this vote? Oh, we're taking the main motion as
amended. Okay.
AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
DEPUTY OUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 226
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are six "ayes", three "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, before the body now is Resolution 22-141. The main
motion is to adopt that resolution. And the amendment to it was to place Paul Irving
Laub's name onto Exhibit "B".
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, wait, I might have gotten that wrong. Councilmember
Molina's-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Exhibit "C".
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Exhibit "C". This is another. The next two are denials, as well as the first one
yeah. Right?
Oh, you have a question. Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, just clarifying. Chair. Did Member Molina include
22-141 and 22-142 as part of his original motion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 227
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, Madam Chair. And then, Member Paltin and Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez requested separation. Those two names, 141 and 142, to be put
on Exhibit "C", if I'm correct, as part of the separation.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Right.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so now we're on 141 for denial. Denial, okay. Take the vote. Roll call.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I’m sorry. Just, may we have Member Paltin speak to her
recommendation.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. You know, we have a new Police Chief, and
personally, I think he's doing a good job and, and that's beside the point of this
particular situation. My motion to put on Exhibit "C" has to do with, you know in
evaluating and being on this Commission, I really feel that we need somebody that's
going to be here year-round and see the changes that the, that is happening with the
new Police Chief. There's no permanent address for Mr. Laub, other than a short-term
rental. The address on file for that goes to Carmel, California. And in his statement,
he's been here twice this year. So, it's just, you know, I think that we can find somebody
that lives here year-round. There's other issues, but I think that's enough.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? Roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 228
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, before proceeding with the vote, there seems to be some
confusion as to the status of this item. I've been informed by Councilmember Paltin
that this was separated before Councilmember Molina made his motion to amend the
resolutions. If that's the case, then the body should consider an amendment, should
consider making the amendment it wants to make to this resolution first, before starting
to take votes.
CHAIR LEE: Well, let's check with, let's check with Mr. Molina. Mr. Molina, what is your
recollection?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; I believe in my original amendment proposal was seven of the
eight names to be placed on Exhibit "B" and the one name, Mr. Hedani, on Exhibit "C".
And then. Member Paltin made her request for separation for Mr. Laub. And that, I
believe, included also to be placed on Exhibit "C". I'm not sure if that was originally a
motion, but it was a recommendation to place. And then, of course, Mr.—
CHAIR LEE: No, but the main question was, was it before or after the vote?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; I'm sorry, what was that Chair? I'm sorry.
CHAIR LEE: The Clerk is trying to get clarification on whether her request for separation was
before or after the vote. And you're saying it was after the vote?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, I think I made the amendment, but I don't think we took
the vote. Yeah, because I think it was before we took the vote. And then, when we
took the vote, we just took the vote only on five names after Member Paltin and Vice-
Chair Rawlins-Fernandez separated two other names.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so apparently, we did not take the vote on the other two.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Right? We. we did not.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: They were requested to be separated, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin, and then Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 229
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
JUST TO BE SAFE I’D LIKE TO MOVE TO PLACE THE NAME
PAUL LAUB ON EXHIBIT "C".
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Just double-checking that that's the proper motion.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: If, if the body’s understanding that the separation occurred
before Councilmember Molina made his motion to amend, then yes, that is the correct
action.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. So, again, can you repeat your, your motion, Mr., urn, Ms. Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO PLACE THE NAME PAUL LAUB ON EXHIBIT "C".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, did you-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: -second that, Vice-Chair? Okay, the motion is to move to place Mr. Laub's
name on Exhibit "C". Any further discussion?
If, roll call. Roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 230
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY OUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.CHAIR LEE:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. PALTIN
SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA. AND
SUGIMURA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 231
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are six "ayes", three "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, the next motion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION.
Oh, sorry.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, before the body now, is the main motion as amended, to
adopt Resolution 22-141.
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, should I proceed with a roll call vote. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Well, okay, let's let me ask. Any more discussion. Members? If not, if not, roll
call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 232
DEPUTY OUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; NO.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
AYE.CHAIR LEE;
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. PALTIN,
SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, AND
SUGIMURA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, there are six "ayes", three "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Next. Next motion.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, for the body now, is Resolution 22-142. There was a
main motion to adopt this resolution. And then amended, and an amending motion to
place the name of John-Russel Keikilani Phifer to Exhibit "B".
CHAIR LEE; I thought there wasn't a main motion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; A request for separation was what I recall, but.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; No formal amendment.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, yeah. Vice-Chair, make the main motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 233
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I'll make the amendment to the main motion. If the
Clerk's need Member Molina to withdraw his motion to amend, if that's what they have
on record, then we can do that too to be clean.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, I'm agreeable to that.
I'LL WITHDRAW THAT IF I DID HAVE AN AMENDMENT.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, are we correct?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: Are we clear, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, that procedure is fine, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I  MOVE TO AMEND THE MAIN MOTION TO MOVE
MR. PHIFER'S NAME TO EXHIBIT "C", DISAPPROVAL.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Was there a second? Oh, seconded by Member Sinenci.
Discussion, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If Members will recall, in Committee,
I asked Mr. Mossman if he would consider putting Mr. John-Russel Phifer into the
vacant seat on the Molokai Planning Commission. I've contacted Mr. Phifer and he
said that Mr. Mossman has indeed contacted him to work on putting his name on the
Molokai Planning Commission. The vacancy is due to the passing of our former OHA
Board of Trustees Chair Colette Machado. So, this motion to disapprove Mr. Phifer
from the Public Works Commission is so that his name can be submitted for the
Molokai Planning Commission.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody clear on that.
Roll call.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 234
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
Oh, sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: A voice vote. Voice vote.
CHAIR LEE: That's okay. I already called for roll call.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY OUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 235
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
CHAIR LEE.
AND
NOES: NONE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine "ayes", no "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Before the body now is the main motion as amended.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May  Irequest a voice-vote? And
mahalo to Mr. Phifer for his willingness to, to withdraw from the Public Works
Commission, so that he can serve on the Molokai Planning Commission. I think he
would be incredible on the Molokai Planning Commission. Appreciate his-
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Voice vote.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your hand. Member, okay.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI. SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 236
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-143
SUPPORTING THE DESIGNATION OF WAILUKU
TOWN AS AN ARTS DISTRICT
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-143 be referred to the Human Concerns
and Parks Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I believe that this was going to get referred to Tasha
Kama’s Committee for further discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections to referring this matter to HCP Committee?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So. ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Tasha, please schedule.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-144
PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO SECTION
13-2 OF THE REVISED CHARTER OF THE
COUNTY OF MAUI (1983), AS AMENDED, TO
ESTABLISH THE MAUI COUNTY PLANNING
COMMISSION, ESTABLISH PLANNING
COMMISSIONS FOR ALL COMMUNITY PLAN
AREAS ON MAUI, AND DISSOLVE THE MAUI
PLANNING COMMISSION
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-144 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 237
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-145
APPROVING DISPOSITION OF NONEXCLUSIVE
WATERLINE EASEMENT DUE TO RELOCATION OF
WATERLINE IMPROVEMENTS IN THE
SANDHILLS ESTATES SUBDIVISION
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-145 be referred to the Infrastructure and
Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to the referrals?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with bills.
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 91 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 2, 18, 19, AND 20. MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO WETLANDS RESTORATION AND PROTECTION
The recommended action is that Bill No. 91 (2022) be referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee.
(BILL NO. 91 (2022) WAS REFERRED TO THE CLIMATE
ACTION, RESILIENCE, AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 238 for discussion and
action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 238
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO._92_(2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.60, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO A RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR BOARD,
COMMISSION, AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 92 (2022) be referred to the Government Relations
Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 93 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 3.48.450 AND 3.48.466
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO HOMEOWNERS EXEMPTIONS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 93 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I'd just like to request that Bill No. 91, relating
to v^etlands restoration and protection be referred to CARE Committee. And I've
spoken to Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 239
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 94 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(MAUI FOOD HUB)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. If there are no objections, may I
request the Clerk also call up Bill 95?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 95 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(MAUI FOOD HUB)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILLS 94 AND 95, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 240
CHAIR LEE; Who said second? Vice-Chair? Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
seconded by Member Sinenci.
Discussion on your motion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. These bills amend the Fiscal Year
2022 Budget, which ends on June 30, 2022. Approval of this motion will enable it to
be amended, the budget to be amended before the end of the fiscal year.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
Member Paltin?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 94 AND 95 ON FIRST READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Shane Sinenci
to pass Bills 94 and 95 on, is that second reading.
Any more discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: First reading.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 241
CHAIR LEE: First reading, I'm sorry. Any more discussion? No? All those in favor of the
motion--
Are you raising your hand?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: You have discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. Members, these bills would amend
Fiscal Year 2022 Budget bill and Appendix D, Office of the Mayor, Economic
Development Program, Grants and Disbursements for Agricultural Program
Promotion, Maui Food Hub, by deleting the conditional language "Grant funding for the
Maui Hub to promote food resiliency and security on Maui. Funding for one-time
purchases of the following: refrigerator truck, truck electric chiller and chiller
conversion, a half-time finance manager, a facility subsidy, and equipment."
These amendments would allow flexibility forthe Maui Food Hub to work with the Office
of Economic Development to execute a grant agreement prior to June 30, 2022. We
heard from Ms. Ness earlier in testimony explaining that the challenge with the
language as its written.
And I want to thank both Budget Director Yoshimura and Director Inamasu for
expediting this budget amendment to support the Maui Food Hub. Budget Director
Yoshimura is available to answer any questions the Members may have. I respectfully
ask for the Members support of this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody have questions of the Director, or any comments? If not, all those in
favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
Nine ayes, zero, Mr. Johnson?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 242
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 96 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
TOTAL OPERATING APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS {OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 96, IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sinenci, to waive the Rules, Rule of the Council.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. This bill amends Fiscal Year 2022
Budget, again, which ends at the end of next month. We need to take action in order
to get it in before the end of fiscal year. Mahalo Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26. 2022
Page 243
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 96 ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sinenci, to pass Bill 96 on first reading.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. Members, this bill is a housekeeping
bill to amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget to correct the Estimated Revenues, Total
Operating Appropriations, and Total Appropriations (Operating and Capital
Improvement Projects) to incorporate the funds from Ordinance 5370, Bill 64 (2022).
These funds were inadvertently omitted from the revenue and expense totals on the
most recent Fiscal Year '22 Budget bills approved by the Council. Again, Budget
Director Yoshimura is available if anyone has questions. I ask for the Members support
of this motion. Mahalo Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members?
I have a question. Director Yoshimura. So, what did the total Carryover/Savings
become?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair, the bill does not correct the Carryover/Savings for Fiscal
Year'22.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, it doesn't?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: No.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I just thought it would add to it. Alright, anymore comments or questions?
All those in favor, raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 244
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with bills for second and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 80 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF
MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
STATE OF HAWAII, DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS
RELATED TO THE ACQUISITION OF A LICENSE FOR ACCESS, BUFFER, AND
PARKING FOR THE UALAPU'E FIRE STATION, KAUNAKAKAI, HAWAII
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
Madam Chair, I yield the floor to GREAT CommitteeCOUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
If there are no objections, may IVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair,
request the Clerk also call up Bills 85 through 87?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 245
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 85 (2022^
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
COUNTYWIDE, OTHER PROJECTS, BOND FUND,
COUNTYWIDE EQUIPMENT
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 86 f2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
COUNTYWIDE, COUNTYWIDE EQUIPMENT
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 87 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
OPERATING BUDGET - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 80 AND BILLS 85 THROUGH 87 ON
SECOND AND FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 246
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass Bills 80, 85, 86, 87 on second and final reading.
Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo Chair. Bill 80 authorizes the Mayor to enter
into an intergovernmental agreement with the State of Hawaii, DHHL, for the non
executive right to use real property tax identified in the legislation for ingress, egress,
and buffer zone, and parking for the recently acquired site of the Ualapu'e Fire Station
on Molokai. And my community really appreciates everyone's support of this.
Bills 85 through 87 amend the Fiscal Year '22 Budget bill, Appendix C and Appendix D,
Capital Improvement Projects, Department of Finance, to correct the placement of
one dump truck for the Molokai Landfill to the Central Maui Landfill; and to change
one wheel loader for the Molokai Landfill to one loader backhoe. I ask for the Members
continued support. Mahalo Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Alright, all those in favor, raise your hand and say "aye", on these
four bills.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Wow, we finished in record time. One of the longest. That's the record, one of the
longest meetings.
Okay, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, I request to separate. Nah, before we go home.
Adjourn. Just kidding.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anything? You got, you have anything, parting words? I do want to
remind you that there's going to be a Memorial Day program at the Veterans Cemetery
on Monday, beginning at 8:30 in Makawao. And I’m sure our veteran, our own veteran.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 247
Member Molina will be there. And on your behalf,  Isent a floral arrangement from the
Council.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: And anything else? Anybody getting married? No? Because I know a place
where you can get a discounted license. You have to drive to Lahaina though, that's
the only problem.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It won't be legal though. That's why it's cheap.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Alright, everybody, it's been a long, long, long day and I'm glad we're
going home as friends. Somehow, we managed to do that today. Thank you very
much, everybody, for your hard work.
To the Budget Chair, hats off. Finally, it's done. And although, it wasn't perfect, you
know, a lot of work went into it.
Anybody else? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. One, one more reading. We have
one more reading. Second reading on June 8 for the budget. Almost.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Yeah. I know, but the worst is over, really, you know?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Don't jinx it. Don't jinx it.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay, I won't jinx it.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: ... for the next second reading.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's so much paperwork. Anyway, everybody, have a safe
weekend. And well. I'll see you tomorrow.
Member Paltin, are you going to have a long meeting? No meeting?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm going to campaign spending workshop tomorrow in this
location. We had my meeting yesterday afternoon and you were there.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
May 26, 2022
Page 248
CHAIR LEE: I have you down for, I have you down, PSLU. Misprint. Misprint. So, anyway,
have a nice long weekend, then, starting tomorrow. And everybody please be safe
and take care of yourself and your family. This meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of May 26, 2022 was adjourned by the Chair at 8:29 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
220526/lks:jm
Count^^CleH<
Peter <peter@hawaiianresources.net>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 5:22 PM
County Clerk
in support of the Maalaea regional wastewater plant
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Dear Maui County Council members,
By now 1 am sure you have of complete understanding of why the Maalaea regional wastewater system has so much
community support.
I want to offer you another thought to consider:
Diversified regional wastewater systems can be a good solution for other isolated Maui communities. The Maalaea
regional system, with its new and proven MBR technology, can be a PROOF OF CONCEPT for lowering costs, providing
higher effluent treatment, and creating the assets of R1 water and Bio-char as the end products for other communities
too.
The Maalaea project can serve as solid proof of concept for places like Hailiimaile and Haiku and other upcountry areas.
This concept could help to shut down cesspools and provide reasonable sewage solutions in many other communities on
Maui. The system is modular and can be both small or big depending on the actual needs. There are many MBR
wastewater system providers. The Maalaea solution can be an example for the rest of Hawaii.
Huge centralized systems work well only in big urban areas. Activated sludge is old technology.
Please support the Maalaea regional wastewater project. Community members have worked diligently to remove the
injection wells and clean up Maalaea Bay.
With aloha.
Peter Cannon
a
c. :t C'
LUr','*
r"'-
1
we love saving lives!
May 26,2022Maiii llimiatu' Soci^'t^
I'.n [k.\ m r
I’li'unriiv. I [-IW.U 1
s  .MiKi’
■U.iU'.luiin.inv. sotifiv.nv;;
Council of the County of Maui
Eighth Floor
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii
HOARD Ol- DIRECTORS
Cluiir
,V
Vii'c Ch.iirs
I n RE: Written Testimony
FY23 County Budget
l ●; K/ \//)I;
Treasurer
\L
Honorable County Councilmembers:
SecretaiA
I il IK. Thank you for all you efforts to date in considering the upcoming
County Budget for Fiscal Year 2023. I recognize the amount of energy
necessary to address such an intricate and wide-ranging financial
document such as this. I would ask for your consideration of two areas
of the Department of Housing and Human Concerns budget that impact
Animal Management services:
Directors
i;/●
(
I h'On i I ,U
7V;. o:\
!  11
. IK. \:lj ft:I.I-:-’
We would ask for consideration of adding $152,000 to
the Animal Enforcement budget. This addresses two critical areas:
a) Adding $89,090 for the maintenance, repair, fuel and
insurance needs for the nine Maui Humane vehicles used for the animal
control duties. As you are likely aware, the County has asked us to
take over the fleet that at one time was fully County vehicles. We have
now replaced nine County vehicles with our own (with three vehicles
still owned by the County). Taking over these vehicles requires us to
fund these areas in order to maintain the fi eet on the road,
b) Add $63,910 for the Community Cat Coordinator.
With the removal of feral animal funds from the DHHC budget it also
eliminated funding for this position. It would be appropriate to add
these funds back in to sustain a highly effective program for ongoing
years.
1)k/j-: ■ i Ml)
I
i;XEClJ I iVfi STAR
(Vliicf ExiHuihN c Officer
\!,. /vV/;./.w,./
Dircceof of Aiiinial Ser\ iccs
h <
Dii'ccior of CoimminiiN Oiitrciicli
,\; Pv
Director of Dcvclojimcni &
.Marketing
\E
Director of Finance
ik/k.-;:.-
Director of I limnine Enforcement
\hr r K
We would ask for consideration of changing the existing
language for the Animal Revolving Fund. Current language limits
these funds for purchasing only two replacement Animal Control
2)
Director of Client Rciaiit>n-N
Director of Veterinarj Services
K
vehicles. Funds are still needed to strip out the equipment from the retired
vehicles and then set up the new vehicles with radio installation, emergency
lighting, vehicle markings and acquisition of replacement equipment. We
have proved to the County our ability to acquire vehicles at a much lower
cost. By eliminating the “two vehicle” provision and changing language to
“the acquisition of animal control vehicles and related equipment” will allow
this same level of funding to achieve more cost effective results.
Thank you for your consideration of these recommendations. We look forward to maintaining
maintenance the excellent working relationship with the County as well as to continue to provide
exceptional services to the citizens of Maui County.
Respectfully submitted,
Stephen MacKinnon
Chief Executive Officer
Scott Rollins
Wastewater Reclamation Division Chief
May 26, 2022
Testimony for item 22-42 No. 5 - Maalaea Wastewater System Replacement
Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My testimony concerns the proposal of the County to
fund and build a Maalaea Wastewater Treatment Facility. I'm not here to say it's a bad idea, I agree that
something needs to be done with the wastewater systems in Maalaea. It is not the divisions decision on
if the County should take on this responsibility However, there are some things to consider before you
decide to simply add $9.5M into next year's budget.
1. Fundamental question to ask is - Should the County take over old, failing systems for the good of
the public? (roadways, drainage, water systems, wastewater systems, dams, basins, etc.)
Historically, when the County Is asked to take over privately owned infrastructure due to the,
condition, costs of operation/maintenance, or need of major system improvements, the answer
has been "if you improve the infrastructure to County Standards and the Mayor/County Council
approves the dedication, it will be accepted to be owned and operated by the County." This
pertains to water systems, wastewater systems, roadways and drainage systems.
Agreeing to take over this will lead to additional requests. We've been down this road with
Molokai Ranch, Wailea sewers, Hali'imaile wastewater treatment ponds. Council's
consideration of Maalaea last week has already prompted Maui Land and Pine to again ask us to
take over Hali'imaile.
It would be prudent to discuss this in a committee to develop a policy for the takeover of
systems, especially failing systems that will take significant capital investment.
2. If indeed the County is going to step in, we need to first discuss all of the ramifications, and aspects
of the responsibility and liability the County is assuming.
Is the County building an alternative system that when completed, the property owners will
be required to connect to or use, or are we accepting the old failing system(s) and replacing it?
In this case there is not only a new system to construct, but also the proper abandonment of
existing packaged treatment facilities, onsite plumbing/piping revisions, possible pump systems
etc. on the private property. Current policy dictates that private property improvements and
infrastructure are always the responsibility of the property owner. All of the work on the condo
properties should be left to those entities, including showing that their underground piping
systems that will be redirected to a new system are intact and functioning properly.
(MCC 14.21A.010 would require them to connect to any system that fronts their property.)
3. What project would the County be taking on? To date sounds like someone's already determined a
new collection system and treatment facility, and the cost is only $9.5 M. The 2019 Brown and
Caldwell study put the costs over $23 million and that was before the COVID supply chain issues and
recent material/labor cost increases.
Scott Rollins
Wastewater Reclamation Division Chief
May 26. 2022
Why another treatment facility? Why not tie into the new plant that Is already in the planning
stages In Central/Maui?
The County needs to conduct an alternative analysis to determine the best possible course for
the County from a practical and fiscal standpoint. This includes system requirements, initial
capital cost, continuing operation and maintenance costs, staffing needs, ongoing labor
requirements, by product use/disposal, life span costs, environmental concerns/effects,
permitting requirements. County policy alignment, etc. This decision has long term effects on
the sewer fund budget and needs analysis and further discussion.
4. How should we fund the project? Choices include cash sewer funds, general obligation bonds,
general fund, grants. State Revolving Fund Loan, other loans, donation. Condominium Reserve
Funds, or a Community Facilities District.
First Corporation Counsel will need to determine if it would be legal to spend money from the Sewer
Fund to replace a private system.
Sewer Fund Cash - these funds are allocated for this year and designated for the next few years to
cover design/construction costs etc. for replacement sewers, pump stations, force mains, recycled
water systems etc.
General obligation bonds or loans of any type, including SRF loans, get repaid by the fees our current
customers pay in their monthly bills. Since it's been stated that this is a "County problem", it would
be careless and not fair to make only sewer rate payers the ones responsible to pay for this new
system that benefits only a few properties.
Using money from the general fund would make all taxpayers pay the price of this "County
problem."
Research into other loan types or grants could help pay for some of the project, but would take
some time and effort.
Condominium Associations require reserve funds to repair and replace critical infrastructure and for
maintenance. They can also do special assessments. This could contribute at least part of the funds.
Community Facilities District-This would cause the County take on the burden and the risk of
building a system now for Maalaea that would be repaid over time by the property owners within
the district instead of ail ratepayers.
Funding the project is a discussion that needs to occur in a committee setting in order to get the
proper input and decide which one or combination is best for Maui County.
5. What is a realistic timeline for this project, taking into account all of the factors?
Scott Rollins
Wastewater Reclamation Division Chief
May 26, 2022
To be fiscally responsible to our citizens we should do an up to date PER that includes the
alternative analysis to determine the best course over the useful life of the system. (6+/-
months)
This is a complex/expensive project using County funds so it will need an Environmental Impact
Statement (or maybe an EA) (1+ years)
If a loan or grant is involved it will require environmental and other reviews {section 106,
section 7, possibly NEPA etc.) (6 months)
It will require land acquisition, subdivision, easements, use agreements, state approvals etc.
The design needs to be completed (survey, geotechnical work, soils, structural, electrical, civil,
mechanical etc.) (1 to 1/2 years.)
Project bidding, award, contracting and materiai/equipment acquisition (3 to 9 months)
Construction will take 18 + months
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g-
What this says is like other wastewater or other projects, it is a multiyear project. At least two
years to have a design ready to bid.
Simply adding a CIP project for the Maalaea Wastewater System of $9.5M of SRF funding does
not solve anything and it gives the residents of Maalaea a false hope that something will be built
immediately.
It sets up the administration, the department and our division for failure since doing our jobs
correctly we will not be able to encumber that amount of money for construction in FY2023.
6. When should council make the decision of whether or not to put in funding for a project like this?
Only after a committee has set and made the tough decisions and memorialized it in a
Countywide Policy for all infrastructure, failing or not, and vetted out exactly how the entire
project will be funded so that's its fair to all of our citizens.
- V
U' i'*?'3^-T'5’;●:;/: '
Bringing hack ikh^^birdsAMERICAN BIRD
CONSERVANCY im m 25 AH 9: i\7
RE: Support for County Resolution 22-135 c w rt  .
: :-ljN'TY Cl.Aloha mai e Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers,
American Bird Conservancy (ABC) supports the passage of this resolution and appreciates the opportunity to
provide comments on Resolution 22-135. ABC is a national non-profit organization dedicated to conserving wild
native birds and their habitats throughout the Americas. ABC has had a strong and growing program in Hawaii for
over a decade, working with state, federal, and private partners to protect, manage, and restore critical habitats for
some of the most endangered birds in Hawaii, especially focused on Maui
ABC supports the designation of May 20th as Endangered Species Day in the county of Maui. A day to remember
that we share our home with plants and animals found nowhere else in the world. As co-inhabitants of our island
home, we must do what we can to support the native species in Hawaii, especially those on the brink of extinction.
Endemic honeycreepers are highly endangered across the Hawaiian Islands, including two species found nowhere
else in the world besides East Maui - the kiwikiu and ‘akohekohe. Our honeycreepers are integral components of
healthy forests, serving as pollinators, seed dispersers, and insect predators. Their beauty, mannerisms, and spiritual
connotations are woven into mele, hula, and ‘olelo no‘eau, and materials created through featherwork. These birds
also serve as sentinels of the health for our other native plants and animals in Maui’s forests, indicating the severity
of threats to the native forest ecosystems. This resolution recognizes the importance of these forests and will
increase support for their protection and restoration.
A recent US Department of Interior report (Paxton et al. 2022) estimated ‘akikiki on Kaua‘i are likely to go extinct
in 2023, and the ‘akohekohe, kiwikiu, and ‘akeke‘e soon after that. The demise of the Hawaiian honeycreepers is
being driven by exposure to avian diseases transmitted by non-native mosquitoes. Rising global temperatures allow
these mosquitoes to invade the last forested strongholds for our honeycreepers. Landscape-control of mosquitoes is
the most urgent conservation problem in Hawaii. If the disease cycle is not broken, many other honeycreeper
species will follow these four into extinction. Thus, irreparably losing part of Hawaii’s biological diversity and
cultural richness.
Bringing awareness to the endangered species that call Hawaii home will highlight that there is still hope. This hope
is created by the individuals, communities, organizations, and partnerships working tirelessly to create a safe space
for the native species of Hawaii.
For the Hawaiian honeycreepers, hope for mosquito suppression is being pursued by the Birds, Not Mosquitoes
(BNM) partnership. BNM is working to save our honeycreepers by using Wolbachia-incompatible male mosquitoes,
a.k.a mosquito birth control, to suppress mosquito populations. This mosquito birth control approach is being safely
used in 15 different countries, including the continental U.S. The partnership includes over 20 organizations,
including tliree state agencies, four federal agencies, and four nonprofit groups, including ABC. This breadth of
organizations emphasizes the wide-ranging support for this urgently needed management action.
Mahalo nui loa for your consideration and support in protecting our treasured Hawaiian birds,
Chris Farmer
cfarmer@abcbirds.org
Hawai‘i Program Director
808-987-1779
Lukanicole Zavas
lzavas@abcbirds.org
Outreach Associate for Birds Not Mosquitoes
808-330-3240
PC Bo.\ 249. 4249 Loudoun Ave. ● The Plains.VA 20198
Tel: 540-253-5780 ● abc@abcbirds.org ● abcbirds.org
Count^^leH<
r;;From:
Sent:
Barbara Barry <begoniabarry@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 7:53 PM
County Clerk
Testimony on Committee report 22-42. Item number  1Bill 69
IW HAY 26 AH 7: if 3To:
Subject:
r  4
> i I
NTY CL i
Aloha Chair Lee and Council Members,
My name is Barbara Barry and I am a small organic farmer in Hai'ku.
I am also a commissioner on the KAP Advisory Committee for the last 4 years.
I'd like to comment on the proposed 25% increase for Kula Ag Park Farmers and for clarification, my comments are my
own.
KAP had a special meeting called this week but due to technical difficulties, the call did not happen and my ideas below,
though unpopular, would have been shared with those on the call.
A few thoughts on this proposed rate increase.
Since there is no clear idea of the amount of food being produced at the KAP, it seems premature to issue a blanket
increase at a time when our food farmers are under increasing demand to produce more food for our County's food
security.
The larger leaseholders who are not producing food may be able to easily absorb the increase but the smaller
leaseholders who are producing food may not.
These leaseholders pay for pumping their water to their farms so there are added costs that are not reflected in their
lease payment. The electric cost is substantial and a survey of the tenants to note their electric expenses for pumping
water for the last year could be gathered. Perhaps it's time for the County to look into a renewable energy source for
these farmers?
If there is a problem with damage left by past tenants, a damage deposit would be a reasonable thing to have required
at the time the leases were signed. Perhaps that could be added to offset property not being left in good
condition? That's pretty normal with any lease.
There are also 2 lots that are available. My question is why? There are many farmers looking for places to farm.
As a commissioner, I often ask the question if there are spots available and how the public is notified of this
availability. I've never had a satisfactory answer to this question.
There are tenants who are not involved with food growing and I am suggesting that these tenants be considered 1st for
any rate increase if the Council decides to proceed with this 25% increase.
Some of these tenants have a fair amount of land at the KAP.
I feel the County should be doing everything they can to support our food producers and we must not compare the
County KAP leases with private entities who are leasing land for a profit.
There could be funds through a grant to help finance the vegetable washing machine. Since the Dept of Agriculture will
be starting up soon, this may be an area for the grant writers to start on. It could also pay for itself if it was offered to
other farmers for a fee. It doesn't help to have it if it's not used fully.
Personally, I feel the KAP should undergo a complete audit and also restore the Commission Members back to 11 like it
was in 2018. I'm still not sure how it was shaved down to 9 members.
There are many mysteries about how things are being run that are not communicated with the Commissioners although
things are better now than under past leadership when there were very few meetings.
I also feel that the Farmers Union United should sit on this Committee and not have the Maui County Farm Bureau the
only Farming organization representing the KAP.
HFUU represents many small farmers from many areas of Maui County as I'm sure the Farm Bureau does but more
importantly, the Farm Bureau is very supportive of the Corporate Ag conglomerates in Maui County.
I appreciate the Farm Bureau for supporting the Maui County 4 H program, small farmers and our ranchers.
1
So, before you decide to make an across the board decision to raise lease rates, I suggest looking deeper into how the Ag
park is run and how much this would actually make per year and perhaps delay a decision till all facts are clearly
available to the Council. This is ill timed to say the least.
Don't get me started on the purchase of the terrible piece of land the County bought from A&B a few years ago for an
enormous cost.
Mahalo for this opportunity to share my manao,
Barbara Barry
2
CountyClerk
Barbara Barry <begoniabarry@gmail.com>
Thursday, May 26, 2022 11:37 AM
County Clerk
Re: Testimony on Committee report 22-42. Item number 1 Bill 69
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
On Wed, May 25, 2022 at 7:52 PM Barbara Barry <begoniabarrv@gmail.com> wrote:
Aloha Chair Lee and Council Members,
This is a follow up to my testimony from this morning.
My name is Barbara Barry and I am a small organic farmer in Hai'ku.
I am also a commissioner on the KAP Advisory Committee for the last 4 years.
I’d like to comment on the proposed 25% increase for Kula Ag Park Farmers and for clarification, my comments are
my own and I am not a paid lobbyist.
KAP had a special meeting called this week but due to technical difficulties, the call did not happen and my ideas
below, though unpopular, would have been shared with those on the call.
A few thoughts on this proposed rate increase.
Since there is no clear idea of the amount of food being produced at the KAP, it seems premature to issue a blanket
increase at a time when our food farmers are under increasing demand to produce more food for our County's food
security.
The larger leaseholders who are not producing food may be able to easily absorb the increase but the smaller
leaseholders who are producing food may not.
These leaseholders pay for pumping their water to their farms so there are added costs that are not reflected in
their lease payment. The electric cost is substantial and a current survey of the tenants to note their electric
expenses for pumping water for the last year could be gathered. Perhaps it's time for the County to look into a
renewable energy source for these farmers?
If there is a problem with damage left by past tenants, a damage deposit would be a reasonable thing to have
required at the time the leases were signed. Perhaps that could be added to offset property not being left in good
condition? That's pretty normal with any lease.
There are also 2 lots that are available. My question is why? There are many farmers looking for places to farm.
As a commissioner, I often ask the question if there are spots available and how the public is notified of this
availability. I've never had a satisfactory answer to this question.
There are tenants who are not involved with food growing and I am suggesting that these tenants be considered 1st
for any rate increase if the Council decides to proceed with this 25% increase.
Some of these tenants have a fair amount of land at the KAP.
I feel the County should be doing everything they can to support our food producers and we must not compare the
County KAP leases with private entities who are leasing land for a profit.
There could be funds through a grant to help finance the vegetable washing machine. Since the Dept of Agriculture
will be starting up soon, this may be an area for the grant writers to start on. It could also pay for itself if it was
offered to other farmers for a fee. It doesn't help to have it if it's not used fully.
Personally, I feel the KAP should undergo a complete audit and also restore the Commission Members back to 11
like it was in 2018. I'm still not sure how it was shaved down to 9 members.
There are many mysteries about how things are being run that are not communicated with the Commissioners
although things are better now than under past leadership when there were very few meetings.
1 also feel that the Farmers Union United should sit on this Committee and not have the Maui County Farm Bureau
the only Farming organization representing the KAP.
HFUU represents many small farmers from many areas of Maui County as I'm sure the Farm Bureau does but more
importantly, the Farm Bureau is very supportive of the Corporate Ag conglomerates in Maui County.
I appreciate the Farm Bureau for supporting the Maui County 4 H program, small farmers and our ranchers.
1
So, before you decide to make an across the board decision to raise lease rates, I suggest looking deeper into how
the Ag park is run and how much this would actually make per year and perhaps delay a decision till all facts are
clearly available to the Council. This is ill timed to say the least.
Don't get me started on the purchase of the terrible piece of land the County bought from A&B a few years ago for
an enormous cost.
Mahalo for this opportunity to share my manao,
Barbara Barry
2
r? Ur
Count^Clerk
WWTTWTT^Suellen <suellen@maui.net>
Monday, May 23, 2022 2:49 PM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
From:
Sent:
To:
JMT'l/ L.. t
Subject:
[You don't often get email from suellen@maui.net. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Our reefs are in sad shape & ocean water quality continues to decline - we need to value our natural resources more
than the county does tourist dollars Mahalo Suellen Barton
Sent from my iPad
1
County Clerk
..
Meredith Beeson <meredith@mauireefs.org>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 4:11 PM
County Clerk
1 Support $9.5 million for M'aalaea Wastewater
M
From:
Sent: ,\y 25 PH 5^ 04M
lill
To:
Subject: i  i' iul '.V 1 ^ / »
COUNTY CLEKt<
IYou don't often get email from meredith@mauireefs.org. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am writing this to let the county council know that 1 am in support of the $9.5 million in the 2023 fiscal year budget to
upgrade the Ma'alaea wastewater system.
Preventing excess nitrogen from entering the bay will help the reefs recover. The R1 water will be able to support
agriculture, in an area where drought and fires flourish. The solids extracted from the wastewater will be turned into
biochar, which will help our local soils restore their microbiomes and produce life again.
Mahalo for your time and consideration,
Meredith Beeson
1
Count^^letJ<
Tom Board <tomboard333@gmail.com>
Thursday, May 26, 2022 9:38 AM
County Clerk; mayors.office@co.maui.hi.us
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from tomboard333@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I am a condo owner and taxpayer at Island Sands (150 Hauoli St #408) in Ma'alaea and ask you to please support,
pass, sign and implement plans for a unified wastewater treatment plant for this village. It is ironic that one of the
world’s best aquariums is situated in village that is - unfortunately - now a major polluter of the ocean at Ma'alaea
Bay. If we can eliminate the private systems and establish a modern, efficient and effective replacement, then we will
be answering the call to preserve the environment for future generations. Thank you for your attention!
Tom Board
1
Count^£lerk r-' ●
Bob <mauidomer@roadrunner.com>
Tuesday, May 24, 2022 6;03 AM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
From:
Sent: ?0?M'IAY2^ ah 8: 10
To:
Subject: Ur
JNTY CLbKKN f
You don't often get email from mauidomer@roadrunner.com. Learn why this is important
I hope the County Council will uphold the funding for the Ma'alaea wastewater project. It has
been a need for years; and will have a very positive impact on Ma'alaea Harbor. Please for "yes
for the funding!
/j
Thank you,
A Ma'alaea condo resident and owner since 1984
1
Count^^leH<
Patricia Cadiz <pbc5@mac.com>
Thursday, May 26, 2022 7:10 AM
County Clerk
Bill 73
From:
Sent: MI HAY 26 AH 7: 43
To:
Subject: - ● ^
O i“ lilt.'  ' !
COUNTY CL r
w-1 \r \
IYou don't often get email from pbc5(S)mac.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Council members,
I support the proposed wastewater treatment system to replace the aged and failing injection wells
along the shore of Ma'alaea. I believe that a Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) System is the best choice
for Ma'alaea for these reasons:
The MBR system can be Installed in less than one year, pending permits.
Small-scale local treatment units like this one can save on energy costs, recycle water to the
community for landscaping and food production, and recycle nutrients into landscaping and
agriculture.
MBRs can produce high quality R-1 effluent that's suitable for 100% reuse in the coastal area
of Ma'alaea.
The result wilt be cleaner ocean water for all who enjoy Ma'alaea Bay for fishing, paddling,
surfing, swimming and other recreation.
Please vote yes on Bill 73:
This bill authorizes Maui County Mayor Victorino to enter into an intergovernmental agreement to
finance the West Maui Recycled Water System Expansion and the Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater
System with funds not to exceed $14,500,000.
Thank you,
Patti Cadiz
808-283-5070
Maui, HI
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^let^
From:
Sent:
Patricia Cadiz <pbc5@mac.com>
Thursday, May 26, 2022 9:31 AM
County Clerk; Mayor's Office County of Maui
Planning commission vacancy
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from pbc5@mac.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
To council members,
I would like to express my enthusiastic support for Mayor Victorino's nomination of Wayne Hedani for Planning
commission. I believe I am correct in saying that he has about 15 years experience of diplomatically and effectively
navigating through the extremely complex issues of shoreline preservation. His calm demeanor and intelligence will
certainly be a benefit to the Commission and Maui's future. Please approve his nomination.
Patti Cadiz
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^CletJ< E '-■iO
1W APR 29 FM 3: 05Deashia Lei Chang <deashialeichang@gmail.com>
Friday, April 29, 2022 2:22 PM
County Clerk
FAM Program
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
"--^:Tv c;
[You don't often get email from deashialeichang@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
My name is Deashia Lei Chang & I am writing in support of HFUU's FAM Program. Before this program, my wife & 1
began farming & realized that we needed more education about regenerating soil & how to sustain our farm. We talked
with some people we knew who farmed but did not know a whole lot of other farmers who could help educate us. This
program has helped us to learn more about regenerative farming & how to produce crops, weed management, etc. in
addition to the farm education, we also learned the business side of farming in which we could sustain the farm
financially. This program is helping to educate the community to have food security which EVERYBODY should learn.
Please continue to fund this program and help our community learn the importance of farming & food security for our
islands!
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
1
Aloha Maui County Council,
1 am writing to you today to ask that you approve Kelly Kings resolution 22-144 pertaining to
having a planning commission for each district of Maui. I have seen first hand how devastating
poor planning can be for a community.
In KiheiAA/ailea there have been approvals for several projects in recent years that completely
destroyed our remaining natural resources. We have seen Iwi Kapuna sites blown to pieces to
make way for million dollar homes. These sites were known to be precontact areas that are now
gone forever.
The most recent project is development on top of our Waipuilani Gulch. They will build right on
top of a riverbed with no regard for any of the consequences of their actions. All of our
community organizations and members oppose these types of projects and we continue to fight
hard to stop them.
I believe that if KihelA/Vailea had their own commission these dangerous, destructive projects
would not be allowed to continue. Please help us stop the “gold rush" in each of our districts. We
must have community representation in our planning commission or our precious resources will
be lost forever.
Sincerely,
Brandi Corpuz
909-357-9170
Count^^leH<
From:
Sent:
JUSTIN DELEON <jdeleon96761@gmail.com>
Tuesday, May 3, 2022 3:08 PM
County Clerk
Re: Testimony in support of HCUU's FAM
^  AH 8: 10i V
im Itn t
To:
Subject: L O i ■ : i"
I Y C i_ i
:● You don't often get email fromjdeleon96761@gmaii.com. Learn why this is important
On Wed, Apr 27, 2022 at 11:11 PM JUSTIN DELEON <ideleon96761@ema il.com> wrote:
Aloha,
This testimony is in support of the FAM program.
My name is Justin De Leon. Along with my wife and children, we are first time farmers
with zero farming experience. I'm currently in cohort 7 at this years FAM program. I
have so much to share and don't know where to start!
We are half way through the course and my brain is full of new ideas. Each week I
look forward to learning the new techniques and applying them to the farm. I have
made new friend in all my classmates. I have learned just as much from them. They
all bring different styles of what they all plan on doing. They're all ohana now!
The FAM program has help support me through my agricultural endeavors and
education. I have a full time job, raise 4 beautiful children, and now a so called
“farmer". The program is easy for a person like me to acquire this kind of education
and information with out the stress of failure. Every week what I learn I apply it that
next day at our farm, it's fun, it's therapy, and it's now a passion of mines. Did I
mention it was a free course? I don't have much money to send my self to school. So
these programs help people like me. I hope in the future more people will get the
opportunity just like I did. I am very grateful for this opportunity and I can't thank you
all enough.
My ohana farm is ready! We've almost made a a full year up there. I can't wait to share
what I have learned and while also giving back to my community that raised me. This
program instilled in me to be now a steward of this land that we call our home.
I hope this letter does well in support of these kinds of programs.
Mahalo for taking time to listen to me.
Many thanks,
Justin De Leon
HCUU FAM program cohort? participant.
2
From:
Sent:
Umesh Desai <linda.umesh@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 11:38 AM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
,  :i- r~x!  »Ft t.
To:
im HAY 25 mw-uSubject:
●. : r 1 cl OF i s'.
OUNTY CLEKKV  You don’t often get email from linda.umesh@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
It./
I request the Council to uphold the $9.5 million of funding for a new Ma'alaea
Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility in the FY23 budget.
Umesh Desai
100 Hauoli St. #109
Wailuku,HI 96793
1
From:
Sent:
Jeep Dunning <mauijeep@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 7:03 AM
County Clerk
Bills 69 and 73
r-'
ni \
To:
zon HAY 25 AH 8: 07Subject:
: Of i r l .
COUNTY CLEkYou don't often get email from mauijeep@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Maui County Council Members,
f\
Please support bills 69 and 73 to fund and expand the Ma'alaea Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Mahalo,
Jeanne Dunning
1
May 24,2022
Aloha Council Members,
My name is Su2ette Felicilda a kanaka maoll of Lahaina. I am
writing in opposition of nomination of Wayne Hedani to the
planning commission. Wayne Hedani is an associate
member/president to the Kaanapali Opcrations-which is in highly
support with the hotel industry to the offshore dredging in
Lahaina to Kaanapali. He's in support of damaging and endangering
marine life to add sand to beaches for the tourist to enjoy, at
the same time destroying and endangering our reefs, our fishes,
our fishing grounds and also endangering wave heights to these
shores. I'm from a family of generations who are fishermens-
these are our livelihood and our resources today and to our
future generations. He does not speak of the people-kanaka
maoli-of Lahaina, he speaks for the Malahini.
Mahalo, /
Suzettc Felicilda
Kanaka Mooli of Lahaina
J  ●
\ J - .
I
m HAY 2^ AH II- 0^
Marine Resource Council
.  ! Uii Or 7 i i
' iUNTY CLtKK
May 24, 2022
The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair and Members
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
RE: SUPPORTING $9.5M FOR MA'ALAEA WASTEWATER FUNDING IN FY 2023 BUDGET
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members,
On behalf of the staff and supporters of Maui Nui Marine Resource Council, I am writing to ask that the
Maui County Council uphold the BFED decision to include $9.5 million in funding forthe Ma'alaea
Membrane Bioreactor Wastewater Reclamation Project in the County's FY 2023 budget. This funding
would make it possible to purchase and install a containerized modular "plug and play" state-of-the-art
wastewater treatment system that can be in place and operational within one year, pending permits, to
produce high quality R-1 water for 100% reuse in the coastal area of Ma'alaea.
Right now, the Ma'alaea community has no regional wastewater treatment facility. The state harbor, the
Ma'alaea condominiums, and area businesses operate their own treating facilities and injection wells for
effluent disposal. These shallow injection wells along the shoreline of Ma'alaea leak nitrogen-rich
pollution into the ocean, causing algal overgrowth and coral decline.
We all recognize that we need to take action now to help improve the ocean water quality in Ma'alaea
Bay and prevent the reefs and limu from disappearing. The Ma'alaea Membrane Bioreactor (MBR)
Wastewater Reclamation Project features a modern day technology that's in use across the United
States. Why? According to the EPA, MBR systems occupy a small footprint; they allow for improved
treatment performance in a smaller space than a conventional design. MBRs also have high removal
efficiency of contaminants such as nitrogen, phosphorus, bacteria, biochemical oxygen demand, and
total suspended solids. They create high quality wastewater that's ideal for reuse in shoreline areas, for
irrigation of landscaping and agriculture.
With this system, the wastewater solids will be converted into high quality soil amendments (biochar).
Biochar is a charcoal-like a pathogen-free material that is produced from solids decomposed at high
temperatures. It can be used for local landscaping, providing plants a locally sourced, carbon-rich soil
amendment.
Maui Nui Marine Resource Council has been supportive of the hard-working volunteer team that has
studied the MBR systems. They've identified several providers ready to implement a project along with
companies in Hawaii that provide management and maintenance of the system. They've also arranged
with Mahi Pono to donate land for the site.
Congressman Kai Kahele and Representative Angus McKelvey have stated that this would qualify for
the State of Hawai'i Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund (also known as the Clean Water State
Revolving Fund - the CWSRF). This project is also supported by the State Department of Health
Wastewater Division. The State Legislature recently approved a $250,000 grant-in-aid to MVA to support
preliminary engineering study for the project.
Millions in federal dollars are currently available for infrastructure improvements statewide. A window is
currently open that will allow Maui County to address this critical infrastructure need. Small-scale local
treatment units like this one can save on energy costs, recycle water to the community for landscaping
and food production, and recycle nutrients into landscaping and agriculture. This solution provides proof
of concept and can be relocated to (or replicated in) other small communities that are not served by
centralized wastewater treatment (Haiku, Makawao, etc.).
Please support this project for the health of the coral reefs and all of the many Maui residents who enjoy
Ma'alaea Bay for fishing, paddling, surfing, etc. We believe that funding and converting to the
responsible way of treating Ma'alaea wastewater wil lbe a historical step - a true display of Maui
County's commitment of clean ocean water and healthy coral reefs for the the kids and grandkids of
today - and all of the future children of Maui.
Thank you.
Mike Fogar
Executive Director
\MEO\ \\From:
Sent:
Amy Fonarow <afonarow@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 2:41 AM
County Clerk
I Support Bills 69 and 73
■\ iZ
m 8^ 07To:
]i!?] 25Subject:
.  rlOE OF THE
.'●-MJNTY CtbRUAloha Maui County Council,
I am writing in support of Bills 69 and 73, and I respectfully request that you support them, as well.
The MBR system proposed is efficient, can be installed fairly quickly, and would provide nutrients that can be safely
used for agricultural purposes on land. This MBR system would be an upgrade from the injection wells currently
handling the waste in Ma'alaea, and all in all we'd be creating a cleaner ocean.
Everybody benefits from a cleaner ocean.
Thank you so much, Maui County Councilmembers. I know you're working hard, and 1 really appreciate all of your
efforts. Please consider supporting bills 69 and 73.
Mahalo Nui,
Amy Fonarow {former resident of Maui and lifelong ocean advocate)
1
DIVISION OF FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE
1151 Punchbowl Street, Room 325 | Honolulu, HI 96813
DOFAW PROGRAM
PRIORITIES
^ Water
Fire& Forest Health
Native Ecosystems
4|l Forestry
it*
. Recreation
Potential recovety sites for endangeredplants are plotted on this example map.
PROJECT SUPPORTERS Maui Nui Species At Risk
The collaborative team spans many agencies,
land-owners and NGOs: Species found only in Hawai'i, many only in
Maui Nui, in danger of extinction:
>'
Hawai'i Division of Forestry and Wildlife
US Fish and Wildlife Service
US Geological Survey
US National Park Service
University of Hawai'i
Enduring Conservation Outcomes
'r> --
Plants 194 species
Invertebrates >50 species
Vertebrates 15 species
V./■
A' ●V,
\ ●
House District: *House District Numbers"
Senate District: "Senate District Numbers"
BUDGET
*Budget*
CONTACT PERSON
Scott Fretz
Maui Nui Branch Manager
Hawaii Division of Forestry and Wildlife
Scott.fretz@hawawii.gov
(808)984-8107
2
Maui Nui Landscape Conservation Plan
<
f' V>t .tA i
V¥i>‘
r«4
^ '
Areas managed by HawoH Division of Forestry and Wildlife
EXPECTED BENEFITS
SUMMARY Landscape planning enables managers
to:
More than 500 species unique to Hawai'i face extinction. The Hawai'i State Division of Forestry and
Wildlife, along with state and federal partners, is developing a landscape-scale planning
methodology that integrates multiple recovery plans for all species at risk of extinction into a single
plan that includes plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates for Maui, Moloka'i and Lana'i.
1. integrate species plans to identify the
minimum reserve area needed to
conserve all of the species at risk,
2. make informed decisions about which
areas to prioritize within that reserve,
3. determine which conservation actions
are the most important ones to
implement first, and
4. optimize limited conservation funds.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Recovery plans and related documents have been developed for many individual species at risk of
extinction in Hawai'i. They provide excellent guidance for much of the essential work to be done,
but are not generally implementation-ready for managers without further planning, it is highly
impractical for managers to work off of dozens of separate plans simultaneously when the species
covered and the actions recommended in those plans potentially occur in the same place. An
integrated planning framework employs a systematic approach that includes, (1) identifying
current species distributions, (2) modeling future distributions of each species under projected
climate scenarios, (3) identifying and prioritizing minimal essential habitat for recovery of all target
species, especially those that depend on other natives (4) using optimization techniques to
develop a system of management units or areas that can provide suitable habitat for multiple
species now and into the future, and (5) developing analytical methods managers can use to asses
extinction threats and make cost-effective use of limited conservation funds across critical
landscapes and over time, establishing metrics for success, and 6) community-based conservation
actions that engage and benefit under-served communities in affected areas.
DIVISION OF FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE
^1151 Punchbowl Street, Room 325 | Honolulu, HI 96813
DOFAW PROGRAM
PRIORITIES
^ Water
. Fire & Forest Health
Native Ecosystems
4^ Forestry
Recreation
Potential recovety sites for endangered plants are plotted on this example map.
PROJECT SUPPORTERS Maui Nui Species At Risk
The collaborative team spans many agencies,
land-owners and NGOs: Species found oniy in Hawai'i, many only in
Maui Nui, in danger of extinction:
Hawai'i Division of Forestry and Wildlife
US Fish and Wildlife Service
US Geological Survey
US National Park Service
University of Flawai'i
Enduring Conservation Outcomes
Plants 194 species
Invertebrates >50 species
Vertebrates 15 species /
\
'V ●
Y-A\
House Oistria: *House District Numbers*
Senate District: *Senat€ District Numbers ’
BUDGET
^Budget*
CONTACT PERSON
Scott Fretz
Maui Nui Branch Manager
Hawai'i Division of Forestry and Wildlife
Scott.fretz@hawawii.gov
(808)984-8107
2
Maui Nui Landscape Conservation Plan
Areas managed by Hawaii Division ofForestry and Wildlife
EXPECTED BENEFITS
SUMMARY landscape planning enables managers
to:
More than 500 species unique to Hawai'i face extinction. The Hawai'i State Division of Forestry and
Wildlife, along with state and federal partners, is developing a landscape-scale planning
methodology that integrates multiple recovery plans for all species at risk of extinction into a single
plan that includes plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates for Maui, Moloka'i and Lana'i.
1. integrate species plans to identify the
minimum reserve area needed to
conserve a!! of the species at risk,
2. make informed decisions about which
areas to p^ioriti^e witbffl that reserve,
3. determine which conservation actions
are the most important ones to :
implement first, and
4. optimize femited cmrservation funds.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Recovery plans and related documents have been developed for many individual species at risk of
extinction in Hawai'i. They provide excellent guidance for much of the essential work to be done,
but are not generally implementation-ready for managers without further planning. It is highly
impractical for managers to work off of dozens of separate plans simultaneously when the species
covered and the actions recommended in those plans potentially occur in the same place. An
integrated planning framework employs a systematic approach that includes, (1) identifying
current species distributions, [2] modeling future distributions of each species under projected
climate scenarios, (3) identifying and prioritizing minimal essential habitat for recovery of all target
species, especially those that depend on other natives (4) using optimization techniques to
develop a system of management units or areas that can provide suitable habitat for multiple
species now and into the future, and (5) developing analytical methods managers can use to asses
extinction threats and make cost-effective use of limited conservation funds across critical
landscapes and over time, establishing metrics for success, and 6) community-based conservation
actions that engage and benefit under-served communities in affected areas.
Count^£leHc
From:
Sent:
Paul Gammie <pgmaui@hotmail.com>
Tuesday, May 24, 2022 11:04 AM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from pgmaui@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important
Hello:
I am a 55 years long resident of Maalaea. I STRONGLY encourage the County of Maui to support the $9.5
million Maalaea Wastewater project to be voted on during the 5/26/22 meeting. Maalaea Bay needs help
NOW! !
Thank you
Paul Gammie
pgmaui@hotmail.com
808-281-6902
73rs:3=-
roH m ● 1
o ■"-.  I
rnr-! --
ao
1
Count^ClerJc r-x ●
From:
Sent:
Maui Email <maui@gannassociates.com>
Monday, May 23, 2022 8:41 PM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
im HAr Af! 8: 10To:
Subject: '  ● ‘ i C’ L. 0 r 7
' ■OUNTY ClL;
. /
You don't often get email from maui@gannassociates.com. Learn why this is important
County Council,
I am an owner of a property at 70 Hauoli Street on Maui. I support the Council approving the $9.5 million of funding for a new
Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility in the FY23 budget.
Thank you,
Carl Gann
Maui EmailmauiOgannassociates.com
1
County Clerk ■rii*
From:
Sent:
Susan Halas <wailukusue@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 9:54 AM
County Clerk
Public testimony OPPOSED $54 million CIP for Hawaiian Cultural Complex.(Maui Council
meeting May 26, 2022)
?0?? M/Sy 25 ||: 05To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from wailukusue@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Testimony in OPPOSITION to the $54 million CIP appropriation for the Hawaiian Cultural Complex Included in the
FY23 Budget, to be heard at the Maui County Council meeting of Thurs., May 25, 2022, Agendia Item 22-44 (1&2).
Though I favor the use of some public funds to be used to establish a Hawaiian Cultural Complex I strongly oppose the
appropriation of $54 million in the current FY23 budget. I urge the members of the council to reconsider the
appropriation and devise a plan which is more inclusive of the neighborhood and the public and whose funding level
Is more in line with the real priorities of the community.
Please vote NO on this item and send it back for further and more detailed consideration that includes a much higher
level of public participation.
Though the county has in the past funded some part of various projects for specific ethnic and heritage groups, it has
never before allocated such an extravagant amount of money for the benefit of one particular group to be paid for
entirely by public funding, it has also never authorized this lever of spending without any financial documentation
whatsoever and without any meaningful participation from any group other than the proposed beneficiaries.
The administration and the proposed beneficiaries have made extensive and elaborate plans forthis building and its
future use, but so far it's all been on the down low. Very little of the information has been shared with the public in
general or the immediate neighborhood in particular, and no other alternative and more inclusive uses have been
invited or considered.
As a resident of Wailuku Town with a home one block from the proposed site, I see local needs that are far more urgent
and much higher priority for public funding than this complex. If the county is going to sell bonds to the tune of $54+
million I would hope that money would go to housing for local residents, as well as addressing other urgent public health
and safety concerns such as homelessness, mental health, drug addiction and neighborhood law enforcement.
I also fear that if such a structure is built it will be too small for its actual intended use and difficult to expand in future
years.
Since no financial documentation of any kind has been provided on how this exorbitant amount of money has been
arrived at, nor are any specifics about who would run it, who could use it, and how much it would cost to maintain it, I
feel it is obviously premature to allocate these funds, especially in one lump sum. Like the council members who voted
to fund it in stages, I doubt that even if passed these can be encumbered successfully within 18 months.
This project has merit, but to allocate huge amounts of money in a hasty manner without any specifics or public input
(other than the voices of those who will directly benefit) seems like something that is done for political and not cultural
purposes, and may very well backfire. What will happen in years to come when it becomes a money pit that can not
sustain itself and requires an ever higher level offinancial support. Where will that money come from?
I urge you to reconsider and vote NO on this CIP appropriation on first reading.
1
Susan Halas
Wailuku Town
Susan Halas
1939A E. Vineyard St.
Wailuku, HI 96793
(808) 280-9205 cell
wailukusue@gmail.com
2
Count^Clerk rA '
Sam Harbo <sjharbo@yahoo.com>
Monday, May 23, 2022 3:21 PM
County Clerk; Sam Harbo
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
im
From:
Sent:  HAY 23 PH ? 28To:
Subject:
..● i● iGE OF- 'i'
.:r/JNTY CLE
You don't often get email from sjharbo@yahoo.com. Learn whv this is important
Dear Council Members - Thank you for your continued support for the Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation
Project in the FT23 budget. We want to continue to protect Ma'alaea as a very special, beautiful and historic environment.
Thank you for all your work. Gayle Harbo, Island Sands, Unit 406, owner for 45 years
1
Countjr^Clerk
From:
Sent:
L Harbo <loraharbo@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 8:42 AM
County Clerk
Testimony in full support of $9.5 million for Ma’alaea Community Wastewater Treatment
plant funding
To;
Subject:
May 24, 2022
Dear Councilmembers,
Please support and approve the funding in the FY2023 budget to construct the Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater
Treatment Plant. The proposed plant is an environmental and economical solution to outdated, old-school injection
wells whose replacement will help reduce pollution into Ma'alaea Bay. The continued solid support of the Council in
securing funding is essential to bring this forward thinking wastewater treatment project to fruition.
Thank you in advance for your support!
Best regards,
Lora Harbo and David Liebersbach
Ma'alaea owners and community members
O
—<
● m Vj-;r *
o
CO I
C●'O
1
R
mi MAY 24 PM |: 57HUyULAJKAHIKlNA
-●'> I c Or" «'i L..
May 24, 2022 COUNTY CLE
Re: Testimony in Strong Support of FULL Funding for the Halau of‘Oiwi Art
(“HOA”)
Aloha mai, e Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, Pro Tempore Kama, and esteemed
Council Members,
We are the Membership of Huamakahikina, a coalition of Kumu Hula, open to all Kumu Hula
and representing the breadth of Hula Lineages, standing together for the purpose of organizing
and advocating on behalf of Kumu Hula and the ‘oihana of Hula itself. Huamakahikina formed
and ratified the “Huamakahikina Declaration on the Integrity, Stewardship, and Protection of
Hula” on August 21-22, 2021, at the Kupukalala Kumu Hula Convention, which brought
together 201 lineally acknowledged Kumu Hula from across the Pae‘aina o HawaiC, 10 states of
the United States of America, and the countries of Japan, New Zealand, French Polynesia,
France, and Spain.
The Maui County Council was the first in the state to adopt the Huamakahikina Declaration
through resolution CC 21-484, in November, 2021. The County Council of HawaiT followed suit
in April 2022, and SCR 121 was adopted by the State shortly after. On page 3 of the
Huamakahikina Declaration, the 201 ratifiers acknowledge the historic challenges to Hula,
amongst them is:
5. Access & Resourcing. There arc challenges to engaging in the study and practice of
Hula for a significant portion of the people of Hawai‘i, most importantly Kanaka Maoli,
due to a scarcity of resources and significant gaps and disparities in how Hula is
recognized, treated, provisioned, housed, funded, and othciwisc supported by local
County and State governments. The result is that Hula is too often financially and/or
geographically inaccessible.
As experts in traditional knowledge and leaders of our communities, Kumu Hula uphold and
Instill the importance of environmental stewardship; we educate ‘ohana from keiki to kupuna; we
tell and celebrate the stories of our home, and sing of its beauty; and, the Kumu Hula and Halau
Hula of Maui County bring both joy and pride to its people.
Unique lineally-passed histories, techniques, and knowledge not found in conventional school
systems, libraries, or other mainestream resources are only available through practitioners of
Hula and ‘Oiwi arts. As a constitutionally protected traditional and customary practice (Article
XII, Section 7), Hula is not only integral to Kanaka Maoli, but to the local culture, identity, and
economic sustainability of Maui County. And, although Hula and ‘Oiwi arts are tangible and
intangible cultural heritages of Kanaka Maoli, they are nondiscriminatory in that these traditions
and knowledge are available to gJi who would dedicate themselves to them.
As has always been the case, the practices of Hula and ‘Oiwi arts are extremely crucial for the
maintenance of the unique identity and collective culture of the people of Maui County - most
HUA.MAKAHIKINA
importantly to instill these practices and values within the future generations to come. The Halau
of ‘Oiwi Art will not only serve as a necessary bastion for the practices of Hula and ‘Oiwi arts,
but it will also serve to show just how committed the Maui County Council is to the protection
and continuation of the unique identity, cultural wellbeing, and economic sustainability of the
people of Maui County. An investment in the Halau of‘Oiwi Art truly is an investment in the
community that will bring lasting benefits into the future.
We, the people of Maui County, mindful of our Hawaiian history, heritage and
culture and our uniqueness as a four island county, dedicate our efforts to fulfill
the philosophy decreed by the Hawaii State motto, “Ua mau ke ea o ka aina i ka
pono.” - tfi Preamble “Charter of the County of Maui”
Through consensus and without reservation, and as is consistent with the “HO'ALA: Call TO
Action” of the Huamakahikina Declaration, the Membership of Huamakahikina humbly
requests that the Maui County Council funds the Halau of ‘Oiwi Art to the fullest extent
possible.
For your convenience, additional information on the beneficial natures of Hula and ‘Oiwi arts is
also attached.
We are grateful for your time and consideration.
Me ka ‘oia‘i‘o,
The Membership of Huamakahikina
Mmni)AMAK.\HIK!NA
BENEFICIAL NATURES OF HULA & ‘OIWI ARTS
ECONOMY
Hula events and pursuits are important and consistent contributors to Maui County’s economy.
At any given Hula presentation, a good number of spectators are family members and friends of
at least one of the performers. Wliether it is a performance for “First Friday,” for a Hula
competition, or any other type of Hula event, these are the people buying the bulk of the tickets,
purchasing from concession stands and vendors, eating in nearby restaurants, shopping at nearby
stores and markets, buying lei, ordering from florists, employing hair and makeup stylists, hiring
photographers, purchasing apparel from local designers, buying from Hula supply businesses,
buying from craft stores, purchasing from fabric stores, employing silk-screeners and printers,
hiring seamstresses and tailors, and even supporting local farmers (of things like foliage, flowers,
ipu, and foods). If people come from out-of-county, -state, or -country for such events, they are
also the ones buying airline tickets, renting cars and accommodations, refilling their gas tanks,
hiring on-island caterers, and spending money across Maui County at numerous other sites and
businesses. Additionally, Hula practitioners are professionally employed at shows and venues
across Maui County.
INFLUENCE ON THE UNIQUE CULTURE OF MAUI COUNTY
At any given public Hula or local culture event, many other ‘Oiwi arts are also present. At
performances of either Hawaiian or local music, lei, aloha attire, ‘ukulele, and even vocal and
instrumental techniques are firmly rooted in ‘Oiwi arts. Many Hawaiian music entertainers
reflect a distinctly Hawaiian set of presentation qualities and techniques that stem from lines of
monarchy/court presenters, from the heyday of Hula’s hapa-haole entertainment times, or from
both. If the master-of-ceremonies of these events is from a Hawaiian/local music radio station,
then they, too, are directly tied to the ‘Oiwi art of Mele. Hawaiian/local music musicians,
vocalists, and entertainers are also professionally employed at shows and venues across Maui
County. Additionally, when Hawaiian or local foods are served at local events, they are
extensions of ‘Oiwi and local culinary arts, as well as the traditional ‘Oiwi arts of cultivation,
harvesting, and gathering techniques used to procure and prepare ingredients that range from fish
and limu, to kalo, sweet potato, breadfruit, pohole, ‘opae, pork, even beef liver, and the list goes
on.
DEEP VALUE OF HULA & ‘OIWI ARTS
Knowledge of ‘Oiwi arts currently being revived on a wide scale was also stewarded under the
auspices of Hula during the years of their dormancy, such as the tradition-based practices of
Chant, prayer, oratory arts, language arts, Mele composition, singing styles and techniques,
vocal- and music-arranging, various forms of protocols, blessings, ‘awa ceremony, food
preparation, healing and medicinal practices, mediation, kok5 net making, kapa making, lau hala
weaving, fiber arts, feather-working, motifs used in graphic design and tattooing, carving,
lashing, manufacture of traditional attire and adornments, astronomy, meteorology,
oceanography, toponymy, geology, geography, hydrology, architecture, biology, botany,
navigation, farming, fishing, animal husbandly', fishpond revitalization and management,
Makahiki ceremonies and games, environmental stewardship, species conservation and
preservation, and truly countless others.
lll'AMAKAUIKINA
HIGHLY VALUED CULTURE & KNOWLEDGE
Distinct Hawaiian/local forms of social interaction, values, self discipline, and expectations are
actively practiced and conveyed intergenerationally by practitioners of Hula and ‘Oiwi arts.
Distinctly Hawaiian methodologies for the processing and interpretation of data found within
mele and mo^olelo are only accessible through lineally-descended practitioners. Hula and ‘Oiwi
art practitioners are consistently sought and consulted by various County and State agencies, as
well as by scientists, archaeologists, anthropologists, and other western culture-based studies
experts, for our unique tradition- and lineage-based knowledge and expertise. Practitioners of
Hula and ‘Oiwi arts also incorporate our lineage-based knowledge and values into our home-
lives, our work-lives, our social-lives, our religious-lives, and into our political-lives, as well.
IH.VV.'IAK/UIIKINA
p
PH 1?.-W1
UHTY Clc. ^
May 23,2022
The Honorable Alice Lee, Chair and Members
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku. HI 96793
RE: SUPPORTING S9.5M FOR MA’ALAEA WASTEWATER SRF FUNDING IN FY 2023
BUDGET
Aloha Chair Lee and Members,
Ma’alaea Village Association (MVA) requests that Council uphold the BFED decision to include $9.5
million in funding for a long-overdue and critically needed modern, regional wastewater facility for
Ma’alaea in the FY2023 budget.
By this time, you are well-versed as to the need: the Ma’alaea community has no regional wastewater
treatment facility. Ma’alaea condominiums, businesses, and the state harbor each operate their own treating
facilities and injection wells for effluent disposal. None of the existing facilities provides more than primary
treatment, resulting in high nutrient loads in injection well effluent and contributing to the impaired status
of Ma’alaea Bay.
As the County knows firsthand, effluent disposal through injection wells is drawing increased scrutiny and
the practice will someday soon be phased out. A regional treatment facility for Ma’alaea would replace all
the private wastewater treatment systems, improve wastewater treatment, eliminate the use of injection
wells for disposal, provide recycled water for community landscaping needs and/or agriculture, and thereby
reduce consumption of Maui’s precious fresh water supplies.
A small, dedicated volunteer committee has been in pursuit of an eco-friendly, state-of-the-art wastewater
gathering, treatment and disposal system to serve the needs of the entire Ma’alaea community. The
technology exists, with several providers ready to implement a project, and Mahi Pono committing to
donate land for siting. However, the funding is lacking. The Ma’alaea solution can be applied to other Maui
communities in the future.
As confiiTned by Congressman Kai Kahele and Representative Angus McKelvey, this project is eligible for
State Revolving Funds, and is supported by the State Department of Health Wastewater Division. The State
Legislature recently approved a $250,000 grant-in-aid to MVA to support preliminary engineering study
for the project.
Millions in federal dollars are currently available for infrastructure improvements statewide. Now is the
time for Maui County to address this critical infrastructure need.
Mahalo for your support!
Sincerely,
V
Lyndon Ibelc, MVA President
Ma’alaea Village Association
P. O. Box 2122, Wailuku, HI 96793
maalaeavillageassociation@gmail.com
Count^Geti< i  )
mi m ?3 PH 3-28From:
Sent:
Welcome Knodles <theknodles@aol.com>
Monday, May 23, 2022 1;24 PM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023 ,
To: I  ●
■JTY ClSubject: \ f\
You don't often get email from theknodles@aol.com. Learn why this is important
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Full Board,
Please support the Funding for the new Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility.
Save the reefs and help Ma'alaea grow healthily.
The tax revenue from the Harbor and Aquarium alone should fund that over a few years.
Mahalo,
-Mark & Laurie Knodle
190 Haouli St,
Ma'alaea
1
Count^CleHc
From:
Sent:
Adam Knox <adamjknox@gmail.com>
Monday, May 23, 2022 2:03 PM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
10?? HAY ?3 FI1 3^ 28To;
Subject:
, ; iC£ OF t He:
OUNTY CLEKi-I
You don't often get email from adamjknox@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
As a Maalaea resident and conservation professional within the State of Hawaii, I am asking the Maui County Council to
please uphold the $9.5 million of funding for a new Ma'alaea Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility in the FY23
budget. This will improve outcomes for the Maalaea Bay ecosystem and related economic activities.
Sincerely,
Adam Knox
Adam Knox
1
Count^^Ierk
From:
Sent:
Arnie Koss <arniGkoss@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 8:44 PM
County Clerk
Please Share with Council Members before SAM Meeting on Thursday, May 26
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from arniekoss@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Council Members,
I am a resident of Kula, but I care about all of Maui's ocean waters. I believe that most Maui residents feel the
same way.
I am writing to ask for your continued strong support of the $9.5 million for the Ma'alaea Wastewater
Reclamation System that the County Council has voted to add to the 2023 County budget. This money is to
protect a community treasure - Maui's beautiful Ma'alaea Bay, home to sea turtles, whales and other marine
life, as well as coral reefs.
Ma'alaea Bay is polluted. The corals are nearly dead. Your support of the Ma'alaea Wastewater Reclamation
System is exactly what is needed to help save the bay and help the corals survive.
If our Maui County government doesn't act now to stop the pollution, the reefs will suffer, with each and every
flush of a toilet in the homes, businesses and condos of Ma'alaea.
Your vote will make a difference. Please support passing the 2023 Maui County Budget that includes the $9.5
million for the Ma'alaea Wastewater Reclamation System. Do it for the community who loves this Bay. Do it for
the corals. And do it for your legacy as the community leaders who took action and saved Ma'alaea Bay.
Thank you.
Arnie Koss
n
ro; r,l o
o
Arnie Koss
arniekoss(g)email.com
rn
ox:808.280.1442 UJ
1
CountyClerk
Barb Kutterer <realtorbarb.kutterer@gmail.com>
Thursday, May 26, 2022 3;40 AM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
From:
Sent: mi M 26 AH 7: 43
To:
Subject: i  1 u: ^ I' \ i...
/JNTY CL
You don't often get email from realtorbarb.kutterer@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Please uphold the 9.5 million dollar waste water management funding proposal on the agenda. This will greatly protect
our ocean water & marine life.
Sincerely,
Barbara Kutterer
Owner of Kanai A Nalu #309
Barbara Kutterer, Broker
208 634-0060
High Mountain Realty
3306 Harrington Place
McCall, ID 83638
Mailing address: PO Box 328
McCall, ID 83638
1
r-)r U ■
Mei 25, 2022
20?? m 26 AH 7: ^3
Maui County Council
Kalana o Maui Building, 8th Floor
200 South High St.
Wailuku, Hawai‘i 96793
● » T
.  I L/1-1 L' I
'JNTY Cl
n. ■ I
I ●
{■\ r\
RE: Testimony on Res. No. 22-139; Res. No. 22-144; Bill No. 92 (2022); Bill No. 93 (2022)
Aloha mai kakou,
‘0 au no ‘o La‘akea Low. No ka moku ‘o Hamakuapoko mai au ma ka mokupuni ‘o Maui. Ke
noho nei au ma ka ahupua‘a ‘o Makawao i keia manawa.
● RESOLUTION NO. 22-139: "APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE MAUI
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI"
Writing in OPPOSITION to the Mayor's nominee for the Maui Planning Commission (MPC).
As stated by Member King in the Mei 24, 2022 meeting of the GREAT Committee, the
MPC is overrepresented by construction, real-estate, and development professionals. This is a
disturbing trend that has proven detrimental for Maui and must be addressed. A testifier at the
abovementioned GREAT Committee meeting suggested  anominee possessing expertise in
marine science, shoreline stewardship, and Kanaka Maoli lifeways be presented to the Council in
consideration for service on the MPC.
Member King also suggested term limits for folks serving on the MPC after it was
revealed that the Mayor's nominee has served two previous, full terms. Surely, past ideas and
decisions that contributed to the predicament we find ourselves in today - overdeveloped
shorelines, overtourism, compromised aquatic ecosystems, and displacement of local families -
must not be entrusted to former decision-makers in the community's current pursuit of sensible,
sustainable solutions.
. RESOLUTION NO. 22-144: "PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO SECTION 13-2 OF
THE REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983), AS AMENDED, TO
ESTABLISH THE MAUI COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION, ESTABLISH
PLANNING COMMISSIONS FOR ALL COMMUNITY PLAN AREAS ON MAUI,
AND DISSOLVE THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION"
Writing in SUPPORT of Resolution No. 22-144. Mahalo nui ia ‘oe e Lala King.
Many of the arguments stated in my testimony for Resolution No. 22-139 can be applied
to Resolution No. 22-144. The Maui Planning Commission (MPC) has a long track record of
poor decision-making in terms of protecting shorelines from development - one of, if not the
most important mandate in their purview. While much of these shortcomings may be attributed to
an overwhelming lack of environmental stewardship expertise in the compostion of the MFC's
Page 1 of2
membership, a painfully obvious lack of familiarity with many places - moku, kalana, ahupua‘a,
'ili - throughout Maui must also be taken into consideration. Therefore, each community plan
area must have its own Planning Commission in order to ensure place-based knowledge in
critical decision-making processes.
In respect to the language that, "The members of the Maui County planning commission
shall consist of: its chair, who shall be appointed by the council; and the chair, or the chair's
designee, of each other planning commission," I would like to suggest that a balance of subject-
matter expertise be codified. For instance, if the chair of each other planning commission
happens to have the same professional background, then the appointment of the chair's designee
must be enacted in order to achieve a balanced commission and that no more than one or two
members of the Maui County planning commission share the same or similar field of expertise.
● BILL NO. 92 (2022): "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.60,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO A RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR
BOARD, COMMISSION, AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS"
Writing in SUPPORT of Bill No. 92 (2022). Mahalo nui ia ‘oc e Lala Paltin.
I reviewed Chapter 2.60 - MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS of
the Maui County Code (MCC) and am surprised that this particular requirement has not yet been
codified in the MCC.
It may be worthwhile to further define "residency". For instance, I spent my entire life on
‘ohana property in Makawao before moving to ‘ohana property in Kula for a few years, and am
now back on the same ‘ohana property in Makawao.  Ibring this up because I had just moved
back to Makawao when applications were being accepted for the Maui Planning Commission
Advisory Committee for the Makawao-Ha‘iku-Pa‘ia planning area. If I'm not mistaken, because
I had just moved back after a few years away, I was not eligible to sen^e - even though I've spent
nearly 90% of my entire life living in the area. Meanwhile, someone who lived in the area for a
paltry period of at least twelve consecutive months immediately preceding the person’s
appointment is - somehow - deemed eligible to serve. Food for thought when defining
"residency".
● BILL NO. 93 (20221: "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS
3.48.450 AND 3.48.466, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO HOMEOWNER
EXEMPTIONS"
Writing in SUPPORT of Bill No. 93 (2022). Mahalo nui ia ‘oe e Hope Po‘o Rawlins-Femandez.
With soaring home prices in Hawai‘i, it is crucial that legislation aimed at securing space
for ‘ohana in Hawai‘i via property tax exemptions keep pace.
Me ka ‘oia‘i‘o,
La‘akea Low
Makawao. Maui
Page 2 of 2
Count^Cletjc II
From:
Sent:
Joy Nelson <joy7maui@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 4:26 PM
County Clerk
Ma'alaea
mi K/IY 25 PH 5: 04
To:
Subject: J" i »"i*-i V,
'LiNTY CLEKK
IYou don't often get email from joy7maui@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
We are property owners in Ma'alaea and support the Ma'alaea Wastewater Reclamation Project to clean up the waters
of the Bay.. Please keep the $9.5 million for this system in the 2023 budget.
Aloha, Joy & Don Nelson
1
Count^CleH<
f \ 1'
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Tuesday, May 17, 2022 7:39 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Mahalo
IW HAY I d AH Ih 29To:
Subject: r *.
i r I o l: or'
COUNTY CLER.-‘
u.
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Paula Phillips <paulalee@hawaii.rr.com>
Sent: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 2:00:35 PM
To: Mike J. Molina <Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>; Kelly King <Kelly.King(S)mauicounty.us>; Shane M. Sinenci
<Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us>; Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>; 'Mayors Office'
<Mayors.Office@co.maui.hi.us>; Yukilei Sugimura <Yukilei.Sugimura(5)mauicounty.us>; Gabe Johnson
<Gabe Johnson@mauicounty.us>; Keani N. Rawlins <Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>; Tasha A. Kama
<Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>; Alice L Lee <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Mahalo
Aloha Maui County Council Members and Mayor Victorino
I am happy with the changes made to the county property taxes that you had in your
press release.
May I recommend that you take it a step further and do what is being done in other
states and counties. You should implement a no rent clause for 2-5 years (people
purchasing new homes or building new homes wouldn’t be able to rent them and only
live in them) in all future real estate transactions. Doing this may be able to slow the
rapid increase in property values and therefore eventually make housing more
affordable for our local residents and their families. Hopefully this would discourage
any large corporate investments from over-inflating our property values more than they
already are. It would also keep new development for the local community.
Mahalo
Paula Phillips
Haiku
Virus-free, www.avast.com
1
Count^OeH<
From:
Sent:
harpreet Purewal <hkp416@gmail.com>
Friday, April 29, 2022 10:36 AM
County Clerk
In Support of FAM Program
AH il' 18W] APR 29To:
Subject: ● , I '.X L O r i i :
●- ■>UNTY CLERi
I You don't often get email from hkp416@gmaii.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha,
My name is Flarpreet Purewal and I am a current FAM program student. The FAM program has provided me the support
I needed to learn about regenerative farming and how to be a steward of the land. Sara our Program Director has
meticulously found an amazing and talented crew of mentors, farmers and passionate teachers who have and continue
to provide knowledge in regenerative farming, Hawaiian farming practices of using the ancient ahupuaa system, Korean
Natural Farming, Soil Health and more that I am so grateful to be able to learn. I come from a family of farmers and have
always envisioned having a farm. This program has made that dream a reality by providing the knowledge and tools I
need to be not only successful but to be able to apply the knowledge and create soil health and make an impact on the
community and on earth. It's absolutely necessary to have a program like this continue to create a strong community of
knowledgeable farmers who can step up to take care of our food needs on Maui. I hope that this program will continue
to be funded in the coming years.
Mahalo,
Harpreet Purewal
1
Count^Clerk ●?
R :uFrom:
Sent:
dsofiak@aol.com
Tuesday, May 24, 2022 6;11 AM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
2Qni'iM'24 m 8^ 10To:
Subject:
Orric
.  ijUNTY CLc«K
t  i 'i l_.
You don't often get email from dsofiak@aoi.com. Learn why this is important
Honorable Council Members,
I am writing to urge your support for the FY23 budgeted funding for the Ma'alaea wastewater reclamation facility, it is a
win-win for those of us who care deeply about the water and land on Maui and especially the land and water near
Ma'alaea. Please take advantage of this opportunity to modernize outdated facilities on the island.
Respectfully,
Dianne and Ron Rascia
300 Hauoli Street, AlO
Ma'alaea, HI 96793
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Renee Riley <reneeariley@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 9:16 PM
County Clerk
Support for Waste Water plant at Ma'a'aea Bay
7= 43mi HAY 26
To:
iCn. Or- i i'Subject:
ITY:  1 V r
I
You don't often get email from reneeariley@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Clerk & Maui County Council:
As a long-time Maui resident, an educator, a pre-pandemic Hui O Ka Wai Ola water quality volunteer, and an
avid KThei Canoe Club paddier, I strongly urge you to keep the $9.5 million appropriation in the 2023
budget for the proposed modular state-of-the are wastewater treatment system - a Membrane Bioreactor
System.
Such a system would replace the outdated, leaky injection wells used for all of the wastewater in Ma'alaea
with a system that will stop adding pollutants to the bay.
The Membrane Bioreactor System would benefit our entire community. Just like the residents of Kihei and
Lahaina do, the cost could be paid back over time through the County for sewage fees.
Please make this very needed improvement for Ma'alaea and for all of us who value the ocean. Mahalo
for all the work you do.
Aloha, Renee Riley, Kihei resident &. voter
1
Count^Cler^
From:
Sent:
Anne Rillero <annerillero@gmaiI.conn>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 9:11 PM
County Clerk
Please distribute to Maui County Council Members before 9 am
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from annerillero@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Council Members,
I am writing to ask for your continued support of Bill 69 -- the operating budget created by the Maui County
Council Economic Development and Budget Committee -- which includes $9.5 million in funding for the
Ma'alaea Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Years ago, when I worked in Ma'alaea, I would often take a mid-day walk along the shoreline. I would often
see local families with young children playing in the small sandy beach at the edge of the harbor. When
Freight Trains was running, there would be dozens of surfers in the water. Sometimes there would be people
fishing off the end of the pier. It's also commom to see canoe dubs doing practice sprints across the bay, and
stand up paddlers leisurely working their way across the waves.
Ma'alaea Bay is a valued and shared community resource, used by people of all ages from all parts of the
island. Sadly, this community resource is being threatened by pollution from the outdated injection wells that
line the shoreline of Ma'alaea.
After years of investigation and research, there is a truly workable solution available -the Ma'alaea Membrane
Bioreactor (MBR) Wastewater Reclamation Project. The funding for this project is now in the proposed Maui County
2023 budget, thanks to your support.
I'm writing to ask that you continue your support to keep this project alive, so that the pollution in Ma'alaea Bay can be
stopped.
If our local government doesn't take the steps to solve the pollution problem in Ma'alaea Bay, who else will?
if our local government doesn't take the steps to protect a shared and valued community resource, who else will?
Your vote can help save Ma'alaea Bay from a future of dead coral reefs and a place devoid offish, limu and wildlife.
Thank you in advance for supporting the funding for the Ma'alaea Wastewater Reclamation Project all the way through
to the finalization and adoption of the 2023 Maui County Budget.
Mahalo,
Anne Rillero
Kuia Resident
V  .1
c
— o rOr.i cs
Anne Rillero
808.707.1078
annerillero(5)gmail.com
OO s*-T.r~
ni
x:● ● \jJ
1
Count^£lerk
Amy Schliftman <amyschliftman@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 5:52 PM
County Clerk
Ma'alaea Bay sewage issues
From:
Sent: im HAY 25 6: IM
To:
Subject: i o E 0 i' i I
:-CUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from amyschliftman(S)gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Hello,
I am resident of Kihei who paddles with the Maui Canoe Club in Ma'alaea Bay. I am saddened to see the reefs look so
unhealthy and the water testing so pooriy. Please financially support the safe disposal of the effluents into the Bay.
All Maui residents should support the health and life of our waters.
Thank you,
Amy Schliftman
1
Count^CletJ<
wanda shirreff <wshirreff@yahoo.com>
Thursday, May 26, 2022 6:18 AM
County Clerk
Maalea waste system
From:
Sent: im m 26 AH 7- 43
To:
Subject: I 'w' Ll
1 Y CLEi\.<
You don't often get email from wshirreff@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
The waste discharge from Maalea is polluting the water in the harbor and surrounding bay. Locals and visitors are
subjected to this pollution. The state has already been fined by the federal government for using injection wells. Please
support the new proposed water system.
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
1
Count^£leH< RI7:-;
From:
Sent:
kevin smith <jerkygiant@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 5:53 PM
County Clerk
Please include Ma'alaea Wastewater funding in FY2023
im HAY 25 ?n
To:
●  Or THcSubject:
COUNTY CLEHK
[You don't often get email from jerkygiant@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Please approve the wastewater funding
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^£leHc
From:
Sent:
John Starmer <john@johnstarmer.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 10:08 PM
County Clerk
Written testimony in support of the Ma'alaea wastewater reclamation project
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from John@johnstarmer.com. Learn why this is important
I am writing to ask the County Council to keep the $9.5 million for the proposed Ma'alaea Membrane
Bioreactor System in the 2023 budget. This system will benefit our entire community. Objections to the up
front cost of the system should not factor into the decision making in this matter as the cost will be paid back
over time, as the users of the system would pay the County for sewage fees.
Replacing the outdated, leaky Injection wells used for all of the wastewater in Ma'alaea with a system that will
stop adding pollutants to the bay makes sense for both the ecology of the affected coral reefs and will benefit
the many Maui residents who enjoy paddling, swimming, diving, surfing, fishing or just spending time with
friends and family there.
An added benefit of this treatment system will be the production of treated R-1 water for 100% reuse in the
coastal area of Ma'alaea for such purposes as establishing greenbelts and agriculture. Using recycled water for
these purposes reduces the amount of potable water that would otherwise be consumed and improves our
islands water security.
Thanks for your consideration.
John Starmer,
Kihei, Maui
U
c
V  . ror:; os.
O 'is:
j
aw
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Laura Stokes <stokeslau@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 5:20 PM
County Clerk
Support for the Ma'alaea wastewater reclamation project
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from stokeslau@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear County Clerk,
I am a full-time resident of South Kihei. I paddle year-round with the Maui Canoe Club and the Pink Paddlers, and I'm a
member of the Pacific Whale Foundation. Ma'alaea Bay hosts a harbor that serves all of South Maui, is  afavorite of
paddlers and surfers, and most importantly, it's the home of sea life.
I have been shocked and saddened to learn the water is now polluted by outdated injection wells. 1 respectfully request
that the County Council allocate county funds to install a state-of-the-art wastewater treatment plant in Ma'alaea.
There may be controversy about which parties should be held accountable for the failed system. However, controversies
consume time that the health of this precious ecosystem does not have. Maui County can solve the problem
immediately, and get paid back over time by users.
One of government's most vital roles is to invest in improvements that benefit everyone. This waste water system is not
just about the residents of Ma'alaea; it is about all of Maui.
Thanks for your attention.
Laura Stokes
stokeslau(5)gmail.com
415-860-4072
C LT\
O- o
-T\
obCv
—»
r-r'' 0
● ■ o
1
J-n MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
Bill 69
First Reading of the FY23 Budget
Thursday, May 26, 2022
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We would like to share our thoughts on the first reading of the fiscal year 2023 budget.
First, we appreciate all of the time and work spent on the budget each year and the
thoughtful Inclusion of important organizations and programs, like the Made in Maui
County Festival. We have included our thoughts and comments on each specific topic
below:
Raising Taxes/Carryover Savings
Given the significant carryover savings, which increased from 10% of the total budget
in FY22 to 12% of the overall budget in FY23 and the addition of Maui County TAT
revenue, we question the rationale for raising/obtaining additional revenue from real
property tax rates. As we shared during the real property tax public hearings, we were
concerned that changing the rate for short-term rentals to $11.85 across the tiers
would unfairly hit those at the lowest valuation level and that leaving the hotel & resort
rate flat would still result in a large increase for those properties due to the extreme
increase in their valuations. Given this, we do not think taxes should be raised for short
-term rentals and level for hotel & resort at this time.
Economic Development & Diversification
We think it is really important to have a strong economic development and
diversification plan for the future of our county and to provide diverse jobs, higher
wages, and opportunities for future generations that align with the quadruple bottom
line of sustainability.
Tourism Management Grant Fund
Given the extraordinary need and call from the community to better manage our
tourism industry, new County TAT revenue, and the significant funding for our
agriculture industry, the allocation of $500,000 for the tourism management
grant funds feels low. The community wants a focus on this area, and we feel
more can be done to achieve the goals of the Destination Maui Action Plan and
other unique programs to address the hopes of our community if more money is
added to this fund.
808-2444081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
FY23 Budget
Thursday, May 26, 2022
Page 2.
Halau of ‘OIwi Art
We agree that this is a great economic development and cultural preservation
idea and should be a part of the overall economic development and
diversification plan. Given the significant investment, it is important to share with
the public the anticipated return on investment.
Establishing Safe Zones for Houseless
We support the $200,000 allocated for establishing a safe zone for the houseless.
Given the success at some of the other sites, we feel this is a good opportunity for
temporary housing. However, with the many quality organizations addressing
homelessness, we question the proviso that mandates a grantee consults with one
specific organization and wonder the rationale for selecting Share Your Mana as that
organization. We agree that experience is important, but we would expect the grantees
to come with a certain level of expertise, so we are trying to understand why this
organization was singled out and the requirement included in the budget.
Feral Animal Relief & Control Funding
We would like to share our strong support for feral animal control and the feral animal
relief and recovery grant as feral animals are devastating our county and our Axis Deer
numbers are now at a crisis state. In the future, we also see opportunities for utilization
of this resource as an economic driver and part of Maui’s sustainability efforts.
Park Maui
We appreciate and support the allocation to the Park Maui program. We have
previously testified that we support parking infrastructure for county beach parks as a
way to generate revenue and help mitigate visitor industry impacts. Based on the
information on this program, it looks like this allocation is for actions to implement the
plan and start putting revenue generation programs in place.
Mahalo for the opportunity to share our thoughts on the FY23 budget.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
62 North Mailcet Street, Suite 302, Waituku, Hawaii 96793 I 808'244^81 l^islation^i/lauiChambencom MauiChamber.com
MAUIi > CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Resolution 22-144
Charter Amendment—Planning Commissions
Thursday, May 26, 2022
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair RawNns-Fernandez, and
Members of the Maui County Council,
The Maui Chamber of Commerce would like to offer our strong opposition to
Resolution 22-144 which proposes to amend the Maui County Charter to establish
planning commissions for all community plan areas on Maui, and dissolve the Maui
Planning Commission.
The Chamber urges the Council to file this resolution since this issue was carefully
discussed and thoroughly vetted in the current Maui County Charter Commission. The
Charter Commission amended their original proposal to just require more geographic
representation in the Maui Planning Commission, and the Commission then accepted
the Council’s amended language on this. We feel this current amendment is a much
better idea versus creating additional commissions.
We are already dealing with a big election year with more candidates due to
redistricting as well as many Charter Amendment questions that already had
significant community input through the Charter Commission. We do not think there is
enough time for in-depth public discussion and voter education on this topic, given the
current timeline. We believe we should see what the voters decide on the current
Charter Commission proposal on the planning commissions before adding another
amendment.
We also understood from the reports submitted to the Charter Commission that
creating these additional planning commissions would require significant cost and
greatly increase the number of volunteers needed to serve. This is a time when we
need to focus on priority projects and we do not understand the issue with the current
Maui Planning Commission format and rationale for this proposal.
For these reasons we respectfully request that Resolution 22-144 be filed. Mahalo for
the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
-—/£i/?’Cj To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
62 North Market Street. Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244^)081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
w Maui PropertyREAL ESTATE DONE RIGHT
May 26.2022
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku. HI 9679.^
By; couniy,clerk:(/;mau!county,ns
RE: SUPPORTING FOR MA’ALAEA WASTEWATER SRF FUNDING
Dear CouncD Members.
As a long time honicovnier. family maa business maa ajtd especially a watennan liere on Maui, 1 strongly urge > ou fund the much
needed regional waste water treatment plant in the Maalaea area.
We must do evcrytliing we cati to protect our beautiful ocean tliat pro\ ides so much for us, fun for our family, fishing opportunities for
food, a major tourist attraction witli wlwle season and snorkeling and tliat revenue to island. If iltc reefs arc dead we all suffer.
Wc cannot keep dumping our waste, through injection wells, into the ocean. We cannot liavc reasonable and sustainable growth
w itlwul a healtlty infrastnictun;. and lliat definitely iiKltides a inodcni waste water iieaiment plant.
Please fund this and make it luippcn,
Mahalo.
Robert Vafaie
Broker Owner
Maui Property LLC
robe n'ffjnampropcnv.coni
808-269-3500
Count^^le^
shannon vanderheuvel <leialoha17@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 8;06 PM
County Clerk
Testimony in councils may 26 meeting.
From:
Sent: mi m 76 7- 43
To:
Subject: .  riCE Or Ti;E
i < K
(You don't often get email from leialohal7@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.m5/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
From Todd & Shannon VanderHeuvel
100 Hauoli st unit 402 at Lauloa condominiums in Ma'alaea Wailuku, HI. 96793. 616-204-8513
Aloha Maui County Council members;
We support the funding included in the FY23 proposed budget that is under consideration on May 26. We live at Lauloa
condominiums and know how important and necessary the purchase of the Makua is and how a regional wastewater
plant in Ma'alaea is really needed; (i know others at Lauloa may be hoping the injection well problem will go away
however, realistically the problem will not go away), as the environment is extremely important. Mahalo for your
consideration. Aloha
Sent from my iPad
1
f
:; DCount^CleH< r
John Yannell <jyannell@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 3:23 PM
County Clerk
Support of funding for Maalaea wastewater treatment plantt
imFrom:
Sent:
 m 23 PH 02
To:
I  I O Ll L/ r i i i .7.
iC'UNTY CLERKSubject:
IYou don't often get email fromjyannell@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County Council Members,
I am writing in support of the funding for the Maalaea wastewater treatment project.
As a longtime Maui resident (47 years) born on Oahu in 1950.1 have witnessed the
slowly deteriorating ocean environment.
The diversity of ocean life, coral, seaweed, and fish have been reduced by over 90%
in Maalaea over the past 50 years, it's time to act before it's too late!
Please keep the funding so that we, as a community can move forward to clean up
Maalaea for ourselves, our children and future generations.
Mahalo,
John Yannell
Kula, Maui
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPad
1
,. t: . ,■!●●■■/●■■■ ■
11 ●
● >»>'● “Ui**I 1.
. S
\X\",
Wastewater Management Solutions for Ma'alaea Bay:
Membrane Bioreactor and 100% Wastewater Reuse
●' ' -laS/'●V'
PROS: Reasons to adopt an innovative
wastewater management system
CONS: Reasons to continue
business as usual(( 5J
MBR is an advanced and proven technology found
throughout the United States today.
Will help save the reef {down to 8% coral cover) and
restore habitat for endemic marine life, including rare
species within Ma'alaea Bay.
Recycles R1 water for landscaping, agriculture, and a
green belt for wind and firebreaks. Can save 6.5 million
gallons of fresh water per year.
Recycles sludge into biochar to be used as a soil
amendment and stormwater filtration, further
reducing pollution from sedimentation.
Eliminates injection wells for effluent disposal.
Federal infrastructure money is on the table.
The Department of Health wants this.
It's important to the ERA to restore this "303D
impaired body of water."
These smaller systems are containerized and could be
relocated if needed. Will provide proof of concept for
Maui Meadows and Upcountry.
Ma'alaea Bay and Ma'alaea/Kihei beaches are top
tourist sites & economic drivers for Maui.
The MBR system can be operational years earlier than
the proposed COM central wastewater plant. The cost
to build per flushing toilet is a fraction of the proposed
costs of the Waikapu Plant.
The required Mahi Pono land is donated.
Wastewater decentralization is feasible and can save
energy costs to transport wastewater and reuse water
from/to the source.
It's not fair to the other ratepayers
o  All sewer infrastructure is paid for by the
combined use of ratepayer fees.
It will cost too much
o  The complete system cost is less than the
estimated cost to build just the conveyance
system to the proposed central wastewater
plant.
We don't know how to run an MBR system
o  Whoever wins the contract can run it and
County can charge sewer fees.
●  This will primarily serve visitors, not residents,
o  County-operated wastewater plants in
Lahaina and Kihei also serve a high
percentage of visitors,
o  Protecting Ma"alaea Bay's water quality
benefits all Maui residents, including canoe
paddlers, surfers and fishers.
●  We want to continue the traditional process of
activated sludge treatment
o  MBR will result in higher effluent quality,
disinfection, reduced footprint, reduced
sludge, more flexibility in loading, better
de-nitrification and R-1 water.
●  Traditional wastewater management is fine
o  Traditional methods create effluent that
pollutes the reef & sludge that must get
trucked to the already full landfill,
o  While MBRs are outside of Maui County's
current comfort zone, decentralized MBRs
are an important future wastewater tool.
Ik
P: ■ Photo: Michael Webster
Vision: s
%
^ffordable and sensible wastewater management in Ma'alaea supporting a
vibrant natural ecosystem, safe swimming, and productive fishing.
i
TS "'K-
fr^f  ■
.4k*.