MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-04-22
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1244,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
April 22, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY. APRIL 22. 2022, BEGINNING
AT 9:03 AM.. WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
April 22, 2022, please come to order.
Good morning. Members. Everybody ready for the weekend. I'm sure. So, this
morning's greeting, in deference to our Member from Lanai, Member Johnson, who is
giving the remarks today, the morning greeting is konnichiwa. And if you want to add
Ogenki desu ka, you can add that too.
Roll call. Madam Clerk.
ROLL CALL
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Konnichiwa. Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Konnichiwa, ogenki desu ka, ohayo gozaimashita. Aloha
kakahiaka my Maul hikina. Happy to be here this aloha Friday. Nice to see everyone.
We're here at the Hana Cultural Center with my district staff Iwalani Medeiros. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and konnichiwa, ogenki desu ka. Madam Chair,
colleagues, and everyone else tuning in for our County Council meeting today. Aloha
Friday to all. For the record, I'm transmitting from my residence here In Makawao and
my wife is in the other room. And to my knowledge, there are no testifiers at the Paia
District Office. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 2
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka and konnichiwa. Ohayo gozaimasu. Hal, genki
desu. Anata wa? When you ask ogenki desu ka, you're asking are you okay? And
you say, hai, genki desu, and how about you? I'm transmitting from-
CHAIRLEE: Mui bien.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. So, I'm transmitting from my residence in South Kihei,
of 40 years. And 1 do have my husband in the other room. He's in his meetings. I'm
in my meetings. I just heard from our district office there are no testifiers at the South
Maui District Office. So, looking forward to a Council meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Minasan, ohayo gozaimasu. (Spoke in Japanese.)
So, I'm alone. I'm in my office space with Kate Griffiths. And there's no testifiers in the
Lanai District Office and I'm ready for a Council meeting. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. You say that, you speak the language so well. I like to hear you
speak Japanese.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember--
CHAIRLEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha kakahiaka and ohayo gozaimasu. Konnichiwa. Ogenki
desu ka. I'm testifying, or not testifying, I'm broadcasting live and direct from the
Lahaina District Office. And with me is the district office aide Christian Balagso. And
we do not have any testifiers at this time, but we're open as a courtesy site if anyone
wants to come on down. Imua Na Pueo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 3
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much.
Madam Clerk,
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And I am here in the CouncilOhayo gozaimasu.
Chambers with Councilmember Tasha Kama. I hear an echo. Do you hear an echo?
Does it sound clear? Oh okay. But anyway, I'm looking forward to having a productive
meeting here in the Council Chambers. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you and good morning.
Go ahead, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair. And ohayo gozaimasu to my fellow
colleagues. I am in the Council Chambers, looking forward to a great and wonderful
meeting with each and every one of you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Kama. Could you move your microphone a little closer to
you? A little bit closer. Yeah, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Does this sound better. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: No, a little closer. Try again.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: How about now?
CHAIR LEE: Perfect. Perfect.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we can barely hear you too. Maybe you could put the microphone a little
further down. Yeah, try, try that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 4
COUNTY CLERK: It keeps popping up. Council-
CHAIR LEE: There you go.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: And Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: I am here. And again, konnichiwa, everyone, and looking forward to a wonderful
meeting. I am here in my workspace at home alone. And that's it for now.
And I believe that the Vice-Chair will be joining us after the ceremonial resolutions.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SlNENCl, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, KELLY T. KING, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKi LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
EXCUSED: VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez was not present during roll call; however, she arrived
at the meeting at 9:34 a.m.)
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight Members present, no Members absent, and one
Member excused. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am County Clerk Kathy Kaohu. And also present from the Office of
the County Clerk are Deputy County Clerk James Krueger; and Legislative Division
staff Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Members, this morning, the opening remarks will be provided by Councilmember
Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 5
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Beautiful. Very well done.
Now Members, I ask that you join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request that everyone keep your
microphones muted unless it is your time to speak. Decorum shall be maintained at
all times.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on
resolutions. Our first person to testify is Donna Hansen. Oh, I'm sorry,
sorry, we have no, nobody signed up for the ceremonial resolutions.
ceremonial
for the, I'm
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any objections. Members, to closing public testimony on
resolutions? Any objections?
ceremonial
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with ceremonial resolutions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 6
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-92
CONGRATULATING THE MAUI PREPARATORY
ACADEMY BOYS BASKETBALL TEAM FOR
WINNING THEIR FIRST DIVISION II STATE
CHAMPIONSHIP ON FEBRUARY 26. 2022
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Tamara Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-92.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Moved by Member Paitin, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adoptCHAIR LEE:
Resolution 22-92.
Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to read the resolution in its entirety.
CHAIR LEE: Of course. Please proceed.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Any discussion. Members?
Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. And this was such an impressive feat for Na Pueo,
especially given that the boys basketball team just started varsity competition three
short years ago. What better way to close out an undefeated season of 17 and 0 than
with a historic win at the State level.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 7
This marks the first ever State team championship for Maui Preparatory Academy, the
first of many, and just the second boys State basketball championship for Maui in four
decades, when Lahainaluna won the title in 1982.
Members, I'm sure you'll join me in offering a hearty congratulations to the entire
Na Pueo community. And I thank you for your support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, Member Paltin.
Anyone else?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
And ho'omaika'i to . . . Na Pueo.COUNCiLMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair.
Congratulations for your success at the State finals and representing Maui. And, and
for being stewards and for teamwork. I think the truth is that teamwork is at the heart
of every great achievement, and you've certainly done that for yourselves, your school,
and for Maui County. Congratulations.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair. And congratulations, everyone. Man,
talk about total dominance and teamwork. And you, you're going to have that title the
rest of your life, State champions. And the lessons you've learned from this experience
will help you later on in life as well. Congratulations to not only the players, but to the
coaches and also to the parents.
And it's always great to see when our Maui teams go up to Oahu. It's like a, you know,
you're on the road and it's tougher for our teams. And better yet, in the finals, you're
taking on Kaimuki, which is like is a home game for them. And you guys just ran away
with it. So, awesome job you guys. Keep it up and congratulations. And it looks like
this may be the start of a dynasty maybe, yeah? Aloha guys. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Great remarks. Anybody else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Congratulations all of you. I saw, before we logged in, I
saw you gathering at your school. And I could just feel your energy and excitement. I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 8
know in order for you to get to this point it takes a lot of people. And so, I congratulate
your parents, all of the many, many families and your friends who came to cheer you
on. And I agree with Member Molina, for you to go to Oahu and, and beat and become
the champion, it takes a lot. And we're proud of you. And thank you for wearing Maui
strong. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? Alright, Members, I just want to say to the team, coaches, the
teachers, the families, thank you for all your hard work. Because we know, in order to
be a champion, it takes a lot of sacrifice and work. So, congratulations from all of us.
Members, all those in favor of the motion to adopt the resolution, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
Motion passes. Congratulations everybody.
Member Paltin, do we have any speakers on now? You want to introduce?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm not sure if the team captain wanted to say a few words, no
pressure. But if you would like to, if anyone from the team or the coaches would like
to say a few words, we'd love to hear from you.
COACH ZACH BAILEY: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COACH BAILEY: First of all, I want to say thank you guys for having us. It's a honor. You
forgot one, one person that was instrumental in our, on our team. It was the manager,
Rebekah Ankney. Come show your face. Come here. She was instrumental in
helping us as well. So, I just wanted to give her that shoutout because she deserves
it as well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 9
You know, it takes a team effort. No one does it alone. We have a great group of
guys, support staff, athletic trainer, great school system here that supports us. And,
you know, I just want to say it's an honor and a privilege to be able to coach these guys
and to be around these individuals every single day. And it's an honor for you guys to
have us and celebrate us in the State championship. So, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo to you. Thank you so much. Is this the team captain, next?
MR. DREW TRIPLETT: Yes, Ma'am. My name is Drew Triplett. And 1 just want to say, first
of all, thank you guys for having us. We really appreciate it. And like coach was saying,
it took a lot of people to kind of come together, create cohesion throughout the season,
even before the season the last couple of years. Like you guys were saying, we've
only had a program for three years. But the school, the community, our families, like
you guys mentioned, really rallied behind us and allowed us to pretty much put all of
our effort and pursue this title as a team. And we just really appreciate, also, you guys
for having taking time out of your guys' day, and really embracing us and embracing
our, 1 guess accomplishment and everything that you guys have supported us with as
well. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. You make us very proud. Would anybody else like to say anything
before we close? If not, thank you very much, guys, and families, and teachers, and
everybody. Aloha. Have a great day. Have a great year. Thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
If there, actually, actually, if there are no objections, is it alright with all of you to take
up Member Kama's, Member, Pro Temp Kama's resolution at about 11:45, due to
scheduling issues? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered. So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: So, now we have to set the Consent Calendar. Members, at this time, we will
set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder the calendar can be still adjusted after it is
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 10
set. Are there any requested changes to the Consent Calendar at this time? Alright.
Are there any objections to setting the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; No, objections. So, ordered.
Madam Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Members of the public may testify in the Council Chambers.
CHAIR LEE: We can barely hear you.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, sorry. Members of the public may testify in the Council Chambers,
at courtesy testimony sites, or remotely through the information listed on the meeting
agenda.
Individuals in the Chamber may sign up to testify with the staff member located at the
desk in the 8th floor lobby. Individuals at the courtesy testimony sites may sign up with
the staff member at the site. Individuals participating remotely may also sign up in the
meeting chat. If you are connected to the meeting by phone, you'll automatically be
added to the testifier list.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for
up to three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name
of any organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying.
Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media,
Channel 53, or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected
from the public hearing, from the meeting at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person to testify is Donna Hansen. To be followed by Bob Hansen.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 11
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. DONNA HANSEN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-41):
Good morning. Hello. This is, what, what am I doing?
MR. BOB HANSEN: Geez, hold on. Hold on one second.
MS. HANSEN: Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: What happened there?
MR. HANSEN: Okay, go.
MS. HANSEN: Apologies. I'm sorry.
CHAIR LEE: No problem.
MS. HANSEN: I'm Donna Hansen. I represent myself, and this is about Resolution 22-70.
My statement is Maui's citizens, like other islands and States, have endured over two
years of turbulent experience. During this time, you have passed several laws that
have caused even more problems. These taxes and laws are driving the local citizens
out, favoring the hotel industry and more affluent visitors. We are trying, we are finally
experiencing the fine, the beginning of a recuperation for restaurants, retail and
businesses, even though some of your tax bills and other laws have caused much
harm.
However, through these decisions, the County has gained a financial surplus by pulling
even more tax dollars from the public, which my understanding was assisting, was for
assisting the population who requires many needs such as housing, etc.
Congratulations on creating a surplus for the County. But because of this surplus, each
and every one of you has gained economic growth through large raises from the
Council, for the Council and other parts of the County, while the little people have
actually diminished in their spending ability due not only to inflation, but to taxes,
legislation.
Now, you have, sorry. I'm nervous. Now you have the new hurt the people bill, I believe,
by trying to control tourism accommodation growth, which assists the hotels and not
the mom-and-pop vacation renters. And rumor that it is because you guys favor the
hotels. And many of those are owned by foreign people, and not, and companies,
rather than by private people. I feel that that's really, really wrong.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 12
I'm going to beg you to not crush Maui's economy further. And I would love it if you
would work toward bringing aloha spirit back to this island, because it is diminishing
constantly. You may not be aware of it, and I know you all are well-intentioned. But
you are blindsided by so many things that you have caused the little people on this
island. Please consider this very, very carefully, and not hurt us anymore. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
May we have the next speaker?
MR. HANSEN: No, no, no. I'm next.
MS. HANSEN: Oh, Bob's next.
MR. HANSEN: Yeah. I'm next.
MS. HANSEN: Excuse me. Sorry.
MR. HANSEN: Change chairs here.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I don't know if you can see Member Paltin . . .
CHAIR LEE: Before, Member Paltin. did you have a question?
Members, I'm going to ask you to please not debate with the testifiers, whether we
agree with them or not. Just clarification questions, please.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. My clarification question was. have you read
this legislation? Cause it didn't sound like it to me.
MS. HANSEN: Yes, I understand what the purpose of it is. And that’s to~
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, no. I just was asking if you read it or not? That's all the
questions.
MS. HANSEN: I haven't read the full thing. I've read a lot of it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 13
MS. HANSEN: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Any, any more questions, Members? If not, thank you.
MS. HANSEN: You’re welcome.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next--
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier is Bob.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Bob Hansen. To be followed by Nick Drance.
MR. BOB HANSEN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-41):
Okay. Aloha, Council. Aloha, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. HANSEN: I've testified many times, as you know. I'm testifying on the Resolution 22-70.
And again, 1 have not read the whole thing, but I've received a lot of feedback on it. It
just seems like, you know, the citizens of Maui, the mom-and-pop organizations that
have vacation rentals and so forth. I appreciate that we don't want to have a lot more
vacation rentals. I get it. We're, we're kind of full right now. I just would encourage
you to not, you know, reduce the number. I mean, we worked for years to get the
transient accommodations bill through. And finally, it did, because I'm a realtor and 1
was on the committee to do that. And 1 think it's  agreat bill. And anything to diminish
that, 1 think would be to the detriment of basically the mom-and-pop organizations, like
myself, and my son, who have vacation rentals. And I just implore you to take that into
consideration. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 1 just wanted to clarify, you said you didn't read the bill. The
bill doesn't take away vacation rentals. It maintains status quo. So, I just wanted to try
and clarify what it was that you were against.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 14
MR. HANSEN; Well, this, what I was against was the status quo is, is good. But what it was.
what I understand was that if somebody that sold their property, that it didn't, you know,
transfer over, which is okay. But then that, then the number would be reduced instead
of staying the same and somebody else could come in and apply, is that correct?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think that might be a different bill.
MR. HANSEN: Oh, okay. Well, I testify a lot on a lot of different things, and I apologize for
not, you know, really reading the bill thoroughly. And I will. But basically, you know, I
think you know what I'm saying as far as the mom and pops and, you know, the, the
little people as, as opposed to the hotels. Just keep that in mind when you make your
legislation there. Appreciate it. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you Mr. Hansen and
Ms. Hansen.
MR. HANSEN: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Nick Drance. To be followed by Mike Moran.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Drance.
MR. NICK DRANCE (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-41):
Aloha, Council team. Nice to see you again. Nick Drance here testifying from the East
Coast, it is 3:32 pm here. It's like time warp. So, it's 3:30 in the afternoon on Friday.
I ask the Council to support 22-70, because in so doing they cooperate with the
administrative functioning of County government. And a vote against that resolution
prevents the normal functioning of County government. Let the Planning Commission
and their advisory committees make the determinations and let the system and the
process move forward.
As far as the subject itself goes, you all know how I feel, Councilmember Johnson's
comments this, this morning about stewardship taking a big picture view of things is
related to this subject. And I think as far as preservation of the island goes, which is
what he was talking about, generally, when it comes time for us to live our last moments
on earth, what are we going to look back on? And  Ithink preservation and stewardship
are going to be the thing, the only things really that matter. And anything related to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 15
money and transitory things won't have any meaning to us in those final moments. So,
I hope that you will all support this resolution, and allow the County system to function
as it exists. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions, Members, for clarification? If not, thank you very much
Mr. Drance.
Madam Clerk.
MR. DRANCE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Mike Moran. To be followed by Lucienne
de Naie.
MR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION ftestifvina on Bill Nos. 77 (2022)
and 78 (2022)1:
Happy Earth Day, Chair and Councilmembers. Mike Moran for the Kihei Community
Association. An appropriate day to be supporting Bill 77 and 78 for the pio, piokeo [sic]
watershed. And KCA had, did our best to dissuade development of that land for well
over a decade in trying to keep it open. So, this looks like the ultimate outcome that
we would want. And in that same area. I'll try not to dis, to sway too much from the
agenda, but after your closeout at yesterday's meeting, I was down by the shoreline,
and I thought sure I heard the few remaining corals cheering. I'm not sure. But maybe
it was that hallucination, but I think I did. And maybe they'll be cheering louder today
as this proceeds.
I would like to inject, cause sometimes we are asked why we're testifying on something
in, in Maalaea, as most of us refer to that general area, when we are the Kihei
Community Association. And historically, KCA was officially incorporated in 1960,
which may be before us, some guys here were born. But even before 1960, there was
a grassroots group, at least in the 50's that was an unofficial KCA. And when they
were getting things established, they were looking at all of South Maui, which of course
was much different then. There was no Maalaea Boat Harbor. There was no Kihei
Boat Harbor. All . . . right there in North Kihei, across from where these guys were,
were getting, were established, and there was a store there, and people said, oh yeah,
the Suda Store. No, this was the store before the Suda Store.
And they just, they chose the name Kihei because most people weren't looking so
much at other areas. So, that's in our bible, is that we speak for, our best for all of
South Maui. And now that other organizations have popped up over the last 60 years.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 16
we concentrate more. But that's ... as our responsibility to speak up for South Maui,
and we, that this will be, will, will proceed, these two bills. And we can do wonders
again. It's really appropriate for Earth Day, if we can start doing something to help
Maaiaea Bay in its dire straits right now. So, as one of the little people, we think you
guys are doing a great job and thank you for all the good work you do. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha, Mike. Questions, Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Sorry, I, I don’t really have a question. I just wanted to say
Happy Earth Day to Mike Moran and, and let you know that you and the KCA, and all
the other citizens of, of Maui have been partners with us in these efforts. So, you know,
we appreciate you as much as you appreciate us.
MR. MORAN: Mahalo for the kind words.
CHAIR LEE: True, truer words never spoken.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Moran for being here. I kind
of like when you show up, because, you know, you come with your white hair, and you
bring with us wisdom. So, thank you. Bu my question is, you know, I heard two
testifiers today talk about us little people. So, when you say us little people, what are
you meaning by that?
MR. MORAN: Well, I took their meaning too, that, that their impression was that you guys
were the big people. That you were getting all this money paid from everybody with
taxing all us working people to death. And gee, I don't see that at all. And, you know,
as a volunteer, when people say to me, oh well, you have influence. Well, no, we,
we're not elected officials. We just try and participate in that process. So, I think of
that as the so-called little people as opposed to the corporate entities. But I don't see
any corporate entities on the screen here. I don't know, I think they were kind of misled,
especially if they didn't even read the bill. I,  Imean it that we're all, all of us that I see
on this screen are incorporated in that little people term.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Mr. Moran, for your wisdom.
MR. MORAN: White hair. I don't know about the wisdom, but white hair I've got.
CHAIR LEE: Any other-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 17
MR. MORAN: A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments, Members? Questions?
Mike, and thank you for testifying.
If not, have a great weekend
MR. MORAN: Yeah, you guys . . . sleep in Monday morning.You'll get this . . .
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we can't do that. We have budget.
MR. MORAN: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez arrived at the meeting at 9:40 a.m.)
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Lucienne de Naie. To be followed by David
Dorn.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have, before we do that, for the record, let the record show that
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez has joined the meeting.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair, my Molokai Nui a Hina. I’m
at the Molokai District Office alone on my side of the office. And Zhantell Lindo, our
community outreach specialist, stepped away for a moment but she'll be back on the
other side. Hauoli la Honua, Happy Earth Day.
CHAIR LEE: Your connectivity is a little weak there. Alright, Madam Clerk, please call the
testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Lucienne de Naie. To be followed by David
Dorn.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE. SIERRA CLUB MAUI rtestifying on County Communication
Nos. 22-89 & 22-97: Committee Report Nos. 22-35, 22-39, 22-40. & 22-41: and Bill
Nos. 54 (2022). 76 f2022V 77 (2022), & 78 (2022)1:
Aloha, Councilmembers. Well, it's nice to see a few of you there in the Council
Chambers. My name is Lucienne de Naie. Happy Earth Day to everybody. And thank
you for all of your days and nights of hard work on the budget. I'm testifying on behalf
of Sierra Club Maui in strong support of Bill 77 and 78, which had to do with amending
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 18
the budget as the Mayor has suggested, to put in this extra little push of funds for the
Maalaea Mauka, Pohakea, also known as Pohakea Watershed areas.
These are very, very important land, if we are to bring back the health of Maalaea Bay,
which was once known as one of the most remarkable places for varieties of limu, and
for varieties of the little critters they call them gastropods. But all the little critters that
live in the reefs, and along the shoreline, that we find their beautiful shells along the
beach. This was a famous place for shells. In fact, folks would go in the 1960's and
1970's and just gather shells and make little shell art houses with them. This is one of
the prime places that families would go. This was kind of a trend among crafty ladies
in the 60's and 70's.
So, we need to bring back that abundance and the first step is managing the sediment
load, which is tremendous, that flows into our oceans from these upslope lands. It can
be done. It will be done. There's a plan for it to be done. All we need to do is actually
have one entity, the State in partnership with nonprofit organizations, like Maui Nui
Marine Resource Council, Sierra Club, the Maalaea Village Association, and others.
Soil and Water Conservation Districts, to manage that land. So, mahalo for your
support of these bills.
We'd also like to testify in support of Bill 76, which brings relief to our Upcountry farmers
for feral animal control. Anything we can do to make things easier for our farmers and
ranchers, not to be decimated by the unchecked populations of feral animals, we need
to do. This, this problem is so crazy that homeowners just don't bother planting
anything unless they can afford a fence, a big fence, because these deer can jump.
So, thank you for your support of that.
We're also supporting, in support of item 22-39, which sends a letter out to our Federal
representatives supporting regulations of the, the tour and helicopter flights. We call it
flight scene. They, they are a needed part of our economy. But they need to play fair,
and they should not target residential neighborhoods where the noise levels can
become unbearable. And I know the folks in Waikapu are very concerned about this.
And some of the folks Upcountry as well. It used to be a big problem out in Hueio
where we live. They came every half hour on the half hour. It was like living in Vietnam.
But through Federal interventions, there were regulations put in place. This is round
two. So, we, we thank you for your support on that.
Also, we would like to speak on item 22-97 and 22-40. Now, these are the amendments
to kind of have a reality check for what happens in this public, very needed public-
private partnership with the Waikapu Town Development. Sierra Club has testified in
support of this development because of its many green characteristics, including
dedicating 800 acres of agricultural land as a perpetual easement, as a buffer around
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 19
the community. This is very sound planning. And this land is already being farmed in
part, which just shows the good intention of the landowners. We do appreciate that
the t's were crossed, and the i's were dotted in this amended resolution. There's a lot
more specifics, and clarity about what happens when and who does what. And we
think that in order for this partnership to succeed, that clarity is needed. So, thank you
for your consideration of these two important items today.
We're also testifying on the appointment of Duane Sparkman, this is 22-89, to the
County Arborist Commission. Duane is a person who has championed sound practices
for landscape management, both as an employee of major resorts and as a volunteer.
He's been on many of our Sierra Club volunteer outings, sharing his botanical
knowledge. He would be a tremendous addition. And we are very grateful for his
service to be willing to serve on the Arborist Committee.
We would also like to testify on item 22-41. You've heard earlier testimony about this.
This is a bill to cap at existing levels the visitor industry accommodations that are in our
neighborhoods. This is a sound policy. I'm sure it will be well-debated at the various
planning commissions. And folks will have a chance to weigh-in. But Sierra Club, like
many other organizations, just applauds the Council for doing a reality check that we
just don't have the infrastructure, the room, or really the public patience to be overrun
by well-meaning visitors. We, we need to sort of send some sort of signals that we
have kind of some caps. And this is a first start. So, thank you for trying something.
We would also like to support Bill 54, which sets the qualifications for the Director and
Deputy Director of the Department of Agriculture. This is an exciting brand-new
department. There's a lot of interest in it. We're very, very supportive of putting our
funding where our mouth is, and saying we want to find ways to support agriculture,
including the little mom-and-pops that, and the young farmers starting out in our
community. So, thank you for your support of this.
And last, but not least, we would like to speak to item 22-35, which moves forward on
the County lots there in the Fairways, Maui Lani Fairways development that the County
acquired through litigation, to allow some of the lots to be used for very needed housing
that would be affordable to our medical personnel, who support the Maui Memorial
Hospital, and also, in general for affordable housing opportunities.
We do share the caveat that this particular location has had fill in one section of the
lots that were sloping and are now level with a crumbling retaining wall holding in that,
that level of dirt. Those areas need to not be forced into housing. And the planning for
these organizations that are working on the lots needs to take a long hard look at what
happens to those areas. Is the fill removed? Are, are other provisions put in to just
allow passive use and no, no housing to be created? But we need a solution for those
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 20
portions of this parcel. And we very much support their being used for affordable
housing. But affordable housing should not put people's investment at risk of flooding,
collapse and other dangerous situations. So, thank you for your consideration of all of
these things. We've gone on and on. And we appreciate all of your work. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha, Ms. de Naie.
Questions, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here again, Lucienne. I,
I'm going to start having to keep a notebook when you testify, because it's so thorough
and so many items. But you know when you were talking alDout the history of Maalaea
area, and I know you're the historian, you're literally writing the book on the subject.
And do you have pictures of what it used to be like before, you know, all of the runoff
and, you know, the injection well effluent and all of that?
MS. DE NAIE: Yes, we do. There was an excellent report done in 1971, which has very clear,
black-and-white pictures of an amazing variety of coral and algae. And of course, the
beloved Isabella Abbott lived in Maalaea and did  aresearch project with her students,
literally in her backyard in the 70's. She lived in one of the early condos. And right out
from the condos, they went and found this large variety of, of wana, of, you know, they
are sea urchins, and tested them to understand how they feed and what they eat. In
other words, this was a place that had such abundance, that she used it as the test plot
to see how healthy ecosystems operated. So . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Is that going to be in your book?
MS. DE NAIE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MS. DE NAIE: We're having a whole section on, on Aunty Isabella. And we're using some of
the pictures from the 1971 report, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well, we'll be there at the book signing.
MS. DE NAIE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you very much, Ms. de Naie. Have
a great weekend.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 21
MS. DE NAIE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier-
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: -is David Dorn. To be followed by Justin Hughey.
MR. DAVID DORN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-41):
Hello? Konnichiwa and Happy Earth Day. My name is David Dorn, I'm not a lobbyist.
I agree with Lucienne on all her points. We do need to provide extra funding to protect
the Maalaea Watershed. And we need to support our Upcountry farmers to better
control feral animals in the mauka watershed.
I also support the adoption of Resolution 22-70. We need more homes, not hotels.
And we need to manage tourism so that it benefits Maui County locals, the moms and
pops. Maui County already has more than enough hotel rooms, time-shares and other
transient accommodations. We have more hotel rooms per capita than Oahu. And we
are more tourist dense than Waikiki. Maui now is up to one tourist for every two to
three locals, far exceeding our limits and our levels set in the Maui Island Plan. This is
totally unsustainable. There's not even enough locals to work these hotels. So, hotels
are importing more people to work in these hotels. Hotel work, workers are brought in
from the mainland and they are buying up our workforce and affordable housing. And
there is nothing to stop them.
The two-year visitor moratorium is actually benefiting the housing industry as
construction is focusing on home building and other kinds of construction. This is
actually helping us fill the need for more housing for locals. But this is only a temporary
solution to Maui's housing crisis. This bill for capping tourist accommodations could
similarly help our construction industry and the folks and the kind of projects that will
actually benefit local families, such as building more housing and schools.
Many hotels on Maui are owned by huge mainland corporation. A majority of profits
from the hotel goes offshore to pay shareholders. And most does not benefit the local
economy. Most Maui's top hotels are owned by billionaires and multi-national
corporations. The profits go to Wall Street and into the pockets of billionaires like Larry
Ellison, Bill Gates, Michael Dell, and Saudi Arabia Prince Al Waleed bin Talal, just to
name a few.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 22
Hotels are not always staffed by local people. There are not enough locals to staff the
hotels we have now. So, hotels are importing and recruiting mainland workers to come
here to fill these positions. Hotels bring in mainland managers and even international
staff to fill senior positions. And they're not always training them ... The visitor industry
is also underpaying their local workers, so local people working in this industry cannot
support their families long terms and many residents are forced to leave Maui.
Increasing the number of hotels and visitor accommodation is a bad idea. By capping
the number of accommodations, we're actually supporting all of the hotels we have
now, and, because there is supply and demand. When we cap the hotel numbers, we
increase demand, and we can help them to charge higher prices. And so, they can
afford to pay higher wages to their local workers, The visitor industry in Hawaii is
currently underpaying its workers. The average for a hotel housekeeper is $14 to $15
per hour, whereas the high cost of living in Maui makes the minimum livable wage more
like $20 to $25 per hour. Meanwhile, Bill Gates makes $456,625 per hour.
There are better ways to support the local economy than building more hotels. Local
hotels are not always built by local contractors. These projects need to go to local
construction companies. We need to ensure that hotels are staffed by Maui locals, and
that we hire Hawaiians to fill all levels of staffing positions. We need to ensure that
hotel workers are paid a decent living wage that is sustainable for the cost of living here
in Hawaii,
accommodations. We need to raise taxes on absentee landlords that are converting
homes to TVR's and condos to timeshares. Please recommend passing this bill, so it
can be properly and deliberately debated by the Planning Commission. Thank you.
We need to raise taxes on foreign-owned hotels and visitor
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any questions? if not, thank you very much, Mr. Dorn.
MR. DORN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Lynn Britton.
MR. JUSTIN HUGHEY: I didn't hear anything. Is, I didn't hear Justin Hughey testify.
CHAIR LEE: I believe Lynn Britton is the next testifier.
MR. HUGHEY: That's after Justin Hughey. That's on number 8. Number 7 is Justin Hughey.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 23
COUNTY CLERK: Justin Hooey/s/c/ Hughey. To be followed by Lynn Britton.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk, could you speak a little louder, cause we can't hear you.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Hughey.
MR. JUSTIN HUGHEY (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-35):
Alright. Start my clock here. Aloha Friday. My name is Justin Hughey. I'm a teacher.
I don't know why I'm speaking. I'm testifying to this again, but I'm, this Resolution 22-84,
I'm speaking in strong support. And I'm not doing it because it benefits me at all. I'm
doing it because there's so many people that are suffering in my community. 1 see that
our community is broken. Our community is great if you're a millionaire that wants to
buy a secondary home, vacation home on Maui, because you don't even pay property
taxes for the public school system.
But hey, you know, I moved here in 2005. In order to go paycheck to paycheck, renting
a one-bedroom apartment, I had to work nights at  asushi restaurant in Kapalua at
Sansei. 1 did that for ten years until my back literally blew out. 1 suffered a slipped
disc. But I was, luckily, I was able to, you know, win the tottery ticket with Na Hale O
Maui. My house used to be owned by a doctor that went into foreclosure. The house,
brand new was $650,000. The bank wanted to sell it for $475,000, but Na Hale O Maui
bought it for $375,000, put $20k into it. Was turnkey ready to go. And I sold, and they
sold it to me for $275,000. Now, you know, a responsible adult, as a responsible adult,
your rent or mortgage is supposed to be one-fourth of your income. And just try to
think of all the firefighters, police officers, nurses, doctors, teachers, government
workers, farmers that don't pay one-fourth of their, of their income to their mortgage or
rent and just there's, every, the average house is a million dollars. This is a broken
community.
I've lived in small town Illinois; Seattle; Florence, Italy and I've never seen such a
community that's broken. And there's no, there's no real focus on affordable housing.
This is 19 lots, and this is the second time I've testified. So, 19 people might have the
chance at affordable housing, which it, I just, it hurts me to say that. It hurts me to say
that I'm only testifying for 19 lots. I have a dream that one day I will come here and I
will testify for a substantial number of lots, affordable housing that's going to go towards
firefighters, police officers, doctors, nurses, teachers, government workers, farmers.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 24
the people in our community that make our community, not just doing everything for
the super rich.
I recommend that anyone that really values affordable housing, that values people that
work here, are able to afford truly affordable housing and it stays affordable in
perpetuity, to go to Na Hale 0 Maui. It's . . . from the chamber . . . and, and how
wonderful they are. And let's not turn this into Oahu 2.0, sky, you know, sky high, high-
rise apartments, you know? Na Hale O Maui can do it. They need your help. They
need a lot of your help. They need more than 19 lots. It's just, it's just so depressing
to be here to testify a second time for 19 lots. So, please, please pass Resolution 22-
84. And hopefully, one day, we can do more. Have  awonderful Friday.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to clarify, you know, when you
went through your process that you described, the affordability in perpetuity and the
land trust factor, was that at all a discouraging or a hesitancy for you, or something that
you appreciated?
MR. HUGHEY: Zero. It was, there was zero hesitancy. There was zero concern. I would
love to have County and State government do more to raise salary and lower the cost
of living, but that's just not happening. So, I don't have the, that ability to buy my own
house with my, with you know, with the salary that I have. You know, we have, teachers
in Hawaii make the worst salary in the country when factored in the cost of living. So,
like there's no opportunity whatsoever for me to buy a, yeah, it'd be great. It'd be great
to buy my house and it'd be great to have the land and everything. But that's just not
in the ballpark for any teacher right now. So, what's, what's in the ballpark? What
makes sense? What's available to me is Na Hale O Maui. And I'm one of, I, I represent
.0001 percent of people that were able to buy affordable housing. And it's, it's, it's
discouraging-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hughey, I think you answered the question. Thank you very much.
MR. HUGHEY: Okay, I feel real strongly about this.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we all do. Thank you. Any more questions? Thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier. Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Lynn Britton. To be followed by Riki Hokama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 25
MS. LYNN BRITTON [testifying on Committee Report No. 22-41 and Bill Nos. 77 (2022) &
78 (2022)1;
Good morning. Konnichiwa.
CHAIR LEE: Konnichiwa.
MS. BRITTON; Aloha to Council Chair Lee and Members of the Council. I am a 50-year
resident of Maui and founder and immediate past president of Maalaea Village
Association. I want to thank you for your support of the purchase of Maalaea Mauka
open space funds. And bills today, I believe 77 and 78 will be to add additional funding
necessary, hopefully, to finalize and complete the purchase. We're, we were
successful in attaining a million dollars from the State Legacy Lands funds. So, that
will give us a total of $7.2 million toward an $8.2 million appraisal. And hopefully, that
will be all that's necessary to buy the property.
I want to thank the Mayor for his support, and for Councilmember Kelly King for
following this project from the beginning. With the takeover, not takeover, but with the
transfer of the property to DOFAW, we will be able to incorporate the 257 acres into
the 5,000-acre West Maui watershed, which will be  amajor step forward in terms of
the efforts to restore Maalaea Bay.
I want to thank this Council for your efforts last night to reconsider the Maalaea
wastewater issue. I know that this is the first step. There is a long way to go before
we are successful. But that combined with the Maalaea Mauka parcel will really make
a difference for the entire future of this island and our residents and visitors.
I also want to personally support the, I guess it’s 22-41, for the cap on visitor industry
accommodations. I started the Maui Hotel Association back in 1987. And I want to
say that the County government is definitely to blame for allowing the proliferation of
illegal rentals on this island. So, personally I want you to know I support your efforts.
I support the need for addressing overtourism issues. And I also will be here to support
anything that I can do to accomplish your efforts in that. So, thank you for all you do.
Thank you for your long nights and hard work. And we just appreciate everything that
you're doing. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you, Lynn. Have
a great weekend.
MS. BRITTON; You too. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 26
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier--
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: --is Riki Hokama. To be followed by Tamar Goodfellow.
You’re muted. You're muted. GoodCHAIR LEE: Riki Hokama. That sounds familiar,
morning.
MR. RIKI HOKAMA (testifying on Resolution No. 22-106):
Aloha kakahiaka, Councilmembers, Chair Lee. This morning, I am, my name is Riki
Hokama and as a Lanaian, I’m very proud to speak in support of your consideration of
Resolution No. 22-106. The great thing about this resolution is that about four to five
years ago, a couple of community leaders, like Dr. Coop DeRenne, who is known from
the University of Hawaii Rainbow Baseball program, is a Lanaian now, Lanai resident,
and he had proposed and planted a seed regarding  amulti-purpose fieldhouse that
would take care of more than just softball and baseball, but other sports activities for
the island of Lanai.
And today, I am very proud to ask you to consider  aresolution where our community
is asking you to accept our donations. We're not asking for anything else. We're asking
for you to accept community donations to help make this even a better facility in the
value of about $85,000 that the community has put forth. And I'm asking if you would
please consider waiving Committee referral, and have you, the Council adopt the
resolution today on behalf of our community.
I want to mention that the donors and community members that helped build this dream
come true, like a field of dreams for us, is the Goodfellow Brothers Foundation, the
Shane Victorino Foundation, the Manele-Koele Charitable Foundation, Pulama Lanai
has contributed a lot because of their employees and community development that
they wish to participate in, and now Dolera, besides many others who may not have
given money, but have given their support, and their energies to help make this dream
come true for our youth and our residents of our island.
As you can see, the Parks Department has proposed this. We're asking to accept it
on behalf of the County. And we hope that this could be a template for other County
parks throughout our network. So, if there's any questions, I'll be happy to do what I
can to respond. But Dr. Coop DeRenne will be planning to testify shortly after me. And
I would just ask for your consideration today, please. Thank you very much, Members.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 27
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you very much. And we do have a couple of questions.
Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. So good morning, Mr. Hokama. It's nice to
see you.
MR. HOKAMA: Good morning, Ms. Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, my question is, have you talked to the Department of Parks
and Rec, Karla Peters regarding this donation?
MR. HOKAMA: Yes. If you will see in the transmittal letter, the Director did send the request
forward. We've worked with the Department, Mayor's Office, with the community, the
donors, and of course. Coach Coop, who's been the spirit, sparkplug for this project.
So, yes, we're all together on one page, in one mind, and we're hoping that we can get
this facility opened as soon as possible.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, thank you. I'd be honored to do that.
MR. HOKAMA: Thank you, Ms. Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Nice seeing you here, Riki Hokama.
MR. HOKAMA: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I just wanted to ask you for clarifying, what is a multi
purpose fieldhouse?
MR. HOKAMA: You know, normally, if you look like what the Shane Victorino Foundation did
at Kalama Park for us, it was basically just a baseball batting cage. This has been
expanded to also take care of girls' softball sports facilities. There'll be some weight
balls. There will be capacity with appropriate tarp and safety measures in place that
you can also do golf.
If and when we get certain regulations and State and County rules squared away, we’ll
be able to do things like archery, potentially. You know, for Lanai, there's a potential
now that we can get into other MIL activities, like air riflery, because of the facility and
its safety measures that will be incorporated to ensure a use, proper usage. So, those,
that's what we mean by a multi-purpose fieldhouse, Ms. Kama, I mean, Ms. Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 28
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you for explaining that. I think we need
your help Upcountry. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any more questions, Members? If not, thank you very much
Mr. Hokama.
MR. HOKAMA; Thank you very much. Chair Lee and Members of the Council.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Tamar Goodfellow. To be followed by Coop
DeRenne.
MS. TAMAR GOODFELLOW (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-35):
Good morning, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Thank you so much for hearing
Resolutions 22-84 and 22-85. I'm speaking in support of both of them. I know you
have heard from me several times before on both of these resolutions. And I just want
to say how much we appreciate your time and consideration and support. I am, you
know, advocating for the 33 lots at Maui Lani Phase I of two-phase approach to
resolving some of the issues over there, and getting some homes built for both
healthcare providers and the other members of our workforce. And I'm very hopeful
that you will continue to support the resolution. I'm here to answer any questions that
you may have. And I will be available as a resource throughout. So, thank you so
much for your time and support and consideration. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Tamar. Any questions, Members? if not, thank you very much.
MS. GOODFELLOW: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Bye.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next, our next testifier is Coop DeRenne. To be followed by Jordan
Hocker.
DR. COOP DERENNE (testifying on Resolution No. 22-106):
Madam Chair, thank you for this opportunity. And Council, thank you for this
opportunity. My name is Dr. Coop DeRenne, from, former professor at the University
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 29
of Hawaii and baseball coach. I would like to testify on behalf, the Council would
authorize the acceptance of our donation. It's a gift of our sporting good equipment
and the labor to the Department of Parks and Recreations, excuse me, for the
installation in the interior of the fieldhouse on Lanai.
I've been involved in this for approximately five years. It's an incredible partnership
between the private sector and, of course, the Maui officials, and the County officials.
The gift value that we're proposing is approximately $63,000 for the sporting good
equipment. And we're also going to be gifting approximately $15,000 to $20,000 of
donation in labor. And that's coming from the private sector. As you all can see that
it's been an incredible partnership between the private sector and the Maui County
officials. It's been a team effort and I've been able to witness for the last approximately
five years since my wife and I moved to Lanai.
So, we appreciate the opportunity to come forward to you today to answer any
questions you have about the facility, as we gift this opportunity and value for the
equipment, as well as for the labor to you folks for our Lanai. So, if, if. I'll turn it over,
if you have any questions about the facility, donations, etc., more than happy to answer
your questions.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. I just want to express our gratitude.
Thank you for the gift that you're giving back to the community. Thank you.
DR. DERENNE: Thank you. It's our pleasure.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions. Members?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair. Good morning, Coach. I also want to
thank you for your, for your donations. It's really important. So, my question is, is do
you have any future plans? You got any other projects? You seem to have a gift of
giving, the gift of giving. I love it. So, if we can help it, if you got any other future plans,
keep me posted. Mahalo.
DR. DERENNE: Okay. Yes, that's a possibility. I'm 75 years old and so, I'm going to slow
down. But I love children. I love the sporting community on Lanai. They've embraced
us. And my wife and I, we're going to make a decision, you know, Gabe, if there's a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 30
thing that we possibly can do for the community, we want to do whatever we can,
especially in the sporting fields. Because that's what, you know, my whole career has
been in sports. So, I can, I’ll do what I can, how's. No promises, but I'll do. I'll try to do
what we can do for the community, always.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Well, much appreciated, Coach. Thank you, Chair. No
further questions.
DR. DERENNE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
DR. DERENNE: Thank you, all. God bless you, all. And thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: And you too.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jordan Hocker. To be followed by Jasee Lau.
CHAIR LEE: Hello. Ms. Hocker.
MS. JORDAN HOCKER (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-41):
Hello. Good morning. Chair Lee. Good morning, Councilmembers. Someone keeps
muting my video, so.
CHAIR LEE: We can see you. We can see you.
MS. HOCKER: Okay. And then it keeps saying my, this is very weird.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, don't pay attention to that, just. . .
MS. HOCKER; Well, my audio is getting automatically muted as well.
CHAIR LEE; We can hear you. Okay, now something happened. Staff, what's going on?
Okay, we can see you again.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we’re not-
CHAIR LEE: Can you say something?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 31
MS. MOCKER: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we can see you and hear you.
MS. MOCKER: Okay, you can see and hear me right now? Okay. Can you hear me right
now, though? No? Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we can hear you now. Yeah.
MS. MOCKER: Okay, I just, I keep seeing it mute and unmute on my end.
CHAIR LEE: A minute ago we could, we could see you and we could hear you. Now, we can
only hear you.
MS. MOCKER: Okay, let's try to continue. If I stop talking, then please let me know.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I will.
MS. MOCKER: Okay. Thank you so much. So, my name is Jordan Mocker and I’m an
Upcountry resident. I'm not a paid lobbyist. I'm here today to urge the Council to vote
yes to send the resolution mentioned in Committee Report 22-41 to the Planning
Commission and the other channels as soon as possible. I'd like to point out, to clear
confusion, because I did read the documents in their entirety. The, the resolution
doesn't propose phasing out existing permitted vacation rentals or units. To me,
instead, it seems like a logical next step in managing unfettered transient
accommodation expansion within a hotel zoned areas. As this body knows, I was
strongly in favor of the visitor accommodation moratorium. It was a brilliant idea initially
put forward by Counciimember King, and then carried on by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez.
The resolution referenced here, I believe, is a forward step in doing what's being asked
by members of the public, which is management of tourism. As we've heard from
lobbyists in the past, the industry does not have intentions of curbing their growth or
stopping. And we've heard those same entities discouraging your attempts in the past
at tourism management, some who don't even reside in this County.
So, this is important, because despite the fact that our economy did take a hit during
the pandemic, tourism has rebounded, even with just U.S. based visitors. A lot of
tourism management does affect our quality of life as residents here in Maui County,
from our ability to access beaches and camping resources, to something as mundane
as our daily commute. I support the resolution referenced in CR 22-41 to go through
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 32
the proper channels, so that the caps and the specifics can be ironed out, and
testimony can be heard further from the public about the details and how that would
affect them. The least that can be done today is that this resolution is to be referred
out of this body, which was supported by the PSLU, and to move forward in the next
step of managing overtourism.
I do have to say I don't live in a heavily trafficked area. I enjoy living rurally. But I do
feel strong empathy for our community members who live in South Maui and west side
who are being even run, overrun. I don't even drive to those areas unless I have
specific business, because I don't want to further clog up an already jampacked
infrastructure. So, people living in those communities deserve to have their voices
heard, and the impacts to their quality of life taken seriously. And I just want to add to
my testimony by thanking this body and Councilmembers for all of the work that you've
done, and for listening to us in the past. So, thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Mocker. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you
very much, again, Ms. Mocker.
May we have the next testifier. Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jasee Lau. To be followed by Cassandra Abdul.
CHAIR LEE: And then how many more?
MR. JASEE LAU (testifying on Resolution No. 22-92):
Aloha kakahiaka.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Jasee.
MR. LAU: Good morning. Chair Lee. Where, where, oh, there you are. I'm looking at the
computer over here. Yeah, I see Shane over there too, where's he at? And he's, is it,
you in your office, Mr. Sinenci, or are you in Hana? What is that State of Hawaii behind
you?
My name is Jasee Lau from Kula. I was speaking on the, the, kind of the atmosphere
here. Kind of strange having a Council meeting with nobody here. Let's see, when I
came to the basement door, it was still locked. I was hoping you guys could take care
of that for members of the public. That was, used to be open, and they started doing
COVID, now they're like closing it permanently now. So, maybe just on certain Council
days you could have that basement door opened. Or  Imean, you could, usually when
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 33
it, ! don't want to write a formal fetter and use the complaint word cause people from
the mainland already get that, too many complaints.
So, congratulations, Maui Prep. Ho'omaikai. Thank you for doing what you guys do
and hopefully you'll have a good future ahead of you. I don't know if any of you guys
are still watching, but you should come over here and play basketball in here.
And, yeah, and another point for Yuki Lei Sugimura on the attendance, cause she's
here and I don't see any. You know, you other Councilmembers on the other islands,
I understand that. But it would be nice if you could schedule in once in a while, flying
to Maui or paddle your canoe. And of course. Councilor Tasha Kama is over there, our
Kahului representative.
And 1 only sat in the one chair for building maintenance. So, when you guys come and
deep, deep clean and stuff, then you don't have to do the rest of the room, too. Thank
you for your staff and thank you for the pencil.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, thank you, Jasee.
MR. LAD: Any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members? If not, no questions. Thank you.
Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Cassandra Abdul. And Cassandra will be
followed by the testifier calling in on the last digits of the phone number 4100.
MS. CASSANDRA ABDUL. NA HALE O MAUI (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-35):
. . . Councilmembers. Thank you for the opportunity to come before you again on
behalf of affordable housing in perpetuity for both Na Hale O Maui and the Maui
Hospital Foundation, and the lots that we are looking at in the Fairways. We really
want to ask that you support the resolution and pass it. And we also thank you for all
the support you have all given to affordable housing in the past. It's clear that you
recognize how difficult it is for our community, especially our workforce. And together,
we can keep everybody here on Maui if we can provide for more affordable housing,
regardless of where it is or who is creating them. So, I'd like to thank you again and
offer to remain as a resource with Tamar Goodfellow, as you discuss the particular
resolutions. Thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 34
CHAIR LEE: Members? Member Kama, and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Ms. Abdul, for being here.
You know, there was a testimony earlier by Justin Hughey. And he said that his
recommendation, cause he was so passionate about what you folks do, that he would
want everybody to sign up on your list. So, do you have a list that's ongoing? And how
many people are on it? And would you be able to accommodate if everybody got on
that list?
MS. ABDUL: Thanks. That's a really great question. In order to get on our qualified buyer
list, each family or person must go through our four-step process, which is initially
finding out about our program, because it is leasehold and not everybody wants
leasehold property. Then they also have to get pre-qualified. So, you know, that they
are prepared for homeownership, financially. They also take an 8-hour HUD approved
class about financial literacy and also how to maintain and keep your homes in good
condition. And then, meet with us and go through the exact terms of the ground lease,
so there are no surprises, no misunderstanding.
Right now, we have just about 150 people on our list. But that doesn't mean that every
time a house comes up, 150 people are trying to buy it. The last house we just closed
out in Lahaina, thanks to all of you, there is a new teacher and his family that have
moved in. There were 24 families of that 150 that were interested enough to sign up,
take a look at the house. And as it turned out, they went through all of the steps, and
there were 11 families that wanted to buy this one house.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Abdul. 1 think you answered the question.
Member Kama, do you have any more questions?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No. Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else with questions?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, and then
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this ques-
CHAIR LEE: -Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 35
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. This question is actually for you and the
Members, if we want to have Ms. Abdul, Cassandra, to stay on as a resource, and
when Tamar was, Tamar Goodfellow was on, I wondered that for the item. Do the
Members feel that they want them to be available when these resolutions come up?
CHAIR LEE; Members?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 1 don't have an objection.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you want, all those in favor of designating Member, I mean, not
member, but Ms. Abdul, a resource person when this item comes up, please indicate
by raising your hand. Okay, apparently, there's five people, so can you come back at
that time? Probably, actually. I'm not sure when. If we're lucky, it might be before
lunch.
MS. ABDUL: I would be happy to. And I think it would also be helpful if Tamar Goodfellow
was included in that.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you want Tamar Goodfellow to be included?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Staff, can you notify Tamar Goodfellow?
And then, we have a question from Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to confirm with Ms. Abdul, I
did get the information that I requested. So, I have received it. Thank you.
MS. ABDUL: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else? Members, questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha Ms. Abdul. Mahalo for your
testimony. So, we, we took these up in, in Committee, in, in my Committee. And I
believe we talked about it thoroughly. Was there anything more or anything new that
you wanted to add? Which is why I didn't raise my hand to request for you to be here
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 36
when the item comes up, because it moved through the Committee unanimously. So,
I really don't see why we would need further discussion. Do you have new information?
MS. ABDUL: Actually, no. I was just offering in case someone on the Council had a new
question that had not been asked earlier, or answered.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Ms. Abdul. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else with questions? If not, we'll see you later, Ms. Abdul.
And may we have the next testifier?
MS. ABDUL: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is the caller calling in on the last four digits: 4100. To be
followed by Kepeli Robbins.
CHAIR LEE: Call up that name again, that number again.
COUNTY CLERK: Last four digits of the telephone of 4100.
CHAIR LEE: Please go to the next one.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kepeli Robbins.
MR. KEPELI ROBBINS (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-41):
Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Hello?
MR. ROBBINS: Can everybody hear me? Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. ROBBINS: Alright. Hi, I'm Kepeli Robbins. I'm calling in resolution to, Resolution 22-70.
CHAIR LEE: Could you speak a little louder? A little louder.
MR. ROBBINS: I'm sorry, I got the headsets on cause it's so, we can't hear you on our
phones. Sorry, can you hear me now?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 37
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
MR. ROBBINS: Okay. About putting a cap on the tourism. But we do think that we need
some help when it comes to long-term Maui residents. My wife and I are, been in
Hawaii our whole life. My wife is Native Hawaiian. And we understand that tourism is
getting a little bit out of hand and, you know, a lot of people coming here. And I, you
know. I've been in tourism my whole life here. But we do know that there has been a
lot of outside investors coming to the islands and buying property and making it into
vacation rentals. And then, they don't live here, you know?
My wife and I survive on Airbnb at some point. .  .because the fact that that kept a roof
over our head. And we also are business owners here in our community. So, when
we do have people that do come here, we make sure that they shop and buy in our
community. We don't send them off to resorts or anything like that. We make sure
they spend their money, our people live.
But one thing for sure is ... we think . . . being local residents and we can provide
affordable accommodations for people who do come to Hawaii, especially Maui. That
would be great for them. Some of the resorts are extremely expensive, and some
people just can't afford to come here. And we believe ... the tourism, yes, is definitely
out of hand. But if, you know, we can make it so that local residents, long-time
residents, can be able to provide a extra source, supplement their income without it
hurting our housing situation, we think that's something that should be considered,
especially for, like I said, my wife and 1 have been in Hawaii our whole life. So, that's
really my point that I want to bring up. And you can ask me questions, if you want.
Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
MR. ROBBINS: Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Someone has a question. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Robbins. I just, 1, I wasn't
sure, are you, are you talking about renting out camper vans?
MR. ROBBINS: Oh, no. Actually, you know, like, you know how they're trying to put a shut
down on Airbnb, which I completely understand, you know, their reasons why to a
certain degree. We have had people come here and buy property, cash.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 38
MR. ROBBINS: And then turnaround and turn it into  avacation rental.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. So-
MR. ROBBINS: We want it to be for. for people that live here, real residents like myself and
my wife, to be able to do it, but follow the guidelines the State wants. Do you
understand what I mean?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Not exactly, cause we're the County and, and we have
guidelines. The County has guidelines. And we're not proposing to make that illegal,
what the guidelines are. If you're currently doing it within the guidelines, I don't think
that this resolution affects you.
MR. ROBBINS: Well, what we've been, what we've been seeing ourselves is like when we
were allowed to have Airbnb, the County pretty much said no. I went through the. the
steps to get the permits, and was told no. We have a house that has our own private
property, fenced property for parking when we have it. We don't have any residents
immediately around us, or neighbors.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
MR. ROBBINS; And so-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I don't know why you were told no--
MR. ROBBINS; --what, what-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -but this isn't. . .
MR. ROBBINS: We have no idea.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. Maybe try asking Planning Department to clarify why
you were told no.
MR. ROBBINS: Yeah. Yeah, because that's what they told us. They told us no, that we
couldn't. And then, they turn around and told us that we only can do it for six months.
If we do have people that come here, it has to be six months minimum.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 39
CHAIR LEE; Thank you very much for your testimony. Members, are there any more
questions?
MR. ROBBINS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: If not, let’s have the testifier. And let's continue on till the end. I think we only
have two or three left.
COUNTY CLERK: We have about four right now. Our next testifier is Marian Horikawa-Barth.
To be followed by Casi Saranillio.
MS. MARIAN HORIKAWA-BARTH (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-35):
Good morning. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning.
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: Thank you, Chair Lee and Councilmembers, for allowing me to
provide further support for Resolution [sic] 22-35. My name is Marian Horikawa-Barth
and I am the Chief Nurse Executive at Maui Memorial Medical Center. As a Maui girl,
1, born at Maui Memorial, i believe Maui Health is an important asset to our community.
This resolution will provide needed options for our healthcare staff, and help to retain
and recruit needed staff. Thank you for allowing me to, again, testify in support of this
resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you very much.
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Casi Saranillio. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
CHAIR LEE: Repeat the name please.
MS. CASI SARANILLIO (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-35):
My name is Casi Saranillio.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 40
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. SARANILLIO: Thank you very much, Councilmembers and Council Chair Lee. I'm the
Nurse Manager for ICU at Maui Memorial Medical Center. And Resolution [sic] 22-35
will allow for needed housing options for our much-needed ICU nurses and other
healthcare staff to continue to support the community. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions for the testifier? If not, thank
you very much.
And may we have the next one, Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Junya Nakoa. To be followed by Barbara Satterfield.
And nobody is signed up currently after Barbara.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-35, 22-39, & 22-41: and
Resolution No. 22-106):
Eh, how's it. How you guys?
CHAIR LEE: Good.
MR. NAKOA: You guys no miss me? Yessah.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we miss you.
MR. NAKOA: Yessah. Aloha Friday. I going talk about Maui Lani, the Maui Lani one, 22-35,
the 19 lots, yeah. This is, this is well needed, yeah? Cause .. . this affordable housing
thing, yeah. Plenty times the, you know, the doctors like that, they no can, no can
qualify cause they make too much money. You know what I mean? So, I think this
buggah would help them. But make sure the buggahs go to them eh. Go to the guys
that going take care our hospital. No go give um to somebody else, yeah. Make sure
you give um to those guys that actually the doctor, you know, in that hospital. Okay,
that's . . . support that buggah.
And then, 22-39, the helicopters. Oh, brah. I never go Molokai kind of long. But when
I ... to Molokai, Halawa, whoa ... all day long brah. All day fricken long. Oh, sorry
for language . . . colorful. But when we go Molokai, when we go there, like . . .eh. But
whoa, the helicopters every 30 minutes back and forth, back and forth. So, yeah, go
control those buggahs, you know what I mean? And control those guys.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 41
And then, I notice the one that da kine, 22-106, the one for Lanai. Brah, that is so
awesome to get educated about that process. But I just heard. 1 support, yeah, go
support the Lahaina, the Lanai guys. Go, go give um the park. If get private entity,
you like help support um, and go give umm the money. Cause you guys, sometimes
you, I know you guys going through budget right now. And mahalo to my, my, my
Councilmember cause she when buss her okole for ask you guys for choke money for
take care our parks over here in, in Lahaina. Yessah. But, so yeah, help out the, help
out the Lanai guys get this. And if the private entity like help you, help you guys out
and help us guys out, whoa brah, watch out. This guy just got educated this morning.
I know, I know, I . . . guy Shane Victorino. But  Iget some guys that get some money
that would like to help me cause I've been coaching for 28 years, and I get five teams
in my program. And then, I know we talk about this, about our batting cage that was
taken away, the Napili, Napili Park. And that buggah still never, never go up yet. And
the buggah rain. Rains plenty. So I love that, 1 love to, got educated that I can go call,
I going call all these people that I coach, these kids, their kids. And if they get money,
whoa, let's go take um. Go take um. We go build up the batting cage so our kids can
continue practicing in, in the, in the dry area, eh. Cause Napili, whoa. Tamara know,
the buggah rain, plenty. So, yeah, I glad I got educated about that resolution. Thank
you for that one.
What is the other one? Shucks. Oh, yeah. The, so  Iam in support 22-70, yeah. The,
the. you guys know how many times I talk, told you guys that. I'm in total support about
that buggah. But do whatever the heck you guys do. You guys better not support that,
supporting renting out vans and like that, so people can, you know, go, go crash in our
parks.
Again, talking about my baseball team, we just when finish the year for my minor
league. We came in first place. So, we had one end of the year party down at
D.T. Fleming, not, Launiupoko, okay. That, that parking lot is kind of small. And inside
there had three vans parked on the railings. And you know those buggahs was just
renting out of that thing. They get everything inside there. And, and my, and then we,
we, you know, and disgusting, okay. Just junkthat thing. Whatever you guys do, better
not support that thing. Whoever support that, whoa brah, you guys going, you guys
going get bunch of emails and calls from me. Do not support that buggah . . . Okay?
Cause my kids felt threatened, you know what 1 mean? They don't know what these
guys doing over there, you know, whatnot. But. but was all good.
But yeah, so no, no support that, that, that, that van thing, cause whoa brah, you guys
going cause, cause some hostility. You guys going cause some hostility with, you
know, with the locals and those guys trying to, our S-Turns, like one good local beach
over here. Get plenty people come over there, so please do not let that happen. Be
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 42
happy that D.T. Fleming . . . Mahalo for the new, the new showers you guys going
make for us over there.
But yeah, okay guys, I think I pau. You guys, so now you guys no need hear my voice.
And just like . . . you's buggahs is bad ass. I follow you guys on top the . . . you know
like that. You guys working your guys okoles off. Some strong your guys da kine
Chairman, she's bully. Nah, nah, nah, nah, only joking. Love you guys. You guys
have one good one, Aloha Friday.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, wait, wait, Junya. We have some questions.
Member Kama, and then Member Paltin.
MR. NAKOA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Junya, for being here. So I'm
trying to follow your, your conversation. So, I kind of got lost. So, what is the van
thing?
MR. NAKOA: I talk fast. I gotta talk fast that's why.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I can't find that. Yeah, I know, and I cannot listen as fast as you
talk. So, what is the van thing?
MR. NAKOA: Well, get, get these guys, they renting out vans.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay.
MR. NAKOA: You know, I, I don't know if get businesses, whatever. You know, if you guys
go looking for urn, I get... I going find urn. But yes, it's on Facebook. it's all over the
place. Like I said, I just seen urn down S-Turns, and, and at Launiupoko. And I guess
they renting, they renting the vans out to these tourists. And maybe I go, I go get, I get
your an email, whatever I get, I go, I go da kine, I go, I go to send urn to you that, the
CR 22-41.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
MR. NAKOA: That, that. . .item. That, of da kine eh, of the of, of your guy's agenda, agenda
thing. That's why I talking about that buggah. So, maybe if you can go look into your
agenda, you can go find out what that buggah is.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 43
MR. NAKOA: You're welcome. You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you so much for soliciting support for Napili batting
cages. I just wanted to clarify that we get money in the budget for that CiP, and we
had it since last year. So, the money is there. We just need the, you know, the
pavement to hit the ground.
MR. NAKOA; Yeah, okay. Yeah, it's perfect cause I seen, I seen what you guys talking, the
the guys that go look at the, look through the, the--
CHAIRLEE; Survey.
MR. NAKOA; --what you call that guys?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Surveyors.
MR. NAKOA; Survey, survey. That survey guys, I see urn up there when we was practicing.
And you they, you know, kind of talking about urn. But 1 never, i never talk to um cause
I get 14 kids running around. But if that thing happen, I mean, I like, and again, Tamara,
let’s work with it, man, I can, you know what, we get, I get people who get develop,
developmental skills that can, you know, certified contractors that can make one roof,
can make everything for us. ... work just like the Lanai one, yeeha.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yeah, yeah, gotta work with the Parks Department, the
Administration. We only put the money in. But the money is all there under West Maui
Parks Improvement.
MR. NAKOA; So. Karla Peters going get choke calls from me, yeah yeah.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? If not, oh, we have Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Nakoa. Mahalo for your
testimony this morning. Always good to see you. So, your testimony was in support
of 22-70, the transient accommodations caps bill, which also includes the prohibition
of camper vans used as short-term vacation rentals. Is that correct?
MR. NAKOA; The prohibition ... yeah. Yeah, okay. Thanks eh. That's what I mean. Main
thing, main thing nobody support that buggah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 44
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Anybody else with questions? If not, thank you, Junya.
MR. NAKOA: You guys have a great weekend. And, yeah, poor thing, you guys got to, oh
but at least you guys going start at 9:00 on Monday . . .
CHAIR LEE; Mahalo.
MR. NAKOA; You guys have one good one.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Barbara Satterfield. To be followed by Matthew Flight.
MS. BARBARA SATTERFIELD (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-35);
Aloha and good morning. Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers. My name is
Barbara Satterfield. I’m the nurse manager here in one of the departments at the
hospital called the Heart, Brain and Vascular Center. And my area provides emergent
treatment for people suffering heart attacks, strokes, accidents, and bleeding. And,
you know, I just wanted to say I'm really grateful for your, for your support, if you can,
of this, this CR 22-35 that would allow additional housing options for providers and staff
to come to the hospital.
You know, my department is extremely small, and it's been difficult to recruit and retain
the existing staff that we have here because housing, of course, there's very few
options right now. And, you know, this is something that I think is an innovative solution
to try and meet the gap in our staffing. I've been here now for ten years, and the work
here has gotten more and more crucial for us, as our population gets bigger. And as,
you know, the amount of tourism that's coming back, we need staff to care for those
people as well. My staff has been working tirelessly since the pandemic started and I
am having difficulty bringing people in to come and give them relief. But 1 feel like with
this option that's coming in, there is light at the end of the tunnel.
1 would really, you know, appreciate any options that we could give these additional
staff interested in coming to Maui, as well as the providers. So, if you can, you know,
I would really, I would really be grateful as the nurse manager here and as a provider
and resident, if you could give this additional consideration. And thank you. I'm just
going to keep my testimony short today. But thank you again on behalf of me and my
staff and the hospital.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 45
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. Members, are there any questions?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Good morning, Ms. Satterfield. I'm, I'm
curious if you, if you know the salaries of your nurses that you, you cover? Because I,
I'm reading the ... report. It's a report about, it lists all of the salaries and I'm wondering
if there, if it's, if you, if you can concurwith them? So, it says nursing assistants average
$31,990. And, of course, physicians and surgeons go all the way up to 215,000. Are
those numbers within your, you concur with those numbers? Like a nursing assistant
only makes 31K?
MS. SATTERFIELD: Council Chair, Councilmember Johnson, I, you know, I don't have any
nursing assistants here, you know, and so, I can’t answer that. And I can't speak to-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So they're all registered nurses?
MS. SATTERFIELD: We are all registered nurses.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So-
MS. SATTERFIELD: I only have a few people that are in this department. I have a total of
about 15-18 that provide 24-hour care. We're on call for emergencies, after hours-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
MS. SATTERFIELD: --holidays and weekends.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So there's, so in this, in the . . . report it says, registered
nurses make about 84,000 a year, physicians assistants 73, and nurse practitioners
make about 88. So registered nurses and nurse practitioners make about 84-88K a
year, is that, in your experience?
MS. SATTERFIELD: 1 would say that maybe even a little more. But, you know, depending
on the area that you're living in-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
MS. SATTERFIELD: -the cost of living might be more than what the salaries can. you know
compensate and help them with.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 46
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yeah, I understand that. When houses are $1.1 million on
the average, even if you are making 88K or more, it's, that's not going to cover the
mortgage. Okay. Thank you for your answer to my questions. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions? If not, thank you, Ms. Satterfield. Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Matthew Flight. To be followed by Albert Perez.
MR. MATTHEW FLIGHT ftestifyina on Committee Report No. 22-35):
Good morning. I, my name is Matthew Flight. I'm a nurse manager here, a nurse
manager of the fourth floor, the medical surgical floor and I'm testifying on behalf of
Bill [sic] 22-35 that some of my co-workers have already testified in support of. You
know, we're in a unique position here in the island where there's only one hospital,
acute care center that can take care of the people that live on this island. The
population of the island is growing quickly, and our ability to care for those patients are
being stretched.
You know, what's compromising some of that care is our ability to keep qualified and
trained people here on the island. And the housing crunch is one of those reasons this
is happening. You know, I'm losing a long-time employee who is leaving because, you
know, she . . . pursuing her dream of having a house for her family, which I think is the
dream of a lot of families here on the islands that have their own home for their own
families. So, you know, she was born here, raised here, went to high school here, went
to college here, worked on this floor for over a decade, but will be moving to Utah to
pursue that dream.
And that's not an atypical case of many people who work here. And being the only
hospital, we just cannot afford to not have the people here to take care of our, our
citizens. So, I'm in strong support of Bill [sic] 22-35. I apologize for my lack of a
camera. I'm just going to keep it brief. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: That's fine. Thank you. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you
very much, Mr. Flight.
Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Albert Perez. To be followed by Zandra Amaral
Crouse.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 47
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Albert.
MR. ALBERT PEREZ. MAUI TOMORROW [testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-39 &
22-41: and Bill Nos. 77 (2022) & 78 (2022)1:
Good morning, Chair Lee. Happy Earth Day, everyone. Albert Perez, Maui Tomorrow,
and I'm testifying on several items. First one is Bills 77 and 78, Ma'alaea Mauka. Maui
Tomorrow strongly supports funding for acquisition of the Ma'alaea Mauka lands.
Protection of these lands will ensure that cultural and historic resources are preserved,
provide for a natural hazards mitigation, and will create the opportunity to expand
access to open spaces, and the Lahaina Pali trail.
You know, Maui Tomorrow's mission includes preservation of open space, and
promotion of ecologically sound development. And we have always maintained that
this land should remain undeveloped in order to protect the health of the lands makai
and the waters of Maalaea Bay. It's well-suited for preservation and not other, not
housing, especially. It lies at the base of steep slopes that lead up to the wind farm,
and is a natural floodplain for numerous gulches that carry stormwaters down to the
ocean.
The Maui County 2006 Scenic and Historic Resources inventory identified the views
from Honoapiilani Highway across this parcel as being of high value. In, in past years,
much destruction has been caused by large stormflows passing through these lands,
especially after major fires that leave bare soil exposed. Culverts become clogged,
mud ends up on the highway, and there are major brown water events that have had
a cumulative detrimental impact on Maalaea Bay.
So, we appreciate the collaboration of Maui Nui Marine Resources Council, and DLNR.
They have strategies to mitigate the impacts of those floodwaters, and to better
understand the high-volume drainage impacts in the area. This acquisition would
eliminate ongoing pressure to urbanize these lands and would provide an opportunity
to prevent siltation of the waters that are popular for fishing, recreation, humpback
whales, and as I learned this morning, limu. So, glad to hear that. So, I hope that you'll
support that funding.
For Committee Report 22-39, helicopters and noise abatement areas, we support
adoption of these resolutions, which seek to protect the quality of life for our residents.
It's well-known that. . . contributes to many health concerns including stress, anxiety,
depression, high blood pressure, heart disease, and many other health problems.
Citizens all over Hawaii have been fighting the intrusion of aircraft noise for decades.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 48
But neither the County nor the State has jurisdiction in this area. The Federal Aviation
Administration has control of the skies. But they're mainly concerned with air safety
and commerce. They're not concerned about noise unless they're directed to, and
these resolutions are exactly the right solution. They will put pressure through our
Federal government on the FAA to pay attention to our concerns. And I, I urge you to
pass these resolutions.
Finally, Committee Report 22-41. We urge you to support Resolution 22-70, which
would refer to the planning commissions and advisory committees a bill to cap the
number of new visitor accommodations in Maui County. People often talk about supply
and demand, and we can use that here to our advantage. When we cap the supply on
existing visitor accommodations, they will become more expensive. And this is a good
thing. They'll be able to pay their workers more without increasing the impacts of
overtourism on our community. We already have more than enough hotel rooms, time
shares and other transient accommodations. The economic fallout from the pandemic
related tourism shutdown showed us how vulnerable our economy was and remains to
visitor industry slowdowns. Capping visitor accommodations is the least that we should
be doing. And it's one of the most important things we can do to protect our quality of
life.
If this resolution does not pass, the visitor accommodations moratorium will expire, and
the building of these visitor accommodations will be able to resume. So, please, send
this bill to the planning commissions and the advisory committees, so they'll be able to
have a chance to deliberate the merits of the bill and send their recommendations back
to the Council. There'll be plenty of opportunity for people to testify and express their
opinions during that process. The main group that's been fighting tourism caps is the
hotel developers. They make their money by continuing to lower our quality of life with
more and more tourists. Let that industry go somewhere else and let's build housing
for residents, residents instead. This bill will not reduce the number of hotel jobs. Let's
not forget the lessons of the pandemic shutdown, that we want to stop further growth
of tourism and invest in diversifying our economy so that we will be more resilient next
time. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, are there any questions?  Idon't see any. Thank you, Albert.
MR. PEREZ; Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier-
CHAIRLEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 49
COUNTY CLERK: --is Zandra Amaral Crouse. To be followed by the caller with the last four
digits of 6589.
CHAIR LEE: Morning.
MS. ZANDRA AMARAL-CROUSE ftestifvinq on County Communication Nos. 22-97. 22-100.
& 22-102: Committee Report Nos. 22-35, 22-39. & 22-40: Resolution No. 22-160; and
Bill Nos. 76 (2022), 77 (2022), & 78 (2022)1:
Aloha kakahiaka, Madam Chair and Council people, and Happy Earth Day. And just
for you, Chair, konnichiwa. I'm testifying first, and I'm following your agenda going
down as it is listed on the agenda. The first one is 22-97. And that is the supporting
of a public private partnership agreement residential workforce housing for the
Waikapu Country Town Project. There are two concerns that I have, which I think any
time we are building homes for our workforce, or for our residents is it, it is good. But
I am concerned about affordability. Let us believe that it wilt be affordable, not to people
who come in from the mainland to make Maui their home, but for our children who has
been here for generations on end.
Also, and I know you've addressed this, so I'm not too concerned about this, but I just
thought I'd bring it to light again. And that is the separation of Waikapu and Wailuku.
As 1 was born in Wailuku, in lao Valley, and my children live in Waikapu, they're very
two distinct communities. So, I thank you for taking that into consideration.
I'd like to move on to No. 22-100, transmitting the short-term investment reports. Short
term rentals, if anything, should be limited to the resident, to the, to the hotel industry,
to the hotel area. When we have tourists, and people accommodating their homes so
that tourists can come stay for one/two days, that creates quite a havoc for the families
that make that street, that city, that town, their home.
I would like to go on to 22-102, South Maui Community Plan. Thank you, Kelly, for all
that you've done and continue to do. Maui is in dire need of road infrastructure by
building all these houses, but no roads. We need them. And Kelly, I thank you and
the Kihei Community Association for continually stressing and working for that.
I'd like to now move on to 22-35, and that is the Fairway lots at Maui Lani. I like that
idea of making affordable homes, especially for our civil servants, nurses was brought
up in particular. The only thing with that that I'm concerned about, and I am not a
lawyer, is the legality of preferential treatment to a given group of people. Not that they
don't deserve it, because they sure do. Not that they don't benefit Maui County,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 50
because they sure do, and we are in desperate need. But when it comes to housing,
for let's say, like the nurses, be sure that you offer these housing to our young men and
women who are nurses who are from Maui before you bring in.
And the reason why is we went through this with teachers some 30 years ago, I
remember. We brought them in through legislation, they'd stay, we'd spend thousands
of dollars on recruiting and keeping them for a very short period of time. They would
find it's too expensive and they’d move on. And 1 believe the doctor mentioned about
one nurse that's leaving and that's so sad. So, I humbly ask that you guys look into
that, that the housing goes to our nurses first.
I'd like to move on to 22-39, the noise abatement. I have a helicopter and planes flying
over my house now since the residences of Wailea made a complaint to the aviation
board. And the plane took a different turn and they're flying over our subdivision now.
But I, as far as the helicopter noise abatement, my house abuts Haleakaia Ranch. And
we often see them coming down from Haleakaia, circling around the residential area.
So, I am so appear, appreciative that you guys are aware of this and are pushing
legislation forward so that you can make the Federal government and the Federal
Aviation Administration apprised of the problems that it causes for our community.
On item 22-40, infrastructure improvements, residential workforce houses for the
Waikapu Country. I get that one.
Okay. 22-106. I'd like to just say I ditto Councilmember, former Councilmember Riki
Hokama's and Doctor DeRenne's thoughts. It's so needed. Lanai has got some very
talented individuals and they need to be given the infrastructure, and the items, and
resources that they need to excel. I know, because my grandson who played for the
Little League and they took the World Series for the Little League, who is now playing
baseball in college on his freshman year, played with a lot of young men from Lanai.
And they're very talented, but they need the resources. They cannot afford to catch a
boat or a plane to come to Maui to play. Thank you.
On Bill No. 76, the feral animal. This is something also that is very close to my heart.
As someone who was born and raised on a ranch here on Maui, animals are very
important to me. But again, my house abuts Haleakaia Ranch in Kihei. Often, I have
a herd of visitors at my fence, and they're a bunch of deer, which is nice. But there
was an occasion where several of them jumped the fence, on the road, and that can
present a problem. So, I'm very grateful for any funds, anything that you continue to
do. Council, to be sure to protect the farmers of Maui County, as well as protecting the
deer.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 51
Bill No. 77, and that is the Ma'alaea Mauka. Many of us, many of you who grew up
here, who serve on the Council, remember Maalaea, especially Mr. Molina, because
his family, I mean, he grew up there. So, our hearts are very dear. The Luuwai, the
Medeiros's, I think it's very important for us to preserve the cultural, the open space,
as well as taking care of our watersheds. Because we all know it is the watersheds
that give us our well water, which gives us our water.
And then there is Bill No. 78, Pohakea Watershed Lands. Again, that's pertaining to
Maalaea. So, I thank you all very, very much for that. And that is my testimony today.
I made it short, because I followed the committee reports, and there were eloquent
speakers who are authorities on every one of the items that I have spoken on. So
today is simply my voice to let you know that I support these people, because I see
them out in my community. I see them looking after our environment, our roads, our
families, and our friends. Mahalo. A hui hou malama.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Crouse. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you
again. Have a great weekend.
MS. CROUSE: You too. Bye-bye.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Terence Manegdeg. To be followed by the
testifier calling in on the last four digits of 3327.
CHAIR LEE: And then how many more after that?
COUNTY CLERK: That, that is alt we have signed up right now.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Could you repeat the testifier's name?
COUNTY CLERK: Terrence Manegdeg.
MR. TERENCE MANEGDEG (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-35):
Hello. Good morning. My name is Terence Manegdeg and I'm the perioperative
business manager at Maui Memorial Medical Center.  Iknow a lot of my colleagues
has already voiced their support with the resolution CR 22-35. And I just want to go on
record in support of that same resolution, as it, it will assist with recruitment of
healthcare workers for our community by providing affordable housing. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 52
CHAIR LEE; Thank you very much. Any questions, Members? If not, may we have the next
testifier, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next and last testifier is calling in on the last four digits of 3327.
MS. NIKKI ANDERSON (testifying on
Hello, my name is Nikki Anderson and we have a unit in Kaanapali Royal that we use
as a short-term rental part of the year. Part of the year we're there and part of the year
we rent it. And 1 just want to come out and, and reiterate what was talked about before
in terms of the short-term rentals contributing a lot of the TAT and GET tax money, in
addition to a lot higher property taxes, into the Affordable Housing Fund for Maui. And
I would hate to see that go away as, as a resource to Maui County.
I also feel that there are very, there are people who short-term rent who have always
followed all the rules, done what they're supposed to do, pay their taxes, etc. And I, I
really don't really want to see the, the loss in value of their assets being impacted by
this, the legislation.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I, I'm not sure which legislation that you're talking
about, but that legislation is not on today's agenda. There's nothing-
MS. ANDERSON: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; -taking away value of people's short-term rental or stopping
short-term rental.
MS. ANDERSON: Okay, I was given a agenda that was sent to me via email with today at
9 a.m. being the, well 9 a.m. your time, being the discussion of that and I just dialed in.
So, I have not listened to more than two minutes of what you were doing. . . . moved
to a different agenda.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, you're given some misinformation. I think the people
that sent that out didn't read the bill, because that's not what the bill says.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 53
MS. ANDERSON: Okay. Well, then I apologize for interrupting.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, no problem. Thank you.
MS. ANDERSON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members?
I believe we have one last testifier. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Two more, Chair. Our next testifier is Kai Nishiki.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, wait, hold on. Hold on. Members, do you want to take a break now?
Because every time we say last testifier, people sign up.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Proceed.
CHAIR LEE: You want to take a break now, because our staff is, has been going for a long
time. Take a break? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: They say they don't need  abreak.
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: They're saying they do not need a break.
CHAIR LEE: Our staff does not need a break? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I think they want to complete testimony . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I thought we had that, that, something scheduled at 11:30. But I
do need to--
CHAIRLEE: 11:45. 11:45.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, and I noticed now we've got three more testifiers, so and
people keep signing up. so I personally need to take a break.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 54
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, I know. I, you know, it, it’s been a while, cause normally we take the
break at 10:30 and it's 10 after 11, so we're, we're way behind as far as taking a break.
So, Members, let's say, let's take a break until 11:25, okay? Any objections to taking
a break until 11:25?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, we’re in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 11:09 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 11:31 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of April 22. 2022, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk, next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we left off with, with Kai Nishiki. To be followed by Stan Franco.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Nishiki?
MS. KAI NISHIKI (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-41):
Hi. Good morning. Chair. Good morning, Councilmembers. Testifying on CR 22-41.
Kai Nishiki, testifying on my own behalf. Government leaders, politicians, tourism
advocates have talked a lot about the need for tourism management. And we, the
community, now wants real action and results, not just more studies and empty
campaign talking points.
We have all seen the media coverage of our beaches completely covered in tourists,
thousands of rental cars clogging our roadways. We see camper vans taking over our
shorelines. But most importantly, we have personally experienced, we, we feel the
hope extinguished to ever own a home, feel our quality of life negatively impacted by
the relentless onslaught of tourism gone wild. This common-sense legislation to
combat the chaos and destruction that unfettered tourism is causing is much needed.
The Maui County Council has a short window of opportunity to protect our communities.
And one of the best ways to manage tourism is to maintain accommodations for tourists
at current levels. Councilmembers have pointed to the need to diversify our economy,
providing training and educational opportunities to our workforce. And this legislation
actually supports that goal. Voters are paying attention. It's election season, to see if
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 55
our representatives are really taking action. So. please, quickly send the resolution in
CR 22-41 to the Maui County Planning Commissions for review and back to this
Council for adoption as soon as possible. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you, Kai. Have a
great weekend.
MS. NISHIKI: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier and our last one signed up at this point is Mr. Stan
Franco.
MR. STAN FRANCO. STANDUP MAUI (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-35 and
22-40):
Hi. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Stan. Good morning.
MR. FRANCO: Good morning. Happy Earth Day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MR. FRANCO; I think, you know, we are ail connected to the, to this land. We agree that we
need to do things, like, what is, we're doing in CR 22-35, what we're doing in CR 22-35.
We are using those Fairway lots for the needs of our community. And Standup Maui
has always been for this, and we've been advocating for housing for our people, for the
needs of our people. So, we are very supportive of that. We have testified before on
that particular CR 22-35 on the resolutions.
On CR 22-40, the Waiikapu Country Town, the idea of a public private partnership, we
have testified again on that and said we are very much in favor of that. It seems to be
a kind of a model that maybe we can move forward, as we try to build affordable units
for our people, the local people, especially those that are under the 100 percent AMI.
There's such a big need. So, we are very favorable in building affordable housing for
our people. And we thank the Council for taking actions like this. We appreciate it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you, Stan. Have a great
weekend.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 56
MR. FRANCO; You too.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have no other individuals signed in to testify. And if anyone has
not testified, but would like to do so, please identify yourself now. This is the last call
for testifiers. Please indicate if you would like to testify in the chat. Chair, no one else
is indicating that they wish to testify. And we have received written testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, if, do you have any objections to receiving written testimony into the
record and to closing public testimony? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Nick Drance;
David Dorn;
Tamar Goodfellow, Maui Health Foundation;
Cassandra Abdul, Na Hale O Maui;
Jacqueline Simone Ambrose;
Arabella Ark;
Stephanie Austin;
Karri Ayasanonda;
Vijak Ayasanonda;
Amanda Brittany;
Lawrence Burke;
Livit Callentine;
Kimber Carhart;
Karen Comcowich;
Kai DuPonte;
Kim Falinski;
Ute Finch;
Marc Friezner;
Rob Gunthner, Hilton Grand Vacations;
Aubrey Hord;
Jodee Inouye-Agsalog;
Kimberly N. Johnston;
Joy Kaaz;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 57
24. Carol Lee Kamekona;
U'ilani Kapu;
Nan Parks Kocourek and Wayne Kocourek;
Heidi KreuI;
Valerie Kulesa;
Tiare Lawrence;
Michele Lincoln;
Tammy Luat;
Tad TC Luckey;
Mr. and Mrs. Honorato Martinez;
Marty Martins;
Fay McFarlane;
Steve Milton;
Shantelle Morgan;
Kohl Naehu;
Dawn Niederhauser;
Teresina Patterson;
Stacey Planas;
Plumbers and Pipefitters UA Local 675;
Nicholas Potash;
Gabriel Riela-Enoka;
Lisa Leina'ala Riela-Enoka;
Robin Ritchie;
Paul Robinson;
Lola Rodriguez;
Jada Rufo;
Irene Ryding;
Randy M. Sarrow;
Lisa Schlichting;
Kele Sipman;
Bryan Smith;
Kalim Smith;
Michelei Tancayo;
Luanne Teoh;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Shannon VanderHeuvel;
Susan Vickery;
Kalani Werner, United Public Workers, AFSCME Local 646;
John D. White; and
Katherine Wong.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 58
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. We are a few minutes ahead of schedule. Let's take the minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meetings of January 21,2022, and
February 4, 2022, were presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the regular meeting minutes of January 21. and February 4, 2022.
If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Let's see, what else can we do? Let's move on to Consent Calendar.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Chair, proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 59
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-83 - ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
(dated April 8, 2022)
Informing of the receipt of $2,794 in Forfeiture Funds from the State of Hawaii
Department of the Attorney General.
NO. 22-84 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated March 21,2022)
Transmitting Contract Log No. 21-194 Modification Order No. 1 from the State of
Hawaii, Executive Office on Aging, for Title III Programs in the amount of $115,166.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated March 21, 2022)
NO. 22-85
Transmitting Contract Log No. 21-194 from the State of Hawaii, Executive Office on
Aging, for Title III Programs in the amount of $177,592.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated March 23, 2022)
NO. 22-86
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Executive
Office on Aging, for Senior Center Services in the amount of $175,500.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated March 16, 2022)
NO. 22-87
Informing of a vacancy on the Cost of Government Commission due to the resignation
of Noemi Barbadillo, effective April 4, 2022.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 60
NO. 22-88 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated March 16, 2022)
Informing of a vacancy on the Urban Design Review Board due to the resignation of
Stuart Marlowe, effective April 1, 2022.
NO. 22-89 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated April 12, 2022)
Informing of the appointment of Kenneth Duane Sparkman to the Maui County Arborist
Committee.
NO. 22-90 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
(dated April 1,2022)
Informing of the acceptance of a Roadway/Road Widening Lot, Omaopio Ehiku
Subdivision, Lot 3, TMK: (2) 2-3-003:060 POR.
NO. 22-91 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
(dated April 1,2022)
Informing of the acceptance of Sewerline Easement 159 & 160, 1800 Farrington
Avenue, Lot 136 - Molokai Land Trust, TMK: (2) 5-2-028:100 POR.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion? No discussion? All those in favor of the motion to file all the items
raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 61
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Is it time yet. Pro Temp Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I don't think so, Chair. Let me check.
CHAIR LEE; Not yet? You, you're going to let us know?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, I will.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Proceed.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, they're, they're indicating-
CHAIR LEE; One second.
COUNTY CLERK; ~a presence in the chat.
CHAIR LEE: I have, Member Paltin, has a question first. Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I just was going to say if they weren't ready, I had an
amendment. But I see that Maui Waena Intermediate School is in the chat for the
ceremonial resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 62
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And that Kamehameha Schools Maui will be dialing in short,
oh, Kamehameha School is here. So, maybe we're ready for the ceremonial
resolution?
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama, are we starting with the resolution?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We can't hear you. Can't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, can hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: So, we're going to call up this item, right?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. We're looking for the five schools to show. The
Kamehameha Schools High School, Kamehameha School Middle School, Lahaina,
Maui Waena, and Maui High.
CHAIR LEE: Are they all here?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: i think I only see four in the chat. What do you see? Maui High
School is missing.
CHAIR LEE: Maui High School is missing.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: It says Maui High School will not be attending today in the chat.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, everybody, so we're ready then, huh? Member Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: We have four.
CHAIR LEE: Did Lahaina, hi Lahaina. Maui Waena?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Oh, maikai. Oh, they're so sweet.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 63
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, I think we're ready, Chair. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, Chair, proceeding with ceremonial resolutions.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-103
HONORING THE MAUI NUI WINNERS IN THE
2022 STUDENT TELEVISION NETWORK
NATIONAL CONVENTION MEDIA COMPETITION
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama. Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ENTITLED "HONORING THE MAUI NUI WINNERS IN THE
2022 STUDENT TELEVISION NETWORK NATIONAL
CONVENTION MEDIA COMPETITION".
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Pro Temp Kama, seconded by Member King, to adopt the resolution
as read by the Clerk, 22-103.
Member Kama, did you want the Clerk to read the-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: --resolution in its entirety?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Please, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 64
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair.
(The resolution ivas read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair, it is my honorto recognize this group of Maui's
outstanding future storytellers for their success at the 2022 STN National Convention
media competition. Storytellers open up worlds of possibility with words and imagery.
They allow us to connect with your journey and expand our own understanding of the
world around us.
To this end, the Student Television Network, founded in 1999, provides a forum for
student broadcasters and teachers to share ideas, ask questions, and learn from
professionals in the industry. I would like to express my deep appreciation to all the
parents, teachers, and mentors, who supported these students and helped them
develop the technical skills and critical thinking needed to achieve such recognition at
the national level.
I am so happy and proud to have the opportunity to celebrate the Maui Nui winners at
the 2022 STN National Convention media competition, and we congratulate them on
their accomplishments. So, congratulations students and teachers, and best wishes
for continued success in broadcast journalism, film, and media, as you continue to tell
your stories in such effective and creative ways. And one day, I hope that this could
be an economic engine for our Maui County. Chair,  Irespectfully ask for the Members
full support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Well said. Anyone else, Members?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. I rise in full support of Councilmember
Kama's motion. It's, this is so wonderful to see. I ,I'm so proud that it's the younger
folks who are, who are the leading this industry, right? We talk about Hollywood coming
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 65
here. Why can't we have Mauiwood, right? You know, why can't we have it so that
our local young folks doing it, bringing their stories to the forefront? And it's a great
industry just like Councilmember Kama said.
I, I will also want to give a shoutout to Lanai's small burgeoning film industry, with LAPA,
the Lanai Performing Arts. They're doing great work. And I know they didn't, they can
do a whole lot more and we could help them. So, that's, that's a great thing that we're
doing, and I stand in strong support. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else, Members?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. And congratulations to all of our
students. Great, great job, and of course, to the teachers and to the parents. And
man, I tell you, these kids are so fantastic with technology. I'm real old school. And I,
I really hope that when you guys become older and get, getting on your way to college
and everything else, you make sure you come back home because we need your
talents here. Cause you're going to be our future community leaderships and
especially in the world of high tech.
And of course, our teachers, thank you for staying here. I see some very familiar faces.
Thank you. I know you guys put in a lot of overtime that you don't get paid for. And
it's because of your love for the students, this is why we have such a very high success
rate with, with our kids. So, mahalo.
And of course, to all the parents, thank you. Thank you so much for your love and
support of our kids. So, guys, keep up the great work. Aloha. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Molina.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. 1, too, am so impressed with these kids.
I totally support this resolution. Thank you. Member Kama, for bringing this up. I, I just
wanted to make a special, say a special note to these teachers, who I know are giving
all of their time after school and I bet you in the weekend and through the nights just to
make this all happen, besides the parents. And this is, to me, a really good example
of why MEDB and their STEM network totally works, right, is these students who are
inspired by what the program does, has given, and the opportunities. And you truly are
the rising stars in our community, and appreciate everything that you're doing.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 66
Jennifer Suzuki, I'm going to have to reschedule with you and try to get you to help me
with my axis deer project. I think Daryl Fujiwara was working with you on that. So, but
anyway, just continue on what you’re doing. Thank you very much, teachers. And all
the students, congratulations.
CHAIR LEE; Member King, I'm sorry I didn’t see your hand earlier.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's okay. I, I feel like I'm falling off the screen or something.
Thank you, Chair. I appreciate it. I just really want to congratulate these students. I'm
sorry that Maui High can't be here.
But back in the day, when I was taking journalism classes, and we had print media, we
didn't have all of this new technology. And it was very exciting going to regional
competitions. I won some top awards at some of those. But what I really wanted to
say to all of you folks, besides congratulations on your accomplishments, is that what
you're doing is really important, because you folks are going to be the truth tellers. And
right now, we don't have enough of that in the public. I mean, that's what's perpetuating
the war in the Ukraine, is the folks are not being told the truth in, in Russia, through
their media. So, I hope you have that commitment. And I really want to support you
going forward.
I've been sort of working with the film commissioner here. And that's one of the areas
I think we need to expand is media and media film, to diversify our economy. So, you
are all hopefully going to be part of that expansion. But just really want to encourage
you. Thank you for getting involved in this. And especially those of you who are
focusing on going into journalism and news and truth-telling, just keep up that spirit.
We need you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'll just make it quick cause I'm sure
the students need to go back to class. But congratulations to all of you.
Congratulations to the hardworking teachers. And mahalo. Pro Temp Kama, for the
resolution recognizing them. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Pro Temp Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 67
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to inform our community that
the reason why Maui High isn't here, because they are now at the World Robotics
Convention in Houston, Texas, representing us. So, cheers for all of us here. So,
thank you for all of you who are here, and we, our best wishes go out to Maui High at
the World Robotics Convention. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Awesome. Thank you for that.
CHAIR LEE: Well. I guess it's all said now. We have all the champions are on Maui. We
have the best students in the world.
Members, are you ready to vote? All those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: AH"ayes". Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Congratulations, students,
coaches, parents, teachers. And we have one more. Oh, did anyone from the group
want to speak. Member Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair, 1 think, I'm not sure about that cause 1 know Lois set this
up. But we could ask them. Chair. If there's anyone from the group that--
CHAIR LEE: 1 see someone raising a hand there.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I see some, I see a lot of hands raised.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Let's, let's go with Maui Waena, I, cause I just happened to see them
first. Maui Waena, could you state your name and your school, please?
VICE PRINCIPAL CHRISTINE OSHITA: Hi. My name is Christine Oshita. I'm a Vice Principal
here at Maui Waena Intermediate School. And Ms. Suzuki is actually not present,
because she is at that robotics competition in Texas with her sons. So, I'm sitting in
for her. And I just want to thank you all for your support, because I couldn't agree with
you more. We are so proud of not just our students here at Maui Waena, but all the
students who are participating and. and getting recognized today.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 68
They really have such great creativity. They're very confident. They have a lot of
courage. They put themselves out there. They take risks. And you're absolutely right,
they are going to be our problem solvers, who are attacking the issues in the future.
So, we gotta keep our eye on these kids cause we're going to hear their names some
more in the future. I'm sure of it. And it takes everybody.
So, the teachers, certainly Ms. Suzuki. Ms. Casabay, Mr. Suzuki. Finding and creating
those opportunities for the kids to develop their talents, and being that confidence and,
you know, all of you, support from you, from our government to keep these kinds of
programs going and to keep it in the spotlight. We really appreciate this recognition.
Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Thank you.
VICE PRINCIPAL OSHITA: Did you want to say something?
CHAIR LEE: That's Maui Waena. Do we have another school, would like to say something?
Jay, Jay Paa, Bob [sic] Siarot. Ms. [sic] Jay Paa, would you like to go first? Go ahead.
MR. JAY PAA: Aloha mai kakou. I just wanted to share, again, thank you, this is a great
honor. The two young ladies right next to me, they're seniors. And I, I, they're really
quiet. They're really humble. But I just wanted to kind of share, you know, they've
been in the program for a good, what, since Aimi, right here, has been in the program
since 7th grade with Mr. Siarot. And Nanea has been in the program since her
sophomore year.
And I, I'd like to be the first to kind of share with you guys, Nanea here is going to be
at the UH Manoa. She's already been accepted to the Creative Media Program. And
Aimi, right there, is going to be going to Cal Berkeley. And so, so, I mean, kudos to
them. I mean, our job, as you guys know, as teachers, we're there to just light the fire.
And most of it is their motivation, their, their wanting to be in the industry. So, thank
you very much. It goes to everybody there. All you students, awesome job. Team
808.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Paa and students. Thank you very much.
Okay. Did Mr. Siarot want to say something as well?
MR. ROB SIAROT: Yes. Hi. Thank you again, Council Chair. We, as, as teachers, you
know, we, our job is to inspire and to model, role model. And it was really tough during
these last two-and-a-half years. Despite all the challenges, you know, the students
really did well, you know, through the pandemic. And we were supposed to go to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 69
Washington, D.C. a couple years ago, which got canceled. We were supposed to go
to Oahu to compete in this, but once again, because of the high numbers, COVID
numbers, it was canceled. So, we were fortunate enough to still participate, but from
home.
And these students that you see right here, you know, they're, they're 8th graders but,
you know, the teamwork and then the resilience that they showed, along with my core
advisor Candis here, but, you know, you know, they didn't let the COVID and the
pandemic slow their momentum down. So, thank you again for, Council, for
recognizing these students. They have many more years to go. They're in middle
school, but we're looking to see good things from them as they go to Mr. Paa's class.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very, very much. We're so happy to support you.
Is there another school? Lahaina Intermediate? Would you like to say something?
Can, can you unmute your phone? I mean, your microphone.
MS. LORI ANN KOYAMA: Aloha kakou. I just wanted, we all wanted to say thank you. Yes,
Tamara, it is a water, it's not a water day. We are having our renaissance wet and wild
reward day. So, my students left that to be a part of this. But this is such an honor and
thank you guys for recognizing not just our school, but the other schools as well. We
really appreciate it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. And good luck to you all. Anyone else have remarks?
Comments?
VICE PRINCIPAL OSHITA: Could I say something?
CHAIR LEE: Did we miss another; did we miss a school?
VICE PRINCIPAL OSHITA: We have a student who would like to say something here at Maui
Waena.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
MS. CAPRI NOZAKI: I’d just like to say-
VICE PRINCIPAL OSHITA: Your name.
MS. NOZAKI: Oh, I am Capri Nozaki. I'm a 7th grader at Maui Waena Intermediate School
and I would just like to say thank you for recognizing us.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 70
VICE PRINCIPAL OSHITA: You can all say thank you.
MAUI WAENA STUDENTS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: You're so very welcome. Anybody else? Okay, thank you again. And good
luck to you all. And bring home the bacon for Maui, Maui County.
Alright. I think Member Paltin has something else to say on the previous, previous
resolution.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I was wondering if, I don't know if we need
a formal amendment or a friendly amendment? But 1 did receive communication from
the coach asking if we can amend the resolution to include the student manager
Rebekah Ankney in the resolution. And it would probably go best right, right after the
team managers, the student manager, Rebekah Ankney, A-N-K-N-E-Y. Do Members
want a formal amendment or a friendly amendment?
CHAIR LEE: Will a friendly amendment suffice? Just adding that person's name and address
on the previous, previous resolution? Okay, so ordered.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Non-substantive.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, can you make sure that the staff gets the correct name and address?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure thing. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And thank you. Member Kama. That was a, a very nice, you know, break for
us to, to talk to the young students. And, and you could feel their energy through the
TV, I mean, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. Yeah. Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: You could feel it. Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha . . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk, where are we? Communications? Are we on
communications?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 71
CHAIR LEE: Members, shall I keep going through, or, or you want a lunch break?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Lunch.
CHAIR LEE: You want a lunch break? Okay, one hour or an hour and a half? Up to you.
One hour?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Hour and a half.
CHAIR LEE: Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'd like to take an hour and  ahalf cause I have to go somewhere.
CHAIR LEE: Did you say one hour?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, I said I have, I have to go somewhere, so I'd like to take an
hour and a half.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Is everybody okay with 1:30?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: That's fine with me.
CHAIR LEE: 1:30?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 1:30.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's good.
CHAIR LEE: 1:30? Alright. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, we're going to break until, take a lunch break until 1:30. This meeting
is in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:06 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:33 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 72
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of April 22, 2022, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk, shall we begin with communications?
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with county communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-92 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated April 12, 2022)
Transmitting 65 contracts/grants for the month of March 2022.
COUNTY CLERK: County Communication 22-93 from the Chair of the Maui County Charter
Commission, excuse me, transmitting. I got a frog in my throat. Hold on a second.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, well, maybe Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, do you want to make a
motion on CC 22-92, while she's getting her voice back?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, I was going to also request our Clerk to call
up 22-99. But we can take them up separately as well.
I  MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 22-92,
EXCEPT FOR THE GRANTS AND CONTRACTS THAT
COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Alright, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by Member
Sugimura, to file the, the contracts, except for those requested by the Members.
CHAIR LEE:
So, Members, do you have any requests to refer any?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 73
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I WOULD LIKE TO REFER C7466-2, U\HA1NA CIVIC CENTER
REHABILITATION; AND C7513 [SIC], TWO FIBERGLASS
LIFEGUARD TOWERS, TO MEMBER KAMA'S COMMITTEE IF
SHE WOULD ALLOW.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so the first one, the first and second one would be to HCP?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Correct.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections, Members--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: --to referring these two contracts to HCP?
(CONTRACT C7513 WAS STATED IN ERROR AND SHOULD
HAVE BEEN CONTRACT C7573.)
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fer, no, who else has contracts to, to refer, to
request referral? Nobody? No, oh, alright. Alright. All those in favor of the motion,
raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes'zero "noes"; motion carries. And that was CC 22-92.
Alright, the. Madam Clerk, you feeling okay?
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, let's, let's go.
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah. Thank you. Sorry about that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 74
- GRANT Y.M. CHUN. CHAIR. MAUI COUNTY CHARTER
COMMISSION, (dated April 13, 2022)
NO. 22-93
Transmitting the Charter Commission's response to the Council's alternative proposed
Charter amendments.
COUNTY CLERK: County Communication 22--
CHAIR LEE: Well, well, Members, you want to handle them one by one? Because I don't
think. Member Molina, were you going to take action on this one? Yeah. Let's, let's
do it one by one. Okay.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. May we also have the Clerk
call up Resolution 22-94, as well?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk. 92, I mean, 22-94.
COUNTY CLERK: Resolution 22-94?
CHAIR LEE: CC, yeah? Did you want Resolution dash 22-94, or CC?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. It's under unfinished, under unfinished business.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-94
RETRACTING ALTERNATIVE AMENDMENTS TO THE
REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983)
AS AMENDED, RELATING TO THE 2021-2022 MAUI
COUNTY CHARTER COMMISSION FINAL REPORT
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you very much, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-93 AND
RESOLUTION 22-94.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci, to file Resolution
22-93, no, Resolution 22-94 and CC 22-93.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. The Council voted
unanimously to support the alternative Charter amendments. And we all worked very
hard with the Charter Commission to significantly reduce the total number of ballot
questions. And we have received nothing that would justify redacting our
recommendations. The process has worked, and now, it's time to let the people vote
on these issues. And that's my reason for a filing. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion, Members? Does everybody understand what just
happened?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I have a question. Because, yeah, I thought this would be, you're
going to take this back to Committee to talk about their responses back to us. But
there's not an opportunity for further action on their responses back to us?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Well, that's up to this body, if you want that. But for me, I, I
felt, you know, 1 didn't see anything in there that would, you know, cause me to take it
back to Committee. But again, if you're, if you Members, you're ail well aware that we
are going to have, Counciimembers will have an opportunity to submit additional
Charter amendments after the budget session. So, there is an opportunity for you, as
well, if you want to submit alternatives or other Charter Commission, Charter proposals
for the 2022 ballot.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 76
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. I guess I misunderstood, cause I thought we had to, they
were sending it back to us and we had to approve it. But it's just a notification, so if we
file it, then they just go, then they just do whatever they're going to do as far as Charter
amendments?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, that is my understanding. Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Oh, Richelle Thomson’s on.
CHAIR LEE: Richelle.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Thank you, Chair.
Just briefly, if the effective filing, this would be that the Council's three alternative
proposals that were rejected by the Charter Commission will appear as alternatives.
So, you'll have Charter Commission alternative A and Council B. So, it’ll be a question
in two parts.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And what would the alternative to filing it be?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: If the Council wished, you could choose to
withdraw or recall one of those rejected alternatives. And then the Council's would not
appear on the ballot, just the Charter Commission's version.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, by filing, then they'll have a choice of, and it's clear it's a
choice of one or the other?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright. I, I guess if that's the will of the body. I'll go along
with it.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. After hearing Ms. Thompson and
Member Molina's explanation, I don't know if they're consistent with what Member
Molina said that he would like to do. i guess my question is for Member Molina. Is
your intention to send both the Charter Commission's proposal and the Council's
alternative to the ballot with your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 77
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay. In that case, I think I prefer to take it to
Committee, cause I don't, we were trying to get less ballot questions on the ballot. And
by filing, it sounds like we're going to have more ballot questions. Meaning the three
that the Charter Commission rejected, the three alternates, alternatives that the
Council proposed would be on the ballot. So. three of them will have a choice of the
Charter Commission's or the Council's.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. It'll be alternate. Yeah, the public can choose either
one, yeah. But I'll, I'll let Ms. Thomson answer that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, may I hear, may I hear Ms. Thomson?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. I just wanted to also note that the
Council has ten days from the date of transmittal. So, it was transmitted, I believe it
was received by the Council on the 14th of April. So, you have ten days from that date.
So, you're, you're also up against the timeclock for, for recalling any. So, it can't really
effectively be sent to Committee. If the time expires, then it automatically goes onto
the ballot along with the Charter Commission's original proposal.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: So, we would have to do it today? Any changes today. But in the meantime,
let's have other people ask questions.
Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Okay, so, I just want to make sure I'm clear
and I understand. So, the, there were 13 ballot questions. And I think we deleted two
that the Commission said okay, so we ended up with 11. And although we had offered
the alternatives, it doesn't change the number of ballot questions. It's just now, we now
have maybe ballot A and a ballot B, and a ballot 9, ballot A, ballot B. Is that right?
CHAIR LEE: Three questions will have two alternatives. The Charter amendments and the
Council's.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 78
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Question for Corp. Counsel.
CHAIR LEE: Richelle? Ms. Thomson? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Hi. Well, I don't want to stay here any longer on a Friday, but
could we make the decision today if we wanted to, to just have the one set of questions
go to the ballot?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes. So, the choice that you are making today
is for all three of them. So, it doesn't have to be all three. It could be one, two, or three
that you either recall, which would mean that your, the Council's alternative would not
appear on the ballot. But if any are not recalled, whether, you know, by filing or by the
expiration of the ten days, then the Council's alternative will appear on the ballot.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, upon hearing that information, my request would be to
defer this item till the end of the calendar. I'll have my staff look into those three
questions and see if we can, if, if it's my position to just have the, the one question go
to the ballot as a simpler route for our voters cause it could get confusing otherwise,
maybe.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Thomson? Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Since you have all the information in front of you, I know one is the Department
of ‘Oiwi, the other one is the Police Chief communications, and the other one is the
independent nominating board. Can you just go down the line with each one so the
Members know exactly what the Charter Commission is proposing and what the
Council is proposing? The County Council.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Sure. And this is also in Granicus, attached
to County Communication 22-94. It has both the Charter's, Charter Commission’s
originals and then all of Council's alternatives. I'm just going to scroll down to the
Council alternatives. As you said, the first one is the Department of ‘Oiwi Resources.
So, Council's alternative to ‘Oiwi re, the ‘Oiwi Resources proposal is on page 22 of the
PDF. And primary, Keola Whittaker is also on here, so if there's anything I don't get
accurate, he can kind of pop in and help. Keola, do you have both up on your screen,
so we could do side-by-side?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 79
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL KEOLA WHITTAKER: 1 don't have both, but I have a
summary I can given. So, the primary difference on the ‘Oiwi Resources between the
Council proposal and the Charter Commission's is the Charter Commission's proposal,
you'll recall, has an English translation of the State motto. And the Council alternative
removed the English translation. There were other minor changes that are relatively
non-substantive, but that's the major difference between the two.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Including the director's qualifications.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER; Yes, you're right. There was changes
to the director's qualification that would mean that most of them would be defined by
ordinance in the Council's alternative. And they were more detailed in the Charter
Commission's proposal.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, is it possible to put something, screen share this, so we can see side-by-
side and think about it? Members, do you want to vote on this one by one, or what's
the, what's the pleasure of the group?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. If possible, I, I would go with what
Member Paltin had suggested and just save this for the end of calendar. And then, if
Ms. Thomson and Mr. Whittaker can be better prepared at that time to do what we're
asking them to do, then everyone can be more informed about how they'll decide on
each of the three. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Let me check with the Chair of the Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, that’s fine.
CHAIR LEE: Chair Molina, are you, you good with that?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, we can table it and then come back to it after we do our
other business.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Just, just this one, right, not the other one?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections to deferring this particular item, Resolution 22-94-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 80
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; No objections.
CHAIR LEE: --to the end of the calendar.
COUNCILMEMBER SiNENCI: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: And do you have any questions for Corp. Counsel, so that they can research it
now, and be prepared for the discussion later? Any questions? No? Okay, so the
motion, can you just rephrase the motion then, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, the motion was to file County Communication 22-93
and Resolution 22-94.
CHAIR LEE: So, now it, now, what is the resolution? I mean, what is your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: The motion was to file both the county communication and the
resolution.
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no, but we're going to, if we can take up one now, then we can vote on
it now. The other one, we don't know. That might change. Or you want to leave it like
that? You want to leave the motion like that?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, unless someone wants to make an amendment to the
motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; They, they go together. They go together. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: . . . 94 . . .
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We'll, we'll defer both of them till the end of the calendar.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 81
CHAIR LEE; Okay? Alright.
(See pagesi 63 through 183 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, shall we proceed? Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Okay, hold on.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-94 - YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated April 13,2022)
Relating to a report by Councilmembers on discussion that took place at the Maui
Metropolitan Planning Organization Policy Board Meeting on March 14, 2022.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-94.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to file County
Communication 22-94.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you. I’m providing this report in
accordance with the Sunshine Law, specifically the requirements of Section 92-2.5(e),
Hawaii Revised Statutes.
Councilmembers Sinenci, Paltin, and I are board members of the MPO on, or Maui
Metropolitan Planning Organization. And we attended a meeting on March 14, 2022,
from 12 p.m. to 12:59 p.m. via video conference.
The meeting was organized and facilitated by MPO Executive Director Lauren
Armstrong.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 82
The board offered the opportunity for public testimony and one person testified. Among
the items discussed were the executive director's report which included financial
updates for the month ending January 31,2022; public comments on Federal Fiscal
Year 2022-2025; plus two Transportation Improvement Program or TIP Revisions
No. 2; and an update from the Hawaii State Legislature. Copies can be found of the
agenda and the minutes on www.mauimpo.org.
The meeting was not specifically or exclusively organized for or directed toward
Councilmembers. And no commitment relating to a Council vote was made or sought.
Chair, that concludes my report. I welcome any of the other Members to provide any
input.
CHAIR LEE: Any further comments or questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Member King had requested an
opinion from OIP or, or something regarding this report being required under Sunshine
Law, cause I thought it wasn't required under Sunshine Law.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, do you recall?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, not Member, Member King requested that they
get a . . . But it wasn't her, it wasn't her responsibility to do it.
CHAIR LEE: No, you requested, but I don't recall getting a response.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I thought-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I’ll follow up. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we'll follow up on it. And then, in the meantime, are there anymore
comments or questions on the report or this item in general? Okay, if not, all those in
favor of the motion to file, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 83
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes zero "noes": motion carries.
And so, we have 99 dash, I mean 22-95.
NO. 22-95 - KING TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated April 12, 2022)
Relating to a report by Councilmembers on discussion that took place at the housing
town hall in Kihei on March 22, 2022.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-95.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, second by Member Sugimura. Why am I having,
hearing the echo? Okay, so, so anyway, the motion is to file County Communication
22-95.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Is it, this one is required by law. I’m providing
this report in accordance with State Sunshine Law, specifically requirements of
Section 92-2.5(e), Hawaii Revised Statutes.
Councilmember Sinenci, Councilmember Johnson, and  Iattended a housing town hall
in Kihei on March 22, 22, 2022 at 6:00 p.m., commencing at 6:00 p.m. on Tuesday
evening.
I addressed about 50 attendees to introduce two presenters of affordable housing
rental projects to be located in Kihei. The first one is located in the R&T Park off Lipoa
Parkway above the Maui Nui Golf Club. And the second is at the corner of Piikea and
Liloa to be located in Kihei.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 84
The first one. I'm sorry, when the presentations concluded, each project representative
answered questions from the public, then were joined by a comprehensive panel,
including County Planning Director Michele McLean, Deputy Director of Housing and
Human Concerns Linda Munsell, long-time Maui developer Ray Phillips, affordable
housing advocate Stan Franco, and real estate broker and builder Lawrence Carnicelli.
The meeting was not specifically or exclusively organized for or directed towards
Councilmembers. And no commitment relating to a Council vote was made or sought.
Specifically, the meeting was to inform the public of these two upcoming projects. And
the, and the date of, the approximate date of accepting applications for the project up
above the golf club, which is affordable housing at 60 percent AMI and below.
That concludes my report. If Councilmembers Johnson or Sinenci would like to add
anything, I would welcome that.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci and Johnson, any further comments?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. A good time was had by all. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else? Any, anyone else?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, I concur with Member King's report. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nobody else? Al right, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE,
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes". zero "noes": motion carries.Nine "ayes
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 85
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
NO. 22-96 - YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. CHAIR, INFRASTRUCTURE AND
TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE, (dated April 14, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill 59, CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE REPEALING CHAPTER 16.20B, MAUI COUNTY CODE, AND
ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 16.20C, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
THE PLUMBING CODE".
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR, I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-96.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to file County
Communication 22-96.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank, thank you. Chair. The Amendment Summary Form
attached to CC 22-96 is no longer necessary. I intend to present an ASF, \A/hich will
be distributed by the Clerk when county communication, sorry, Committee Report
22-36 is called up. 1 respectfully request for the Members support of my motion. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion to file, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 86
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
- TAMARA PALTIN. CHAIR. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE U\ND
USE COMMITTEE, (dated April 14, 2022)
NO. 22-97
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Resolution 22-51, CD1, entitled
"SUPPORTING A PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT RELATING TO
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS AND RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE
HOUSING FOR THE WAIKAPU COUNTRY TOWN PROJECT".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair, if there's no objections, 1 would ask that
County Communication 22-97 be taken up with Committee Report 24, 22-40 later in
the agenda.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered.
(See pages 115 through 121 for discussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Please proceed, Madam Clerk.
- TASHA KAMA. PRESIDING OFFICER PRO TEMPORENO. 22-98
(dated April 13, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill 39, CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 5.30, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO ELECTRIC GUN DEALER LICENSING".
CHAIR LEE: Officer providing. Presiding Officer Pro Temp Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 87
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. So, Chair, it has come to my knowledge that
we would have to go into executive session to discuss this. And I'm not sure if we want
to do that today. And if it's okay with the Members, I'd like to put this off to the next
Council meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members, to defer this to the next Council meeting?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just, ques, question for Corp. Counsel, if this would affect the
pending litigation.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel.
CORPORATION COUNSEL MOANA LUTEY: Thank you. Chair. No. Part of what we're
trying to discuss with you does involve that, but that’s why we need executive session.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And just one follow up question, if 1 may. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Do you think, how long do you think it would take in executive
session if we did it today?
CORPORATION COUNSEL: Depends on how many questions you have. But I don't think it
would, from my perspective, it wouldn't take that long. But I just, I don't know what
your timeline's like and how many questions you might have.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you so much. 1 mean, I don't mind disposing of it
today, cause it seems like folks really want to buy tasers and I don't want to bum their
trip. But I'll leave it up to the body.
CHAIR LEE: We'll leave it up to the Chair to.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, 1 just want to add my two cents. I guess we're going to
have a better gage on how long we'll be in there if we put time limits on ourself, or limit
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 88
questions. That's the only way, cause it's really hard to answer that question in
executive session. I mean, it could go on and on and on. But just wanted to throw out
my thoughts on that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Is that, is your recommendation to defer this matter to the next Council meeting?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: May 6, I think. May 6.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: That's my preference. But I'm one of nine. But that is my
preference.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I know the Corp. Counsel can't
answer our questions, or certain questions in open session. But I'm looking at the
amendments that are being proposed. I'm ... how that differs from, if it's substan, oh.
So, this fee was sent to us via State statute. And so, we're, we're just, I guess I don't
understand how we're changing it from State statute when State statute is telling
County Code what, dictating to County Code what it will say under this.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel? Corporation Counsel Moana Lutey. Aren't, are we not in
litigation on this?
CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: And that's the reason why we have to go into executive session. Whether the
people will have a good case or not a good case.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: We also received correspondence from the Plaintiffs earlier this
week that we would need to convey to this body and discuss. So, that's the other
reason we would need executive session.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 89
they're on the line?CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions for Corp. Counsel while
Apparently not.
Any other comments or questions from the other Members?
Member King.
Okay so the, yes
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just wanted to say I'm happy to defer it to the next meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, Members, the request was made to defer this till the next meeting
so are there any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered. So, ordered.
Madam Clerk, next item.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications for referral. The following
communications are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
- CLARK ABBOTT. CHAIR. SALARY COMMISSION
(dated March 28, 2022)
NO. 22-99
Relating to salary increases for Department Directors. Deputy Directors, and the
County Auditor.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-99 be referred to the Budget
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-99 WAS FILED LATER IN
THE MEETING. See pages 90 and 91 for discussion and action.)
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 22-100
(dated April 11. 2022)
Transmitting the Short-Term Investment Reports as of March 31, 2022 (Fiscal Year
2022 Third Quarter).
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-100 be referred to the
Budget. Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 90
NO. 22-101 - SHAYNE R. AGAWA, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
(dated April 6, 2022)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Report for the month ending March 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-101 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
- MICHELE CHOUTEAU MCLEAN. PLANNING DIRECTOR,
(dated April 6, 2022)
NO. 22-102
Relating to the South Maui Community Plan update.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-102 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objections to these referrals, Members?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: None.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we have one. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-99
CC 22-99 from the SalaryMahalo, Chair.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Commission.
I MOVE TO FILE CC 22-99.
CHAIR LEE: Seo-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 91
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to file
CC 22-99.
Discussion, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: These communications are informational, and no
further action is required by the Council. Okay, that's it.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
CHAIR LEE.
AND
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Alright, but no objections to the other referrals, Members? Alright, then we have-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I have a question.
CHAIR LEE: -the next page, committee reports. Oh, excuse me. Wait, Madam Clerk.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, Chair. So, 22-102 is about seating the CPAC, which I
thought would go through the GREAT Committee? Cause it's appointments.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Any objections. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: My only concern is, would Member Molina, 1 know he has a
pretty heavy agenda. 1 can take this up right away if he cannot. But I'm willing, if he
can take it up in a timely manner, it's really about accommodating the Planning
Director's request in a timely manner.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I, I have no objections, Madam Chair. And i thank Member
Paltin for being considerate of our heavy schedule in GREAT. So, yeah, I have no
objections if Member Paltin . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 92
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, my. my only concern was  Istarted discussing with Member
Molina already but, about the CPAC for the South Maui Community Plan. But if
Member Paltin's willing to pick it up, I can have that discussion with her.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, Okay. So, the referrals will stand right? Okay.
So, let's see, moving onto committee reports.
COUNTY CLERK: Moving on with item K, Committee Reports. Chair, proceeding with the
committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-34NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-65
BARGAINING UNIT 01. NON-SUPERVISORY, BLUE COLLAR EMPLOYEES," be
ADOPTED.
entitled "APPROVING COST ITEMS FOR
COUNTY CLERK: Committee Report 22-35-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait hold on. Vice-Chair, you want to take all of them up at the same
time?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes, we usually take up CR's one at a time.
CHAIR LEE: One at a time? Alright.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. I think everyone's got to mute. That's
where the feedback's coming from.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-34,
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 93
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Johnson, to approve the, the recommendations in Committee Report 22-34.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Your Budget, Finance, and Economic Development
Committee met on April 4, 2022, to discuss Resolution 22-65. This resolution would
approve cost items for non-supervisory, blue collar employees within Bargaining
Unit 01, represented by United Public Works for Fiscal Year 2022 to 2025.
The amount, the amounted included, the amount included in this agreement were
based on agreements that have been finalized with two other bargaining units.
The new rates will take effect when the last of the legislative bodies approve this
agreement.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-65. I respectfully
ask for the Members continued support of this item. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the motion to approve the recommendation in
Committee Report 22-34, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk. I think you may be muted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 94
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-35NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
entitled "AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITION OF1. That Resolution
REAL PROPERTY TO HOUSING AND LAND ENTERPRISE OF MAUI
22-84
DBANA HALE O MAUI AND FOR WAIVER OF OUTSTANDING REAL
PROPERTY TAXES." be ADOPTED; and
2. That Resolution
REAL PROPERTY TO THE MAUI HEALTH FOUNDATION AND FOR WAIVER
OF OUTSTANDING REAL PROPERTY TAXES," be ADOPTED.
22-85 entitled "AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITION OF
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-35.
RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 22-35.
Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Your Budget, Finance, and Economic Development
Committee met on April 4, 2022, to discuss Resolution 22-84 and Resolution 22-85.
These resolutions authorize the disposition of 35 lots in the Fairways at Maui Lani,
19 lots to Na Hale O Maui for affordable workforce housing in perpetuity, and 16 to the
Maui Health, Health Foundation for developing and providing leasehold market rate
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 95
homes for healthcare providers in perpetuity. They also waived outstanding real
property taxes.
The Department of Housing and Human Concern said these lots are not the lots which
share a wall with Palama Drive homes. And that a phased approach is being used to
give the County time to address and remediate neighborhood concerns before
additional lots are conveyed.
Representatives from Na Hale O Maui and Maui Health Foundations stated that if iwi
kupuna are found, construction will be stopped, and appropriate action will be taken.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-84 and Resolution
22-85. I respectfully ask for the Members continued support of these items. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I, you know, the testifiers really made
valid points on that. And I also want to address what we talked about in Committee.
That, you know, part of the stall was the iwi kupuna. And there has to come to a time
when we look at these parcels and ask ourselves, is, is not building on these parcels
on the table? Because sometimes we just push, push, push and 1 don't want to add
more desecration than already has.
So, it's maybe phase 2 maybe a . . . maybe if there is something that we do find, or
maybe there is some concerns, we have to ask ourselves at some point, maybe one
or some of these parcels might not be able to be built on. So, as long as that's on the
table and we are moving forward, the ones that can be built should be built. Thank
you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just wanted to send my appreciation and thanks to
Ms. Goodfellow, Ms. Goodfellow and Na Hale O Maui. I really appreciate, like, the
concept of housing for healthcare workers in perpetuity. I  love the concept of
affordable or workforce housing in perpetuity. And shucks, I forgot what the other part
of it, what 1 was going to say.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 96
But, oh, 1. 1 think that, you know, them taking this on and speaking with the area
residents has spurred us, as the County to malama our kuleana. Cause as we seen.
Member Kama put in the budget to talk about the drainage and things like that. So,
you know, it was a piece of lands or lots that the County owned that was just, nothing
was happening to it. And because of this, now there's attention to the long-standing
problems of drainage. There's attention to the long-standing problems of that big wall
that's kind of unkept behind the residents and the backfill.
So, I, i, I really appreciate and mahalo Ms. Abdul and Ms. Goodfellow for pushing on
this and bringing it to the forefront so that we can take care of the kuleana that we have
to the neighborhood. And we can also provide sorely needed affordable housing in
perpetuity for the Na Hale side for workforce housing or affordable housing, both,
hopefully, and also address the need from our healthcare workers. So, I, 1 support this,
and I offer my gratitude for those two ladies and everyone they're working with. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anybody else? Comments? Discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. 1 will tell you that in my terms of office, this
parcel of land has been sorely needed. But I don't think we quite knew what to do with
it because of the controversies that existed from its inception and till today. And I just
want to thank both Tamar Goodfellow and Cassandra, who did go into the community
to already start talking to the people. And, you know, to maybe have conversations
that the County needs to also be part of the conservation. Thanks to Member Kama
for putting in that money into the, as one of your priorities, so that we can do that. And
1 will say that there is such a great need for housing for everyone and this opens a door
that is making us, as a, as a body, look at things from a broader perspective. So, thank
you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. So, I just wanted to, to say thank you to this
Council for how they think about things and how they expand their thoughts and their
ideas. And certainly, this is precedence, right, because this is occupational
preferences. And we have educators in our community also, that are needed housing.
So, I'm hoping that as we look forward to these preferential occupationals for our
housing, in housing, that we would look at that occupation also, that industry, and
probably other industries too. So, thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 97
CHAIR LEE; And as you know, I've been working on an occupational preference housing
ordinance, which you'll, you'll see probably in, during the summer.
Anybody else? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-36 BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE;
Recommending that Bill
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY
OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND (KILOHANA MAKAI PROJECT (WELA. STREET
EXTENSION))," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
(2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE30
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-36.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 98
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 22-36.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Your Budget, Finance, and Economic Development
Committee met on April 4, 2022, to discuss Bill 30 (2022). These bills would amend
the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix A, Part II, to add an appropriation under the
Affordable Housing Fund for the extension of Wela Street, including street lighting
signage, striping, and landscaping, for the Kilohana Makai Project, in the amount of
$825,000.
Your Committee noted that Ordinance 5151 (2020) changed the zoning for this
property from Open Zone to R-1 Residential, and included a condition to extend Wela
Street to Kilohana Drive.
The Department of Housing and Human Concerns material costs have increased
exponentially in the past year, and every increase makes it harder to complete the
project. The Department does not want to pass these additional costs onto buyers.
The Managing Director said that this is not the first time the County has assisted with
costs of zoning condition for a 100 percent workforce housing project.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage on first reading of Bill 30 (2022). I
respectfully ask for the Members continued support of this. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 99
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-37 BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill (2022). entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE
FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS. DEPARTMENT
OF MANAGEMENT, WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA.
60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET BUILDING RENOVATIONS." be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
1.
That Bill 36. CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
ORDINANCE NO. 5219. BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI ISSUANCE.
SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENT
- 60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET BUILDING RENOVATIONS)." be PASSED
ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
2.
3. That Bill 37 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING
THAT PART OF THE PROCEEDS OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF
THE COUNTY OF MAUI HERETOFORE ISSUED IS IN EXCESS OF THE
AMOUNTS REQUIRED FOR THE PURPOSES FOR WHICH SUCH BONDS
WERE INITIALLY ISSUED, OR MAY OR SHOULD NOT BE APPLIED TO
THOSE PURPOSES, AND DIRECTING SUCH PROCEEDS TO OTHER
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS OR AUTHORIZED PURPOSES OF THE COUNTY
OF MAUI." be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT;
and
4. That Bill 38. CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES; DEPARTMENT OF
MANAGEMENT, WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES. BOND FUND, 60 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
BUILDING RENOVATIONS; TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT
APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)." be PASSED ON FIRST READING
and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 100
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
MOVE TO ADOPT RECOMMENDATIONS IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-37.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by Member Sugimura, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 22-37.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee met on April 4, 2022, to discuss Bill 35 (2022),
Bill 36, Bill 37, and Bill 38 (2022).
These bills would amend the Budget bill, the Appendix C bill, the Bond Authorization
bill, and the Lapsed Fund bill, to correct the name of the project to 60 South Street,
South Church Street, and to add $7 million in bond funding under the Department of
Management for 60 South Church Street Building Renovations.
The Department of Management explained that these funds would be used for
construction costs, including an emergency generator, replacing both chillers, and roof
repairs.
Your Committee discussed the duration of the renovations. The Department of
Management said they anticipate Departments will be able to move into the building in
approximately one year.
The Budget Director also said the Administration is seeking Federal funding to assist
with the building renovations. This budget amendment will allow the Department to
proceed with a RFP process and other purchases. But if Federal funding is received,
the Budget will be amended to recognize the additional funding and reduce the amount
of bond funding.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage on first reading of Bills 35, 30,
Bill 35 (2022); Bill 36, GDI (2022); Bill 37 (2022), Bill 38, CD1 (2022). I respectfully
ask for the Members continued support. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 101
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand
and say "aye".
Member Paltin?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-38 INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 59, CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
REPEALING CHAPTER 16.20B, MAUI COUNTY CODE, AND ESTABLISHING A
NEW CHAPTER 16.20C, MAUI COUNTY CODE. RELATING TO THE PLUMBING
CODE." be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
1  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-38.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, second by Member, Pro Temp Kama, to approve
the recommendations in Committee Report 22-38. Discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. Your Infrastructure, Transportation
Committee met on March 22, 2022, to discuss a proposed bill to update the County's
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 102
Plumbing Code, and to incorporate the Uniform Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, with
additional revisions recommended by the Department of Public Works.
At this meeting, your Committee noted each county may amend the State Building
Code as, as it applies to their respective jurisdiction, without approval from the State
Building Code Council, within two years after the adoption of the State Code, State
Building Code. The deadline for counties to adopt this plumbing code is May 19, 2022,
or the State Building Code will prevail.
Your Committee also noted the Plumbers and Fitters Local 675 Union confirmed they
proposed the bill, proposed bill with the union and industry partners, including
Plumbing Contractors Association, all of, alt of whom were in full support.
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend passage on Bill 59, CD1 (2022) on first
reading.
At this time, if there's no objections I would like to proceed with a proposed amendment.
There’s an ASF, which you should be receiving in, in your inbox. And I respectfully ask
for the Members support of my motion as amended. Thank you. You got it? Okay,
thank you. Members, do you have it?
CFIAIR LEE: Do we have a second on the amendment?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh, Tasha.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, questions. Members? Any further discussion?
Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I'm just trying to, I don't see the ASF yet. Did you just send
it out?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Did it get to the Members? Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: There it is. It just came.
CHAIR LEE: Do you see it now? Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. The staff took a minute.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 103
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
OKAY, I MOVE TO SUBSTITUTE THE ATTACHED PROPOSED
FD1 VERSION OF BILL 59, CD1 (2022), FOR THE BILL
ATTACHED TO THE COMMITTEE REPORT.
And see proposed FD1 version of Bill 59, CD1 (2022). And the reason, if you would
allow me to explain
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; 1 second that. You moved, right?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I moved. So, Chair, she second my motion. Tasha
second my motion for the amendment. Should I continue? Oh, can I continue? Yes.
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry, I was muted. Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, yes. Okay, thank you. The substantive amendments
with consistent with the Uniform Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, and are recommended
by the Department of Public Works, who may be designated as a resource person, if
they're here. And you will see the attached bill to this.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members? Comments?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I guess, you know. I’m, I'm just seeing this 35-page amendment
now, and we discussed it in Committee with Public Works and, and the plumber,
plumber folks. So, I guess my question is what changed between Committee and
now? And did you want us to read this?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 104
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Or did you want us not to read this and just vote on the
35 pages? Cause I don't really feel comfortable that, like that.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so the proposed change, amendment to the
Plumbing Code is to include provisions on "Piping Underground Beneath Buildings":
and is to add exemptions for inspection fees for adult residential care homes and day
care centers; and to incorporate non-substantive amendments for accuracy and
consistency.
The Ramseyered version was one of the things that the Committee asked for, so that's
what this is. And at this time, I'm going to ask Public Works to tell us exactly on what
page these amendments are. Thank you. So, it's the document you saw before. It
was discussed.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, this is just the Ramseyered version.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Cause that's one of the things that the Committee asked
for, right? Yeah. Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And yeah, for, for the record, this is the
first time I've seen it, and I apologize, I'm not in the IT Committee. But just for
clarification, Ms. Sugimura, this is just for exemptions to fees, and not necessarily to,
like, any archaeological monitoring, that kind of stuff?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: This is for the use of the Plumbing Code for the industries,
or whoever is building. And so, these are the rules that would apply. But it wouldn't
be to exempt fees or exempt, you know, the standard things you need to do for
construction, which is, you know, iwi and the, all of that, if that's what you're asking for.
CHAIR LEE: This is a national code.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I'm trying to find where your changes are. I mean, the
whole thing is Ramseyered, so it looks like the whole thing has changes throughout.
But as far as your ASF, where are those changes in the document?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 105
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, can I ask Public Works to take us to the exact page?
CHAIR LEE: Is he on the call? Is Jordan on the call?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Do we have Public Works on the call? Oh, my note says
Public Works is here for a reference, resource. Chair, can I, can I make calls and, or
can I have staff make calls to them and we’ll get the answer?
CHAIR LEE: Alright, we’ll take a five-minute break. Is that enough time?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: But Member Sugimura, would you be opposed to referring this back to
Committee? Or is there a, is this time sensitive?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Well, it's time sensitive. We need to get this passed by
May 19, otherwise we automatically adopt what is the State Code. So, these are, this
is our version, so I think it's important.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, five-minute break.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Let's say, 2, 2:40. 2:40, everybody, and we will reconvene.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 2:23 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2:41 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of April 22, 2022, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk, let's continue.
Oh, I guess we need to find out where the Director of Public Works is. Is he on the
call, Member Sugimura?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 106
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And Corp. Counsel's standing by. So, if I could?
CHAIR LEE: Sure, go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you. So the question, the Members wanted
to know the difference between the original document and the one that you are looking
at today. Primarily, it's Ramseyered, which was asked for by the Committee members.
And so, staff took it back and is, has before you the Ramseyered version.
The amendment that Public Works came back with, which is on page 31 of your
document, which is "1210.1.6 Piping Underground Beneath Buildings". And if you turn
to the next page, you will see that there's a section that was deleted, but the underlined
is what was added. So, that is the change that you're looking at. And if we have Public
Works, I can, Jordan Molina, can you please explain this difference of what was
changed?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina? Director Molina?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS JORDAN MOLINA: Thank you. Chair. Can you guys hear
me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. we can.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yes.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Okay. Thank you. Jordan Molina, Director of Public
Works. So, the amendment before you is to add in two provisions that we omitted by
mistake that are in our existing Plumbing Code. There's two sections. So, the first
section being 105.2.2, relating to "Other Inspections". And this is on page, so from
Member Sugimura's transmittal, it is on page 16 of the PDF document. It is labeled
page 14 of the bill itself. And what we added is at the very end, actually on page 15.
there's these two exemptions from inspection fees for adult residential care homes and
licensing of daycare facilities. So, the current exemption is to not charge the fees for
these two types of facilities. So, we are carrying that fon/vard in the new code.
The second add is also to include a provision we missed that's in our existing Plumbing
Code, relating to encasing underground gas lines, concrete jackets. This is found on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 107
page 31 of the bill, which is page 33 of the PDF file. And again, both provisions are in
existing code, and we just missed to add them in when we came before the Committee.
Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Questions for the Director?
Yes, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. And mahalo, Director Molina. So,
everything else on here were, those were the only changes that, that the, your
Department is proposing? Everything else looks like it's underlined, so that's just all
part of the new requirements and standards as presented by the State?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: No. These would be the changes that we discussed at
Committee, that are being undertaken by the County. So, between the bill at
Committee and the bill before you today, is only those two provisions I mentioned had
changed. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Oh, okay. Alright. Thank you. Director. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any other questions? No questions? You ready to vote on the
amendment? All those in favor, please say "aye", raise your hand.
Okay, all "ayes", zero "noes".
Member Kama, "aye", right? Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Sugimura, you have anything else?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; 1 do not. So. thank you for that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 108
CHAIR LEE: So, the motion as amended. The main motion as amended.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; All those in favor of the main motion as amended, please say "aye", raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
AYES:
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-39 INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
entitled "URGING THE FEDERAL AVIATION1. That Resolution 22-71. CD1
ADMINISTRATION TO MORE EFFECTIVELY REGULATE AIR TOUR
HELICOPTER OPERATIONS IN MAUI COUNTY," be ADOPTED; and
entitled "URGING THE FEDERAL AVIATION2. That Resolution 22-74. CD1
ADMINISTRATION TO ADHERE TO THE NOISE ABATEMENT AREAS OVER
MAUI COUNTY," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura. You’re muted. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sorry about that.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-39.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maul
April 22, 2022
Page 109
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; That's kind of funny. She heard you make the motion, because you're sitting
close to each other.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Yeah, I did.
CHAIR LEE; But we didn't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; ...
CHAIR LEE; Any discussion? No discussion?
All those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: "Aye".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair. I object. No, I, I'm going to support the motion.
But Member Sugimura, as the, you're not going to say anything about the committee
report before we make the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I would love to.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Discussion. Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Your Infrastructure and Transportation Committee met on
March 22, 2022, to discuss the following. And this resolution was presented by Keani
Rawlins-Fernandez, Resolution 22-71, intended to urge the Federal Aviation
Administration. FAA, to move effectively regulate helicopter operations in Maui County.
And Resolution 22-71 [sic], which was my resolution, intended to: 1) urge the
assistance of Hawaii's Congressional delegation to have the FAA hear citizens'
concerns and work to address aircraft noise complaints; and 2) urge the State
Department of Transportation and the Mayor to independently or jointly establish a
community roundtable on aircraft noise with the FAA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 110
At this meeting your Committee discussed community concerns regarding aircraft
noise and flight paths into and over Maui County, particularly helicopter noise
disturbances over Waihee Valley, East Maui, and Molokai, and commercial aircraft
noises over Haiku, Maalaea, South Maui, and Molokai.
Your Committee discussed communication efforts \with the FAA to address these
concerns, resulting in the FAA recommended the initiation of a roundtable, taskforce,
or ad hoc committee to engage the local community and address related concerns.
Your Committee also noted the support of U.S. House of Representative Congressman
Kaiali'i Kahele for both resolutions.
Your Committee supported adding language to Resolution 22-71 to recognize that the
silence of Haleakala is recognized as a treasure, and to urge the National Park Service
to discontinue tour helicopter operations over Haleakala National Park.
Your Committee supported adding language to urge the FAA to issue a rule to regulate
and reduce helicopter overflights and attendant noise disturbance over nearby
communities, similar to Title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 93, New York North
Shore Helicopter Route.
Your Committee further supported amending Resolution 22-74 to clarify the mapping
of noise abatement areas for the Island of Maui, identify current flight paths, and, and
directly urged the FAA instead of the State's Congressional Delegation to adhere to
the mapping noise abatement areas.
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-71, CD1, and
voted 5-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-74, CD1. I respectfully ask for the
Councilmembers support of the motion. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I wanted to thank Member Sugimura
for expediting the scheduling of these resolutions on behalf of our community, and for
all of our community members, particularly those that have been helping to advance
these two pieces of legislation, those that are in the Quiet Skies group. They, they
have been instrumental in helping us with these two resolutions. And as I stated in
Committee, that I would be drafting one more resolution on behalf of the Quiet Skies
groups, and then Member Sugimura would schedule that one as well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 111
But this, hopefully, as Congressman Kahele said, that we can all work together to
ensure that the quality of life for our residents are more protected. Because, as you
heard in testimony today, when the helicopters come over it, it can trigger those with
PTSD. It, it, it's nonstop in a lot of our areas. It's an invasion of our residents' privacy.
And so, I just want to thank this Council for their support. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And, yeah, I, too, wanted to mahalo
Member Sugimura for putting this resolution through. We did expand this discussion
in our tourism management TIG to include possibly safety videos on the airlines, and,
and also flights, daily flights, and seating on, on aircrafts. I understand that it's still, it's
urging the Federal Aviation Administration. So, some of the, I guess, the
recommendations that came out of the TIG was maybe to look for a lobbyist in
Washington to lobby the FAA in Washington to try and get some of these things
moving. But this is definitely a great start. And  Isee all of our Congressional
representatives, so happy to support.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. I, too, want to thank
Member Sugimura for taking this up in her Committee. You know, we were one of the
first to get calls about aircrafts in the Haiku area. And then of course, we contacted
Congressman Kahele's office. So, kudos to Congressman Kahele, as well, too. And
we're quite fortunate, the irony is he is a pilot, so he's certainly very familiar with the
flightpaths. And of course, I believe he is on the, maybe if I'm stand to be corrected,
the Transportation Committee, as well. So, he holds a key position, so, he was very
helpful as well. But thank you for shepherding this matter, Member Sugimura, on
behalf of the citizens of my district. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. I don't know why you can't see me, I had my hand
up after Keani, but whatever. So, Member Sugimura, I was, I was really sorry to miss
this meeting, because I’ve also had complaints about this, especially from folks in
Maalaea. But when I looked at this resolution, the one thing I didn't understand was it
references maps, noise abatement areas. And was, is there an actual map, and who
did the mapping?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 112
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I believe that the FAA has a regulations book that they
follow and so it's, it's way beyond us. And so, that's why we are trying to get the FAA's
attention so that your, I think Mike, or Councilmember Molina, then Kelly King, were
the ones that had complaints, as well as the Molokai residents that came forward.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No, what I'm asking is, who, who did the, I think you referred to
maps--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, FAA.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's a FAA?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: It's a FAA document, yeah. So, what, what-
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
documents? Because . . .
So, basically, you're asking them to adhere to their own
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Well, we're trying to get them to be sensitive to the
concerns of our residents, so they would possibly not fly over where our residents are
asking. So, I'm trying to get--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. No, I get that. I'm, I'm just, I was confused as if it's an
FAA-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The FAA did the mapping of the noise abatement areas, then we
have violations of the FAA mapping?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm sorry. So, the FAA has flying zones, basically. I'm
sorry. And we're trying to get them to be sensitive to the areas that our residents are
saying that there's, there's noise problems, right? So, there is routes . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I, no, no, I, the reference to maps noise abatement areas. I'm
just asking who did the, who mapped those out?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: FAA has the maps. And we're trying to get them to
recognize our areas to be included.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so they actually have areas that they call noise abatement?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 113
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I don't know the technical. There is an FAA guideline that
the pilots and helicopters, they all follow. So, we're trying to get them to recognize, as
I said, our resident concerns in the areas.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, yeah, I just, that's the only question ! had, was who did the
mapping of the noise abatement areas? Because it says, we're urging the FAA to
adhere to the maps noise abatement areas over Maui County, and so-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -have OCS. Okay. Alright. OCS is trying to get the formal
name for you, so if you can give me a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, just, I, well, you know, my concern is I want to be able to
back this up and I’d like to know who mapped out those areas, so I could speak to it if
I want to defend this resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Meanwhile, meanwhile, does anybody else have questions?
Did you. Member Sugimura, did you say you requested from OCS information?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: So, we're waiting for that?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Member King, I know that you were,
you put this on the item on behalf of some of our residents. Did you have an opportunity
to meet with them? Because that's where they got, we got the information from.
Ms. Cheryl Henderson [sic] provided us some of that information that we used in the
resolution.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. No, I hadn't met with them in person. I forwarded it, and I
was really hoping to be at the meeting, but I had something else come up.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, Ms. Henderson [sic] actually has a lot of
information that I think would be very helpful in defending whatever it is that you are
looking to defend.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just wondered if the, the mapping came from the citizens or if it
came from an actual, like the FAA, or an actual agency? Because I think that would
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 114
make it stronger if it did come from an agency. If we're asking the, if we're asking for
the airlines to adhere to a mapped noise, I just never have heard about, other than
seeing the wording here, I've never heard about any formal mapped noise abatement
areas. And I think we need it, but I just don’t know who's, who?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's, it was formally approved. I believe that it was
done by one of the State agencies or task forces. That's what, that was the discussion
in Committee. Okay, and it looks like Member Sugimura now has the formal title of the
report.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I'm getting all of these pings from staff. So, it says
published by the Hawaii State Department of Transportation. And wait a minute, let
me get all of this. Noise abatement areas are State of Hawaii getting, Hawaii Airports
and Flying Safety Guide, published by the Hawaii State Department of Transportation
in 2013.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions or comments?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I just want to thank her, because the staff muted me. So I'm
sorry, I was trying to say thank you and they muted me.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Okay. Any more comments or questions. Members? Alright.
Yes, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I wanted to just also say that this, these resolutions
were very timely, because the National Parks Service, Haleakala National Park,
especially, or in particular, along with FAA, are looking for community comments. And
April 1 was that deadline, so we were able to use this as examples of the community
voice wanting to have some resolution, or for them to pay attention to this. And then,
just for the community input, information, spring or. I'm sorry, latter part of this year,
Natalie Gates, who is a Superintendent for Haleakala said that she and FAA will do a
community meeting. So, I'm waiting for that to be, for me to be able to bring the
community together to hear what, you know, what they're saying. So, there is hopefully
some merit to this, and we'll have a next step. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more comments? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 115
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SiNENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-40 PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-51, CD1
PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT RELATING TO INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS AND RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING FOR THE
WAIKAPU COUNTRY TOWN PROJECT", be ADOPTED.
entitled "SUPPORTING A PUBLIC
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. May I also ask the Clerk to call County
Communication No. 22-97?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- TAMARA PALTIN. CHAIR. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND
USE COMMITTEE, (dated April 14, 2022)
NO. 22-97
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Resolution 22-51, CD1, entitled
"SUPPORTING A PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT RElV\TING TO
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS AND RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE
HOUSING FOR THE WAIKAPU COUNTRY TOWN PROJECT".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Bear with me, gangy. I'll explain everything
just give me a moment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 116
I MOVE TO SUBSTITUTE THE AGREEMENT IN EXHIBIT "1"
TO THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION 22-51, CD1, WITH THE
REVISED AGREEMENT ATTACHED TO THE MEMORANDUM
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF CORPORATION COUNSEL
DATED APRIL 1,2022.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, second by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, on that
motion.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. As noted in the correspondence dated
April 1, 2022, from the Department of Corporation Counsel, the revised agreement,
which was discussed by the PSLU Committee on March 23, 2022, contains critical
revisions that resolved outstanding issues between the parties involved in the
Agreement.
So, like, you know, in laymen's terms, if you recall when we were in Committee,
Corporation Counsel transmitted the revised Agreement and that's what we talked
about. But we didn't make the motion to substitute that revised Agreement at that time,
because, you know, we received it during the course of, of testimony, and so, it wasn't
in the notes to substitute it. And we just, it was an oversight. So, it's what we
discussed, but we didn't formally substitute that, what we discussed for what was
posted. So, this is correcting that error. If, if there's any questions. I'm sure somebody
more qualified could answer them.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Members, do you have any questions for either Member Paltin or
somebody more qualified? No questions? Alright. All those in favor of the motion,
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 117
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, going back to the main motion as amended. Your
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee met on March 17, 2022, and
reconvened on March 23, 2022, to discuss a public private partnership agreement
between the State, County, and Waikapu Country Town Project, in this partnership,
Waikapu Country Town would provide additional residential workforce housing units in
exchange for infrastructure improvements by the State and County, hopefully the State
also.
The Committee received the computer-generated presentation from Waikapu Country
Town representatives that outlined the proposed terms of the Agreement, which
included Waikapu Country Town providing up to 213 additional residential workforce
housing units; the County assuming Waikapu Country Town’s traffic impact mitigation
obligations: and Waikapu Country Town being permitted to temporarily connect to the
County's, Kahului Wastewater Treatment Facility that would allow the construction of
the housing units while the County builds the Central Maui Wastewater Treatment
Facility.
Your Committee amended Resolution 22-51 in two ways: 1) requiring Waikapu
Country Town to seek Council approval to revise conditions to the Change in Zoning
and District Boundary Amendment, and one of the modifications that I verbalized, and
Mr. Atherton agreed to, was extending the affordability period of the additional
residential workforce housing units; and 2) to urge the Mayor to exercise reasonable
efforts to secure State funding as the State's participation in the Agreement.
Your Committee supported the concept of government entities partnering with
developers to provide housing for the workforce and the community.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-51, CD1. And so,
you know, we signaled for the developer that we're willing to do our part. We
mentioned our one concern that, you know, we wanted to extend the affordability
period from 2.96. And Mr. Atherton was okay with that, if you folks remember. So, I
respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion as amended.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 118
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I rise in full support of this. I,l think that
this project could be the model going forward on public private partnerships. I
appreciate Coach Atherton's willing to be malleable and move towards some of our
requests. I was really excited that, to learn that he was interested in using pilot project
vouchers for the whole project, or for the affordable housing section. So, that's just my
two cents. I really hope that more large landowners take a look at this, and maybe
they can, too can work together with the County. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. I, I thought I'd call on you just in case.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: . . . Now you call on me and  Ididn't have my hand up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I know, I didn't see it up, but  Ifigured you're going to raise your hand.
Anybody else? Anybody else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I'm in full support of this. And thank you very much,
Committee, for working hard, and of course, Tamara Paltin, for your detailed diligence
of getting things done. We are waiting for this project to happen and appreciate Coach
Atherton for putting in additional affordable housing to, as a partnership, the private
public partnership, in addition to the years that he's put into talking to the community,
working with the many entities, including the State of Hawaii, you know. Department of
Education, State DOT, State Department of Health.  Imean, and it runs a gamut. So,
besides us, there's also our State partners. Appreciate the. Representative Kyle
Yamashita; Senator Gil-Agaran; Representative Troy Hashimoto, who have been
working on this along with the Administration; and Ed Sniffen from State Department
of Transportation. Those are the names that I probably heard the most, so thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And question. Member Paltin. So, we needed to make an amendment to the
CIZ, yeah. Change in Zoning ordinance. And did we also make a change to the
unilateral agreement?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Or was that not necessary?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We didn't actually amend the Change in Zoning ordinance yet.
This is just a resolution signaling the Council's intent to support a Change in Zoning.
A Change in Zoning process would need to go through the Planning Commission first,
which the Administration can take it through the Planning Commission ahead of us,
because we're in budget right now. So, they can go ahead and get that started. We
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 119
gave a verbal commitment of our intent to follow what is, or will be proposed by passing
this resolution. This resolution is not a Change in Zoning ordinance. Does that satisfy
your question?
CHAIR LEE: Well, if it goes to the Planning Commission and, you know, is delayed for some
reason, and there is a change in the composition of this Council, what, what happens
then? Then there's that possibility of this project falling apart, because there would not
be a public private partnership anymore, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: If you're asking me, I guess I, if the Administration hasn't put it
forward to the Planning Commission by the time we're out of budget, I could do that,
and then we would have to wait 120 days before we take it up. But I, I mean, the
Administration is the one that came to us. So, I would hope that they got this started
already. In terms of the, a change of the Council composition, I mean, it's an election
year, so it could be an election year issue that you, somebody secures--
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -commitments from all of the candidates, I don't know.
CHAIR LEE: My, my point is though, my point is it's time-sensitive, so it needs to be
expedited.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's true. But it's not something I have control over at this
moment. It's more within the Administration's hands. I can communicate with the
Administration, if they have gotten it started, to expedite it through the Planning
Commission. But it's not something that I personally can promise, because it's not in
my wheelhouse of things that I can tel! someone to do. That's like a impeachable
offense to try and tell the Directors what to do.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes, I am aware of that. But I, it just occurred to me that wow, this is a
long process. Okay. Thank you.
Anybody else? Are we ready for a vote or did we? Ready for a vote? No more
questions? All those in favor, say "aye" to the motion.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 120
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: I think we need a disposition for County Communication 22-97.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Paltin, you're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thanks.
I'M GOING TO GO WITH MOVING TO FILE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 22-97.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Why are you doing that? You're not sure?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I wasn't sure if that was the right words.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, to file? Oh, I see. Okay. Alright. Moved by Member Paltin, second by
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to file County Communication 22-97.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Since we took action, and the things were all explained to
everyone's satisfaction, we don't need it anymore and we can file it.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions or comments? Discussion? If not, all those in favor of the
motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 121
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-41 PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution
PLANNING COMMISSIONS AND ADVISORY COMMITTEES A PROPOSED BILL
AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE RELATING TO
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS," be ADOPTED.
22-70. CD1 entitled "REFERRING TO THE
CHAIR LEE: Okay, this is Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 22-41.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Paltin, second by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
approve the recommendations in Committee Report 22-41.
And now, we have discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
OH, BEFORE DISCUSSION, I'M GOING TO NEED TO MOVE
TO AMEND THE LAST LINE OF SECTION 16 IN THE
PROPOSED BILL, EXHIBIT "1" ON PAGE 14, ATTACHED TO
RESOLUTION 22-70, CD1, DUE TO A TYPO. I'LL NEED TO
REPLACE THE NUMBER 21 WITH THE NUMBER 15. THAT
WAS A TYPOGRAPHICAL ERROR.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, which item did you say that was?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 122
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I move to amend the last line of Section 16 in the proposed bill.
That's Exhibit "1" on page 14, attached to Resolution 22-70, CD1, by replacing the
number 21 with the number 15.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, any discussion on the, oh, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Any discussion on the amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; This amendment would correct an inadvertent typographical
error. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, any more discussion on the amendment? All those in favor of the
amendment, raise your hand and say "aye".
Nine "aye". Member King? Member King? Okay.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I had my hand up. I don't know why you can't see it. Am I freezing
up?
CHAIR LEE; I couldn't see it, honestly. It's like you were frozen.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I have kind of a weak signal now. I didn't before, but now it looks
like 1 do. So, I'll try to keep. I'll try to turn my, my mic on and say "aye" when I vote.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 123
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I ALSO WILL NEED TO MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C. OF THE
RULES OF THE COUNCIL TO ALLOW THE AMENDED
RESOLUTION TO BE ADOPTED TODAY BECAUSE OF THE
TYPO.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Paltin, second by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
to waive the Rules of the Council.
Discussion, although you already did. But say it again, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, there was a typo, and so this is a procedural matter of
how to move forward.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion, questions? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee, having met on March 17, 2022, and reconvened on March 23, 2022,
discussed referring to the various Planning Commissions and Advisory Committees, a
proposed bill amending the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance's according to the
recommendations of the Budget, Finance, and Economic Development's Committee's
Temporary Investigative Group on Tourism Management and Economic Development.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 124
By correspondence dated March 17, 2022, Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez submitted to the Committee a revised bill incorporating the TIG's
recommendation and feedback from County Administration and the Department of
Corporation Counsel.
The Committee supported amending the bill to require the Planning Department and
Department of Finance to maintain a list of all rooms or units zoned for transient
vacation rental use to help in streamlining the administration of the caps. And this is
for the A-1 and A-2 properties.
Your Committee amended the proposed resolution by substituting the attached
proposed bill v^ith the revised bill received by correspondence dated March 17, 2022,
from Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
Your Committee also amended the revised proposed bill to limit the number of rooms
or units zoned for transient vacation rental use to all those allowed for transient
vacation rental use as of January 7, 2022, whether or not they were currently being
used for that purpose.
Finally, the Committee amended the bill to prohibit vehicles from temporarily parking
in all zoning districts if used as a short-term accommodations unless they are allowed
by zoning and the proper permits are obtained.
Your Committee voted 5-0 with four Members excused, to recommend adoption of the
Resolution 22-70, CD1. And I think we received the most written testimony on this
item in support. I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anybody else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I speak in strong support of the
motion. Residents have been clear in their demand for immediate Council action to
manage tourism in Maui County. This Council has passed a new tourism
accommodation moratorium, established a Tourism Management and Economic
Development TIG, and this is the natural next step in the right direction.
By maintaining a tourism accommodation, tourism accommodations at the current
level, we can effectively preserve the legally allowed number of short-term
accommodations in zoning districts, while simultaneously addressing the much-
needed prohibition of pervasive vacation rental camper vans taking up residents'
space.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 125
This legislation was the culmination of well-considered solutions that resulted within
the months of hard work of the Tourism Management and Economic Development TIG,
and one of the many proposals that will be heard by this Council in the coming months.
This particular piece of legislation was expedited for transmission to the various
Planning Commissions, and Committees, Advisory Committees, for their
consideration, and is an opportunity for further community participation.
Once passed, it will end the moratorium intended to be short-lived, intended to be a
short-lived temporary hold on transient accommodation growth, while the promised
permanent solution was developed. And this is the solution. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: I'll be voting no on this, because I, as I've said in the past, I believe this is a form
of an extension of the, the current moratorium. So, I think this, this issue needs to have
a lot more discussion before sending it to the Planning Commission.
Alright, all, everybody ready for the vote? All, let's have roll call.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Discussion, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I don't know if you can see me. I see my . . .
CHAIR LEE: I see you now. But I, when I first asked for more questions, I didn't see it at that
time.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, my signal looks really weak, so let me know if I, if you can't
hear me. My, when this first came up, I was disappointed that we hadn't enacted some
of the other recommendations because this is already in place through the moratorium.
And I think it's only been less than six months that we've had the moratorium in place,
so we have another year-and-a-half or so.
But the, the thing that's really going to get us off of dependence on tourism is to have
a plan to diversify the economy, which we did approve in the budget, so I'm happy
about that. I'm not happy that it got opened up, because I think really the best
organization to do that is MEDB. And I was disappointed that that got taken out of
there. But I, I'm happy that we have approved the plan. And so. I'm willing to vote in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 126
favor of this, sending this to the Planning Commission for their input. And, and I think
really the focus, hopefully, vj\\\ be on growing other sectors of our community to, to give
our, our people on Maui other options besides tourism for hopefully higher wages.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anybody else?
If not. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so I'm going to also vote against this, as I did in
Committee. And I do believe that, you know, we need to understand the balance that
there is with the visitor industry, as well as developing other industries and, and the
moratorium will be extended through this bill. So, I don't think it's a solution for where
we're trying to go to. And I do believe that we walk a fine line. I don't think this is the
solution. I'm going vote against it also. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just was clarifying my, what I said was it was approved
five positive and four excused. So, Member Sugimura didn't vote in Committee. She
was excused.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But I guess she still is against it.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair, for my opportunity. And I just wanted to
speak in support. And I appreciate Director McLean coming in to explain that a lot of
these changes were designated by the Department to help with tracking all of the
different community plans, so in support.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Anybody else?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I'll keep my comments short. This is just to send the, this
decision is only to send it to the Planning Commission, so I'm going to respect that
process. And once we get the, you know, comments from the Planning Commission,
I'll have more to say. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Alright, all those in, roll call. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 127
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Hope you can hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we go it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thanks.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 128
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there's six "ayes" and three "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank, Members, I want to thank you for not debating this issue. We'll
have lots of time to do that later on. This, this was perfect.
Okay, shall we proceed. Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with resolutions.
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-76
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF MARCY MIKI SASADA-PAIVA TO
THE REAL PROPERTY TAX REVIEW BOARD
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS.
ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION 22-76.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to discharge the
Committee of this matter.
Discussion, Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 129
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. The Council's deadline to approve
or disapprove the nomination of Ms. Sasada-Paiva is April 29, 2002 [sic]. And if the
Council does not take action today, the nomination will automatically be deemed
approved, which is the reason for today's discharge request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? if not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye’
and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Kama, to waive the Rules of
the Council, regarding Committee referral.
Member Molina, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. Yeah, the matter is time
sensitive, as I mentioned earlier, which is the reason for this discharge request. Thank
you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 130
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion to discharge, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-76.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Kama, to adopt Resolution
22-76.
Discussion, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Ms. Sasada-Paiva has been
nominated to the Real Property Tax Review Board for a term expiring March 31,2026,
to fill a vacancy replacing Ms. Stacy Lee Vinoray, who resigned after returning to work
to the Office of Council Services.
Ms. Sasada-Paiva is the owner of Esthi Couture. I hope I pronounced that right. And
she is a real estate agent and a Financial 101 instructor. She feels that, as a business
owner, being part of a board or commission would give her a voice in making decisions
that can improve Maui County.
I'm confident she'll provide valuable knowledge and skills on the Real Property Tax
Review Board, and I'd like to thank her for her willingness to serve. And I believe
Mr. Mossman is on the call, as well as Ms. Sasada-Paiva, to, you know, if the Members
have any additional questions with regards to her nomination. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 131
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Molina.
Members, do you have any additional questions to any of the resource people? if not
are you ready to vote?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I, I just was, wanted to make sure that if Ms. Sasada-Paiva
feels like there is a conflict of interest, she would recuse herself? I don't know that
there would be, but just making sure. That's one of my standard questions.
CHAIR LEE: Is she on the call, did you say. Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, she is. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Paiva? Ms. Sasada-Paiva?
MS. MARCY SASADA-PAIVA: Good afternoon. Council and Chair Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. SASADA-PAIVA: Hi.
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear the question? Did you hear the question?
MS. SASADA-PAIVA: Yes. Yes. If there was a conflict of interest, if I would excuse myself.
CHAIR LEE: Recuse. Yeah.
MS. SASADA-PAIVA: Recuse myself. Yeah, I don't have a conflict of interest other, I mean,
luckily, I own my own business, so I, I'm good with planning my own schedules and all
of that. So, and I am part of the. I'm a real estate agent, so I think that my contribution,
you know, is warranted there. But, but yeah, I understand what Ms. Paltin is asking.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Nice to meet you and thank you for your
willingness to serve.
MS. SASADA-PAIVA: Thank you guys for your time today.
CHAIR LEE: We have another questions.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 132
Aloha, Ms. Sasada-Paiva.
willingness to serve on the board. So, i guess you kind of. . . answered one of the
questions that I usually ask. And that's if you have any concerns or, with attendance,
to the meetings?
Mahalo for yourVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
MS. SASADA-PAIVA; Oh. no, not at all. My attendance will be, I will be there.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay. And then-
MS. SASADA-PAIVA; I have to problem.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mr. Mossman explained the attendance policy and
everything?
MS. SASADA-PAIVA: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, great. And just a last question. How do you
anticipate contributing to the board, or what are you envision contributing, how do you
envision contributing?
MS. SASADA-PAIVA; Well, since I, you know, I was born and raised on Maui, so I think,
especially being a real estate agent, I, you know, handle all of my, with my sellers and
my buyers, you know, we deal a lot with the property taxes and, and looking into that.
And so, I think that I can give back to the community that way where, you know, if I can
be a voice on this board, you know, it'll help, I think it'll help our community for sure, i
think that my experience as a real estate agent is Important.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Ms. Sasada-Paiva. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Sasada-Paiva. Thank you.
MS. SASADA-PAIVA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any other questions to anyone else?
You can turn off your video now. We're going to vote. Thanks.
So, any other questions, Members? All those in favor, oh, did you recommend, did
you, did you make a motion to approve her?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 133
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, that when I move to adopt the resolution, yeah, which
is to--
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright. All those in favor of the motion to approve, raise your hand and
say, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member, well, Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-78
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF LYNCH, DONNA V. KA HALE  AKE OLA
HOMELESS RESOURCE CENTERS. INC.; ET AL.. CASE 09-21-5673-8
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. If there are no objections
request to postpone Resolution 22-76 [sic] to the May 6 Council agenda.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to postponing this matter till the next?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I thought we just passed Resolution 22-76?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh. Oh. did I say 76? Sorry, 78.
CHAIR LEE: I thought you said 78?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 78.
CHAIR LEE: You meant to say 78, right?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 78, yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 134
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Excuse me for a moment, Chair.
Chair, I've been asked to bring up Resolution 22-101
APPOINTMENT OF MARIA L. LEON AS COMMITTEE SECRETARY IN THE OFFICE
OF COUNCIL SERVICES".
'APPROVING THE
CHAIR LEE: Why? There, what's the reason?
COUNTY CLERK: Because-
CHAIR LEE: We just have a few more before that one.
COUNTY CLERK: Because these are action items, and the rest are referrals.
CHAIR LEE: Okay? Any objections to doing that, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, ordered.
Madam Clerk?
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-101
APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF
MARIA L. LEON AS COMMITTEE SECRETARY
IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION FOR MARIA L LEON.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 135
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the Resolution 22-101. Discussion, anybody?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ms. Leon received her Bachelor of
Science Degree in Environmental Management from California Potytech, Polytechnic
State University, San Luis Ospisbo [sic], Obispo? She is currently employed as a
Programs Director with the Maui Farm. Prior to her current position, she was
employed, sorry. Prior to her current position, she was employed as a office manager
with iQ 360 and a program coordinator with the Maui Farm. Her prior work experience
will be a great asset to OCS. I ask for the Members full support.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes
Madam Clerk.
Oh, welcome aboard, Maria.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair. I think Council Vice-Chair-
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 136
COUNTY CLERK: --Rawlins-Fernandez has her hand up.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo. Resolution 22-97 is for action for today as
well, Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. And I-
CHAIRLEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: I apologize. It's been recommended that I shift back and follow the order
on the agenda.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-97
AUTHORIZING THE FILING OF AN APPLICATION
WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
FOR A GRANT UNDER THE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-97 be referred to the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-97, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 137
CHAIR LEE: Second? Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to waive the Rules of the Council, Rule 7.G.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Members, the next BFED meeting
after budget session is not scheduled until May 25. 2022, of which we're likely giving
up. And we would like to enable the County to prepare its application for the
Department of Housing and Urban Development as quickly as possible. This is the
resolution that we spoke about the last, earlier this week. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anybody else?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I wasn't sure if Mr, Pontanilla wasThank you, Chair,
available. It looks like one of the items-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: This is the waiver.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: On the Rule. Vote on the Rule. Do you have anything on the Rule? Anybody
else? All those in favor of the waiver, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries. Nine "ayes", zero "noes".
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-97.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 138
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
adopt Resolution 22-97.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Members, this resolution was included as an
attachment to the correspondence from the Office of the Mayor, received by the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee on April 11,2022.
The projects include this, in this resolution are: 1) Hale Makua Health Services -
Wailuku Rehabilitation; 2) County of Maui, Department of Fire and Public Safety Jet
Ski; 3) Big Brother Big Sisters of Maui - Hale Makana Mentor Center Restoration;
4) Maui Economic Opportunity, Inc. - Molokai Bus; 5) County of Maui Department of
Environmental Management - Molokai Landfill Wood Hog Grinder; 6) County of Maui -
Hana Fire Tanker, partially funded; 7) CDBG Program Administration.
During its April 21, 2022, meeting, the Committee discussed some of the awards
included in the proposed resolution and indicated their support. We do have a
representative from the office here to answer any of the Members questions. Caryan
Hao. And I ask for the Members support of this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Do you have any questions of the resource person?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, aloha, Ms. Hao. I just had a question
about the Department of Fire and Public Safety, the Hana Fire Tanker. I understand
it's a partial funding for this fiscal year, and  Iwas wondering what is the likelihood of
receiving additional funds to complete the purchase of the tanker?
MS. CARYAN HAO: Hi, Councilmember Sinenci. I’m Caryan Hao, I'm a CDBG specialist.
I’m here for Joseph Pontanilla, who could not be here today. Your question is that this
Hana Tanker we funded partial. The remainder of the funding is $556,705. It is our
first alternate on our list. But we, our, we shortfalled, you know, that amount, so we
won't make it for that whole funding.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And then, is the funding just a set amount of funding, or are
we able to acquire more funding for the full purchase?
MS. HAO: Well, this Program Year 2022, we're allocated from HUD is projected to be
$1,933,806, which part of it is our admin administration fee. I mean, admin, it goes to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 139
administration, which is $386,761. And the remainder goes to the project, which is
$1,547,045. So, that portion of that trust is included, that we funded. But the remainder
of the $556,705, you know, we don't have that funding right now. So, it's on our
alternate list as the first, first project
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, okay. Thank you, Ms. Hao, cause it looks like the original
request for funding was $3,791,150. Then, it does say that should available funds
come available, then you could address some of those alternate proposals.
MS. HAO: I'm thinking so, but it's up to Joe, you know, when the funding comes in, how this
is done. I don't want to make that decision for him. But you know, as we allocated all
this funds . . . there is nothing right now because we're going to the limits for 2022.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, okay, that's Uncle Joe. Uncle Joe.
MS. HAO: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members, regarding CDBG?
Was that your hand up, Member King? No? No? Okay.  Iguess
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But thank you . . .
CHAIR LEE: Ready to vote? Everybody ready to vote?
MS. HAO: Thank you. Council.
CHAIR LEE: On the CDBG resolution, ail those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise your
hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: And if you have more questions, just call Uncle Joe.
Motion passes, 9-0.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 140
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-98
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF CLAIM NO. 4070286
OF DAVID GARDINER
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-98 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-99
APPOINTMENT OF KESHIA LEIANA ADOLPHO
TO THE COMMISSION ON CHILDREN AND YOUTH
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-99 be referred to the Government
Relations. Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-100
AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE DONATION OF
80 MATTRESSES TO THE DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY.
PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.56, MAUI COUNTY CODE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-100 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like consideration of
Resolution 22-100.
SO, THEREFORE. 1 MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF
COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 141
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, second by Pro Temp Kama, to waive the Rules of
the Council, regarding Resolution 22-100.
Discussion, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, yeah, you know what, Madam Chair, before I make a
motion to adopt. I'd like the Clerk to call up Resolution 22-100. Oh, she did? Okay,
sorry about that. Long day.
MY MOTION IS NOW TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-100.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina-
COUNTY CLERK: Excuse-
CHAIR LEE: -seconded by Member-
COUNTY CLERK: Excuse me. Chair, the vote for the waiver hasn’t occurred yet.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion on the waiver? All those in favor of the motion
please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now, onto the main motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 142
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Yeah, Madam Chair, you want me to restate the, the
motion to adopt, or can I go ahead right into discussion?
CHAIR LEE: You can go right into discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, great. Alright, Resolution 20-100, excuse me, 22-100,
authorizes the Department of Fire and Public Safety to accept the donation of
80 Tempur-Pedic twin size mattresses that will greatly benefit our County firefighters.
The donation is from BedMart, valued at $99,753.
Chapter 3.56, of Maui County Code, authorizes the Council to accept gifts and
donations on behalf of the County. And I encourage the expedition of this, you know,
of this matter, so we can have our firefighters have a very, very restful sleep. And
mahalo to BedMart for this donation. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina, you wouldn’t happen to know where they dispose of the old
mattresses?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Well, I'll ask Committee to make that inquiry. And if anybody
want those used mattresses, well. Actually, I'm just kidding.
CHAIR LEE: No, 1 was thinking for the homeless. For the homeless, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: That's not a bad consideration. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any questions. Members? If not all those in favor of the motion, please
say "aye" and raise your hand.
Nine "ayes", zero "noes". Member Paltin, did you raise your hand?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 143
Oh, so the, are there any objections to the Resolution 22-98, 22-99, being referred to
the, to the GREAT Committee?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. Okay.
Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-102
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
ROBERT TURNER V. WAIAHIWI GULCH LAND COMPANY LLC. ET AL..
CIVIL 18-1-0244(1)
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-102 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-104
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
JAMIE BECRAFT V. COUNTY OF MAUI,
DISABILITY COMPENSATION DIVISION CASE NO. 7-09-00849
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-104 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-105
APPOINTMENT OF TONI KAHEALANI RUST
TO THE LIQUOR CONTROL ADJUDICATION BOARD
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-105 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 144
COUNTY CLERK: Recommended for referral-
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections to those referrals to the GREAT Committee?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-106
AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE DONATION OF
SPORTING EQUIPMENT AND LABOR TO THE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND
RECREATION FOR INSTALLATION AT THE LANAI FIELDHOUSE, LANA‘1 CITY,
HAWAII PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 13.04A, MAUI COUNTY CODE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-106 be referred to the Human Concerns
and Parks Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: And Resolution 22-
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair, if I could, consideration for HCP No. 22-106?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Seconded by-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, is there, is there going to be a need for a Rule waiver on this one. Madam
Clerk?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I was just-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 145
CHAIR LEE: Oh. you're going to take care of that? What, what is your motion. Pro Temp
Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Well, I didn't. I was asking for consideration of 106. But do I
need a waiver? Okay. I move, and I thank you, Member Johnson, for jumping the
gun.
I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 7.B. [sic] OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you for the second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member, Pro Temp Kama, second by Member Johnson, to
waive the Rule of the Council 7.G.
And then, Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion on the Rule itself? No?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I think we have to vote on the waiver.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no discussion? All those in favor of the waiver of the Rule, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Pro Temp Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 146
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: May I ask the Clerk to read the resolution?
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Pro, Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-106, AND TO ALLOW
THE CLERK TO INCORPORATE ANY NONSUBSTANTIVE
REVISIONS.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion, Members? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Next.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-107
URGING MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TO CO-SPONSOR
AND PASS THE "NATIVE AMERICAN RURAL
HOMEOWNERSHIP IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2021"
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-107 be referred to the Human Concerns
and Parks Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 147
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. I'm asking for consideration of, also, this reso.
So, I guess, I move to waive 7.B. [sic] of the Rules of the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I don't know that this requires that. Madam Clerk? There's no, this does
not have the force and effect of law. Do we need  aRule waiver?
COUNTY CLERK: No, that's, it's not necessary.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you can just make your motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, thank you.
OKAY, I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-107, AND TO
ALLOW THE CLERK TO INCORPORATE ANY
NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS AS NECESSARY.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Pro Temp Kama, seconded by Member Johnson, to adopt
Resolution 22-107.
Discussion, Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: May I ask the Clerk to read the resolution. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Sure.
(The resolution was read in Its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama. Discussion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 148
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Oh. thank you, Chair. So, in  anutshell, so I'll save everybody
some time, this is an expansion program from $2 million to $50 million for USDA to
give 5012 [sic] loans for Hawaiian homesteaders on Hawaiian Homelands statewide.
So, I'm asking for this because I'd like to carry this document in to the NACo
Conference, that they too, would be able to consider this on the floor in the Finance
and Pensions and Intergovernmental Relations Committee, of which I sit on and of
which I Chair the Travel Relations Committee. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
and raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries. All "ayes", zero "noes".
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Members, for your, the access to capital for Hawaiian
homesteaders.
CHAIR LEE: You go get em. Member Kama.
Okay, Madam Clerk, where are you? Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: We are on item N., Bills. Chair, proceeding for referral. The following bills
are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 75 f2Q22)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.75, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICTS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 75 (2022) be referred to the Infrastructure and
Transportation Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 149
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 76 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, FERAL ANIMAL RELIEF
AND RECOVERY GRANT PROGRAM FOR FARMERS AND RANCHERS
TOTAL OPERATING APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS {OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 76 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 76 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 153 through 156 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 77 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II. SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
OPEN SPACE, NATURAL RESOURCES, CULTURAL RESOURCES, AND
SCENIC VIEWS PRESERVATION FUND
(POHAKEA WATERSHED LANDS (ALSO KNOWN AS MA'ALAEA MAUKA))
The recommended action is that Bill No. 77 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 150
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 78 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
OPEN SPACE, NATURAL RESOURCES, CULTURAL RESOURCES,
AND SCENIC VIEWS PRESERVATION FUND
(POHAKEA WATERSHED LANDS (ALSO KNOWN AS MA'ALAEA MAUKA))
The recommended action is that Bill No. 78 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Request consideration on Bill 77 and 78.
CHAIR LEE: Meaning you're not recommending that this be referred?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. I was going to, to move to waive the requirement.
CHAIR LEE: To take action? You mean to take action today?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
CHAIR LEE: To pass this? Alright, proceed.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: What is your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
MY MOTION IS TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF
COMMITTEE REFFERAL AND REPORT FOR BILLS 77 AND
78 (2022), IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES
OF THE COUNCIL.
Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council will
enable the Council to consider the proposed bills today. These bills are time sensitive
because they impact the current Fiscal Year 2022 Budget.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 151
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Second? Okay, moved by Member King, seconded by Member Johnson, to
v/aive the Rule of the Council in order to deal with this today.
And are there anymore comments or questions on this motion? If not, all those in favor
of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR. I MOVE TO PASS BILL 77 AND 78 (2022) ON FIRST
READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second, somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member King, second by Member Sugimura, to pass Bills 77
and 78 on first reading.
Discussion? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Members, Bill 77 and 78's purpose is to amend
the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget to provide for the land acquisition of the Pohakea
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 152
Watershed Lands, also known as Ma‘alaea Mauka. through a grant to the Trust for
Public Lands.
Bill 77 amends Appendix A, Part II, Special Purpose Revenues - Schedule of
Revolving/Special Funds for Fiscal Year 2022, Open Space. Natural Resources,
Cultural Resources, and Scenic Views Preservation Fund as follows;
Condition (7), decrease the appropriation by 5,450,000 for land acquisition; and add
Condition (8) for a $6,200,000 grant to the Trust for Public Lands for the acquisition of
257.7 acres Pohakea Watershed Lands identified as TMK (2) 3-6-001:018.
under
Bill 78 amends Appendix D - Conditional Language, Open Space. Natural Resources,
Cultural Resources, and Scenic Views Preservation Fund, by amending Condition 1.7
and adding Condition 1.8, I'm sorry, I think that's 1.7 and adding Condition 1.8, to
correlate with the language in Appendix A, Part II, for this project.
This effort was supported by the Council through the adoption of Resolution 22-55,
FD1, by a 8-0 vote at its February 18, 2022 meeting. I respectfully ask for the Council's
support in passing these bills today. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, anymore discussion? Any on this matter? No discussion? All those in
favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Okay, I'm, Madam Clerk, since you finished this page. Members
are there any objections to referring Bill 75 to your Infrastructure and Transportation
Committee?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I don't have any objections. Bill 76.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 153
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, I was going to ask if they wanted to refer this to the BFED Committee?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm taking action.
CHAIR LEE: Taking action? Okay, so on the first one, Bill 75, no objections to referring that
matter to the, the IT Committee, right?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objection.
Okay, now on Bill 76. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 76 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFFERAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 76 (2022)
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
IN
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rule of the Council, Rule 7.G.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We did take this up in Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We just changed the. Members, we did take this up
in Committee. We're just changing the title. It's what we requested. So, it's a new bill.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22. 2022
Page 154
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion or questions, Members?
Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 76 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass Bill 76 on first reading.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Members, in the April 4. 2022, Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee meeting, we discussed Bill 46 (2022), "A BILL FOR
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES. OFFICE OF THE
MAYOR, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, MICRO GRANTS PROGRAM
FOR AXIS DEER MITIGATION; TOTAL OPERATING APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL
APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)".
The bill's purpose was to amend Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, allocate 1,500,000 in
additional transient accommodation tax revenues to assist small farmers and ranchers
with mitigation, fencing, and other necessary measures to find relief and protect their
property from feral animals.
The grants will be available to eligible Maui County resident farmers and ranchers with
sustained losses resulting from excessive axis deer population and other feral animals
since July 1, 2021, and would be administered by Lokahi Pacific.
During the April 4 meeting, your Committee expressed support for the purpose of the
bill, but concerns about the bill title being unclear as to the purpose of the funding. The
Administration agreed to submit a new bill with an updated title, which is the bill we are
currently considering. Bill 76 (2022). The purpose of the bill remains the same. I
respectfully ask for the Members support. And I'm sure Member Sugimura would like
to add a bit. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 155
CHAIR LEE: Members, wait one second. I've been advised we didn't take the vote on the
waiver. I thought we did, but if we have to take it, let's do it now.
Member Kama, your hand is up for any particular reason?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; I'm voting "yes".
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We’re voting.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I'm voting "yes".
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: We're voting.
CHAIR LEE; So, the vote on the, on the waiver, all those in favor, raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, all "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now, we have the other motion on the floor. And we just had discussion from the
movant. Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Thank you. Chair. So, I-
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I support this $1.5 million budget amendment submitted
by the Mayor, to support the feral animal mitigation for control. And I think we've heard
from many people through, through my meetings, as well as the budget meeting and
in the community about the impact of the feral animal that they've been having on the
environment, and they've been having on our ranchers and farmers. And this bill of
1.5 million would help the commercial farmers and ranchers to get a handle of the
mitigation that they, they're experiencing and the loss of revenue which it's causing.
Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 156
CHAIR LEE; Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I just like the new title. ! think it says exactly what the funding
was supposed to be used for. So, thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, ail those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye”.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTiN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Last page.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, continuing with Item 0. Bills for Second and Final Reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 24. CD1, FD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 19, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE'S DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN THE B-2
COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT, B-3 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
AND P-1 AND P-1 PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC DISTRICTS
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 157
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
! MOVE TO PASS BILL 24, CD1, FD1 (2022) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Paltin, second by Member Sinenci, to pass Bill 24
CD1, FD1 (2022) on second and final reading.
Member Paltin, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
IF MEMBERS HAVE RECEIVED THE ASF, I MOVE TO AMEND
SECTION 5 OF BILL 24, CD1, FD1 BY STRIKING "THIS TITLE"
AND INSERTING IN ITS PLACE "THE COMPREHENSIVE
ZONING ORDINANCE".
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci. Okay, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member
Sinenci, to, with this amendment regarding the title. Everybody received the ASF?
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, if my motion is approved. Section 5 would read as follows
in a FD2 version of this bill:
"SECTION 5. This Ordinance takes effect on approval, except dwellings or structures
constructed with a building permit approved prior to the enactment of this Ordinance
may be reconstructed as permitted by the original building permit, and may be
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 158
expanded or modified with the building permit, subject to the other provisions of the
Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance".
The reason for this is, SECTION 5 uses "this title" in an apparent reference to Title 19,
Maui County Code, known as the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. Because the
text in SECTION 5 is not codified, the use of "this title" is inapt. So, semantics.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Any questions or comments about that? Alright, all those in favor of
the motion, raise your hand and say "aye"
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
So, do we need a main motion? Alright, so--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED?
CHAIR LEE; Main motion as amended, folks.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member Sinenci, moved by Member Paltin.
Discussion? Any more discussion? Member Paltin? No?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Sure.
CHAIR LEE: You don’t have to.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Your Planning and, thank you. I will just cause. Your Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee met on January 6. 2022, and February 24, 2022,
and discussed the resolution to refer to the three planning commissions a proposed
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 159
bill to amend the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance by lowering the maximum building
heights in various zoning districts.
The three Planning Commissions met in October, 2021, and the Urban Design Review
Board met in November 2021, to review this proposed bill.
The Planning Department and the Maui Planning Commission did not support reducing
the maximum height for the Island of Maui. The Lanai Planning Commission supported
the reduction to 45 feet and the Molokai Planning Commission recommended lowering
the maximum height to 35 feet.
The Planning Department transmitted Bill 24, which included specific height limits for
Lanai, Maui, and Molokai, consistent with the Planning Commissions'
recommendations.
Your Committee discussed concerns for maximum building heights for various zoning
districts in the West Maui and Hana community plan areas, and further revised the
building heights limit to 45 feet. Your Committee voted 6-3 to recommend passage of
Bill 24, CD1 on first reading and filing of the communications.
At its last Council meeting on April 1, 2022, the Council further amended Bill 24, CD1
(2022), to set the building height limit of 60 feet in the P-2 District for the West Maui
Community Plan area. While there are no P-2 Districts in the West Maui Community
Plan area, currently, should a P-2 District be created, the increased height limit of
60 feet would allow for the construction of taller gymnasiums or similar types of
buildings. I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion, as amended.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? None? All those in favor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see eight "ayes", nine "ayes", nine "ayes", thank you. Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, do 1 need to waive Rule 19.C?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 160
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. please.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL, TO ALLOW THE AMENDED ORDINANCE TO BE
ADOPTED TODAY.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paitin, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to waive the Rules of
the Council in order to adopt the item today.
Member Paitin, do you have discussion on this?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, just I'm catching the hang of it, this whole motions and
waivers.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay, and no discussion. All those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Paitin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 161
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thanks, guys.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair-
CHAIR LEE: You mean we're not coming back to you?
CHAIR LEE: Member, Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next two bills are of the same subject matter as County
Communication 22-98, which is currently postponed to the next Council meeting.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 39. CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 5.30, MAUI COUNTY
CODE. RELATING TO ELECTRIC GUN DEALER LICENSING
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 40 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022
BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX B, REVENUES - FEES, RATES, ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
ELECTRIC GUN DEALER LICENSE
CHAIR LEE: Alright, that's, this will be tabled and. till the next Council meeting May 6.
Next, Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 54. CD1 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING ADDITIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
FOR THE DIRECTOR AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 162
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 54. CD1 (2022) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, second by Member Johnson, to pass Bill 54, CD1
(2022) on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Bill 54, CD1 establishes qualifications for
the Director and Deputy Director of Agriculture.
In accordance with the County Charter Section 6-4, which states that in addition to
minimum qualifications for administrative heads, as set by the County Charter,
additional qualifications may be expanded by the Council by ordinance.
The qualifications in the bill include minimum experience in ag production, food
distribution systems, and ag programs in Hawaii, also ag-related management and
budgeting, working with various cultural backgrounds, and experience and knowledge
of native Hawaiian sustainable farming techniques. The Director is also required to
research ag sector issues, and collaborate with community experts, and is also
encouraged to attend continuing educational classes.
The bill received extensive community support and was passed unanimously out of
Committee. And the Department of Ag will be established on July 1,2022. And these
qualifications will help guide the Administration during the current recruitment process.
Members, we also added additional positions and funding during our budget
proceedings to further bolster the Department's success. With that, I respectfully ask
for the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not. ail those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 163
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the remainder on the agenda is item P, Unfinished Business.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-94
RETRACTING ALTERNATIVE AMENDMENTS TO THE
REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983)
AS AMENDED, RELATING TO THE 2021-2022 MAUI
COUNTY CHARTER COMMISSION FINAL REPORT
Also, still, still needing to be dealt with is the related CountyCOUNTY CLERK:
Communication No. 22-93.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- GRANT Y.M. CHUN. CHAIR. MAUI COUNTY CHARTER
COMMISSION, (dated April 13, 2022)
NO. 22-93
Transmitting the Charter Commission's response to the Council's alternative proposed
Charter amendments.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 164
CHAIR LEE; Okay. I think we, Corp. Counsel was going to give us a comparison of some
kind.
Keola?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: Yes. Chair. Thank you, Chair. Before
we do the comparison, the Deputy Clerk has asked that we resolve a possible
confusion regarding how the ballot will list the Charter Commission proposal and the
Council alternative. It'll just take a second.
So, the form of the ballot is dictated by State law, and that's 50-10, HRS 50-10. So,
State law provides that the Charter Commission proposal and the Council alternative
will be listed on the ballot as two separate questions, with an indication that the
alternative is a alternative to the proposal.
The voters will not be choosing between A, B, or  Clike a multiple-choice test. Instead,
the voters will vote "yes" or "no" to the proposal and the alternative. So, that means
that a voter could vote "yes" on both the proposal and the alternative. Of course, they
could also vote "no" to both. So if both the proposal and the alternative get more than
50 percent "yes" votes. Whichever gets the greater number of "yes" votes will prevail.
So, what that means is if the Council does not recall the three alternatives today, they
will appear as second ballot questions, along with the Commission's proposal. In
effect, that means that there could be anywhere between 11 ballot questions, if you
don’t have any alternatives, or 14 ballot questions, with the three alternatives. I know
that was a mouthful. So, in simple terms, the ballot questions are always yes/no, not
multiple choice.
So, Richelle has prepared a redline between the Charter Commission's proposals and
the alternatives that she could pull up for your review.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci, you have a question of Keola?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, so we can rescind only the Council's
proposal.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: That's right, so-
CHAIRLEE: Yeah. Yeah.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: That's right, just the three Council
proposals that were not adopted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 165
CHAIR LEE; Nice try, Mr. Sinenci.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just have a question, while highly unlikely, what happens if
it's even? Like you know, everybody votes on the same, and I mean, does the law
prescribe what to do in that case? Or they just feel that that would never happen?
CHAIR LEE; Keola?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: The law does not prescribe what
happens if they get the exact same number of "yes" votes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, then we'd be in a quandary?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER; We’d have to think about that one.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, hopefully that doesn’t happen.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITAKKER; It’s highly unlikely.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Sounds like neither, sounds like neither would be approved if it's a tie.
Alright, any more questions? Member Sugimura. This is for Keola, yeah, because
we’re going to--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. Yes.
CHAIR LEE; --have Ms. Thomson come on momentarily.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. This is about the vote, and I always get this. So, if
somebody leaves it blank, in your example?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: A blank vote does not count. So, a
blank vote does not count as a "no". So, when you’re looking at whether a proposition
passes, you're just looking at "yes" and "no" votes. So, if you get 99 "no" votes and
100 "yes" votes, it passes no matter how many blank votes there are.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 166
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Okay, shall we call-
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I don't have a question for
Mr. Whittaker. I appreciate him answering your questions. But before we invite
Ms. Thomson up to present and deliberate, can we take a break please?
CHAIR LEE: What are you ... five, ten minutes? Ten minutes? Okay. Members, how about
coming back at 4:40? 4:40?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah, that works for me.
CHAIR LEE: Meeting in recess till 4:40.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 4:21 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 4:42 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the regular Council meeting of April 22, 2022, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we left off with Resolution 22-94, "RETRACTING ALTERNATIVE
AMENDMENTS TO THE REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, AS
AMENDED, RELATING TO THE 2021-2022 MAUI COUNTY CHARTER
COMMISSION FINAL REPORT", as well as County Communication 22-93.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
Welcome, Richelle Thomson. Do you have something to share with us, screen share
with us?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: I certainly do. Thank you, Chair. So, I’m going
share screen. And what I'm going to be putting up are the three alternatives that were
rejected by the Charter Commission. So, these are the three proposals from the
County Council that were rejected by the Commission. And the Council's decision
today is whether to recall any of these three proposals. And if you do not recall them,
then those are the choices will be appear on the ballot as Keola just explained. So,
I'm going to share screen and . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 167
So, this is Proposal No. 8. This is regarding the new Department of ‘Oiwi Resources.
And what I'm showing in highlighted yellow here are the changes that are made by
Council to its proposal. So, this is so you can see the differences between the two of
them. Council's proposal removes the qualifications for the Director, shown here. The
other change that Council made was to, okay, this is more of a housekeeping change
to add the Director of ‘Oiwi Resources to Section 6-2.5.
And then, the other substantive change made to the new, would be to the preamble of
the Charter to remove the English translation of the Hawaii State motto.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Members, you want to take this one at a time? Can we go back to the
first one, please?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: So, just, just for clarification, you can't change
any of the text here. This is really just an up-or-down vote on recalling the entire
proposal or not recalling the entire.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, we have a choice to either recall or not recall. Who wants to
go first?
Member Sinenci, do you want to make a motion? Oh, you have questions?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, I had a question. So, which, Ms. Thomson, which
verbiage are we voting on, the first part?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. Thank you, Councilmember
Sinenci. So, the County Council's version, the alternative that you have, would remove
this language that's highlighted here. So, that's the change between the Commission's
version and yours.
The Council's version removes the, these qualifications for the Director. And then, it
would also, like I said, this amendment here, we consider this to be more
housekeeping. This adds the Director of ‘Oiwi Resources is submitted by the Mayor,
the candidate for that Office is submitted by the Mayor, along with all of the rest of
those departments that are listed there. So, we think that is more of a housekeeping
measure.
But the, another substantive change is that the Council's version removed the English
translation of the Hawaii state motto. It's really, the real crux is the list of Director
qualifications and the English translation in the preamble. And just as a reminder, of
course. Council can add Director qualifications through ordinance, as you've done.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 168
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO WITHDRAW THE COUNCIL'S VERSION.
And if I get a second. I'll explain my reasoning.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, which one? The first one?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, it's a up or down, so I move to withdraw the Council's
alternative in its entirety.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Point of order, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, before we get to that, Member--
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Point of order, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I mean, not member, but Corp. Counsel.  Ithought we were doing one at a time?
Is it all three?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you, Chair. I think that you, it probably
makes the most sense to go one at a time.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Procedurally, what you'll be doing though, is
amending Exhibit "A" that's attached to the resolution, which you'll list any of the recalls,
proposals.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: So, if you, for example, if you recall the
alternative to Proposal 8, that will go onto Exhibit "A". So, you'll need to amend
Exhibit "A" when we get. . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 169
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, we, we're not even there. We're just trying to figure out whether
we're going to do it or not.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Appreciate the point of order. This
is more a procedural question. We have a sitting motion on the floor to file. Now, it
sounds like Corp. Counsel is telling us, okay, we can make decisions. But should we
do a, I don't know, should we check with OCS for the procedure sake? Cause the
motion is to file. So, what is this going to be now, an amendment to the procedure to
file a motion, or should the motion to file be withdrawn? Cause it sounds like now we're
going to do Committee work on this right now, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: I'm afraid we have to.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Okay, so what is, what-
CHAIR LEE: So, Richelle, shall we just withdraw the motion to file?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: That is one option, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Alright.
I WITHDRAW THE MOTION TO FILE, THEN.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: If that is the will of the body. So, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci, did you second that motion? Okay. So, you're withdrawing
the second?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: So, Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 170
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Do we need any waiver? Cause this was supposed to go to
Committee, right? That was one option, yeah, to send it to Committee. So, do we
now, if we're going to take action on this, now, do we need a motion to waive referral
to Committee?
CHAIR LEE: I don't know, because depends on what the motion is going to be. But, David,
David Raatz, can you give us some guidance on this, so we don't go down the wrong
trail? David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Hi, David.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: We're double-checking Rule 7.G., which is
the general requirement for referring bills and resolutions that have the force and effect
of law to a standing Committee, and having the Council receive a committee report
prior to first reading if it's a bill, or adoption of a resolution in this case. And I'm just
looking to see if there are any exceptions to that that apply. And it doesn't look like
there's an applicable exception. So, I think the point raised by Councilmember Molina
is worthy of considering under, under Rule 7.G. that-
CHAIRLEE: David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: -there would need to be a waiver.
CHAIR LEE: David, can, can you read the second sentence of the Rule?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: The second sentence of the Rule. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: In the case of bills or resolutions having the force effect of law, except for
resolutions relating to election, establishment, or appointment of Council. Can you
read that part? Just to make sure.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Sure. Yeah. So, I'll read the exceptions.
Except for resolutions approving the receipt of grants; resolutions referring proposed
land ordinances to the Planning Commissions; and resolutions relating to the election,
establishment, or appointment of the Council's officers. Committees, or staff; the
appointment of members to the Hawaii State Association of Counties Executive
Committee, Western Interstate Region, or National Association of Counties; changing
the day of a Council meeting; or amending these Rules. So, that's the list of
exceptions. And I, again, I don't see any that would apply to this resolution.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 171
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so, so it does sound like Mr. Molina has to waive the Rule 7.G. in order
to make a motion?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Well, ultimately, at some point, if the body
decides to adopt this resolution in some form, under the rules of waiver of that Rule
7.G., which would normally require a committee report before action would be
appropriate. It doesn't necessarily have to be done at the outset of discussion. It could
be, but the body has some discretion on when to take that up.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina, do you have any questions for Mr. Raatz?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No. I guess. I guess it's our option. It seems like some
Members want to make some changes. So, maybe I guess the most appropriate thing
then is to, for a motion to waive the requirement of Committee referral, then. So, rather
than this going to Committee, and since I've withdrawn my motion to file, then, I guess
waiving the referral to Committee, so we can take action on the floor today I believe
would be the most appropriate action to do, yeah? Sounds like it anyway.
ALRIGHT, SO, WITH THAT SAID, I'LL GO AHEAD AND MAKE
A MOTION TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Molina, second by Member Kama, to waive the Rule
of the Council, 7.G.
Any more discussion. Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, no further discussion.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 172
CHAIR LEE; Okay, and this is just setting things up for when we make the motion, the actual
amendment. Okay, all nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay, now we're going through the actual amendments. Member Molina.
COUNCiLMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, sorry. Maybe if Mr. Raatz can give me some
guidance? Should I then also ask a discharge of the resolution?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Communication as well?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair Lee and Councilmember
Molina. I don't think a discharge motion is necessary, because this resolution is not
pending in Committee. Normally you do a discharge motion to pull a matter out of
Committee and put it before Council. So, I don't see that as necessary.
As a quick aside, before getting into amendments, technically if you want to follow
normal parliamentary procedure, there would be a motion to adopt the resolution as,
as the pending main motion, and then amendments would be in order. Thank you.
Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; So, Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
OKAY, I'LL GO AHEAD AND MAKE A MOTION THEN, I GUESS
TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-94.
Now, should I also include in that motion County Communication 22-93? If Mr. Raatz
can give me some guidance?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 173
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: I. I believe that
communication is before the body right now as well. The Clerk can correct me if I'm
wrong on that. But that's basically a reference guide that was provided by the Charter
Commission. You don't really need to do anything with that communication at the
moment. Eventually, after you finish your deliberations, you would probably want to
file that. But it's really just a tool for the body, as you're reviewing Resolution 22-94.
Thank you, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you. So, I'll leave the motion standing as just
for Resolution 22-94. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Members, do you have suggestions, proposals, motions?
Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I  WOULD MOVE TO WITHDRAW THE COUNCIL’S
RECOMMENDATION.
And if i get a second. I'll explain my reason.
CHAIR LEE: Wait. All of them?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No. We're just talking about the‘Oiwi.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. That one.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The‘Oiwi. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: No. 8. No. 8, you're talking about?
Chair, just to offer, kind of framing of the
motion. So, there's the Reso 22-94, and I believe that the motion could be to amend
Resolution 22-94, by adding Proposal 8 alternative to the list of alternative proposals
that are being recalled to Exhibit "A".
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL:
CHAIR LEE: Did you get all of that, Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 174
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
I MOVE TO ADD THE COUNCIL'S ALTERNATIVE TO THE LIST
IN EXHIBIT "A" OF WHAT WOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE
BALLOT.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Second.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: That's just as to Proposal 8 . . . ?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's in reference to just Proposal 8.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, it's been moved Member Paltin, seconded by Member King, to remove
No. 8 and add the alternative to the list. Is that the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Add the Council's alternative to the list that vjon't be on the
Charter.
CHAIR LEE: Right. So, the list is on what page, Member, I mean, Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: So, Resolution 22-94 has an Exhibit "A"
attached to it and currently, it's blank. So, any of the alternative proposals that you
wish to recall are going to be listed on Exhibit "A".
CHAIR LEE; Yeah. So, that's what I, exactly what  Ineeded to know. The list refers to
Exhibit "A"? Okay. Alright.
So, that's your motion. And it was seconded by Member King. So, now we need
discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. So, like Member Sinenci clarified, we can't
remove the Charter Commission's alternative. We can only remove our alternative. I
can live with the Charter Commission's version. And I think that, you know, I,
personally. I'm for this Charter amendment. And I think keeping it simple gives it the
best chance of passing. That's my personal opinion. You don't need to agree with me.
But I'd like to give it, in my opinion, the best chance of passing and not confuse the
voters. We can make more requirements by ordinance. We can't make less
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 175
requirements by ordinance. And that's just my reasoning. I want to give it the best
chance of passing. And in my opinion, keeping it more simple gives it a better chance.
But, you know, you don't have to agree with me.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I support the motion on the floor. I
have a question for Ms. Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Thomson?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha, Ms. Thomson. In your presentation of the, or
review of the proposal, you are stressing that you believe that this is a housekeeping
matter, adding the Director of ‘Oiwi Resources to the list of directors that would go
through the confirmation process. So, were you stressing that because it would be
added to the Charter Commission's proposal, even though it wasn't originally part of
the Charter Commission's proposal and the Council's alternative?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. That's a very good question. So,
the Charter Commission proposed some changes to the County Clerk's authority,
which if adopted by the voters would allow the County Clerk to make changes in
accordance with, in accordance with, you know, changes to the law and all of that. So,
it's our opinion that the Director of 'Oiwi Resources would be one of those executive
departments that would fall under Section 6-2.5. And so, that director would be
presented to you the same way as the Director of Agriculture, Transportation, etc.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, so the answer to my question is no, that it
wouldn't be on the proposal that would go to the ballot.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Right.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The caveat is that it would be considered something
that the County Clerk, if the ballot question passes, could be amended via that process
after approval from the Council?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Thank you. Very well-stated, yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, perfect. Mahalo, Ms. Thomson. Mahalo
Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 176
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else want to speak to the motion on the floor? You heard what the
motion is, right? To remove No. 8, regarding the ‘Oiwi Department. Are you ready to
vote on it, everybody? Okay, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three. Okay, all "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Okay, that takes
care of one of them.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Chair, with your permission. I'll go ahead and
put up Proposal 10 on share screen.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Okay, so Proposal 10 is some changes to
Section 13-2 of the Charter, and a couple others. It's the creation of the independent
nomination board, which would, that members for other boards and commissions. The
Charter Commission's version included also the positions of the County Clerk, Auditor,
Corporation Counsel, and Prosecuting Attorney.
So, two important changes that were made by the Council in its alternative to
Proposal 10 are that the nomination board, instead of being a nine-member board with
one member selected from each Council residency area, it would be an eleven-
member board. Nine of them would deselected by Council. Again, that would be from
one, each from each Council residency area and two by the Mayor. So, it would be a
nine, eleven-members; nine by Council, two by the Mayor, not requiring confirmation
by any other body.
And then, two officers were removed from going through the independent nomination
board process. And that would be the County Clerk and the Auditor. So, the
independent nomination board would be involved with, in the Council's version,
selecting, vetting and proposing members to boards and commissions, and also the
Corporation Counsel and Prosecuting Attorney.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 177
,., scroll down here so you can seethe actual text. So, this Section 15, Subsection 15,
talks about the creation of the independent nomination board itself. And so, just as I
was saying, the eleven members, nine from Council, two appointed by the Mayor.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any motions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Question, Chair, for Ms. Thomson. So, we proposed that
language and the Commission rejected that language, yeah?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Correct. They preferred to keep their proposal
that they submitted to you originally.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions? Any proposals, I mean, motions?
Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, if you're calling on me, I don't really like the Charter's
version. So, by reverse of my earlier stance, I'll keep it confusing, you know? And
then, maybe it won't pass.
CHAIR LEE: What motion is that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The one we just took on Proposal 8. I don't, I don't like the
Charter's tenth proposal, so I would give the voters the choice. And if they turn them
both down, I'm okay with that.
CHAIR LEE: So, you want to take another vote? Okay, Corp. Counsel.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. So, because of the, the way that
the resolution is drafted, you don't have to make  amotion if you do not want to recall
any of them. So, I, I think you'd just be entertaining motions, if any, to recall the
alternative for Proposal 10.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci?
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Chair. So, clarifying question. Question on the ballot would be if
they want the eleven-member versus the nine-member, and if they want to include the
Auditor and the County Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 178
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes, the ballot question is going to have to,
the questions will need to differentiate between these two proposals, so that the voters
can try to understand which one they're voting for.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCl: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Well, let's, you want to move onto the third one?
Okay, Deputy Thomson? Richelle? The third one.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: My mic.
CHAIR LEE: The Chief of Police.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: So, this one is fairly straightforward. Really,
the only difference in Proposal 12 between the Charter Commission's and the Council
proposal is that the, so, it's down here, if the Chief of Police disagrees with the findings
of the Police Commission, the Chief, the Chief needs to inform the Commission. And
if the Commission requests, so then the Chief would file a written report. If the
Commission did not request a written report, then the Chief would not have to file one.
In the Charter Commission's version, if there are any charges brought forth by the
public against the Department or its members, and the Chief of Police disagreed with
the findings of the Commission, that it's mandatory that the Chief submit a written report
to the Commission. So, one gives, basically the Council's version gives the
Commission the other option of not requiring a written report.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. On this one, I feel that it's very clear. I have faith
that our constituents will understand the difference. It's the same thing. One is on
request, and one is always. So, I wouldn't withdraw the Council's version. 1 think that's
fairly clear. I prefer on request, because we all know how short staffed our Police
Department is. And 1 wouldn't want to waste the Chiefs time if the Commission doesn't
want a report. So, I would, my preference would be to leave Council's alternative in. I
think that our voters can understand that level of difference, because it's, ifs pretty
straightforward. But that's just my reasoning. I'd like to go home, so breaking down
my, my point of view. And if you agree, that's great.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 179
CHAIR LEE; Okay, anybody else? I'm waiting for somebody else's two cents. What, what
does the silence mean? You agree with Member Paltin, or you don't agree?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yeah, Chair, I agree.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I agree.
CHAIR LEE; Well, there seems to be consensus with your opinion. You want to make one
big motion and then we can all move on?
Member, I mean, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yeah, I concur with Member Paltin.
But there was a fourth rejection to the Council's alternate, alternative, and that was the
third proposal, that was the County Auditor to assess the fiscal impacts of the proposed
Charter Amendments. And I guess I can defer to Ms. Thomson to speak to that. We
didn't have an alternative. Our alternative was to not put it on the ballot, so we don't,
we wouldn't add it to the resolution. But I just wanted the Council to understand that
that was rejected. That our request for the Charter Commission to not put the third
proposal, which would require the County Auditor to the, to assess the fiscal impacts
of the proposed Charter amendments, to not put it on the ballot. They rejected the
Council's request to not put it on the ballot, and they're going to move ahead and put
that proposal on the ballot.
So, I just wanted us to understand that, and the reasons, and to remember why we
asked them not to put the fiscal impacts. Because it doesn't also include the financial
benefits and potential cost savings that proposed Charter amendments would include.
So, it's just half the story and not the full story, which is why we asked the Charter
Commission not to put it on. But they rejected our request and are going to put it on
the ballot. So, I'll be encouraging the voters not to vote in favor of that. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? So, Member Molina, do you want to make some kind of a motion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah. Well, Madam Chair, I believe we have on the floor a
motion to adopt Resolution 22-94, yeah?
CHAIR LEE: Well, your original one was to file.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 180
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Right.
CHAIR LEE; And then you withdrew that. And then I thought the next motion was to allow
us to discuss this resolution--
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: By adopting-
CHAIR LEE: --by waiving the Rule of the Council. And then, I didn't know if, did you make a
motion after that?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, I think I made a motion to adopt, yeah, the Resolution
22-94, so we could go with the discussion and make whatever amendments, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, so, the motion on the floor is to adopt Resolution 22-94.
And then. Deputy Thomson, did you have a comment?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: It’s to adopt 22-94, as amended, by
Councilmember Paltin's amendment to add the alternative 8 to Exhibit "A".
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Didn't you change your mind on that one, but? No, you didn't change
your mind on that. Okay. Alright. So, everybody understands the motion. But that
only takes care of one of them.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, then Madam Chair, I think afterthis motion, or assuming
it passes, then I could make a motion to file the County Communication 22-93. Maybe
I can get a clarification from OCS or Corp. Counsel?
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel, did you hear what Member Molina said?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: I did. Thank you. Chair. Yes, I think that’s
proper. And the effect of, of filing that and of not including either of the other two
rejected alternatives on the Exhibit "A" is that those two alternatives will go to the ballot.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, did everybody get that? So, that's, so you, did you include the
filing as part of the other one?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, I didn't.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 181
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
BUT IF IT'S PROCEDURALLY OKAY, WE COULD.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, you want to just--
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: . . . and filing of the communication? So, who did the second on this? Who
seconded the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
i DID.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, you did? Okay, Member Kama. Alright. Does everybody understand the
motion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair, if we could restate the motion? So, I
believe it'll be the motion, as amended, Resolution 22-94, and would also include the
filing of County Communication 22-93. Or do we just take a separate motion on the
amendment and then-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 94. It’s 94.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, we did take action on the amendment, yeah? So, now
we have the motion as amended, yeah?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Motion as amended. All those in favor, and Member Kama, seconded?
Okay, so all those in favor of the motion, as amended, raise your hand and say "aye".
Member King? And then. Member Johnson?
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 182
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. For the motion as amended.
So, would you like to restate the main motion, so we can move on? The main motion
as amended,
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aren't we done?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, I, I think we already did that, yeah. Madam Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: We did that.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Just took action.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, we're done.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, so now, and I think I mentioned if there's any, it'd be
okay to include the filing. Or we could do the, i don't know if we, sorry, but I guess we
could just do a separate filing, a motion to file, yeah? Cause for some reason, I thought
we were including the filing in the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Yeah, that, and that's what I thought, cause that's why we were voting
on that, and then we're going to have to vote on the main motion, as amended, when
you included the filing. But we can keep that separate. You want to make another
motion, then?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, whatever your preference.
CHAIR LEE: Motion to file. Motion to file.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
I MAKE A MOTION TO FILE. MOTION TO FILE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 22-93 [SIC].
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 183
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Kama, to file County
Communication 22-93 [sic].
Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
So, so, Corp. Counsel, v/e are done with this then, correct?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes, that's correct. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. I think we can go home.
Madam Clerk, let's just double-check. Did we forget anything? I think she went home.
COUNTY CLERK: No, that, that concludes the business of the Council. There's no further
business.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nothing that we moved around in the agenda? Okay. Very good. Okay
Members, we're, time to go home. Any last-minute announcements?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just wanted to welcome everyone to our annual Earth Day
clean-up at Honolua tomorrow, 8 a.m. We got a scrap metal dumpster at well over
$1,000 that we're going to pay for. So, anyone who wants to come doesn't need to
pay to clean up their own rubbish. Save Honolua got the tab. And 8:00 to 10:30, we're
meeting at Honolua Baseyard. See you there.
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Happy Earth Day.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 184
CHAIR LEE: What about the Pulehu Posse? Not, not tomorrow?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: First Saturday of every month, normally.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Member, Member Sinenci, you have a clean-up in Hana?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No, but the Pulehu Posse has different meanings in Hana.
But, I, I just wanted to share from our staff and our district office, we send our aloha
and our condolences to the Lee Ghana, to you guys, as you bid farewell to your
ohanas.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: . . . our aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Anybody else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: One last plug.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Unless you, well, it's all sold out now. But yeah, we're getting a
lot. I'm getting a lot of calls from people who waited too long, and they're like can't you
just get me a ticket? But we're, we're, you know, we've only got so much space. We'll
miss you and, you know, we'll be thinking of you. i ,i have. I'm missing a funeral service
on the mainland for my cousin this weekend cause  Icouldn't, cause I had this event.
But, I'm sympathizing with you, Chair. And just want to wish everybody a Happy Earth
Day. If you're coming, if you do have tickets and you're coming out, let me know. And
then, because I'm going to read our Council resolution, and I'd love to acknowledge all
the Councilmembers that are there, part of the passing the resolution. But let me know.
I know Gabe's going to be there.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Very good. Thank you. Anyone else? If not, everybody have a
safe weekend, and we'll see you next week. This meeting is adjourned.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
April 22, 2022
Page 185
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of April 22, 2022 was adjourned by the Chair at 5:19 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
220422/lks;jm
Count^^CleH<
Nick Drance <Nick@imagedesigncom.com>
Friday, April 22, 2022 11:16 AM
David Dorn
County Clerk; Mike J. Molina; Tasha A. Kama; Tamara A. Paltin; Keani N. Rawlins;
Gabe Johnson; Yukilei Sugimura; Shane M. Sinenci; Kelly King; Alice L Lee
Re: Testimony in support of limiting the number of NEW visitor accommodations in
Maui County 4/22/2022, Agenda Item; CR 22-41
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Some people who received this message don't often get email from nick@imagedesigncom.com. Learn why this is important
Great job brother that headline and bullet point format makes it so easy to absorb these points it's great. Thank you
Nick
On Apr 22,2022, at 4:17 PM, David Dorn <daviddorn808@gmail.com> wrote:
Testimony in support of limiting the number of NEW visitor accommodations in Maui
County 4/22/2022, Agenda Item; CR 22-41
“Konichiwa”, and Happy Earth Day, my name is David Dorn (not a lobbyist),
I agree with Lucienne from Sierra Club on all her points, We need to provide the extra
funding to protect the Ma'alaea Watershed, and we need to support our upcountry
farmers to better control feral animals (deer etc.) in the Mauka Watershed.
I also support the adoption of resolution 22-70. We need more Homes, not Hotels.
And We need to Manage Tourism so it benefits Maui County Locals, the “moms and
pops”.
Maui County already has more than enough hotel rooms, timeshares, and other
transient accommodations. We have more hotel rooms per-capita than Oahu, and we
are more tourist-dense than Waikiki.
Maui Now has up to One Tourist for every 2-3 locals. Far exceeding our limits, and our
levels set in the Maui Island Plan. This is totally unsustainable. And there are not even
enough locals to work these hotels, so Hotels are importing more people to work in
these hotels.
Hotel workers brought in from the mainland are buying up all of our “workforce and
affordable housing”, and there is nothing to stop them.
The 2-year Visitor Moratorium is actually benefiting the housing industry as construction
is focussing on home-building and other kinds of construction. This is actually helping us
fill the need for more housing for locals. But, this is only a temporary solution to Maui's
housing crisis. This bill for a “Cap on Tourist Accommodation” could similarly help our
construction industry to focus on the kinds of projects that will actually benefit local
families, such as building more housing and schools.
Many Hotels on Maui are owned by huge mainland corporations. The majority of Profits
from the Hotel industry goes offshore to pay shareholders, and most does not benefit the
local economy.
FYI, Maui’s top hotels are owned by Billionaires and Multinational Corporations, the
profits go to Wall Street. And into the pockets of billionaires like Larry Ellison, Bill Gates,
Michael Dell, and Saudi Arabian Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal, just to name a few.
Hotels are not always staffed by Local people. There are not enough local workers to
staff the hotels we have now, and there are not enough local workers to staff new hotels.
This causes hotels to recruit mainland workers to come to live on Maui and fill these
positions.
1
Hotels bring in mainland managers and even international staff to fill senior positions.
They are not always training and recruiting local people.
Not enough locals to staff these hotels: The visitor accommodation industry is importing
a large number of their workforce.
The visitor industry is also underpaying their local workers. So local people working in
this Industry cannot support their families long-term. So many residents are forced to
leave Maui.
Increasing the number of Hotels and Visitor accommodations is a bad idea. By capping
the number of accommodations, we are actually supporting all of the Hotels we have
now. It is supply and demand. When we cap the number of Visitor accommodations we
keep demand high. Then they can charge higher prices, and they need to be able to
charge higher prices in order to pay their local workers a sustainable living wage.
*Local Maui residents who work in this industry need to be able to buy homes and pay
rents in Maui’s competitive housing market.
The visitor industry in Hawaii chronically underpays its workers. We need to support
local unions that are fighting Hotels to get a decent wage. The average wage for a hotel
housekeeper on Maui is still only $14-15 dollars per hour. The high cost of living on
Maui makes the minimum livable (sustainable) wage on Maui to be at least $20-25 per
hour. Meanwhile Bill Gates makes $456,625 an hour.
There are better ways to support the local economy (than building more hotels):
Hotels are not always built by local contractors and these projects go to lowest
bidders. We
can change that.
We need to stop big construction jobs going to off-island and mainland
companies.
We need to ensure that our building projects go to Local Builders who use local
labor. This is
how we support our local construction industry.
We need to ensure that Hotels are staffed by Maui Locals. And that Hotels hire
Hawaiians to fill
all levels of staffing positions.
We need to ensure that Hotels pay their workers a decent living wage that is
sustainable for
the Cost of living here in Hawaii.
We need to raise taxes on forign-owned Hotels and Visitor accommodations
2
● We need to raise taxes on absentee landlords that are converting homes to
TVRs, and Condos to
● Time Shares.
Please recommend adopting this resolution, so that it can be properly deliberated and
debated by the planning commission. The planning commission deserves to hear the
input from the whole community and stakeholders in this important issue that could
determine the fate of the local economy and all the community who lives here.
Aloha.
3
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
David Dorn <daviddorn808@gmail.com>
Friday, April 22, 2022 10:17 AM
County Clerk
Mike J. Molina; Tasha A. Kama; Tamara A. Paltin; Keani N. Rawlins; Gabe Johnson;
Yukilei Sugimura; Shane M. Sinenci; Kelly King; Alice L Lee
Testimony in support of limiting the number of NEW visitor accommodations in
Maui County 4/22/2022, Agenda Item: CR 22-41
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Testimony in support of limiting the number of NEW visitor accommodations in Maui County
4/22/2022, Agenda Item: CR 22-41
“Konichiwa”, and Happy Earth Day, my name is David Dorn (not a lobbyist),
I agree with Lucienne from Sierra Club on all her points. We need to provide the extra funding to
protect the Ma'alaea Watershed, and we need to support our upcountry farmers to better control feral
animals (deer etc.) in the Mauka Watershed.
I also support the adoption of resolution 22-70. We need more Homes, not Hotels. And We need to
Manage Tourism so it benefits Maui County Locals, the “moms and pops”.
Maui County already has more than enough hotel rooms, timeshares, and other transient
accommodations. We have more hotel rooms per-capita than Oahu, and we are more tourist-dense
than Waikiki.
Maui Now has up to One Tourist for every 2-3 locals. Far exceeding our limits, and our levels set in the
Maui Island Plan. This is totally unsustainable. And there are not even enough locals to work these
hotels, so Hotels are importing more people to work in these hotels.
Hotel workers brought in from the mainland are buying up all of our “workforce and affordable
housing”, and there is nothing to stop them.
The 2-year Visitor Moratorium is actually benefiting the housing industry as construction is focussing
on home-building and other kinds of construction. This is actually helping us fill the need for more
housing for locals. But, this is only a temporary solution to Maui's housing crisis. This bill for a “Cap on
Tourist Accommodation” could similarly help our construction industry to focus on the kinds of projects
that will actually benefit local families, such as building more housing and schools.
Many Hotels on Maui are owned by huge mainland corporations. The majority of Profits from the Hotel
industry goes offshore to pay shareholders, and most does not benefit the local economy.
FYI, Maui’s top hotels are owned by Billionaires and Multinational Corporations, the profits go to Wall
Street. And into the pockets of billionaires like Larry Ellison, Bill Gates, Michael Dell, and Saudi Arabian
Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal, just to name a few.
Hotels are not always staffed by Local people. There are not enough local workers to staff the hotels
we have now, and there are not enough local workers to staff new hotels. This causes hotels to recruit
mainland workers to come to live on Maui and fill these positions.
Hotels bring in mainland managers and even international staff to fill senior positions. They are not
always training and recruiting local people.
Not enough locals to staff these hotels: The visitor accommodation industry is importing a large
number of their workforce.
The visitor industry is also underpaying their local workers. So local people working in this industry
cannot support their families long-term. So many residents are forced to leave Maui.
Increasing the number of Hotels and Visitor accommodations is a bad idea. By capping the number of
accommodations, we are actually supporting all of the Hotels we have now. It is supply and demand.
When we cap the number of Visitor accommodations we keep demand high. Then they can charge
higher prices, and they need to be able to charge higher prices in order to pay their local workers a
sustainable living wage.
*Local Maui residents who work in this industry need to be able to buy homes and pay rents in Maui’s
competitive housing market.
1
The visitor industry in Hawaii chronically underpays its workers. We need to support local unions that
are fighting Hotels to get a decent wage. The average wage for a hotel housekeeper on Maui is still
only $14-15 dollars per hour. The high cost of living on Maui makes the minimum livable (sustainable)
wage on Maui to be at least $20-25 per hour. Meanwhile Bill Gates makes $456,625 an hour.
There are better ways to support the local economy (than building more hotels);
● Hotels are not always built by local contractors and these projects go to lowest bidders. We can
change that.
● We need to stop big construction jobs going to off-island and mainland companies.
● We need to ensure that our building projects go to Local Builders who use local labor. This is
how we support our local construction industry.
● We need to ensure that Hotels are staffed by Maui Locals. And that Hotels hire Hawaiians to fill
ail levels of staffing positions.
● We need to ensure that Hotels pay their workers  adecent living wage that is sustainable for the
Cost of living here in Hawaii.
● We need to raise taxes on forign-owned Hotels and Visitor accommodations,
● We need to raise taxes on absentee landlords that are converting homes to TVRs, and Condos
to Time Shares.
Please recommend adopting this resolution, so that it can be properly deliberated and debated by the
planning commission. The planning commission deserves to hear the input from the whole community
and stakeholders in this important issue that could determine the fate of the local economy and all the
community who lives here.
Aloha.
2
To: Honorable Alice Lee, Chair and Members of the Maui County Council
From: Tamar Goodfellow, President, Maui Health Foundation
Re: Support for "CR 22-85, authorizing the disposition of real property to the
Maui Health Foundation and for waiver of outstanding real property
taxes" and Support for "CR 22-84, authorizing the disposition of real property
to the dba Na Hale 0 Maui and for waiver of outstanding real propel^Itaxes^ XI
nro
oAloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Council Member^^ b.,
rr.
My name is Tamar Goodfellow. I serve as the volunteer President ofJthe Mai^
Health Foundation, a 25 year old non profit organization whose sole mission is’
to support the highest quality of health care at Maui Memorial Medical
Center, Kula Hospital and Lanai.
3:^
00
iTl
O
My devotion to our hospital and to health care on our island stems from a
personal passion to save lives here on Maui. With only one acute care
hospital, Maui Memorial is the place that each of us, our family members, our
friends, and our visitors will go in a life threatening medical emergency. I want
it to be the best.
In addition, housing for the working members of our community, teachers,
police officers, fire fighters, and so many others is equally critical if we are to
maintain a safe, healthy and successful community.
This is why I am asking for your support for the transfer of these lots.
*  Each year our only hospital cares for more than 40,000 patients,
including those on medicare, quest/medicaid, the underinsured and
uninsured. No one is turned away.
*  Maui Memorial has the second busiest emergency department in the
state of Hawaii, second only to Queens.
*  Quality of care directly correlates to Care Providers. Island wide, we are
short hundreds of doctors, nurses, technicians and aides. This shortage of
Care Providers is a growing issue nationwide, but Maui is particularly
challenged with recruiting and retaining Care Providers. Right now the hospital
is short staffed in every department.
*  The single biggest barrier to recruiting and keeping Care Providers on
Maui is the lack of housing at all income levels.
*  The County of Maui owns 55 lots in Maui Lani, walking distance from
the hospital. The Maui Health Foundation is asking for your support to
transfer in fee simple, 16 of those lots to be held in perpetuity by the
Foundation for Care Provider housing.
*  Our program will be modeled after Na Hale 0 Maui. The land will be
held in perpetuity by the Foundation. Homes will be built by a home builder,
and sold to care providers at leasehold rates, meaning less the value of the
land, and the restriction that future buyers must also be care providers. This
makes the homes, first, available nearby the hospital, and second, attainable.
*  Ail healthcare providers are eligible. (They do not need to be hospital
employees). If applicants are below the 140 AMI, they will be directed to
NHOM. If they are above 140 AMI, they will be asked to get pre-quaNfied for a
mortgage and be part of the Foundation lottery.
*  Selection criteria will be weighted by the following criteria: greatest
community need (as determined by annual healthcare survey); Maui or Hawaii
born Care Provider seeking to return home; current resident Care Provider
seeking to purchase their first home.
*  Home buyers will own the home and improvements, but not the land.
They will pay a monthly leasehold fee, determined to cover the management
costs of the program/property. (Though not yet finalized, we have begun a
dialogue with Na Hale 0 Maui asking them to act as the property manager for
the 16 Maui Health Foundation homes funded by the lease rent to not only
cover their management costs but also further their mission.)
*  There are deed restrictions. When a home owner sells, there will be a
shared appreciation where the home owner will retain at least 50% of any
equity in the home, (less the land value). The formula will be modeled after
NHOM. Because the value of the land is deducted from any appreciation of
the property, the price point for the homes can remain stable. The seller must
sell to another qualified Care Provider.
*  We have been asked why the County should support housing for
Physicians and Nurses who earn a substantial salary, versus community
members with greater financial need. Simply put, we need housing for
everyone, but the ability to attract and retain Health Care Providers is
becoming critical on Maui. Doctors may become wealthy over time, but
initially have a difficult time qualifying for a mortgage because of their high
education debt and lack of a guaranteed level of income, while they start and
build their practice.
This property has a long and sordid history. Resolutions 22-84 and 22-85 are
proposed as Phase 1, creating the opportunity to do something positive with
the 33 lots that are not controversial, and address the critical need for
workforce housing. Phase 2 includes 19 additional lots adjacent to Palama
Street, that involve long standing issues (Wall, fill, drainage, etc.) that need to
be resolved by engaging the Palama Street residents.
It should be noted however, that an existing archeological study conducted by
Dr. Six shows no Iwi Kupuna sites on the property. If Iwis hold be found during
the home development process, we are committed to stop work and follow all
appropriate protocols. In addition, the State Department of Health issued a
letter stating that the mill mud used as fill on the lots has been tested and
cleared for use, and finally, the County of Maui Department of Water has
issued verification that water and meters are available for the 33 lots.
There is a critical need for housing for Care Providers that may save your life,
or that of someone you love. And a need for workforce housing for all
members of our community I am happy to try and answer any questions you
might have, but before I close, I would like to share a quote from Dr. Rafael
Oania, a Board Certified Anesthesiologist, born and raised on Maui.
"It is a dream of mine to be able to come home to Maui to practice medicine.
After years of training in New York City, I was ready to bring my talents back to
Maui. However, the harsh reality of the housing crisis in Maui has steered me
away from this dream. It's sad to think that a well paid physician isn't even
able to afford or find an affordable home in Maui. It Is a concern that not only
affects the recruitment of physicians but the prosperity of the entire working
class and families who are at risk of being unable to live a reasonable life on
the island that they have called home for generations."
Mahalo for considering the passage of Resolution 22-85 and 22-84.
RE \/rru.D
^ia Ha e O Maui Z0Z2APR2I PH 2: 31U N TY LAND TRUST
OFFICE OF Tl-i-
C;OUNTY CLERK
via; countv.clerk(g)mauicountv.us
April 22, 2022
Alice Lee, Chairperson
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
Subject; Committee Report 22-35 regarding Resolution 22-85, Authorizing the Disposition of Real
Property to Maui Health Foundation
Dear Chairperson Lee and Council Members;
Na Hale 0 Maui, in collaboration and support of Maui Health Foundation (MHF), respectfully
requests your approval of Resolution 22-85 regarding the disposition of 16 lots in the Fairways in
Maui Lani and to MHF and to waive any outstanding real property taxes.
Our community is at the tipping point in Health Care. Maui has a critical shortage of medical
personnel, especially those who practice crucial specialty areas, Maui desperately needs
excellent Physicians and other medical professionals, to provide the highest level and quality of
care for our community. Maui Memorial Medical Center is short-staffed in every department.
There is a shortfall of care providers island-wide and Doctors, nurses and other medical
personnel. Many of those wonderful caregivers who went above and beyond the call of duty to
serve our community during the covid pandemic are now moving away because of the high cost
of living, and Maui's shrinking rental market in one of the highest costs places to rent or buy and
live in the country. We must take steps now to reverse this alarming trend with a iong-term,
damaging impact on the delivery of life.-saving medical care for us all.
We need access to excellent medical care and potential emergency medical treatment. Without
essential physicians and other important health care providers, Maui residents are forced to fly
to Oahu or beyond for medical treatment. Some specialties are not permanently available in the
state, forcing patients and families to relocate to the mainland where specialists are more readily
available on a daily basis.
The need for housing at affordable prices occurs at every level of our community. This continues
to frustrate the Maui Hospital Foundation's mission to provide the highest quality of health care,
the inability to attract and keep great physicians and medical personnel, because of the Maui
housing market.
Na Hale O Maui strongly supports affordable and workforce housing initiatives and
developments. We believe working in collaboration with MHF makes perfect sense for this
project and our community. NHOM's program can accommodate workforce households that
earn up to 140% of AMI, Including health care providers like nurses, therapists and others.
190 8. Church Slreel, P.O. Box 1829, Wailuku, HI 96793 ● Ph. 808.244.6110 ● Fox 808.244.6115 ● ww.nohaleomaui.org
Alice Lee, Chairperson
Maui County Council
April 22, 2022
Page 2
Na Hale 0 Maui will work collaboratively with the County of Maui and Maui Health Foundation
to deliver critically needed housing to medical professionals and our island workforce that will
keep our community healthy and thriving.
We respectfully request the Council authorize the disposition of 16 lots in the Fairways in Maui
Lani to Maui Health Foundation and waive any outstanding real property taxes.
Mahaio piha for your support of affordable housing for our workforce, medical professionals and
staff!
Cassandra Abdul
Executive Director
RECEIVED
M APR 21 P11l2^3i
CFFICE OF THE
April 22, 2022 COUNTY CLERK
Alice Lee, Chairperson
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
via: countv.clerk(q)mauicountv.us
Subject; Resolution 22-84, Authorising the Disposition of Real Property for Housing and Land
Enterprise of Maui, dba Na Hale 0 Maui and for Waiver of Outstanding Real Property
Taxes
Dear Chairperson Lee and Council Members:
We write today to request your kokua to authorize the disposition of 19 lots (17 finished lots and
2 driveway lots) located in the Fairways in Maui Lani to Na Hale 0 Maui (NHOM) and waive any
outstanding and unpaid real property taxes.
We were surprised and delighted when the Budget Finance and Economic Development (6FED)
Committee unanimously approved Resolution 22-84 during the April 4, 2022, meeting. This
demonstrates the Council's understanding of the crucial need for affordable and workforce
housing for island families,
The median price of a single-family home in Maui reached $1,177,500 at the end of March 2022.
The astronomical price of homes has a disproportionate impact on low- and moderate-income
families, forcing many to reconsider their future in Maui. Unfortunately for our community, the
brightest residents with the most potential to help Maui thrive, are leaving for more affordable
mainland cities where the cost of living is substantially lower and housing, whether for rent or to
own, are affordable and attainable. This is borne out,by recent U.S. Census Bureau data that
places Hawaii as the third largest population decline out of all 50 states.
Statistics show that workers have to earn $60 - 70 per hour for 40 hours per week in order to
afford a single-family home at these prices. UHERO found that service workers in Hawaii earn
about $17 an hour. Limiting household expenses to 30% of gross monthly income would mean
working 33 hours per day - clearly an impossibility. The median income, workforce family simply
cannot afford or qualify for a median income home.
Hawaii faces an annual shortage of more than 1,000 teachers each year. We have a critical
shortage of medical personnel. Crucially needed physicians continue to decline to move to Maui
because of the availability and cost of housing. Supporting medical personnel face the same
dilemma. Businesses cannot find workers, forcing some to permanently close their doors. These
are some of the symptoms of our cost of living and housing challenges.
In 2021 the US Bureau of Economic Analysis, Regional Data, found that Honolulu was one of the
most expensive metropolitan areas in the country, with a cost of living 13% higher than the
190 N. Church Street, P.O. Box 1829, Wailuku, HI 96793 ● Ph. 808.244.6H0* Fax 808.244.6115 ●www.nohaleomaui.org
Alice Lee, Chair
Maui County Council
Page 2
average metropolitan area. The high cost of living in Hawaii makes it virtually impossible to save
a down payment, especially one substantial enough (20% or $200,000 on a $1 million dollar
home) to avoid Private Mortgage Insurance of roughly $30 - $70/month per $100,000 of
mortgage. Most low- to moderate-income families cannot qualify for a mortgage on the median
priced home.
What does this mean for us? We face a steady loss of our keiki, mo'opuna, family, friends and
neighbors. They have finally given up on the high cost of housing and living here. They move to
mainland states with lower costs of living, more affordable rents and for-sale homes that are
both affordable and attainable. Our families and the entire community are diminished with
each additional loss of 'ohana.
What can we do? This is our kufeana; our responsibility. We can take action now to help our
workforce and community by approving Resolution 22-84 that will provide some badly needed
and truly affordable workforce homes. Working collaboratively with the County of Maui, for-
profit and nonprofit developers and contractors, lenders and the community, we can provide
more critically needed homes for our families.
The 17 Fairway at Maui Lani house lots and 2 driveways (a total of 19 lots), the subject of
Resolution 22-84, are a golden opportunity to take unproductive lots and create Community
Land Trust homes for income-qualified island families-that will remain truly affordable in
perpetuity, homeowner after homeowner, generation after generation. Each additional home
we provide will improve and change the lives and opportunities for another island family.
Together we can make a real difference for Maui Nui.
Housing and Land Enterprise of Maui, dba Nd Hale  0Maui (NHOM) is a grassroots, membership-
based Nonprofit 501 (c) 3 Community Land Trust, established to secure qnd preserve o
permanent supply of affordable housing alternatives for low- and moderate-income households
in Maui County- Our focus is truly affordable homes in perpetuity for workforce families earning
between 80%-140% of the Area Median Income (AMI) for Maui County.
We ask for your kokua to authorize the disposition of 19 lots in the Fairways in Maui Lani to Na
Hale Q Maui (NHQM) and waive any outstanding real property taxes.
Mah^o piha for your support of affordable workforce housing and the Community Land Trust!
a:Cassandra Abdul
Executive Director
on^^horne'CCtcxytUrui'!
Jacqueline Simone Ambrose <ambrosejs@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 3:12 PM
County Clerk
Over-tourism on Maui
From:
Sent: REC ED
To:
W1 APR 2 i PH 3: 13Subject:
■-'1' r ICE OF i Hi£
COI UNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from ambrosejs@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County team,
Please send the resolution in CR 22-41 to the Maui County planning commissions for review and back to the
Council for adoption asap.
As a longtime resident of Maui (since 1994) I have seen how over-tourism negatively impacts local
residents. Bumper to bumper traffic, tourists in your face attitudes of entitlement are diminishing the aloha
spirit of Maui. Residents’ quality of life is a priority.
In addition to that, the infrastructure wasn't designed to accommodate thousands of tourists on a daily basis
along with increased usage of water & trash etc.
Maui is unique & a very special place, not just beaches & palm trees. Please do not lose sight of that & kill
the goose that laid the golden egg.
Mahalo!,
"We are all wardens of this earth we inhabit, therefore morally obligated to protect wildlife
and the environment for future generations. Otherwise we have failed in our duty as human
beings".
Jacqueline Simone Ambrose
liltps://\\'\'.~\v.c:irin;i\v;ttcT\vcll-<.orp/
El Virus-free, www.avast.com
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Arabella Ark <arabeilaark@icloud.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 9:43 AM
County Clerk
CR 22-41
20?HPR2I AH 11* 08To:
Subject: ::rriC£ of the
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from arabeilaark@icloud.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
PLEASE PROHIBIT CAMPER VANS IN Maui County!
Arabella Ark
Kaunakakai, Hi
Former Hana resident
1
Count^£lerk inRr~ '4»
From:
Sent:
Stephanie Austin <stephandjim@aol.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 5:27 PM
County Clerk
CR 22-41 Camper Vans
21 ffl 8: C'7nohi t\mi.
To:
Subject: ■●;T!cn CP
'  ●.C'TY Cl
i
1
: \
[You don't often get email from stephandjim@aol.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
As a long time resident of Maui (moved here from Honolulu in 1973) I have seen many changes - and lots of inevitable
growth. We count on our local government to manage it with strong consideration given to the rights and well being of
our residents.
In the last 6 months or so, there has been an apparently unregulated proliferation of camper vans, rented to visitors.
This by-passes all County planning - and existing short term rental rules and taxation. Our parks and beaches are already
being overwhelmed by the sheer number of visitors: there is certainly no room camper vans.
I have been relieved to see enforcement of Maui's short term rental regulations - although there are still many illegal
units (1 think that the fines are a pittance compared to the profits.)
BUT, camper vans should be entirely banned! We are not like New Zealand - with miles of empty land and
accommodations for RV camping. We are already overwhelmed by the sheer number of visitors on our beaches and
parks: we must have them protected, as well as our at residential neighborhoods!
We are counting on you: no half-way measures which would create an enforcement nightmare.
Sincerely,
Stephanie Austin
1
Count^^Clerk
REUI WED
Karri Ayasanonda <karrija@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 11:15 AM
County Clerk
CR 22-41
From:
Sent: mn?R2\ AHI1M6To:
Subject:
Oi FICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from karrija@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am writing in support of CR 22-41. Please prohibit campervans on Maui. These are vacation rentals on wheels, they
are not paying appropriate taxes and are contributing to the overtourism that exists in Maui county. Maui does not
have sufficient infrastructure, campgrounds, or facilities to accommodate campervans. Please put a stop to them at our
parks, beaches, and roadways.
Mahalo,
Karri Ayasanonda
1
County Clerk
REC,.^/
2022 APR 2 i m\2^3\
■  L-
From:
Sent:
Karri Ayasanonda <karrija@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 11:25 AM
County Clerk
Resolution 22-70
To:
Subject:
HEOf-FICE OF
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from karrija@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha,
I am writing in support of resolution 22-70. Please cap visitor accommodations at the current amount. Maui is suffering
from overtourism, the number or visitors on Maui already greatly exceeds the number allotted per community plan and
needs to be reduced. Quality of life continues to diminish as visitor numbers increase. This overtourism is pushing local
families put of Hawaii, forces residents to avoid beaches, parks, malls, grocery stores, causes traffic jams and higher cost
of living. It feels as though we are living in a big city but with essentially no perks that a big city would provide. Please
follow the community plan and address the overtourism we are all experiencing.
Mahalo,
Karri Ayasanonda
1
Count^Clei^
From:
Sent:
Vijak Ayasanonda <vijak1 @gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 7:07 PM
County Clerk
Support CR 22-41
mi mil AM&OO
To:
Subject: > L Or THu
1 Y C L r. R r\! h =
You don’t often get email from vijak1@gmail.com, Learn whv this is important
1 am writing in support of CR 22-41. Camper vans on Maui should be illegal. They do not have permits, try to sneak into
our residential neighborhoods and do not offer anything to our community except being a nuisance. It's time to prohibit
camper vans as vacation rentals. They are seen all over our beach parks using up stalls meant for local residents and are
another sign of over tourism that we have been screaming about for years. Even worse than short term rentals, these
camper vans pose threats to safety and our environment. Please stop their existence, they are not the small businesses
we want or need for our community.
Sincerely,
Vijak Ayasanonda
74 Hakui loop
Lahaina, HI
96761
Simply email a testimony in support of CR 22-41 to countv.clerk@mauicountv.us
1
RECFjVEDCount^^lerJ<
From:
Sent:
Vijak Ayasanonda <vijak1@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 11:26 AM
County Clerk
Support of resolution 22-70
Z0?2APR2I Plil2:3!
To:
J i r IC £ O i” T Fi c.
OUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from vijaki @gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
I am writing in support of resolution 22-70 to call visitor accommodation.
We do not nor plan to have the infrastructure capable of having any single added visitor or accommodation. Our
Healthcare, traffic, water usage or sewer is not prepared for what visitors we already have. We wait until  aproblem
happens to address them and it is time to limit tourism!
Sincerely
Vijak Ayasanonda
1
Count^^Clerk LIi_i
Amanda Brittany <amandaxbrittany@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 5:21 PM
County Clerk
Support for CR 22-41
From:
Sent: m?Ar'R2i A^I8-07
To:
Subject: Or
'MTY CLK:.
i
[You don’t often get email from amandaxbrittany@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I support CR 22-41. There is no reason for camper vans and buses to be allowed as vacation rentals unless on private
property that has the right accommodations for their waste. They are a detriment to our already fragile ecosystems and
take up space on our beaches that should be for local residents. Mahalo
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Oei^ nCCrivCD
LARRY BURKE <lpburke5@comcast.net>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 3:12 AM
County Clerk
Condo Renta! Caps
From:
Sent: Z0Z?APR2I AH&09
To:
Subject: r* r-
<.fr T- I I r“
t niz.
OUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from lpburke5@comcast.net. Learn why this is important
)ear County of Maui,
We have been in the rental business on Maui for over 14 years, and have a\ways paid our Ge and Tat
and Prop Txs in full.
We have an excellent reputation for serving our customers, and only now have begun to recover from
our covid shutdown.
We do not understand the cap proposal, but if it is to limit the number of legitimate rentals in our area
then we have a very serious problem with the proposed legislation.
Why would county Maui want to limit the very source of revenue that is the life blood of our beautiful
place here in the sun?
Make no sense to us, and it makes no sense to any one else in the rental business in the County of
Maui.
Sincerely yours,
Lawrence Burke, Sole Prop.
250 Hauoli Street NO. 109
Wailuku
1
County Cierk
"JllU
Livit Callentine <livit.callentine@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 11:14 AM
County Clerk
Recommending ADOPTION of Resolution 22-70, CD1
From:
Sent: 20?? APR 21 AH II- 16
To:
Subject: nCE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from livit.callentine@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Honorable County Council,
I urge you to send Resolution 22-70, CDl, noted in CR 22-41, to all Maui County planning commissions for review and
back to the Council for a speedy adoption.
Please show us that you value residents' quality of life above all. Please make us your top priority.
Mahalo nui loa
Livit Callentine
Maui Planning Permits
Mobile (
808)268
5568
Fax (808) 442-0289
1
County Clerk i\'PUnT r-r
From:
Sent:
Kimber Carhart <kimber.carhart@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 9;24 PM
County Clerk
support of CR 22-41
mi APR 22 T- 49
To:
THEh 1C t: 0 r . -
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from kimber.carhart@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
support of adding language to camper vans, recreational vehicles or Jeeps topped \A/ith tents Subsection
G to Section 11, which says; “In all zoning districts, temporary parking of camper vans and
recreational vehicles is prohibited if rented for short term accommodations or commercial purposes
unless it is allowed by zoning and the proper permit is obtained.” CR
22-41 to county.clerk@mauicounty.us
Kimber
Kimber Carhart
(808)269-8498
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Friday, April 22, 2022 6:04 AM
County Clerk
Fwd: I support action to stop the illegal overnight parking of car campers, and camper
vans, recreational vehicles and Jeeps topped with tents.
To:
Subject:
O O
o-C "'t
H
73
m~aZ33
oGet Outlook for iOS rom-< NO
e-oFrom: Kimber Carhart <kimber.carhart@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, April 21, 2022 10:14:57 PM
To: Kelly King <Kelly.King(Simauicounty.us>
Cc: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: I support action to stop the illegal overnight parking of car campers, and camper vans, recreational vehicles and
Jeeps topped with tents.
zs
mrr
ar.
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from kimber.carhart@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members,
I respectfully ask that our elected officials take immediate action to put an
end to the illegal car camping, illegal overnight parking of camper vans,
recreational vehicles or Jeeps topped with tents. Currently our beach
access, our public parking lots, our neighborhood roadways, and our
county roadways are being inundated by the social media fueled “van life”
frenzy! We need to enforce our existing laws, enforce existing zoning,
and add language to laws to make it clear that this type of visitor and or
residential accommodation is not lega .
I support any and all proposals, legislation, and amendments which add
laws or language to existing laws to improve the enforcement of existing
aws related to, and add clarity to laws that regulate the parking and use
of camper vans, recreational vehicles or Jeeps topped with tents. Sample
language to be added,
“In all zoning districts, temporary parking of camper vans and recreational
vehicles is prohibited ANYTIME, especially if rented for short term
accommodations or commercial purposes, unless it is allowed by zoning
and the proper permit is obtained.”
If this is in fact part of CR 22-41, then I support that.
1
Mahaloj
Kimber
Kimber Carhart
(808)269-8498
2
Count^£lerk r*^ I-' ,‘s ■■■
11 fin ill I-
Iin m 21 AH 8-- 09
From:
Sent:
Karen Comcowich <kcomcowich@yahoo.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 1:02 AM
County Clerk
Support CR 22-41
To:
Subject: ■"iCE OF THE
UNTY CLERK
I You don't often get email from kcomcowich(3)yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council members.
I support sending CR 22-41 to the Maui County planning commissions for review.
I support passing A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMODATIONS that is attached tO CR 22-41 expeditiOUSly.
The bill is fair to current vacation rental owners, because it allows them to continue the current use. While at the same time
signaling that it is time for Maui to diversify the economy and stop allowing more housing units to be used for vacation rentals.
I support the additional language addressing vehicles being used as mobile vacation rentals. Driving from Lahaina to Kahului early in
the morning I use to see mostly local families fishing/camping; now I see vans and vehicles with pop uptents attached. A public
nuisance for private gain.
Thank you for your time,
Karen J. Comcowich
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
1
\'EDRE/  '
April 21, 2022
20Z2APR2I PH 2--31Testimony for CR 22-41
r ICE OF 1 I'-IE
COUNTY CLERK
‘  IPosition: In support of
Sent to: CQuntv.clerk@mauicountv.us
Aloha! Please control transient accommodations on Maui including prohibiting campervans
Transient accommodations need to be held at a status quo.
Transparency and communication between Planning and Real Property Tax Departments needs to be
improved.
The people making a profit off renting our camper vans need to be held accountable for marketing and
renting camper cans for an illegal use. Tourists renting campervans:
They do not pay TAT and therefore do not contribute to our economy;
They take up valuable resources, crowding out beaches and campgrounds, also while not contributing to
our economy;
These people use our public showers and toilets, all while not contributing to our economy and
Buy the food in our grocery stores that is meant for residents.
They add to the strain on our hospitals and first responders, while not contributing to our economy.
Each island has a carrying capacity that has been far exceeded due to the unrestrained allowance of
tourism. We have more and more homeless, who are not allowed to sleep in their vehicles, while
tourists are. Residents cannot afford to live here because of all the greed that has allowed the tourism
industry to flourish over resident needs. The last thing we need is for these camper vans to take up
parking in the beach parks and even along our residential neighborhoods. STOP THE INSANITY,
PLEASE!!!
kai kaiduponte@vahoo.com
Aloha! Please use this updated testimony. 1 did not realize that the Resolution was about more than just
campervans. Thank you so much!
Count^OeHt
REKim Falinski <kimfaiinski@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 11:51 AM
County Clerk
SUPPORT for CR 22-41
From:
Sent: D
M APR 20 m II: 53To:
Subject:
■ 'l-riCE OF 7
OUNTY CLERK
HE/■'
You don't often get email from kimfalinski@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
-li Maui County,
I am opposed to camper vans on our public beaches. We do not have sanitary facilities for these vans, and
doing business on the beach makes it unpleasant for other users.
I support CR 22-41.
Thanks,
Dr. Kim Falinski
1
Count^Clerk
^ ''"D
M APR 21 AH&09
- .
From:
Sent:
Lite Karolina Finch <groovygirlxo@yahoo.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 12;00 AM
County Clerk
CR22-41
To:
Subject:
iCE OF THE
● UNTY CLERK
.* I
[You don't often get email from groovygirlxo@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I am in support of this bill. This is not the kind of tourists we need on this island. I work for an activity company and we
are finding that these individuals are problematic and do not tip our employees for their services. Dare I say it...they are
cheap! Most important...we need them to be paying the TAT tax to help support the county infrastructure.
Mahalo,
Ute Finch
Lahaina
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^CIei^
Marc Friezner <marc@mauibike.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 2:18 PM
County Clerk
CR 22-41
From:
Sent: im APR 20 PH 2- 41
To:
Subject: Or t hiEr-
wr r lut:
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from marc@mauibike.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I fully support any and all legislation to prohibit camper vans/RV's as vacation rentals in Maui County.
Aloha nui loa!
Marc Friezner
1
RE'\ DHilton Grand Vacations
M m 20 AH l|: 20April 21, 2022
nCE OF
COUNTY CLERK
1 1.j 1 ■
I n
VIA EMAIL
County.clerk@mauicountv.us
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building, 8th floor
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawai‘i 96793
Re: Testimony in Opposition to the Proposed Transient Accommodation Cap,
Resolution 22-70, CDl (Committee Report No. 22-41)
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
My name is Rob Gunthner, and I am the Area Vice President, Resort Operations — Hawaii for
Hilton Grand Vacations (“HGV”). HGV owns and operates the Maui Bay Villas Resort in Kihei,
and the Ka’anapali Beach Club in Ka’anapali. We write to express our concerns regarding the
Proposed Bill Amending the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance Relating to Transient
Accommodation Caps (the “Proposed Cap”). In brief, the Proposed Cap will not effectively
address the problem of illegal short-term rentals and will be detrimental to the community and
legally-operating transient accommodations, an economic engine for Maui.
The Proposed Cap seeks to permanently freeze the number of rooms and units used for
transient vacation rentals at the number in use as of January 7, 2022. If enacted, the Proposed Cap
will present an impractical and short-sighted solution to managing tourism. The Proposed Cap will
not reduce visitor’s demand for travel to Maui. The Proposed Cap will exacerbate the shortfall of
legal transient accommodations, and will effectively incentivize illegal short-term rental use. This
incentive lures visitors out of resort zones and into the communities where short-term rentals
(whetlier legal or illegal) are located. While illegally operating short-term rentals can and should
be regulated, a permanent cap on transient accommodations is not the appropriate means to do so
as it will not directly address illegally operating short-term rentals. Legal operators of transient
accommodations should collaboratively work with the County to find solutions that keep tourists
in resort zones and out of illegal short-term rentals.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony on tlie Proposed Cap. We ask that the Council
not refer the Proposed Cap to the Maui Planning Commission.
Veiy tmly yours,
AobGunmoer
Atm VP-H«svat
Rob Gunthner
Hilton Grand Vacations Waikoloa Resorts
69-699 Waikoloa Beach Drive^ Waikoloa, HI 96738
T 808-881-3000 f 808-881-3034 w hiitongrandvacations.com
CountyClerk
From:
Sent:
Aubrey Hord <aubrGy@aubreyhord.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 8:57 PM
County Clerk; Yukilei Sugimura
Prohibiting Camper Vans as Vacation Rentals - Section 11 of Bill:-1.9T36B.5-20 , n-
COUNTY CLERK
M APR 21 Af18-08
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from aubrey@aubreyhord.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha County Clerk and Yuki Lei,
My name is Aubrey Hord and I am a resident of Pukalani. I have lived on Maui since 1991. It sounds like we are at the
point where we need to voice our concerns about the dramatic increase in Camper Vans and similar RV's/5th Wheelers
being brought over from the mainland and be used as vacation rentals.
We knew someone would probably try to do this with the high room rates and crack down on illegal vacation rentals.
The damage these camper vans and similar vehicles are currently causing on the island as well as the potential for future
damage (environmental, social and cultural) is obvious. The increase in camper vans parked on public beaches nightly
has skyrocketed and the rubbish and human waste left behind is disgusting, let alone the fact that they are unpermitted.
They prevent residents from legally fishing and camping as well as potentially damaging turtle nesting sites. The
individuals renting these vehicles most likely have little to no knowledge of Hawaiian culture, values or environmental
stewardship of the land as shown in social media posts. A very valid concern for the residents of Hana and Kahakuloa is
the larger vehicles are not able to fit on the narrow Hana Highway or Kahekili Highway.
I would highly recommend that we ban the use of camper vans, RV's and 5th wheelers from being used as overnight
lodging, let along being used as vacation rentals.
Mahalo,
Aubrey
Aubrey Hord, Cr.Photog., CPP (she/her)
1% For the Planet Business Member
Photographic Craftsman Degree (Cr.Photog.)
Certified Professional Photographer (CPP)
Professional Photographers of America (PPA)
American Society of Media Photographers (ASMP)
Aubrey Hord Photography LLC
STUDIO ADDRESS: 24 Kiopaa Place, Suite 202, Pukalani HI 96768
mobile: (808)264-5226
portfolio; www.aubrevhord.com
blog: httDs://www,aubrevhord.com/bloq
facebook: www.facebook.com/aubrevhordphotoqraphv
instagram; @aubreyhord
skype: AubreyHord
1
REC::!VFnCounty Clerk
Jodee Inouye-Agsalog <chris.jodee@gmail.com> APR 71 Af1 8' 08
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 9:13 PM
County Clerk
I Support CR22-41
/■ ●●● I r* r*
● ^ r » 1 c Or \:
COUNTY CLEiH
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
:
I You don't often get email from chrisjodee@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha mai,
I would like to send in my support for CR22-41.1 am born and raised on this island of Maui and have never seen so many
camper vans/vehicles being rented out and parking on the sides of main highways and in private streets. Who knows
where they're releiving their bowels and leaving their trash. And with the recent accident in Kihei that unfortunately
resulted in the passing of several people, this kind of "accommodations" pose a safety issue even for those renting them
as well. Sleeping on the side of roads isn't safe. I don't believe we allow this tyoe of "accomodations" in Hawaii, even
prior to covid as trailer parks aren't allowed here. And yes, although they're not sleeping in a designated area, they're
sleeping all over this island, even in places that are precious to the island community. So please cap all transient
accommodations, like the way we do STRHs and B&Bs and prohibit camper vans as vacation rentals. Things are just
getting out of control, especially with these new types of mobile vacation rentals.
Thank you for your time,
Jodee Inouye-Agsalog
1
Count^£leiJ<
From:
Sent:
Kimberly Johnston <kimberly@kapaluavacations.com>
Friday, April 22, 2022 5:22 AM
County Clerk
Resolution 22-70 Comments
ion m 22 7: 49
To:
OFrICE Or T^'
COUNTY CLERK
11—Subject:
IYou don't often get email from kimberly(5)kapaluavacations.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
My name is Kim and I am writing to leave my public comments on Resolution 22-70.
I am strongly apposed to this resolution and I feel the council is focusing in the wrong direction. The below link will lead
you to a study which shows that Hawaii has some of the toughest housing regulations in the United States.
https://www.mauinews.com/new5/local-news/2022/04/uhero-hawaiis-housing-regulations-among-toughest/
Why is the council not focusing their attention on easing these restrictions, which will allow for more affordable housing
for Maui residents?
Our family business manages vacation properties in the Kapalua Resort. We have been in business for almost 40 years. If
this resolution goes forward, many of the properties on the resort will no longer be designated for short term vacation
rentals. These properties are in no way affordable and it is ludicrous to propose the idea that they are.
In turn, companies like ours will go out of business, our employees with lose their jobs, and the trickle down effect will
be catastrophic for Maui. Our vendors, restaurants, activities, stores and more will all feel the loss and they too will
suffer.
We have paid millions in taxes over the years. If you put companies like ours out of business, and reduce tourism, where
is all the money going to come from to support important programs such as affordable housing?
How will residents who lose their jobs be able to afford their homes, let alone a home or villa in a resort? What industry
will be waiting for Maui residents and our employees when they are our of work?
This proposal is not logical and the numbers do not add up. But I don't think it is meant to be logical. I feel there is great
animosity to the tourism industry and sadly it seems like members of the council are willing to take it down by any
means necessary, even if it's at the expense of Maui residents.
Focus on affordable housing and those who have illegal vacation rentals. There is no other industry at the time that can
provide jobs and a tax revenue like Hawaii's tourism industry. It is not logical to reduce that industry drastically without
something to take its place.
Thank you for your time.
Kimberly N Johnston
Ridge Realty Rentals
10 Hoohui Road, Suite 209
Lahaina, Maui, HI 96761
800-326-MAUI (6294)
808-669-9696
kimberlv@kapaluavacations.com
www.kapaluavacations.com
1
County Clerk I  i
From;
Sent:
Kaaz <rbjykz@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 4:30 PM
County Clerk
Testimony in support of CR 22-41
mi APR 22 AH 7: ^19
To:
Subject: ●FiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I
I You don't often get email from rbjykz@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
April 21, 2022
Testimony for CR 22-41
Position: In support of
Sent to: Countv.cierk(5)mauicountv.us
Aloha! 1 am writing in support of this bill. Thank you for overriding the Mayor's veto on transient
accommodations in Maui. We are now facing an additional problem with the unregulated and un
permitted rental of camper vans and trucks in Maui. Please control transient accommodations on
Maui including prohibiting camper vans
The people making a profit off renting our camper vans need to be held accountable for
marketing and renting camper cans for an illegal use. Here are my objections to tourists renting
camper vans:
1. They do not pay TAT and therefore do not contribute to our economy;
2. They take up valuable resources, crowding out beaches, hospitals, roads, grocery stores and
campgrounds, also while not contributing to our economy
3. Many of these vans do not contain toilets or showers, so if we're lucky, the people who rent
these camping vehicles use our public showers and toilets. Otherwise they are using bushes,
beaches and any place they can find for their human waste.
Our islands have a carrying capacity that has been grossly exceeded due to tourism. We have
more and more homeless, who are not allowed to sleep in their vehicles, while tourists
are. Residents cannot afford to live here because of all the greed that has allowed the tourism
industry to flourish over resident needs. The last thing we need is for these camper vans to take
up parking in the beach parks and even along our residential neighborhoods.
Thank you for your attention in this matter. Please vote yes in support of this important bill that
will help us manage tourism and our scarce natural resources.
Thank you.
Joy Kaaz
1
Count^Clet^ , \
From:
Sent:
carol lee kamekona <hynmahi@yahoo.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 7:02 AM
County Clerk
CR22-41
im APR 21 AH & 09
To:
Subject: ■■iCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from hynmahi@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha no e Kathy!
1 am writing in support of the Committee Report {CR22-41) relating to transient accommodation caps. I am in support of
amending the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance.
Mahalo!
Carol Lee Kamekona ^
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk
ni:rr;vf[:DFrom:
Sent:
Rochelle Kapu <uilani.kapu@icloud.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 9:20 PM
County Clerk
CR-22-41
APR 22 AM ?: 49
To:
Subject: OF THEui i ice:
OOlJNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from uilani.kapu@icloud.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Council
I support CR-22-41.
Place a cap now it is out of control
Mahalo
Ui'lani Kapu
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
nanparks@hawaii.rr.com
Tuesday, April 19, 2022 1:16 PM
'karenparadiseOI @gmail.com'; County Clerk; Alice  LLee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A.
Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King; Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci;
Yukilei Sugimura; 'Melinda.a.sweany@kp.org'; 'Cassie.chavez@kp.org';
'tamar@chotzen.com'
Resolution 22-85
To:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from nanparks@hawaii.rr.com. Learn why this is important
To Whom it May Concern:
My Name is Nan Parks Kocourek and I have been a part time, and at times, full time resident on Maui for 42
Years. During my younger years on Maui I bought insurance to fly me to the LA where had all my doctors set up in
case I needed medical care. 1 had experienced several friends hospitalized at Maui Memorial and it was not a pleasant
experience! I realize as we all get older we don't always have the time in a Medical Crisis to fly off somewhere for
medical care! We need it here on Maui!
1 do know that the Hospital has greatly improved in the last few years, but we still have a long way to go to bring the
Best Medical Care Available to the People on Maui from the best doctors and nurses to the best Equipped Hospital....
which is needed to attract the Best Hospital Staff Whether a resident or a visitor...this is Paradise and the Medical
Care Standards should reflect the Ghana of the Island! Even with the Best Equipped Hospital on Maui, there is a third
component to the problem of bringing The Best Medical Care through the Doctors and Nurses we attract. If these
professionals can't find Housing that they can afford they won't move their families here or if they do they won't be able
to afford to stay long! We need to be able to attact The Best and that means making it attractive and affordable for
them to live on Maui! The Island sells Itself as  aVery Desirable to Live...we just need to make it Professionally Attractive
to the Doctors and nurses !! I think passing Resolution 22-85 will go a long way to make our island a lot more desirable
for them professionally!
I Humbly request that you approve Resolution 22-85 to make a Huge Start in resolving a Big Problem in recruiting the
Best Health Care Providers to our Paradise!! Maui deserves only The Best! Thank You, Nan Parks Kocourek and Wayne
Kocourek
CO
D
UJ
Q_
o>-
r
: 2:acLU o_
cr: o:o
1
County Clerk
Heidi KreuI <hkreul@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 10:50 PM
County Clerk
Cr22-41 and 22-70 CDl
From:
Sent: ZO?? /.PR 21 m 8: 08To:
Subject: ●■rriCiz OF THf-
-OUKTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from hkreul@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
Thank you for allowing me to write in support of CC22-41 and Resolution 22-70 CDl.
It's is imperative that we cap the amount of tourist accommodations be built on Maui.
As our island community has struggled through the pandemic, we should learn from the experience. For too long we
have only counted on the tourist industry to drive our economy. We have suffered through over tourism and with cheap
airfares and low hotel costs the quality of visitors has continued to deteriorate.
We need to look at supply and demand. By limiting the accommodations prices will rise bringing in a higher quality
visitor.
Maui also needs to focus on building housing for residents.
Mahalo piha,
Heidi KreuI
1
County Clerk
Val <likelike1010@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 4;09 PM
County Clerk
CR 22-41
From:
Sent: ZOZ? APR 20 PH i): 10To:
Subject: orriGE OF “T- 1
I rt l:
COUNTY CLERK
[You don’t often get email from likelikel010@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
Please stop the non-permitted campers we are finding everywhere
parks.
at our beaches, in our neighborhoods and by our
Where did they dump their sewage? What taxes do they pay?
Mahalo
Valerie Kulesa
42 Ululani St
Kula, Hi 96790
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^CleH<
REirFrom:
Sent:
Tiare lawrence <tiare4mauI@gmail.com>
Tuesday, April 19, 2022 7:56 PM
County Clerk
CR 22-41
■VED
To:
im kPR 20 W 7-. 511
country EF^
Subject:
You don't often get email from tiare4maui@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha county council,
.K
I ask you to please pass CR 22-41. Tourists have been taking their vacation rentals to the beach. They're
renting campers and vans online, and some believe they can park wherever they want
With more tourists opting for mobile accommodations rather than hotels, Maui is in desperate
need of a crackdown. Camper vans are littering our shorelines from Ukumehame to Launiupoko.
Residents in Honokohau have seen them parked at Honolua, Windmills, and Nakalele. Operators
are making money off of our public beaches and not paying taxes.
Please pass this reso.
Mahalo
Tiare Lawrence
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^GeH< HFCnVFD
From:
Sent:
Michele Lincoln <lincolnmichele@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 6:00 PM
County Clerk
Written testimony for April 22,2022 council meeting ■ ●
/.H8:G7
To:
— ; r-
i" i i.. W i
1
Subject:
JN‘i CLERh' I
IYou don’t often get email from lincolnmichele@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Please consider the following testimony and vote favorably for April 22, 2022, agenda items
No. 22-84 Na Hale O Maui and No. 22-85 Maui Health Foundation resolutions for affordable
housing in perpetuity. Anytime the county council can facilitate affordable housing that remains
affordable forever, they should take advantage of the opportunity and do it.
Besides providing much needed housing that stays affordable for local people and health
professionals, it helps pave the way for other places to emulate. If the county council has a
chance to share these concepts, for workforce housing and healthcare employees housing
around the nation, that would be wonderful. Affordable housing is an issue in many desirable
places to live. By showing a way how to develop forever affordable housing, you can help
alleviate houselessness for many people.
Thank you for doing what is right and making it possible for these 35 lots to be used for
leasehold housing affordable in perpetuity.
Michele Lincoln
Lahaina
(808) 385-3157
1
Counti^lerk
Ml ii.PR 21 AH 8: 08
From:
Sent:
Tammy Luat <tammyluat85@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 9:41 PM
County Clerk
CR 22-41
To:
Subject: '-'i.: Ur I\ I
^'^iTY CL
IYou don't often get email from tammyiuat85@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
My name is Tammy Luat and 1 am very much in support of CR 22-41. We need to put a stop to all these illegal rentals. I
live in Keanae and every day we see camper vans along the Hana highway camping illegally on state highways and even
on the peninsula which is a county roadway. It is totally out of hand. Where are these renters relieving themselves? All
over our land? We do not have any parks that are equipped to have RV's and campers hook up their sewer lines.
There are people renting their trucks and SUV's as accommodations even being so bold as to advertise this on Craigslist.
They even have the nerve to tell them they won't have to pay for parking because the vehicle is local.
Please help us to keep Visitor's at designated hotels and condominiums. These illegal accommodations are hurting our
economy by taking away jobs from hotel workers.
Thank you for your consideration.
Tammy Luat
808-269-3800
1
RECEIVED
m APR 21 AH 11=08
My name is Tad 'TC Luckey. 1 was born and raised on Maui to a fisherman family in Lahaina-After ^.,
graduating Lahainaluna in 2000,1 went to the mainland to get my BS in Electrical and^(eGtron,ics---1 ^ p-
Engineering and worked mostly in aerospace for about 10 years. After moving back" to Maui, I svvitched
the DoD for the DOE to start Lahainaiuna's first Engineering program of study and have been running it
for the last 8 years. I love music and have been playing ukulele and slack key guitar since high school
and I also love being in the ocean.
L.
1 met my better half Aubrey out surfing about three years ago. She is awesome. She's from Dumaguete,
Philippines. She came to America and started college when she was 16 years old and earned
an associates in nursing and a bachelors in accounting. Aubrey came to Maui and started surfing before
she knew how to swim. Aubrey has twin daughters, Aurora and Avery who are now 5 years old. We are
expecting our first child together this fall. Aubrey started her own Jewelry making business to earn
money while parenting. She still contracts for accounting and is also trying out real estate and practicing
to be an esthetician.
Housing is tough as everyone knows. We were renting a one room house and thought that might be as
good as we could do given the rising housing prices. A colleague suggested looking into Na Hale 0 Maui
and thru them we've been blessed with a house of our own
REC DApril 19, 2022,
Mm 21 /!,H||:07Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 C)F THl-
OUNTY CLERK
Dear Honorable Council,
Greetings!
This to testify that Na Hale 0 Maui is the best ever enterprise that helped us to buy a new affordable
home. It is really hard to get any affordable housing on Maui. The median home now costs around a
million dollars and this makes the workforce of Maui to hardly afford to live and enjoy the island.
With the help of Na Hale 0 Maui, we are now homeowners for two years. We hope that there is more
affordable housing on Maui. A lot of local people moved to mainland because they can't afford to buy a
home here on Maui.
Na Hale 0 Maui helped us to get our dream home. We hope that more families will be benefited with
the goal of Na Hale 0 Maui to provide more affordable housing on Maui.
Thank you for your help.
Very truly yours,
Mr. and Mrs. Honorato Martinez
174 Poniu Circle
Wailuku, Hi 96793
808-385-7051
honoratomartine2jr@yahoo.com
County Clerk
"TTFrom:
Sent:
Marty Martins <mauimanokane@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 8:14 PM
County Clerk
I support of Resolution 22-70
im m 21 ,',?i G- 08To:
Subject: >  ‘ w-jz G1“
!'r-
~r i I r-
'OuNTV CLEKK
IYou don't often get email from mauimanokane@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha County Council-
Please pass Resolution 22-70. There are enough hotel rooms on Maui and rarely is any
single one of them sold-out.
Mahalo,
Marty Martins
1
Count^Clerk REC.,; ,[:o
ZOZZ APR 21 AK g: 08
From:
Sent:
FM <mauifay@me.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 9:05 PM
County Clerk
CR22-41
To;
Subject:
COUNTYCLERK
r -1 r:1 1 1,
[You don't often get email from mauifay@me.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I write in support of CR 22-41.
The proliferation of camper vans and vacation trailers across the mokupuni contributes to extractive overtourism,
leaving its ugly footprint on neighborhoods and community spaces. The owners of these commercial rentals are never
the ancestral descendants of Maui, to my knowlege.
Please enact legislation to effectively prohibit this additional blight on the lahui and make whatever appropriations are
needed to fund enforcement.
Mahalo for your consideration of the many residents of Maui who are steadily encroached by overtourism in every
sphere of public life.
Fay McFarlane
Lahaina Moku
1
County Cierk n — ^ -
From:
Sent:
Steve Milton <stevie686@msn.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 7:00 PM
County Clerk
CR22-41
mi APR21 8* GO
To:
Subject: c;-1
rv C!
1
p
1
 t.
[You don't often get email from stevie686(S»msn.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
No more already, these people are ruining maui, they tax the aina without being taxed, the owners are profiting off the
hard working locals - SHUT IT DOWN
Steve Milton
Hard working, tax paying, aina respecting, full time resident
1
Count^£lerk i-/cn
Shantelle Uyeda <kanakeli96761@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 1:45 PM
County Clerk
Support CR 22-41
From:
Sent: 282? APR 20 PH 2* ill
To:
’Jr i“ICE OF
COUNTY CLERK
T- I
I ncSubject:
IYou don't often get email from kanakeii96761@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I support CR 22-41.
I do not want to see camper rent outs all overthe island in our front yard or in parks! They can camp like normal people
in campsites!!
Shantelle Morgan
1
Count^Clerk P c: r-- '● ''sLLX
Kohl Naehu <kohlmolo@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 4:00 PM
County Clerk
Testament regarding Shortterm rental caps
From:
Sent: ZIIZZ APR 20 PH 06
To:
OFFICE OF THESubject:
COUNTY CLERK
I You don't often get email from kohlmolo@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha
My name is kohl Naehu I live and is from the island of Molokai and currently have 3 rentals under my ownership and
management that is under transit accommodations, as a active resident of Hawaii
I'm all for short term rental cap to limit the use of short term rentals on Molokai and in Maui county.
The state of Hawaii agreed decades ago on allowing a certain percent or visitors to the island's based on each islands
resident count this visitor percent or count has been grossly exceeded due to political greed and has made Hawaii less
attractive as a tourist destination, due to mass vehicle and human traffic, due to pollution and due to less than
reasonable cost of services and goods.
I strongly support tourism in Hawaii because we as kanaka have a lot to share, teach and set the example for the rest of
America and set the base for the rest of the world on how to live, treat each other and the earth, tourist dollar is the
easiest and most economical way for Hawaii to stand with the rest of the countries of the world financially in the
positive.
I feel short term rental properties should be only allowed in the proper zoned and in a well staffed location for visitor
safety and to promote recurring visits. ( example hotel zoned condo resort zoned properties).
Mahalo
Kohl Naehu
(808)658-9858
1
Count^CleH<
Dawn Niederhauser <dawnniederhauser(S)gnnail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 3:00 PM
County Clerk
Notice of support for CR 22-41
From:
Sent: im m 20 PH y 54
To:
Subject: .. FICE OF i HE
OUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from dawnniederhauser@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County,
I am writing in support of CR22-41.1 am an administrator of a Facebook group called ETA Hawaii and we are almost 3000
residents from all islands, MANY from Maui, who seek controls on the impacts of over tourism on our lives and on the
'aina. We have had many complaints from our members about the proliferation of these rental camper vans. I’ve seen
pictures of vans parked in residential neighborhoods and we know that people are renting them and parking illegally at
beach parks. People are listing these vans on Air  Band B, more by the day, and there is no regulation of this growing
"industry". We implore you to act to stop this while we still can!
Mahalo,
Dawn Niederhauser
1
RECEiVEDCount^CleH<
mn APR 20 PM 2= 41Tere <terpatterson@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 1:12 PM
County Clerk
No More Campers - I support 23-41
From:
Sent:
To:
'-●i'i ' iCL OF ‘r <
» nt-Subject:
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from terpatterson@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
1 support 22-41
The following is my testimony to Stop any campers as vacation rentals.
To begin with, this is illegal, as they don't pay any taxes or fees to do this. No camping permits issued. Most of all, it is
an eyesore along our beautiful shorelines, and upcountry. This started over 5 years ago, and should have been stopped
then. This is not Maui. These people leave behind trash and also, show no Aloha. Mostly, it's illegal in so many ways.
We have enough issues with illegal vacation rentals, without adding this into the mix. Are the owners paying taxes or
other fees to the County/State? No they aren't. The county rules for camping are for tents, not Campers or, god forbid,
motor homes, which I've seen advertised on social media all over Our beautiful Maui.
Teresina Patterson
Lahaina
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^CleH< B.
Kohl Naehu <kohlmolo@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 4:00 PM
County Clerk
Testament regarding Short term rental caps
From:
Sent: im APR 20 PH 06
To:
Subject: t ● 1C E 0 F i H E
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from kohlmolo@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha
My name is kohl Naehu I live and is from the island of Molokai and currently have 3 rentals under my ownership and
management that is under transit accommodations, as a active resident of Hawaii
Km all for short term rental cap to limit the use of short term rentals on Molokai and in Maui county.
The state of Hawaii agreed decades ago on allowing a certain percent or visitors to the island's based on each islands
resident count this visitor percent or count has been grossly exceeded due to political greed and has made Hawaii less
attractive as a tourist destination, due to mass vehicle and human traffic, due to pollution and due to less than
reasonable cost of services and goods.
I strongly support tourism in Hawaii because we as kanaka have a lot to share, teach and set the example for the rest of
America and set the base for the rest of the world on how to live, treat each other and the earth, tourist dollar is the
easiest and most economical way for Hawaii to stand with the rest of the countries of the world financially in the
positive.
I feel shortterm rental properties should be only allowed in the proper zoned and in a well staffed location for visitor
safety and to promote recurring visits. ( example hotel zoned condo resort zoned properties).
Mahalo
Kohl Naehu
(808)658-9858
1
Count^Clerk
Dawn Niederhauser <dawnniederhauser@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 3:00 PM
County Clerk
Notice of support for CR 22-41
From:
Sent: im APR 20 PH y- 54
To:
Subject: , i r' i C E O F 1 H E
OIJNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from dawnniederhauser@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Maui County,
[ am writing in support of CR22-41.1 am an administrator of a Facebook group called ETA Hawaii and we are almost 3000
residents from all islands, MANY from Maui, who seek controls on the impacts of over tourism on our lives and on the
'aina. We have had many complaints from our members about the proliferation of these rental camper vans. I've seen
pictures of vans parked in residential neighborhoods and we know that people are renting them and parking illegally at
beach parks. People are listing these vans on Air  Band B, more by the day, and there is no regulation of this growing
"industry". We implore you to act to stop this while we still can!
Mahalo,
Dawn Niederhauser
1
REC /EDCount^Clerk
Ml APR 20 Pi1 2= ^ilFrom:
Sent:
Tere <terpatterson@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 1:12 PM
County Clerk
No More Campers -1 support 23-41
To:
OF iHESubject:
BOUNTY CLERK
(You don't often get email from terpatterson@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
I support 22-41
The following is my testimony to Stop any campers as vacation rentals.
To begin with, this is illegal, as they don't pay any taxes or fees to do this. No camping permits issued. Most of all, it is
an eyesore along our beautiful shorelines, and upcountry. This started over 5 years ago, and should have been stopped
then. This is not Maui. These people leave behind trash and also, show no Aloha. Mostly, it's illegal in so many ways.
We have enough issues with illegal vacation rentals, without adding this into the mix. Are the owners paying taxes or
other fees to the County/State? No they aren't. The county rules for camping are for tents, not Campers or, god forbid,
motor homes, which I've seen advertised on social media all over Our beautiful Maui.
Teresina Patterson
Lahaina
Sent from my iPhone
1
April 20, 2022
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
Re: Grant of 19 Lots in Central Maui to Housing and Land Enterprise of Maui, dba Na Hale O
Maui
Resolution 22-84
Dear Honorable council.
My family and I ask that you support Na Hale O Maui's request for the Grant of 19 lots in
Central Maui, for the purpose of building homes for low- and moderate-income workforce
households who have completed the Na Hale O Maui  4Step Program.
Affordable housing is very important to me and my family especially with the rising cost of
homes here on Maui. We are a household with a moderate-income, where we don't qualify for
any government assistance and with the rising cost of homes still can't afford a home for our
family. We have lived with family and are now renting. With homes, my family's future of
being homeowners one day seemed unrealistic with median houses priced over a million
dollars. Also with overpricing conditions with rent, we end up paying the majority of our
income towards it.
When my family heard about Na Hale O Maui and how they help families like ours to become
homeowners, we couldn't believe it and signed up as soon as we could. We believe having
more affordable housing on Maui makes it more possible for families like ours, members of the
workforce and local community to obtain their dreams of homeownership. We truly feel Maui is
an amazing place to raise our family, like we have been and our kupuna have before us.
Na Hale O Maui has helped 12 families into their own homes in Lahaina in 2020. My family has
our own dreams of owning one of these homes as well. Your support for this grant will help
make our dream of homeownership a reality!
Mahalo for your time and help.
Stacey Pianas
45 Kapi Lane Apt 9-201
Wailuku, HI 96793
REC ED
Plumbers and Pipefitters UA Local 675 M APR 21 AH 11: 08
Ur T
:'.::UNTY CLERK
/ s r-
r t V-/ c. I  I i
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Council Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Council Vice Chair
NOTICE OF HEARING
Friday, April 22, 2022 at 9:00 am. Online Via Blue Jeans
In Support of Bill 59, CDl (2022), RELATING TO THE PLUMBING CODERe:
Aloha Chair, Vice Chair and Council Members;
Mahalo for the opportunity to testify in support of Bill 59, CDl (2022) which updates the
current plumbing code for Maui County.
Chartered in 1919, the Plumbers and Pipefitters UA, Local 675 is one of the oldest organized
labor unions in Hawaii and one of three licensed' skilled-construction trades, steeped in a rich
history as one of Hawai'i's construction-industry pioneers.
The Plumbers and Pipefitters UA Local 675 appreciates and thanks this Committee, its Staff and
the Department Public Works for giving us the opportunity to provide input and comments
regarding this important Bill.
Local 675 supports the County's efforts to maintain current plumbing codes by adopting the
2018 published edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code as amended, as doing so increases
efficiencies in the built community, reduces costs and assists in preserving Hawaii's most
valued resource (water).
Adopting Bill 59, CDl (2022) most importantly supports the stated purpose^ and underlying
intent to safeguard public health, safety, and welfare by ensuring that plumbing systems are
designed and constructed according to minimum industry standards by qualified and licensed
professionals.
Mahalo for the opportunity to testify in support of this important measure.
^ Bill 59 (2022), Relating to the Plumbing Code, Section 101.3 Purpose. This code is an ordinance providing
minimum requirements and standards for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare.
F\ r" '' / f” p\County Clerk
im APR 2 i AM & 07N POTASH <npotash@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 6;09 PM
County Clerk
support of CR 22-41
From:
Sent:
To:
«o i— O ●
ITY iI ’i
Subject: ;\_
IYou don't often get email from npotash@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Dear Office of Maui County Clerk,
As a long time resident and multigenerational Maui family member I am writing to you to implore you to start enforcing
against the haole profiteers who are renting camper vans and trucks to tourists. They are unlawfully profiting off the
residents' tax dollars which maintain the parks and beaches they use as their hotel rooms. I am an avid fisherman and
the last few years it has become out of control. Many mornings 1 arrive at dawn to fish my sacred zones only to find no
parking, camper vans everywhere, and a tourist using my fishing spot as his morning toilet. Defecating and urinating all
over our sacred beaches!! I I am outraged that the county continues to take no action against this and keep this
disgusting abuse at bay. I am so saddened to think what my ancestors would say if they knew what you have let happen
to this island. You have let our pristine sacred home become the playground and toilet of entitled rich haole tourists.
Shame on you.
Nicholas Potash
1
Count^^Clerk
From:
Sent:
(null) (null) <leina_ala@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 7:43 PM
County Clerk
Gabe Riela
CR 22-41 in support of
APR 21 & 08To:
Cc:
: Cr TFir-
V nCLERKSubject: I -.1
[You don't often get email from leina_ala@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
April 20, 2022
Testimony for CR 22-41
Position: In support of
Aloha! Please prohibit camper vans on Maui (and all of Hawai'i) for these reasons:
1. They do not pay Transient Accommodations Tax (TAT) and therefore do not contribute to our economy except to
enrich the vehicle owner renting out these vans
2. They take up valuable resources, crowding out beaches and campgrounds, also while not contributing to our
economy. They are also competing for resources and supplies by buying out supermarket shelves of produce and
products. These are resources that residents have to compete with tourists for.
3. When they camp randomly in residential areas or areas not meant for camping because there are no restroom
facilities, they are literally shitting and peeing by the side of the road next to their vans.
4. Each island has a carrying capacity that has been far exceeded due to the unrestrained allowance of tourism. We have
more and more homeless, who are not allowed to sleep in their vehicles, while tourists in these vans are.
They are using and consuming our resources while paying no tax whatsover.
Is this really in the true spirit of Malama 'Aina?
Is this really what we want the future of Hawaii to be? Unrestrained access for tourists while our local residents and the
state pay the real price?
Gabriel Riela-Enoka
Full time Hawaii resident, residing on Oahu and tax payer
Sent from my iPad
1
Count^^Cletj< O’”' ' ' r\
—1 1 'j L U
From:
Sent:
(null) (null) <leina_ala@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 7:22 PM
County Clerk
CR 22-41 in support of
im APR ?i 8: 08
To:
Subject: of t\-\z
::ny clcrk
[You don't often get email from leina_ala@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Email: County.clerk@mauicounty.us
April 20, 2022
Testimony for CR 22-41
Position: In support of
Aloha! Please prohibit camper vans on Maui (and all of Hawai'i) for these reasons:
1. They do not pay Transient Accommodations Tax (TAT) and therefore do not contribute to our economy except to
enrich the vehicle owner renting out these vans
2. They take up valuable resources, crowding out beaches and campgrounds, also while not contributing to our
economy. They are also competing for resources and supplies by buying out supermarket shelves of produce and
products. These are resources that residents have to compete with tourists for.
3. When they camp randomly in residential areas or areas not meant for camping because there are no restroom
facilities, they are literally shitting and peeing by the side of the road next to their vans.
4. Each island has a carrying capacity that has been far exceeded due to the unrestrained allowance of tourism. We have
more and more homeless, who are not allowed to sleep in their vehicles, while tourists in these vans are.
They are using and consuming our resources while paying no tax whatsover.
Is this really in the true spirit of Malama 'Aina?
Is this really what we want the future of Hawaii to be? Unrestrained access for tourists while our local residents and the
state pay the real price?
Lisa Leina'ala Riela-Enoka
Full time resident, employer and tax payer I am a Full time Hawaii resident residing on Oahu.
Sent from my iPad
1
pprr.lVED
Ml APR 20 PH 3^ 54
OF-tPCE OF THE
buNTY CLERKr
Count^Clei^
From:
Sent:
8082767474@vzwpix.com
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 3:37 PM
County ClerkTo:
[You don't often get email from 8082767474(5)vzwpix.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Testimony re CR-22-41
Please consider that I appose the rental of camper Vans, sprinter style vehicles or any vehicle (road worthy or in a fixed
location) to be rented as a vacation vehicle to be slept in.
Maui does not have the infrastructure or desire to be marketed as a camper van destination.
The "super Host" ads for renting camping vehicles need to be prohibited from the Airbnb or VRBO 'fill in the blank
computer, templates for travel accommodation ads.
dMV should alert Maui County to revoke the inappropriately licensed and taxed vehicle. dMV should alert Maui County's
vacation permit depart to contact the advertiser to quote the penalties and fines.
Fines of over $5000 need to be set if not already covered by another law they are already violating and can be
substantially fined for.
I believe in enforcing existing laws first, but 1 support any new the fills in loophole that would allow any vehicles being
rented as a vacation rental or "sleeper car".
Robin Ritchie
135 Pihaa st
Lahaina, hi
96861
1
Count^CleHc r-\
ar./SD
From:
Sent:
Paul Robinson <imua2377@gnnail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 6:28 PM
County Clerk
CR22-41
21 m & 07»r*'
To:
Subject: ) ●- - ●: OF T1
CLE\/ r>K
(You don't often get email from imua2377(S)gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
I support County Resolution 22-41 in prohibiting the use of vehicles as camping rentals. This takes valuable camping
space, and when they can't find a spot to go into neighborhoods to sleep. Sleeping in your vehicle overnight on the side
of the road is illegal anyways but the police don't enforce it. Where do they use the bathroom? Where do they put their
rubbish? It's an eyesore, a hinderance to locals who would like to use camp sites and honestly just tired of these types of
discount tourists.
Mahalo,
Paul Robinson
Kou, Wai'ehu, Maui, Hawaii
1
Count^^CleH<
Lola Rodriguez <lola.kiheicaffe@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 7:40 PM
County Clerk
Kokua
From:
Sent: Ml APR 2 i AH & 08To:
Subject: = ' r i" lUvl OF
COUNTY CLGRK
THE
IYou don't often get email from lola.kiheicaffe@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Stop these illegal van rentals
Mahalo
1
Count^£lei^
Jada Rufo <misstanyujie@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 4:56 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: CR- 2241 Camper vans
20220122_073715.jpg; 20220311_082947[1].jpg; 20220315_071237[1].jpg; 20220404
082943[1].jpg
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
OO
oc m-o  Forwarded message
From: Jada Rufo <misstanvuiie(a)gmail.com>
Date: Wed, Apr 20, 2022 at 4:44 PM
Subject: CR- 2241 Camper vans
To: <countvclerk(5)mauicountv.us>
~Z^
o
"jm fN3
hO
cO Ti
t'nm -
Ot: n \-n
Aloha,
I am a Big Island resident who has reported several camper vans and giant RVs that are illegally being used as "tents" at
Spencer Beach on the Big Island. While camping is allowed through obtaining a permit campers must be in a designated
camping area. A parking lot is not considered a camping area. Unfortunately your colleagues at the Hawaii County Parks
and Recreation are at odds w the Hawaii County Police who have to enforce these rules. One rule is that people are not
allowed to sleep overnight in their cars. A camper van/RV is considered a vehicle. Yet so many tourists who want to fly to
Hawaii on the cheap and avoid staying in a hotel, don't know this is NOT allowed. Furthermore, people who renovate
and retrofit cars for camping also do not know this is not allowed.
An additional problem is the trash. I pick up so much trash that it is getting to be an issue. I have even pulled out a
Hummer out of the ocean. Trash would be cut by limiting camper vans on the premesis.
Currently Councilman Tim Richards of South Kohala's District 9 where Spencer is located, is working on a plan to limit the
issuing of permits on all types of camping, including camper vans. I have suggested to him that permits should be issued
to local Big Island residents FIRST.
Please do not be like your colleagues at Hawaii County Parks and Recreation in issuing camping permits to visitors in
camper vans.
Mahalo.
Jada
Jada Rufo
Author of The Zone and Banana Girl: An Asian American Woman's Life in China
Amazon website:amazon.com/author/iadatanrufo
Blog: http://www.xinghuaiianesu.wordpress.com
1

4


Count^leH<
R E C F1 E DFrom;
Sent:
Irene Ryding <irene@mauiharper.com>
Tuesday, April 19, 2022 10:03 PM
County Clerk
CR22-41
mi APR 20 AH 7: 5i|To:
Subject:
ICb OF l Hr;
COUNTY CLiEHK
You don't often get email from irene@mauiharper.com. Learn why this is important
Please pass this bill regulating camper vans. This is out of control. They park in our neighborhoods, leave opala
behind, and use county services without paying their share.
Enough is enough. We can't even go to the beach or drive to Hana anymore because they block the roads and
occupy public parking. These are the very same people who scream that they spent good money to be here and will
do whatever they want even if it is not pono. Buying an airline ticket to Maui and camping does not help our
economy...in fact it depletes our resources with absolutely no gain.
I hope every council member is taking note at how upset your constituents are over rampant, mismanaged tourism.
Mahalo,
Irene Ryding
Huelo
Irene Ryding, CHTP
Certified Harp Therapy Practitioner
irene@mauiharper.com
www.mauiharper.com
(808)573-2188
cell: (808) 280-0062
0-
1
Count^£leH<
RECEIVED
Z0Z?APR2I AH 8: 09
From:
Sent:
Randy Sarrow <rmsarrow@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 7:49 AM
County Clerk
CR 22-41
To:
Subject:
'.^r I ICE OF 1 HE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from rmsarrow@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Please do not allow Camper Vans as vacation rentals
Sincerely,
Randy M Sarrow
Makawao, HI
Sent from my iPhone
1
CountyCIeH<
n!:o;
2CZZ APR 21 AH & 09
From:
Sent:
kohler@maui.net
Thursday, April 21, 2022 6:40 AM
County Clerk
Camper van regulation
To:
Subject:
of THl-
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from kohler@maui.net. Learn whv this is important
Aloha. I am writing in regards to camper van regulation. I have been a resident of Maui for 30 years
who works in the medical field. I work at the hospital and the private office setting. Recently I had
the ability to head to the beach with my sister. We went to thousand peaks. We parked and had a
nice local man approach us. He informed us we were lucky to get a spot. He said usually it is filled
with camper vans and cars but since the county usually comes to empty trash on Thursday everyone
cleared out until they were finished. I had been noticing more and more of the vans on the island
which is quite disturbing. Sure enough the next week I was driving to Lahaina for an early morning
whale watch and when driving by thousand peaks there was van after van parked at the beach. This
will make it very difficult for residents to be able to enjoy the beach when they have the day off and
have the opportunity to enjoy the day with their family. Tourism has reached a point where the island
cannot sustain the numbers. I still do not understand why as tax payers we are paying so much to
promote Maui. Maui spends much more than the other islands and it is completely unnecessary to
spend such an enormous amount of money.
Anyway back to the topic at hand. Please regulate this burgeoning industry that has such a negative
effect on the local residents.
Thank you for your time and your desire to do something about this issue.
Aloha. Lisa Schlichting. Haiku, Maui
1
County Clerk
Kele Sipman <kelekino@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 10:00 PM
County Clerk
support of CR 22-41
From:
Sent: M APR 21 AH 8: 08To:
Subject: ‘●‘iiCbOFT
COUNTY CLERK
f I r-
I n ii
[You don't often get email from kelekino@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
It's time to prohibit camper vans as vacation rentals. I*j]We are starting to see them everywhere especially at public
beaches.
These camper vans have become a problem in many parts of the island including my neighborhood where someone is
camping in their van and defecating in the bushes. These vans need to be stopped, they are causing a lot of ill feelings
among locals (as well as visitors) because of the nature of the vehicles (no running water, no restroom facilities).
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^lerk PSCiliVSD
Bryan Smith <bryansmithmd@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 8:57 PM
County Clerk
Testimony CR 21 -44
From:
Sent: mi APR 21 AH 8: 08
To:
Subject: ● - i r IC E C F T {'i I:
COUNTY CLEFC<
[You don't often get email from bryansmithmd@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
My name is Bryan Smith.! reside in Kula. lama physician. I would like to provide testimony in support of CR 21-44. i
would like to ask the council to cap transient vacation rentals in particular in rural and agricultural zoned areas of Maui
county, and to completely ban vehicles used in any manner as transient vacation rentals. These transient rentals
degrade the quality of life for those citizens of Maui who live and work here. Transient lodging vehicles are crowding
beaches, roadways and trespassing on private lands, particularly rural areas where they feel they can "live" during their
vacations. My neighbors and I have had to remove "campers" that tried to quietly trespass onto our private driveways
and property with their rented vehicles that are intended as alternative lodging. Please put a stop to this now before
someone gets seriously hurt either directly or indirectly from lack of sleep as we Maui citizens are kept up patrolling our
legal dwellings and properties.
Mahalo,
Bryan Smith, MD
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clerk mI
From:
Sent:
Kalim Smith <kalimsmith9@yahoo.com>
Friday, April 22, 2022 7:26 AM
BFED Committee; County Clerk
SCR 121
Z9Z2 APR 22 AH 7: i|9
To:
Subject: >- f
CE OF THc:
COUNTY CLERK
r*
IYou don't often get email from kalimsmith9@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
I strongly support SCR 121, mahalo Kalim H. Smith and ohana.
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone
1
County Clerk n ~ nV ●...
From:
Sent:
Michelei Kahae <micheleik@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 8:06 PM
County Clerk
agenda item CR22-41
M APR 21 AH 8: 08To:
Subject:
'Cl: of THOf.
.^UUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from micheleik@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
support CR 22-41 on transient accommodation caps and prohibition on camper vans as STRs. Our islands are being
overwhelmed with tourist because they are no longer staying at Resorts areas. They have inserted themselves in our
neighborhoods. Now they camp and sleep at our beaches and our secluded scenic spots. As a resident of Maui County
I urge our County Council to give Maui County back to your people by improving our lifestyle and quality of life with
tourism management and tourist accommodations caps.
Mahalo,
Michelei Tancayo
Lahaina
1
Count^CleH< UI V Im ^
Luanne Teoh <luanne.teoh@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 5:13 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for CR 22-41 // Position: In Support of
From:
Sent: 2P/2APr;2i A^!0●07
To:
Subject: 1  i
h::;TY clerk
I You don't often get email from luanne.teoh@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
April 20, 2022
Testimony for CR 22-41
Position: In support of
Aloha! Please prohibit camper vans on Maui (and all of Hawai’i) for these reasons:
1. They do not pay Transient Accommodations Tax (TAT) and therefore do not contribute to our
economy except to enrich the vehicle owner renting out these vans
2. They take up valuable resources, crowding out beaches and campgrounds, also while not
contributing to our economy. They are also competing for resources and supplies by buying out
supermarket shelves of produce and products. These are resources that residents have to compete
with tourists for.
3. When they camp randomly in residential areas or areas not meant for camping because there are
no restroom facilities, they are literally shitting and peeing by the side of the road next to their vans.
4. Each island has a carrying capacity that has been far exceeded due to the unrestrained allowance of
tourism. We have more and more homeless, who are not allowed to sleep in their vehicles, while
tourists in these vans are.
They are using and consuming our resources while paying no tax whatsovere.
Is this really in the true spirit of Malama ‘Aina? Tourists are literally shitting all over the islands
because they are living out of vans.
Is this really what we want the future of Hawaii to be? Unrestrained access for tourists while our local
residents and the state pay the real price?
Luanne Teoh
Full time resident, employer and tax payer
Maui, Hawaii
// Luanne Teoh
//+1.415.335.1447
// Clean Food Dirty Girl
1
M AUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Maui County Council
Alice Lee, Chair
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
Testimony in opposition to Bill 24, CD1. FD1 (2022)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Council
The Maui Chamber of Commerce would like to testify in opposition to Bill 24, CD1, FD1 (2022)
relating to maximum building heights in the B-2 community business district, B-3 central business
district, and P-1 and P-2 public/quasi-public districts.
The Chamber does not support legislation that creates non-conforming structures. This bill as it
originally stood exempted Maui from these height limits and therefore did not create many, if any, non-
conforming structures on Moloka’i or Lana’i. But, Councilmember Paltin’s approved amendment to
include the West Maui Community Plan area in the restrictions will likely create a number of non-
conforming structures.
The Chamber would like to point out the strong opposition by the State of Hawaii Office of Planning &
Sustainable Development as well as Hawaii Housing Finance and Development Corporation from their
testimony at the committee hearing.
For these reasons we respectfully request that Bill 24, CD1, FD1 (2022) be filed..
Sincerely
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
808-244-0081 legislalion@MauiChamber.com MaulChambercoir62 North Market St., Suite 302, Waituku, Hawaii 96793
f*-: MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Maui County Council
Alice Lee, Chair
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
Testimony in support of Committee Report 22-40
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Council
The Maui Chamber of Commerce would like to offer our strong support for Committee Report 22-40.
We commend the council and the administration for thinking outside the box when looking for ways to
add more affordable housing while enhancing our aging infrastructure. We see this public-private
partnership as a huge win-win situation as it should lower the cost for affordable housing and help
provide a sorely needed new wastewater treatment plant.
We look forward to seeing more innovative solutions from both the council and the administration for
the betterment of the people of Maui County.
For these reasons we respectfully request the recommendations in Committee Report 22-40 be
adopted.
Sincerely
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.■' t
j  808>2444)081 legisiation@MauiChamber.com IVbuiChamber.confi62 North Market St., Suite 302, Walluku, Hawaii 96793
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Maui County Council
Alice Lee, Chair
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
Testimony in support of Committee Report 22-35
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Council
The Maui Chamber of Commerce would like to testify in support of Committee Report 22-35 which
recommends the adoption of resolutions 22-84 and 22-85. These resolutions authorize the waiving of
outstanding property tax balances and the disposition of 19 lots at the Fairways at Maui Lani and the
waiving of outstanding property tax balances and the disposition of 16 lots at the Fainways at Maui Lani.
We are all aware that there is a crucial need for affordable and workforce housing for island families.
Hawaii is now the State with the third largest population decline according a recent calculation by the
U.S. Census Bureau.
No Hale O Maui (NHOM) is a grassroots, membership-based Nonprofit 501 (c) 3 Community Land
Trust, established to secure and preserve a permanent supply of affordable housing alternatives for low
and moderate-income households in Maui County. Their focus is truly affordable homes in perpetuity
for workforce families earning between 80%-140% of the Area Median Income (AMI) for Maui County.
The Chamber strongly supports affordable and workforce housing initiatives and developments. We
have faith that by working collaboratively with the County of Maui, developers and contractors, lenders
and the community, Na Hale O Maui can provide more critically needed homes for our families. The 17
Fairway at Maui Lani house lots and 2 driveways (a total of 19 lots) are a golden opportunity to take
unproductive lots and create Community Land Trust homes for income-qualified island families that will
remain truly affordable in perpetuity, homeowner after homeowner, generation after generation.
Maui Memorial Medical Center (MMMC) is the only place on this island that can provide critical,
lifesaving care to our residents and our visitor. For those with the most critical needs, there is often no
other option. They do not have the time to delay treatment or the strength to make the trip to another
island to receive care.
Today, MMMC is short 75 registered nurses, despite hiring every single graduate of the University of
Hawaii Maui College, every year. Per MMMC, the Operating Room has lost a couple of nurses and a
surgical tech with housing and affordability as the primary reason for their resignation. They have been
unsuccessful in recruiting viable candidates with housing as the primary reason offers are being
declined.
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
I808-2444)081 legislation@MauiChamber.com RteuiChamber.coi62 North Market St.. Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 U
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Maui County Council
CR 22-35 Testimony
Page 2
This shortage directly impacts the quality of life for all on Maui.
Those who care for our community need to live in our community. Having a supply of homes will help
ease the need for market-priced housing for the medical staff Maui desperately needs. This will also
enable us to attract medical professionals who can meet the greatest healthcare needs in our
community and retain current Maui care staff members looking to purchase their first home on Maui.
For these reasons we respectfully request the recommendations in Committee Report 22-35 be
adopted.
Sincerely
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
I808"244»0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com WbuiChamberxoim North Market St.. Suite 302. Wailuku, Hawmii 96793 U
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Maui County Council
Alice Lee, Chair
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
Testimony with Comments on CC22-93
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Council
We would like to offer the following comments with regards to the Charter Commission’s response to
the proposed amendments offered by this Council
Proposal 1 Commission accepted Council’s alternative to eliminate the proposal. This proposal will not
appear on the ballot. AGREE
Proposal 3 Commission rejected Council’s alternative to eliminate this proposal. Proposal 3 will appear
on the ballot. AGREE
Proposals 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 Commission accepted Council’s alternatives, which alternatives will be
incorporated into the Commission’s report to the County Clerk and will appear on the ballot. AGREE
with 2 (we are working on a video that may help), 4, 7 and 9 (with comments previously shared). We
do not agree on 5 & 6 as we feel these should be eliminated (based on comments previously shared).
Proposals 8, 10, 13 Commission rejected Council’s alternatives. As described below, Council may
consider recalling these alternatives. DISAGREE with proposals 8 (recommended other ways to
address this), 10 (as the system is fair and balanced it is about treatment, which is a big concern) and
13 (removing the caps is deeply concerning; there should be known caps).
Proposal 11 Commission voted to remove this proposal from the ballot. It will not appear on the ballot.
AGREE
Proposal 12 Council offered no alternative. This proposal will appear on the ballot. DISAGREE (with
comments previously shared)
Sincerely
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique
community characteristics.
I808-2444)081 legislation@!MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.coi62 North Market St., Suite 302, WaDuku, Hawaii 96793 U
RECEIVED
County Clerk mi «PB 0? >H 7: U9
shannon vanderheuvel <leialoha17@gmail.com>
Thursday, April 21, 2022 7:10 PM
County Clerk
Bill 77&7S
From:
Sent: - ..'i - r iCE OF ThiL_
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from leialohal7(S)gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
I support bill 77 & 78. It is very important that the initiatives to prevent sediment from entering the Ma'alaea bay alone
is worth support.
Mahalo
Shannon VanderHeuvel
100 Hauoli street #402
Wailuku, HI. 96793
616-204-8513
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk
uFrom;
Sent:
Susan Vickery <gifts9954@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 10:21 PM
County Clerk
Support CR22-74
M APR 21 AH 8- 08To:
Subject:
yf-'-ICE OF i HE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from gifts9954@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
1
,yls,UNIOKo(;,. ,
R D
20?? APR |y ah 7= 56
I
● c- K.JF T nr.
COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI
COUNTY COUNCIL MEETING
Councilmember Alice L. Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair
Friday, April 22, 2022, 9:00AM
Council Chamber, Kalana 0 Maui Building and via BlueJeans
Re: Testimony in SUPPORT of RESOLUTION 22-65 - APPROVING COST ITEMS WITHIN BARGAINING
UNIT 1 REPRESENTED BY THE UNITED PUBLIC WORKERS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2022, 2023, 2024, AND 2025
Chair Lee, Vice Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council:
The United Public Workers, AFSCME Local 646, AFL-CIO ("UPW") is the exclusive bargaining representative
for approximately 14,000 public employees, which includes blue collar, non-supervisory employees in
Bargaining Unit 1 and institutional, health, and correctional employees in Bargaining Unit 10, in the State of
Hawaii and various counties. The UPW also represents 1,500 members in the private sector.
UPW strongly supports Resolution 22-65, which approves the cost items for the Bargaining Unit 1 Collective
Bargaining Agreement between the Employer and UPW for the fiscal period from July 1, 2021 to June 30,
2025 for included employees of the County of Maui.
The approval of this resolution will help to ensure that our Bargaining Unit 1 members in the County of Maui
will receive the necessary funding for the respective cost items in this new agreement.
Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Kalani Werner
State Director
HEADQUARTERS - 1426 North School Street ♦ Honolulu, Hawaii 96817-1914 ♦ Phone: (808} 847-2631
HAWAII - 362 East Lanikaula Street ♦ Hilo, Hawaii 96720-4336 ♦ Phone; (808) 961-3424
KAUAI - 2970 Kele Street, Suite 213 ♦ Lihue, Hawaii 96766-1325 ♦ Phone: (808) 245-2412
MAUI - 841 Kolu Street ♦ Wailuku, Hawaii 96793-1436 ♦ Phone: (808) 244-0815
1-866-454-4166 (Toll Free, Molokai/Lanai only)
Count^£ler^
John D White <johndouglaswhite@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 9:27 PM
County Clerk
Yukilei Sugimura
Camper Vans - CR 22-41
From:
Sent: m APR 21 AH 8: 08To:
Cc:
Of-r-iCL; GF Ti iJI
COUNTY CLEF^KSubject:
Some people who received this message don't often get email from johndouglaswhite@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha e Maui County Clerk,
Please forward the below testimony to the Planning & Sustainable Land Use Committee regarding CR 22-41.
Dear Chair and Members,
The last two years have produced some interesting  &unintended situations for our island community. The pent up
demand for travel has seen incredible demand for any type of rental vehicle. First it was car sharing service and now it
has mushroomed into RV's, minivans converted into 'campers', pop-up tents on all types of vehicles and potentially soon
5th wheelers. We do not have legal camping/RV parks like one might see on the mainland.
This rapid rise in alternative lodging causes many concerns. 1) Revenue - they are not paying TAT, MCTAT and
RPT. They are also not paying the County or State to park on the roadsides or beaches (which is already illegal). 2)
Environmental Concerns - human waste, litter are some initial concerns. 3) Malama Hawaii - This is not the respectful
traveler we need. This traveler is not treating our home with cultural and environmental respect.
Mahalo for your efforts to address this quickly troubling issue. I trust that we can get ahead of this problem sooner
rather than later.
Mahalo,
John
John D. White
PO Box 35
Kahului, HI 96733
(808) 264-5224 mobile
iohndouQlaswhite@qmail.com
1
County Clerk 9r\ :z V
From:
Sent:
katherine wong <katherinewong661@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 10:32 PM
County Clerk
Camper van rentals. CR 22-41
202? APR 2 i AH 8: 08To:
Subject: :'rlCE OF THE
ECU NT Y CLEr^.K
IYou don't often get email from katherinewongSSI @gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Please no more. The clog beaches, park illegally, never take out trash, makes us feel really unsafe.
Stop illegal camping, please.
Sent from Gmail Mobile
1